-- IOC Presidential Candidate Says Concerns Persist for Rio Games
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-05T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/ioc-presidential-candidate-says-concerns-persist-for-rio-games.html
One of the candidates for the
 International Olympic Committee ’s presidency warned organizers
of the 2016 Games in  Rio de Janeiro  that concerns remain about
the city’s ability to complete construction projects in time.  Richard Carrion, a Puerto Rican banker who heads the  IOC ’s
finance body, said although he was “pleasantly surprised” by
progress made in  Brazil , there are still worries over the
building of transport infrastructure, accommodation and venues.
Carrion was part of an inspection team that visited Rio last
week, the second time the group went this year.  “This time I left a lot more positive than last
time but there are less than three years to go,” Carrion said
in an interview in  Buenos Aires . “The clock is ticking.”  Since Rio beat cities including Chicago and  Madrid  to
become the first South American host of the Olympics it’s
struggled to keep up with the work required for the event’s
August 2016 start. Confusion over the responsibility to be
assumed by the federal, state and city governments has also
affected the project, which will see more than $11 billion in
public and private money used to transform Brazil’s former
capital. Marcio Fortes, who headed the Olympic Public Authority,
a body responsible for coordinating the efforts of the three
levels of government, resigned Aug. 14.  “All levels of the government need to start working
together to get it done,” said Carrion, who’ll find out at a
Sept. 10 vote of IOC members whether he’ll replace the retiring
 Jacques Rogge  as the organization’s leader. Carrion is in a six-way battle with figures including former Olympic pole vault
champion Sergei Bubka and Thomas Bach of  Germany .  Speeded Up  Rogge yesterday cited construction work at Deodoro, one of
four zones slated to host events during the 2016 games, as
“just one example of many” where Rio is behind schedule.  “I’m not going to go into details but there are a lot of
infrastructure projects where the construction should be speeded
up a little bit,” he said at a news conference in Buenos Aires.  Another area where Rio may struggle is with financing the
operations of the games, which are likely to cost about $3.5
billion. Organizers are working on a revised budget. They’ll
face a challenge to meet their marketing budget, which according
to Carrion is higher than the record $1.1 billion secured by
2012 games host  London .  Rio 2016 surpassed the 1 billion real ($438 million) mark
in 2011 with two sponsors: Bradesco and America Movil. Since
then the country’s economy slowed. First-quarter growth slipped
to 1.9 percent compared with 7.5 percent in 2010, when Bradesco
signed on.  Aggressive Targets  “The revenue targets are aggressive,” said Carrion.
“They will have to make some kind of provision in the budget if
they are not met.”  Rio’s Chief Operating Officer Leo Gruyner said last month
that organizers are likely to need to tap an entire $700 million
government-supplied contingency fund to make up for a shortfall
in the budget.  The reliance on public funds comes amid greater scrutiny
from the Brazilian public on how the money is being spent. In
June people took to the streets in the country’s biggest
demonstrations in more than two decades to target political
corruption, the lack of spending on health and education and the
amount of money going to sporting events. Brazil is also hosting
next year’s soccer  World Cup .  “Everybody is acutely sensitive to that point but the
feeling was there is still a very strong desire for the Olympics
to come to Rio,” said Carrion. “I think the sense is more that
the public want more transparency and they want to see what’s
being done, and feel the money is being well spent. Part of that
is a communication problem. They just have to make it clear that
this is going to be a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  