-- Japan Says Food ‘Guaranteed’ Safe by Tests for Radiation Levels
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-04T05:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/japan-says-food-guaranteed-safe-by-tests-for-radiation-levels.html
The safety of  Japan ’s food is
“guaranteed” by the world’s strictest tests introduced after
the Fukushima nuclear disaster, the government said in a
statement that follows the discovery of leaks of radioactive
water in recent weeks.  In the 17 months of tests through August this year, less
than 0.7 percent of food produced in Japan was found to have an
excessive level of radionuclides, the foreign ministry said in
an e-mailed statement. The government said the tests are the
strictest of any other country.  “Even in the  Fukushima prefecture , where the accident
occurred, annual radiation exposure from food and water is lower
than one hundredth of 1 millisievert,” the food safety limit
set by the United Nations, the ministry said. “Products
exceeding the limits are disposed” and the areas where tainted
foods are found face restrictions on further shipments, it said.  Japan, whose food exports range from high-end domestic beef
and fish to baby milk powder, is stepping up reassurances about
the safety of its food as discoveries of contaminated water
leaks at the Fukushima station extend into a third month.  The Cabinet Office said last week that sea produce caught
off the coast of Fukushima prefecture has shown a drop in
radiation levels, with 5.4 percent of samples this year above
limits, compared with 53 percent in 2011, the year of the
accident.  Since June 2012, 16 types of sea food including flying
squid and snow crabs can be caught in Fukushima waters,
according to the Cabinet office.  Japan adheres to the food radiation norms known as the
Codex Alimentarius, set by the UN’s Food and Agriculture
Organization and the World Health Organization.  “The safety of foods currently on the market is
guaranteed,” the ministry said.  Tests on 412,959 items of food were carried out between
April 1, 2012, the start of the Japanese fiscal year, and August
31, 2013, the ministry said. Of these, 2,866 items were found to
exceed radiation norms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  