-- Jets to Start Geno Smith at Quarterback Over Injured Sanchez
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-05T00:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/jets-name-geno-smith-starting-quarterback-over-injured-sanchez.html
Rookie Geno Smith will start at
quarterback over injured veteran  Mark Sanchez  for the  New York
Jets  in their season opener against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  Smith, a second-round pick in this year’s  National Football
League  draft out of  West Virginia University , was competing with
Sanchez during training camp. Sanchez, the Jets’ starter the
past four seasons after being taken fifth overall in the 2009
draft, hasn’t practiced since injuring his shoulder in a
preseason game against the  New York Giants  on Aug. 24.  “Clearly with Mark’s injury, the fact he’s not able to go,
that factored into any decision,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said
during a news conference. “That being said, we’re very
comfortable with Geno. We’re confident as an organization that
Geno is going to help get this job done.”  The Jets host the Buccaneers on Sept. 8 at MetLife Stadium
in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  Ryan said Sanchez won’t play at all and that Matt Simms
will be the backup quarterback for the game, in which the
Buccaneers are favored by three points, according to the Las
Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Buccaneers acquired All-Pro
cornerback Darrelle Revis from the Jets during the offseason and
also added Pro Bowl safety Dashon Goldson.  “We realize as a team, with a rookie quarterback, the fact
that we’re playing  Darrelle Revis  and their two stud safeties,
it’s going to be challenging,” Ryan said. “But our guys are
ready to rally behind Geno. The big thing we tell Geno is, ‘You
just have to be part of the solution. Don’t think you have to
carry this team on your back. That’s not the case.”’  Preseason Form  Smith, 22, completed 22 of 37 passing attempts during the
preseason for 246 yards, one touchdown and three interceptions.
All three interceptions came in the Jets’ preseason finale
against the Giants, a game in which he also accidentally stepped
out of the Jets’ end zone for a safety.  “He’s got a tremendous arm, he’s smooth, but the real
question remains whether he’s legitimately ready to handle a
West Coast offense,” former Jets quarterback and CBS NFL
analyst Boomer Esiason said on a conference call yesterday.
“Given his performance against the Giants, it’s potluck at this
point, and I don’t think we’ll get a huge game out of him.”  Smith Ready  Smith said he’s ready for whatever the Buccaneers hand him
in the game.  “They’ll try and rattle my cage,” Smith said. “I expect
those guys to come out fired up. They want to make a statement,
they’re (facing) a rookie quarterback, definitely want to hit me,
get me out of my game. I expect those things and I look forward
to it.”  The last rookie quarterback to start a regular season
opener for the Jets was Sanchez in 2009.  Sanchez, 26, completed 28 of 42 passing attempts for 266
yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions in three preseason
games. He’s declined to give specifics about his injury or how
long it might keep him out, saying only that he’s day-to-day.  Sanchez, who is guaranteed $8.25 million this season, has a
bruised joint in his throwing shoulder, according to ESPN. Ryan
said Sanchez will remain on the active roster.  “He’s working extremely hard to get back,” Ryan said.
“But he’s just not ready right now. It’s similar to last week;
we knew he wasn’t ready then. He’s not ready now and we’ll see
what the future holds as we move forward.”  Ryan wouldn’t address whether Smith would be the starting
quarterback beyond the opening game, while Smith said no one has
discussed his position as a starter beyond the season opener.  “Our focus is strictly on this game,” Ryan said. “We’re
not thinking past Tampa in anything. Any long-term plan, we’re
not thinking about it.”  Benched Twice  Sanchez was benched twice last season, when he committed an
NFL-high 26 turnovers, including 18 interceptions. He has a
league-high 52 turnovers the past two seasons after helping the
Jets reach the conference championship game his first two years.  Esiason, a former All-Pro quarterback who played with the
Jets from 1993-95 after nine years with the  Cincinnati Bengals ,
said he expects the Jets new offensive coordinator Marty Mornhinweg to take as much pressure off Smith as possible.  “I don’t think they want to throw him out there,
especially after his performance against the Giants, and ask him
to throw 45 times in the game,” Esiason said. “It’s going to
be -- let’s protect the quarterback, let’s give him the easy
throws, whether it be screen passes, wide receiver screens or in
the wildcat offense -- but Marty is going to be taxed.”  Smith, who sprained his ankle in the Jets’ preseason opener
last month, said two days ago that he’s almost fully recovered
and ready to take over the starting job.  “Physically I think I’ve always been ready,” Smith told
reporters. “But I think mentally I’ve grown a lot. My grasp of
the offense is to the point where I know I can get out there and
execute and be out there leading this offense and leading this
team. That’s something that’s going to continue to grow. At this
point I’m ready for it.”  The Jets finished 6-10 last year, the team’s fewest wins in
five seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  