-- Kuwait Seeks Oil Assets to Expand Abroad After Industry Shakeup
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-09-04T10:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/kuwait-seeks-oil-assets-to-expand-abroad-after-industry-shakeup.html
Kuwait  Foreign Petroleum Exploration
Co. is seeking acquisitions including in Southeast  Asia  to meet
output targets, according to its chief executive officer, who
the country installed as part of a shakeup of the oil industry.  “The way to do this is through acquisitions, and
acquisitions that are not piecemeal but that are strategic in
nature,” Kufpec CEO Sheikh Nawaf Saud Al-Sabah said in an
interview in Kuwait City. “We are now looking very seriously.”  The state-controlled company has three blocks in  Vietnam 
and one in  China , where it would like to do more, he said.  Sheikh Nawaf was appointed in May, along with new chiefs
for Kuwait Oil Co., Petrochemical Industries Co. and Kuwait
National Petroleum Co., after Dow Chemical Co. won $2.19 billion
from Kuwait to compensate for a canceled joint venture. Kufpec,
a unit of state Kuwait Petroleum Corp., plans output of 200,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2020, from almost 80,000 now.  The current output is “not a level that we like,” Sheikh
Nawaf said yesterday. With gas making up 80 percent of output,
“the challenge is to try to get more oil as well,” he said.  The company also seeks to increase reserves to 650 million
barrels by 2020 from just under 400 million barrels currently.  It’s studying North American and shale opportunities, even
after missing “the initial wave of investments” in resources
exploited using hydraulic fracturing, Sheikh Nawaf said.  Yemen License  Kufpec operates in Asia,  Africa ,  Australia  and the  Middle
East , which makes up about half of its production. It has two
exploration licenses in Pakistan and Australia and recently won
a license in Yemen. Kufpec, which last year bought a Norwegian
company, agreed on a $750 million  bank loan  to fund expansion.  Kuwait Petroleum in March injected 1 billion dinars ($3.5
billion) of capital into Kufpec to fund growth. Some acquisition
opportunities involve projects where the current operators need
an investor to bring in additional capital and others involve
international companies shifting strategy, Sheikh Nawaf said.  Kufpec is seeking exploration licenses that allow it to
operate discoveries and plans to run 20 percent of its own
production capacity by 2020, according to the CEO.  Kufpec is a key business for Kuwait Petroleum and no longer
a candidate for privatization, with profit expected to rise this
year from about $200 million in the previous period, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  