-- N.Y. Police Facilitator Appointed in Stop-and-Frisk Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-04T17:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/n-y-police-monitor-appointed-by-judge-in-stop-and-frisk-case.html
Vera Institute of Justice  President
Nicholas Turner was appointed by a federal judge to help
facilitate the New York Police Department’s compliance with a
ruling last month that the department engages in racial
profiling as part of its so-called stop-and-frisk strategy.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  ruled
Aug. 12 that the city’s police department unlawfully targeted
people on the basis of their race and violated their
constitutional rights.  Turner, a graduate of Yale College and  Yale Law School , has
initiated and managed projects on racial profiling in
prosecutions, safety in U.S. prisons and sentencing reform,
Scheindlin said today.  Turner will facilitate the reform process and his fees and
staff will be paid by the city, she said.  The judge on Aug. 12 appointed Peter L. Zimroth, a New York
University law professor and former corporation counsel for the
city, to monitor changes in the police department. Zimroth is
responsible for developing changes, informing the city of
milestones it must achieve, conducting regular progress reviews
and issuing public reports every six months with details on the
department’s compliance.  Further Reforms  Zimroth will work with Turner to develop “any further
reforms necessary” to ending the violations and will work with
the parties to create “a more thorough set of reforms,” she
said.  Turner will hold town hall meetings in each of the city’s
five boroughs for the community to discuss police department
issues and handle anonymous information from police officers and
officials.  The Vera Institute “has a long history of working to
improve public safety by strengthening the ties between police
and the community,” Scheindlin said. “In the early 1980s, Vera
partnered with the NYPD to develop the Community Patrol Officer
Program, one of the first community policing programs in the
country.”  The institute, based in  New York , is “recognized for its
use of rigorous testing and broad-based collaboration to help
governments plan, implement, and evaluate improvements in the
justice system,” the judge said.  Bail System  A founding project of the Vera Institute was to help reform
the city’s bail system and that a 1999 study by the organization
of two police precincts in the South Bronx examined approaches
to “respectful and effective policing” in minority
communities, Scheindlin said.  The city on Aug. 16 filed a notice it will appeal
Scheindlin’s rulings. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg yesterday
sued the city council to overturn a statute that allows lawsuits
based on allegations a police officer used racial profiling to
pick someone out for questioning. Two bills were passed by the
City Council after Scheindlin issued her ruling.  Bloomberg said after the rulings Aug. 12 that the city
benefited from the policy and that the judge “ignored the real-world realities of crime.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  