-- Fonterra Seeks to Bolster Confidence After Botulism Scare
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-09-04T05:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/n-z-s-fonterra-seeks-to-bolster-confidence-after-botulism-scare.html
New Zealand’s Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd, the world’s biggest dairy exporter, will appoint a
food safety director and strengthen product recall systems after
a contamination scare dented the company’s reputation in  China .  “We are doing everything in our power to maintain absolute
confidence in our processes and products, and to strengthen New
Zealand’s already strong food safety and quality system,” Chief
Executive Officer Theo Spierings said on a conference call
today. While the scare proved to be a false alarm, “we are not
going to miss this important opportunity to step up across our
entire business,” he said.  Fonterra said in early August that a dirty pipe at a
processing plant may have contaminated a whey protein used in
baby formula with a botulism-causing bacteria. While government
testing subsequently found the contamination didn’t pose a food
safety risk, Fonterra undertook a review of its handling of the
scare, which prompted a global recall and jeopardized New
Zealand’s trade links with China.  The company said today that a lapse in information sharing
led to delays in testing the suspect protein, and that the issue
should have been escalated to CEO-level earlier. A major upgrade
of computer systems at some Fonterra sites immediately prior to
the recall also resulted in product tracing taking longer than
it should have, it said.  ‘Unrelated Events’  To prevent such an incident happening again, Fonterra said
it will increase its focus on quality and safety, improve
transparency and information flows, strengthen product recall
and supply management systems, and create a new role of Group
Director of Food Safety and Quality.  The crisis “was not the result of one event,” Spierings
said. “This was the result of a number of separate and
unrelated events occurring in an unforeseen sequence.”  Fonterra Group Director of Strategy, Maury Leyland, said
the contamination occurred in May 2012 when staff reprocessed
product after noticing that a piece of plastic had dropped into
a batch. This was an unusual process for the plant concerned,
and involved pipes that weren’t routinely used and weren’t
adequately cleaned, she said on the conference call.  Standard testing by the company identified a bacterial
contamination in March this year and, after further testing
failed to rule out a botulism-causing strain, it asked
government-owned AgResearch to investigate further. Those
results came back positive on July 31 and Spierings was informed
the following day. Fonterra went public on Aug. 3.  Findings Reversed  Subsequent tests by the Ministry for Primary Industries
reversed those findings in late August.  Spierings said he’s talking to affected customers and that
some will probably request compensation from Fonterra, “but
we’re not at that stage yet and we’ve not received anything from
our customers yet.”  Nutricia, part of the Danone Group, was forced to recall
some of its Karicare infant formula products in New Zealand.  China, New Zealand’s biggest dairy customer, bought NZ$3
billion ($2.3 billion) worth of dairy products in the year
through June.  New Zealand Foreign Minister Murray McCully visited China
last month to smooth tensions and Spierings also apologized for
the scare, which prompted the resignation of Fonterra executive
Gary Romano.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  