-- Natixis Asset Management Shuns 30-Year Dutch Debt on Fiscal Woes
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-09-04T14:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/natixis-asset-management-shuns-30-year-dutch-debt-on-fiscal-woes.html
Natixis Asset Management is shunning
the longest-maturity Dutch debt, preferring German bunds because
they offer similar returns with greater safety.  The 20 basis-point  premium  for Dutch 30-year securities
over their German equivalents is leaving the securities
“overpriced” given the economic and fiscal challenges the
Netherlands is facing, said Axel Botte, a Paris-based strategist
at Natixis Asset Management, which oversees $381 billion. Prime
Minister Mark Rutte said two days ago the Netherlands is going
through extraordinarily difficult economic times and
unemployment will continue to rise.  “We refrain from buying Dutch government bonds at the long
end even though it’s safe in the near term,” Botte said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 30. “We might as well buy bunds or
swaps that pay similar yields but are more liquid and less
credit-sensitive.”  Interest-rate swaps  are derivatives in which
two parties exchange interest payments on a set amount of debt,
letting one side create a variable payment on fixed-rate assets.  Dutch 30-year bond yields were at 2.90 percent at 3 p.m.
London time today, within three basis points of the highest
since Dec. 1, 2011, which was set yesterday. The average yield
on the securities in the past five years is 3.34 percent. The
yield difference, or spread, between Dutch and German longer-dated government bonds has narrowed almost six basis points from
this year’s high of 26 basis points in March.  Housing Slump  The Netherlands had the outlook on its top credit rating
cut to negative from stable by the three main credit-rating
companies starting with Standard & Poor’s in January 2012, as
the Dutch economy suffered from a housing slump that has pushed
prices down by more than 20 percent since 2008.  Gross domestic product will fall 1.1 percent this year
before growing 0.55 percent in 2014, according to the median of
economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany ’s economy
will expand 0.5 percent this year and 1.65 percent in 2014,
separate estimates show.  The Dutch government plans to unveil a strategy to save 6
billion euros ($7.9 billion) on Sept. 17. That’s on top of a
four-year, 16 billion-euro austerity package approved in
November when Rutte took office.  Efforts to reduce the public deficit may backfire if growth
misses expectations next year and the real estate situation
doesn’t improve, Natixis’s Botte said. “The debt situation,
which still compares favorably to the euro average today, could
turn out to be much worse,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  