-- Natural Gas Rises to Five-Week High as Heat Buoys Fuel Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-04T19:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/natural-gas-extends-gains-on-concern-storms-may-curb-u-s-output.html
Natural gas advanced to a five-week
high in New York on speculation that lingering U.S. heat may
bolster demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas rose 0.5 percent after forecasts from MDA Weather
Services showed above-normal temperatures across the lower 48
states from Sept. 9 through Sept. 13. A low-pressure system
about 150 miles (240 kilometers) southeast of  Puerto Rico  has a
50 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next 48
hours, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  “The late-breaking summer heat is driving prices higher,”
said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “Those tropical storms could indeed
cause supply disruptions. If we start to see a pickup in
tropical activity that will bring onshore rain, that will dampen
the Midwest heat. That is a load killer.”  Natural gas for October delivery climbed 1.7 cents to
$3.683 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since July 24.
Trading volume was 5 percent below the 100-day average at 3 p.m.
Futures are up 9.9 percent this year.  The discount of October to November futures narrowed 1 cent
to 8.4 cents. October gas traded 31.1 cents below the January
contract, compared with 31.9 cents yesterday.  Options Trading  October $3.60 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 0.9 cent lower at 7.4 cents per
million Btu on volume of 363 at 3:05 p.m. Puts accounted for 61
percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for October at-the-money options was 31.64 percent at 3 p.m., compared with
31.63 percent yesterday.  The high temperature in  Chicago  on Sept. 10 may be 87
degrees Fahrenheit (31 Celsius), 9 above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Two days later,
the high in New York may climb to 85, 8 above average, before
dropping to a seasonal 79 degrees on Sept. 17. Power generation
accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand, according to the
Energy Information Administration.  There’s a 20 percent chance that a disorganized storm over
 Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula and part of the  Gulf of Mexico  will
become a cyclone over the next 48 hours, the  hurricane center 
said in a 2 p.m. advisory.  The system near Puerto Rico is expected to spread heavy
rain and gusty winds over that island, along with portions of
the Leeward Islands, the Virgin Islands and Hispaniola, in the
next day or so, the center said. Sept. 10 is the statistical
peak of the  Atlantic hurricane season .  Value Buying  “With Gulf of Mexico surface temperatures quite warm, the
prospect of these systems organizing further and tripping into
the Gulf, where they could blow up quickly into monsters, has
caught the attention of some value buyers,”  John Kilduff ,
partner at Again Capital LLC and editor of the Energy OverView
newsletter in New York, wrote today.  Gas prices are “an attractive sale” at the current level
before rallying into the winter-demand season, he said.  The Gulf will account for 5.7 percent of U.S. gas
production this year, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Gas inventories probably rose 54 billion cubic feet last
week, based on the median of 18  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The estimates ranged from gains of 46 billion to 60
billion. The five-year average increase for the period is 60
billion, EIA data show.  Storage Outlook  Supply increases may accelerate in the coming weeks and
“that development may restrict or reverse the current rally,”
Viswanath said.  U.S. inventories totaled 3.13 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Aug. 23, 1.5 percent  above  the five-year average for
the period, according to the EIA. A  deficit  versus year-earlier
levels narrowed to 7 percent from 7.2 percent the previous week.  The government expects stockpiles to peak at 3.8 trillion
at the end of October before the winter heating season,
according to its  Short-Term Energy Outlook  released on Aug. 6.  Ample storage levels this year and in 2014 “imply little
upside to U.S. natural  gas prices ,” Sabine Schels, an analyst
with Bank of America Corp. in  London , said in a note to clients
today. “The latest natural gas producer earnings reports
indicate that the structural uptrend in output remains firmly in
place.”  Gas production will increase 1 percent this year to an all-time high of 69.89 billion cubic feet a day, climbing for the
sixth straight year, the EIA said in its monthly outlook.  The U.S. met 87 percent of its own energy needs in the
first five months of 2013, on pace to be the highest annual rate
since 1986, according to EIA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  