-- Nestle Joins TFL Selling Bonds as Yields Rise
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-09-04T11:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/nestle-joins-tfl-selling-bonds-as-yields-rise.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, and Transport for  London  are selling bonds after
borrowing costs rose to a two-month high in  Europe  as data
showed the region’s economic recovery is gaining pace.  Nestle is marketing 500 million euros ($658 million) of
notes while TfL, which oversees the U.K. capital’s public
transport system, is offering 20-year securities in pounds,
according to people familiar with the deals. The average yield
investors demand to hold  investment-grade  bonds in euros
increased two basis points to 2.09 percent, the highest since
July 3, according to Bloomberg index data.  Services and factory output in the euro-area expanded for a
second month in August while in the U.K., services growth
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2006, according to
reports. In the U.S., data this week is forecast to show
payrolls rose last month, bolstering the case for the  Federal
Reserve  to begin scaling back stimulus.  “Any positive news we get regarding the economy is
reflected in higher bond yields,” said Nicolo Bocchin, a Milan-based  money manager  at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA, who helps
oversee about 3 billion euros of assets. “Every company that
can access this window of opportunity will do so because the
more they wait, the higher the risk of financing at higher
yields.”  Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle is selling eight-year bonds
to yield 20 basis points more than the mid-swap rate through its
Nestle Finance International Ltd. unit. Officials at Nestle
weren’t able to comment on the bond sale.  The maker of Nescafe coffee raised $500 million from 5 1/2-year bonds yesterday and the company is seeking to replace
about 10 billion euros of credit lines.  Sterling Bonds  TfL’s benchmark-sized sterling bonds will yield 58 basis
points more than U.K. government debt. The London-based local
authority last sold notes in May, when it issued 400 million
pounds ($625 million) of debt due May 2045 offering a yield of
60 basis points more than gilts, Bloomberg data show.  A spokesman for TfL, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment on the sale until the terms
are set.  Also in the new issue market today,  Electricite de France
SA , the biggest operator of nuclear reactors, is raising 500
million euros from 10-year bonds through its Reseau de Transport
d’Electricite SA unit. The notes will yield 73 basis points more
than swaps.  Swire Pacific Ltd (19) , the Hong Kong trading house with
interests spanning property, aviation, beverages and marine
services, has mandated banks to arrange investor meetings in
Europe starting Sept. 9 for a possible sale of its first euro-denominated notes, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Military Action  Benchmark credit indexes rose for a second day as the
potential for military action in  Syria  roiled markets. The cost
of insuring against losses on European corporate debt climbed to
the highest in three days, with the Markit iTraxx Europe index
rising 1.6 basis points to 106 basis points at 12:19 p.m. in
London.  After “ U.S. Congress  delayed potential action in Syria,
companies want to tap the market before volatility returns and
while there’s appetite from investors,” said Tony Bauchet,
deputy head of credit research at Axa Investment Managers in
Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  