-- Roger Goodell Says Technology Will Help Cut Concussions in NFL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/nfl-s-roger-goodell-says-technology-will-help-reduce-concussions.html
The  National Football League  is
looking to create a better helmet and help fund technologies
that will reduce concussions, Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said.  As the NFL’s regular season kicks off today, the league,
along with  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Under Armour Inc. (UA) , has
started the second phase of its Head Health Challenge, a $10
million initiative to find and support products that can help
diagnose and protect against traumatic brain injury.  “We need to do more to protect people from concussions,”
Goodell said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “To do that
we have joined together to find more protective headgear. We
believe that innovation and technology can do that, that’s why
we’re joining forces.”  The NFL last week reached a $765 million settlement with
former players over brain trauma, with funds going to
concussion-related compensation, medical exams and research.  As part of its Head Health Challenge, the NFL, Under Armour
and GE will award as much as $10 million for technologies,
system designs or materials that can quantify head impacts in
real time, detect or monitor indicators of traumatic brain
injury, protect the brain, and help to prevent or mitigate long-and short-term consequences of head trauma.  In addition to helping NFL players and athletes in other
sports, the development of technologies under this program will
benefit the military and civilians, Goodell said.  “That’s what we’re doing together, pioneering research,”
Goodell said. “We believe this will have short-term outcomes,
but we also have to continue to look at the long term, because
there’s a lot we don’t know about the brain. We’re going to
invest in that and try to make changes. That’s going to be good
well beyond sports fields.”  The NFL regular season begins tonight with the Super Bowl
champion  Baltimore Ravens  at the Denver Broncos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  