-- Nokia Junk Seen in High-Grade Ascent With Microsoft Cash
-- B y   s e l l i n g   i t s   m o n e y - l o s i n g   m o b i l e - p h o n e   b u s i n e s s   t o
-- 2013-09-04T12:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/nokia-junk-seen-in-high-grade-ascent-with-microsoft-cash.html
By selling its money-losing mobile-phone business to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for $7.2 billion,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  is
now on the cusp of earning an investment-grade rating from the
 bond market .  The company’s $1 billion of 5.375 percent debt due in May
2019 jumped to a three-year high of 102.9 cents after Nokia said
Microsoft agreed to pay 5.44 billion euros for its handset unit.
That caused the yield on the junk-rated bonds to fall to 4.79
percent, just 0.25 percentage point more than the average for
similar-maturity debt with the lowest investment grade of BBB-,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nokia, founded as a pulp and paper maker almost 150 years
ago, is now exiting the mobile-phone business it once dominated
after losing customers to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s
Android system. With the disposal, the Espoo, Finland-based
company will now focus on turning around its network-equipment
business after gaining full control from Siemens AG last month.  “They certainly have it within their control to go to
investment grade,” said Sam Morton, a credit analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in  London . “People were worried that cash
burn in the handset unit would eventually erode Nokia’s net cash
position. Disposal of this cash-burning entity has alleviated
those concerns.”  ‘Ample’ Cash  The network unit had an  operating profit  on a trailing 12-month basis in the past two quarters after losses from 2007 to
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We are certainly targeting a return to investment-grade
status,” James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman, said by e-mail.
“Combined with the proceeds from today’s transaction, our cash
situation will be ample. As such, the starting point will be a
strong one.”  Credit-default swaps protecting against a non-payment by
Nokia plunged to 213 basis points, or 2.13 percentage points,
from 529 Sept. 2, making the debt the fourth-cheapest to insure
in the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index, the European high-yield
benchmark, behind Infineon Technologies Holding BV, Grohe
Holding GmbH and Smurfit Kappa Acquisitions, Bloomberg data
show.  Eight companies in the region’s investment-grade barometer
were more expensive. The swaps now signal Nokia should have a
Ba1 ranking, one step below investment grade and three levels
above its actual rating, according to Moody’s Analytics.  Ratings Cuts  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nokia’s debt to B1 with a
“negative” outlook on Aug. 22 after the company bought out its
partner in the Nokia Siemens Networks venture for 1.7 billion
euros, citing concern it would be “unlikely to reach break even
on a cash flow basis before well into 2014, at the earliest.”  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Nokia to an equivalent B+ in
July. Investment-grade bonds are rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by S&P.  Nokia reported a 27 percent drop in the number of handsets
sold in the second quarter, contributing to a 24 percent decline
in revenue, as sales of its Lumia smartphone failed to make up
for weakening demand for its older and more basic handsets.  While Nokia claimed 19.3 percent of the global handset
market by units last year, second only to Samsung Electronics
Co.’s 23.5 percent, it was in eighth place among smartphone
makers, with 4.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Lower prices pushed it to third place in
handsets by value, with 5.9 percent behind Samsung, the leading
maker of Android phones, and Apple, which together accounted for
59 percent of the market.  ‘Cash Concerns’  Nokia reported net cash of 4.1 billion euros at the end of
the second quarter. That compares with 4.4 billion euros of
bonds outstanding, including 1.25 billion euros coming due next
year, Bloomberg data show.  “This satisfies some of the cash concerns that weren’t
pressing as of today, but clearly would have been in the
future,” said  Dave Novosel , a senior analyst at Chicago-based
bond research firm  Gimme Credit . “The fact they’ll have such an
influx of cash” may make returning to investment grade
“possible, but they’ll have to show improvement,” he said.  The company lost its investment-grade ratings last year,
Bloomberg  data  show.  Nokia started in 1865 as a wood-pulp mill on the banks of
the Nokianvirta river in southwestern  Finland , from which it
derived its name. Its businesses evolved from paper, “one of
the most influential communications technologies in history,”
to mobile telecommunications, according to the company’s
 website . It’s also been involved in rubber, cable, forestry,
electronics and power generation.  Payment Terms  Microsoft will pay 3.79 billion euros for Nokia’s devices
division and 1.65 billion euros for patents, according to a
statement from the companies. The all-cash transaction, subject
to Nokia investors’ approval, is expected to be completed in the
first quarter of 2014.  Nokia said it will book a gain of 3.2 billion euros, with
the sale “significantly” accretive to earnings, according to
the statement. Chairman  Risto Siilasmaa , who will become Nokia’s
interim chief executive officer, said at a press conference that
the company may return excess capital to shareholders.  “Shareholders will probably want to see a lot of that
given back and bondholders will clearly like to see good chunk
of it stay there in order to cover investment in the network
business,” said Aengus McMahon, a London-based analyst at ING
Groep NV. “There will certainly be tension over how much cash
the company will retain or dole out to investors.”  The stock gained 34 percent to 3.97 euros yesterday and was
trading at 3.98 euros today, the highest since April 2012.  Nokia’s 5.375 percent bonds traded as high as 105.5 cents
on the dollar yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Their 4.80 percent yield falls between 4.54 percent for BBB-rated notes of similar maturities and characteristics, and 5.88
percent for securities rated BB+, Bloomberg data show.  “This makes a tiny pinprick in Microsoft’s cash pile,”
McMahon said. Nokia is “still a declining business, but now it
has a bucket load of cash, so a lot more time to sort that
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  