-- Novus to Grow ‘Aggressively’ With Purchases After Yanchang Buy
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-04T19:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/novus-to-grow-aggressively-with-purchases-after-yanchang-buy.html
Novus Energy Inc. (NVS) , the Canadian oil
producer being purchased by  Yanchang Petroleum International
Ltd. (346) , plans to grow “aggressively” through acquisition, the
company’s chief executive officer said.  There are the equivalent of about 300,000 barrels of oil a
day for sale in  Canada  outside the  oil sands , both through
public processes and privately, Hugh Ross, who heads Novus in
Calgary, said in a phone interview today. Asset prices are
falling as producers with properties for sale can’t raise
capital on equity markets, he said.  Yanchang Petroleum International, a unit of Chinese state-owned Shannxi Yanchang Petroleum Group Co., the nation’s fourth-largest producer, agreed to buy Novus for C$1.18 a share, or
C$232 million ($221 million), China’s biggest purchase of a
Canadian oil and natural gas company since  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s takeover
of Nexen Inc.  “It is a great time to be an acquisitor in the kind of
market we’re in,” Ross said, specifying that he’s looking for
light oil in Western Canada. “In the future, we plan on
obviously being an acquisitor.”  Ross said he agreed to remain CEO of Novus for a period of
time he wouldn’t disclose. The deal isn’t large enough to
require federal government approval under Canada’s foreign-takeover law and is expected to close in December, at which
point Novus will outline specifics about its growth plans in
Canada, Ross said.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  outlined changes to
the nation’s foreign-investment rules when he approved Cnooc’s
Nexen purchase in December, prohibiting state-controlled
companies from acquiring oil-sands businesses barring what he
called “exceptional circumstances.”  Novus rose to C$1.07 at 2 p.m. in Toronto today, 29 percent
higher than the closing price on Aug. 27. Trading was halted on
Aug. 28 until today by market regulators at the request of the
company pending news, according to a statement by the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  