-- Nuclear Trashmen Gain From Record U.S. Reactor Shutdowns
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-04T12:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/nuclear-trashmen-gain-from-record-u-s-reactor-shutdowns.html
More than 50 years into the age of
nuclear energy, one of the biggest growth opportunities may be
junking old reactors.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  said Aug. 27 it will close its 41-year-old
Vermont Yankee nuclear plant in 2014, making the reactor the
fifth unit in the U.S. marked for decommissioning within the
past 12 months, a record annual total. Companies that specialize
in razing nuclear plants and hauling away radioactive waste are
poised to benefit.  Disposal work is “where companies are going to make their
fortune,” Margaret Harding, an independent nuclear-industry
consultant based in Wilmington,  North Carolina , said in an phone
interview. Contractors that are usually involved in building
reactors, including Bechtel Group Inc. and  URS Corp. (URS) , “are
going to be looking very hard at the decommissioning side of
it.”  With  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Edison
International (EIX)  shuttering reactors this year -- and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) 
planning to close its Oyster Creek plant in 2019 -- the U.S.
nuclear fleet of 104 units is shrinking, even as  Southern Co. (SO) 
and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  build two units each. The reasons vary: Edison
and Duke are permanently removing damaged plants from service.
Entergy and Dominion are retiring the units because of factors
including a glut of natural gas, a competing fuel.  Tricky Business  The physical work involved in tearing down a nuclear plant
takes about 10 years, according to John Hickman, a project
manager in the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s
decommissioning branch. The agency gives reactor owners 60 years
to complete decommissioning, which it defines as permanently
removing a plant from service and reducing radioactivity enough
for the property to be used for another purpose.  The NRC is now overseeing 14 commercial reactors that are
in some phase of decommissioning, excluding those marked for
closure in the last year. The first plant to deliver commercial
power in the U.S. was a  General Electric Co (GE) .-designed unit near
Fremont, California, which began service in 1957, according to
the agency. It was also the first unit to be decommissioned, in
1963.  Razing a plant is tricky business. Radiation can seep into
the concrete, pipes and metal of plant structures, and workers
need to be able to break down the units without exposing
themselves, or the public, to contamination. Plants often sit
idle for decades before being torn down in order to let
radioactive material decay.  Low Dose  “The whole objective of decontamination is to get the dose
levels as low as possible so you can do the dismantlement
work,” Christine King, director of nuclear fuels and chemistry
at the Electric Power Research Institute in Palo Alto,
California, said in a phone interview.  During a reactor decommissioning, the plant operator
transfers radioactive fuel rods to cooling pools and,
ultimately, to so-called dry casks for storage. Workers clean
contaminated surfaces by sandblasting, chemical sprays and
hydrolasing, a process that involves high-pressure water blasts,
according to King.  “You do get to a point that you need someone to come in
that has the equipment and the technology to actually dismantle
the components,” she said. “That typically is hired out.”  New Orleans-based Entergy hasn’t determined the schedule or
the cost for taking apart the Vermont Yankee reactor, though the
company plans to let it sit long enough to let radiation decay,
according to plant spokesman  Rob Williams .  “The complete decommissioning process is likely to take
decades,” he said in an e-mail.  Radioactive Waste  When such work begins at a plant, it can create business
for companies including EnergySolutions Inc. of Salt Lake City
and Waste Control Specialists LLC of Dallas, both closely held,
and  US Ecology Inc. (ECOL)  of Boise,  Idaho . The companies dispose of
low-level radioactive waste, including components and buildings
at nuclear  power plants .  The work doesn’t include removing the 65,000 tons of
radioactive fuel that are now stored at about 75 operating and
closed reactor sites across the country. The fuel will probably
remain on site until lawmakers establish a plan for temporary or
permanent disposal.  House Republicans  have said the U.S. should
resume its work on the Yucca Mountain repository, a move that
President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, oppose.  Waste Storage  “There’s a great opportunity for WCS in the
decommissioning of nuclear-power plants,” Waste Control
Specialists spokesman Chuck McDonald said in a phone interview.
The company last year opened a West Texas facility where parts
of nuclear-plant buildings and reactor components are sent for
burial in steel and concrete containers 120 feet underground.  McDonald said he expects WCS will begin taking some of the
material from Entergy’s Vermont Yankee plant, at Vernon,
Vermont, once the utility begins dismantling it, due to an
agreement between Texas and Vermont for waste disposal.  Chicago-based Exelon in 2010 transferred the license for
its Zion plant to EnergySolutions, a nuclear-services company
that operates low-level disposal sites in Clive, Utah, and
Barnwell,  South Carolina .  The two-reactor plant, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) north
of Chicago, had been closed since 1997. When EnergySolutions
completes the $1 billion, 10-year dismantling and disposal
process, it will transfer the license back to Exelon, according
to the utility.  Fuel Transfer  EnergySolutions later this year will begin the process of
transferring spent fuel to a storage area at the Zion facility,
Mark Walker, a spokesman for the disposal company, said in a
phone interview. Knocking down structures will begin later.  EnergySolutions doesn’t have contracts in place to work on
reactors that have been slated for decommissioning, Walker said.
“We do hope there’s opportunity there,” he said.  Waste Control Specialists is doing some of the
decommissioning work at Zion, according to McDonald, who said
it’s hard for new companies to get into the business.  “The regulatory framework in this arena is so lengthy,
it’s going to take a long time for somebody to be up and running
to dispose of this type of waste,” he said.  Larger contractors that have experience in the area also
are watching the plant closures closely.  “Bechtel has considerable experience in nuclear
decontamination and decommissioning,” Jason Bohne, a spokesman
for Bechtel National Inc., said in an e-mail. “We are closely
monitoring opportunities” in the commercial sector and “plan
to be a major player as the market evolves,” he said.  Five Years  US Ecology’s low-level waste disposal site southeast of
Boise, Idaho, is disposing of the lowest level of waste from
plants including  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Humboldt Bay reactor, Chad Hyslop,
a spokesman for US Ecology, said.  The Humboldt Bay plant, near Eureka, California, has been
out of service since 1976. Workers have been dismantling the
unit since 2008, according to Loren Sharp, the plant’s director.
Trucks may haul away 50 loads of material, including concrete
and steel, each week for four to five years, he said in a phone
interview.  The length of time to decommission a reactor creates
uncertainty surrounding plant oversight, according to Shaun Burnie, an independent nuclear consultant who previously led
environmental group Friends of the Earth’s campaign to close
Edison’s San Onofre plant in California.  “Is Entergy going to be around in 50 years time? In 10
years time?” he said in a phone interview.  Ralph Andersen, senior director of radiation safety and
environmental protection for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , said
the industry is entering a new era for the companies that handle
reactor decommissioning.  “It really does open the door to the marketplace
rethinking ways to handle decommissioning,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  