-- Obamacare Is Best Chance to Improve System, Clinton Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-04T20:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/obamacare-is-best-chance-to-improve-system-clinton-says.html
The Affordable Care Act is the best
chance for the U.S. to achieve near universal medical coverage
and curb a rise in health-care costs that has hurt the nation’s
global competitiveness, former President  Bill Clinton  said.  Clinton, who left office in 2001, said in a speech today
that the new law addresses many of the health system’s biggest
deficiencies. At the same time, he outlined changes needed to be
made going forward and urged foes to work with proponents to
strengthen the law piece-by-piece, rather than seeking repeal.  The speech at Clinton’s presidential museum in  Little Rock ,
 Arkansas , was timed four weeks before new insurance exchanges
are set to begin selling coverage to uninsured Americans. That
task has been complicated by public confusion about the law’s
status and Republican opposition, spurring the Obama
administration to turn to Clinton for help explain the benefits.  “I agreed to give this talk today because I’m still amazed
at how much misunderstanding there is about the current system
of health care, how it works compared to what other people in
other countries pay for health care and what kind of results
they get, and what kind of changes are occurring now and are
going to occur in the future,” Clinton said.  The  Affordable Care Act  aims to reduce medical costs and
extend insurance coverage to at least half of the nation’s 50
million uninsured. Starting Oct. 1, people with low incomes can
sign up for private plans with premiums subsidized by taxpayers
or Medicaid, the health program for the poor that will be
expanded in about half the states.  Unhealthy System  “It’s better than the current system, which is
unaffordable and downright unhealthy for millions of
Americans,” said Clinton, who leaned heavily on statistics to
make his point in the speech.  National  health spending  in the U.S. was about
$2.7 trillion in 2011, or 18 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services --
at least six percentage points more than any other
industrialized nation, Clinton said. That amounts to $1 trillion
in extra spending that doesn’t produce better care, he said.  “A trillion dollars is a lot of money to spot our
competitors in a highly competitive global economy,” he said.
“It would be worth it if we got a trillion dollars’ worth of
better health outcomes. That’s not what the data show.”  Republican Opponents  The health law can help, Clinton said, if congressional
Republicans work with Democrats to “identify the problems and
fix them, instead of replaying the same old battles.”  A group of Republicans led by Senators  Mike Lee  of  Utah  and
 Ted Cruz  of Texas are pressuring their colleagues to refuse to
agree to a fiscal 2014 spending bill for the federal government
that includes any funding for the health-care law. Congressional
Republican leaders have so far demurred from a budget standoff
with President  Barack Obama  over the issue.  During his speech, Clinton outlined three issues with the
law that he said Congress and state leaders in both parties
should work together to fix:  -- Subsidies aren’t available to families of workers whose
employers have given them individual insurance plans that fail
to cover their dependents. Clinton said this was an “unintended
consequence” that “has got to be fixed.”  -- A tax credit given to small businesses who buy coverage
for their workers in the exchanges “doesn’t work very well,”
he said. It needs to be improved and made available to more
firms, according to Clinton.  -- States that have refused to expand Medicaid have created
a dangerous gap in coverage, he said. People earning wages less
than the poverty level “are eligible for nothing” and won’t
get subsidies to buy insurance on exchanges. according to
Clinton. He called the problem “a whopper.”  Part-Time Work  At the same time, issues that critics have been warning
about haven’t materialized, he said. Computer systems built to
manage the overhaul appear to be working well so far, he said,
calling the effort by state and federal officials to get the
systems up and running “remarkable.”  “There may be glitches,” he said. “But so far there’s no
evidence to suggest they won’t be able to be fixed quickly.”  Additionally, he said there was little evidence employers
were shifting large numbers of workers to part-time schedules or
dropping their health plans to avoid the law’s requirement that
they provide insurance.  “So far, the direst predictions of adverse consequences
haven’t materialize, and I don’t believe they will,” he said.  1993 Legislation  Clinton’s own attempt to overhaul the U.S. health-care
system in 1993 failed when Congress didn’t pass legislation and
his party lost control of the  House of Representatives  in the
1994 elections. Democrats avoided the issue for more than a
decade thereafter.  Obama has called on Clinton’s prestige before, including
during his 2012 re-election campaign. Clinton appeared at
fundraising events and in campaign ads that culminated in a
rousing speech to the Democratic National Convention in support
of Obama’s economic policy and first-term achievements.  A White House aide,  Dan Pfeiffer , jokingly called the
former president the “Secretary of Explaining Stuff” when
Clinton’s plans to give the speech were announced last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  