-- Obama Says Failing to Act Against Syria Risks Emboldening Assad
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-04T13:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/obama-says-failing-to-act-against-syria-risks-emboldening-assad.html
President  Barack Obama  said failing
to respond militarily to the sarin gas attack in Syria would
embolden Bashar al-Assad to strike with chemical weapons again
and erode the international norm against using such arms.  Obama sought to keep up pressure on the U.S. Congress as it
considers authorizing him to use force against Syria and to
build more international support for U.S. action.  “My credibility is not on the line, the international
community’s credibility is on the line” because of the broad
consensus that chemical weapons use must be prohibited, Obama
said at a news conference with Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt in Stockholm.  “Are we going to try to find a reason not to act?” he
said. “If that’s the case, I think the world should admit it.”  Obama spoke before a planned vote in the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee today on a resolution approving U.S.
military action with a 90-day limit and with language
prohibiting any commitment of combat ground troops.  While congressional leaders of both parties said they
supported Obama’s request for authority, the call for action
faces opposition in Congress that crosses party and regional
lines.  Obama wouldn’t directly say whether he would take military
action without congressional approval. “I believe Congress will
approve it,” he said.  While the agenda for Obama and Reinfeldt included economic
growth in the U.S. and Europe, climate change and trade,  Syria 
was a dominant topic during the president’s visit.  Reinfeldt said a decision on the use of military force
belongs at the United Nations. Standing next to Obama at the
news conference, Reinfeldt said he also understood the
consequences of letting the Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack in
Syria go unanswered.  Obama heads tomorrow to St. Petersburg,  Russia , for the
G-20 summit, where Syria also is likely to cast a shadow over
the two-day economic summit hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Syria’s ally who has blocked action in the United Nations
Security Council.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Stockholm at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in  Stockholm  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  