-- OmniAmerican Said to Work With Sandler O’Neill on Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-09-04T17:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/omniamerican-said-to-work-with-sandler-o-neill-on-sale-1-.html
OmniAmerican Bancorp Inc. (OABC) , the Texas
lender whose stock has more than doubled since going public in
2010, is exploring a sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  OmniAmerican is working with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
to solicit offers, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the decision by the Fort Worth-based company
to seek a buyer is confidential.  With  15 branches  and a market capitalization of about $270
million, OmniAmerican is among mutual savings banks that went
public in 2010. Up 3.4 percent to $23.55 as of 1:12 p.m. in  New
York  today, the stock has more than doubled from its $10 initial
offering price in January of that year. The lenders have to wait
three years to solicit takeover offers after converting to stock
ownership.  Texas  will appeal to potential buyers because the state’s
energy industry has kept economic growth and employment there
strong, said Terry McEvoy, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who
covers regional banks. Austin, Dallas and Houston had among the
lowest levels of unemployment among large metropolitan areas in
the U.S. in July, data from the Labor Department show.  “Banks want to be in markets that are growing and Texas is
one of them,” McEvoy, who doesn’t cover OmniAmerican, said by
phone from  Portland ,  Maine . “There would be a healthy list of
interested parties for any bank in Texas, especially in
metropolitan markets.”  Randi Mitchell, a spokeswoman for OmniAmerican, declined to
comment on the potential sale of the bank, as did David
Franecki, a New York-based spokesman for Sandler O’Neill, which
specializes in financial firms.  Texas Deals  Potential buyers include BB&T Corp., based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , and Dallas-based  Hilltop Holdings Inc. (HTH) ,
which are looking to expand, McEvoy said.  David White , a spokesman for BB&T, said that the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Erik Yohe at Hilltop Holdings
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment about a
potential acquisition.  Citigroup Inc. is seeking buyers for 50 of its Texas
branches, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said
last week. Houston-based  Prosperity Bancshares Inc. (PB)  said on Aug.
29 that it agreed to acquire Tulsa, Oklahoma-based F&M
Bancorporation Inc. after completing six other acquisitions in
the last two years.  OmniAmerican had total assets of $1.32 billion and deposits
of $818 million at the end of June, according to a statement
last month. The lender’s  profit  fell to $674,000 in the second
quarter, down 53 percent from a year earlier, it said, citing
higher provisioning against bad loans and lower yields on
interest-earning assets.  Among the bank’s largest shareholders is  Michael Price , who
runs MFP Investors LLC. Price, who made his name buying shares
of beaten-down lenders, owns about  4.8 percent  of the bank, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The biggest holder is Wellington Management Co. with a 10
percent stake, followed by OmniAmerican’s 401(k) profit sharing
and employee stock ownership plans with a combined 9.4 percent,
and Sandler O’Neill’s asset-management unit with 6.97 percent,
according to the company’s  proxy  statement, which cited March 28
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  