-- Honda to Subaru Power Asian Brands to Best Sales in U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-09-05T03:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/honda-to-subaru-power-asian-brands-to-best-sales-in-u-s-.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru led U.S. sales gains in August as auto
demand beat projections and Asia-based carmakers, buoyed by
 Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) , combined for their best month ever.  Honda’s deliveries jumped 27 percent last month, topping
analysts’ estimates, and Subaru’s surged 45 percent. Toyota
outsold  Ford Motor Co. (F)  for a second month in a row, with a 23
percent increase that beat projections, and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  was
up 22 percent. Japanese and Korean carmakers sold a record
711,041 vehicles in August, according to Autodata Corp.  “It’s a bit of a return to the past,” said Karl Brauer,
senior analyst for Kelley  Blue Book  in  Irvine ,  California . “You
have the Japanese doing well.”  In a break with past market increases that favored one
vehicle segment over another, sales of small cars, mid-size
sedans, pickups and crossovers all increased in August. Honda
and Toyota’s gains also were aided by perennially top-selling
car models, the Accord and Camry. Those companies and Nissan
face the most competitive vehicles from U.S.-based  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Ford and Chrysler Group LLC in a generation.  Toyota  rose  0.3 percent to 6,250 yen as of 11:30 a.m. in
 Tokyo , while Nissan added 0.9 percent and Honda gained 2.2
percent.  Demand Surge  U.S. car and light truck sales rose 17 percent to 1.5
million units, the most since May 2007, according to Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata. That topped the 14 percent rise
to 1.47 million that was the average of 10 analyst estimates in
a survey by  Bloomberg News . The sales rate for the month was
16.1 million, the most since October 2007, Autodata said.  Asia-based automakers’ sales rose a combined 21 percent
last month. That lifted their market share 1.7 percentage points
to 47.3 percent, while that of GM, Ford and Chrysler slipped 1.4
percentage points to 43.9 percent, excluding Fiat-brand vehicles
sold by Chrysler, Autodata said.  With the exception of  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , all Japanese
carmakers lowered incentive spending last month, with Honda’s 33
percent cut being the steepest, according to Autodata. By
comparison, South Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  raised incentives 53
percent and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  increased them 34
percent, Autodata said.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, had its biggest
sales in more than five years, delivering 231,537 Toyota, Lexus
and Scion vehicles in August. The monthly increase helped it
surpass an expected 15 percent sales gain, the average of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Extra Day  Gains for the Toyota City, Japan-based company were led by
a 22 percent jump in Camry sales, which widened its lead over
the Accord as the best-selling U.S. car, and a 30 percent
increase in sales for its Prius hybrid line.  “We all benefited in August from having an extra selling
day and the unusual situation of Labor Day Weekend falling into
the month’s totals,” Bill Fay, group vice president of Toyota’s
U.S. sales unit, said in a conference call yesterday. “We may
see some giveback in September, but for now, we’re going to
enjoy the August results.”  Toyota has “flexibility on pricing and they’re using it”
to keep Camry and other models ahead of competition from Ford
and other companies, said  Kevin Tynan , an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries.  Lexus Tops  Toyota offered incentives averaging $2,560 for each Camry
sold in August, up from $1,879 a year earlier, based on an
estimate by Edmunds.com, an auto pricing and data company in
 Santa Monica , California. That was above the industry average
for mid-size sedans of $2,193, said Jessica Caldwell, senior
industry analyst for Edmunds.  Lexus, Toyota’s premium vehicle line, regained its past
ranking as the top-selling luxury brand in the U.S. in August,
topping  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz for the first time in a year.  Toyota’s market share in August grew to 15.4 percent, up
from 14.7 percent a year ago, according to Autodata.  Honda’s volume of 166,432 Honda and Acura brand deliveries
in August was the most ever for the month by the Tokyo-based
company. Gains came from Accord and Civic small car sales and
the CR-V, which moved ahead of Ford’s Escape to become the best-selling sport-utility vehicle in the U.S. so far this year.  Honda Gains  “There’s been a fixation in the media on the Camry-Fusion
battle, but the Accord has snuck up on the competition,” Brauer
said. “Honda’s got the trifecta going right now: If you have a
strong mid-size sedan, a strong compact sedan and a strong
compact SUV, in this market, you kind of don’t need anything
else.”  Sales of Accord, which trails only Camry among U.S. car
models, rose 11 percent. Civic, the best-selling small car, had
a 59 percent increase for the month, and CR-V sales rose 45
percent to a record 34,654 units, the company said. A 9 percent
increase in deliveries for Honda’s Acura premium brand, led by
the new MDX SUV, helped the company outsell Chrysler for the
second month in a row.  Honda’s market share was 11.1 percent in August, up from
10.2 percent a year ago.  Nissan’s gain was led by a 20 percent increase for the
improved Altima sedan, 19 percent for Sentra small car and the
Pathfinder SUV, whose sales more than tripled.  Koreans Slump  Deliveries of the carmaker’s all-electric Leaf hatchback
were the highest ever, more than tripling to 2,420 from a year
earlier, the Yokohama, Japan-based company said.  Subaru, Toyota-affiliated Fuji Heavy’s car brand, delivered
41,061 units of all-wheel-drive vehicles, up from 28,293 a year
earlier. The Tokyo-based company, the fastest-growing non-luxury
brand in the U.S., is expanding its plant in  Indiana  to keep up
with demand, Tom Doll, president of the carmaker’s U.S. sales
unit, told Bloomberg Television this week.  Hyundai and Kia’s combined deliveries rose 6.3 percent,
trailing the 9.2 percent average estimate of seven analysts. The
Seoul-based carmakers have trailed industrywide sales growth in
every month since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  