-- London’s Mayfair District Lures New York Galleries
-- B y   R a c h e l   S a v a g e
-- 2013-09-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/london-s-mayfair-district-lures-new-york-galleries-as-rents-soar.html
Rents in upmarket London district
Mayfair are set to soar as galleries and auction houses line up
to open in the neighborhood amid rising demand for art, the
London Luxury Quarter business group said in a report today.  Rental rates on shopping avenue  Bond Street  have increased
40 percent in the last 18 months, the group said. That’s more
than any other London area, according to real estate company
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  The introduction of London train route
Crossrail will increase the number of passengers alighting on
the street by 30 percent in 2018 and propel rates further, the
report said, citing property agents Knight Frank LLP.  New York-based art dealer  Larry Gagosian  is set to open his
third London gallery at Mayfair’s 20 Grosvenor Hill while
commercial property owner The Pollen Estate is planning five new
art spaces on Cork Street, the group said. There is “intense
demand” for space from other U.S. galleries, according to Katie
Blake, a spokeswoman for the London Luxury Quarter at Rain
Communications.  Auction house Christie’s International Plc first-half sales
advanced by 9 percent to a recording-breaking 2.4 billion pounds
($3.7 billion), driven by newly wealthy Chinese buyers,
according to the report. Competitor Sotheby’s will open a new
space for private sales on St. George Street in November.  Big Sales  “The London Luxury Quarter is the most important market
for jewelery and art in  Europe ,”  Patti Wong , chairman of
Sotheby’s  Asia , said in the report. “At Sotheby’s on Bond
Street I joke that I worry about our carpet. Massive amounts of
people come through during the big sales.”  Smaller auction house Phillips, owned by Russian private
company Mercury Group, is to move its London headquarters to
Berkeley Square later this year, Blake said.  London Luxury Quarter represents more than 1,000 businesses
including 90 jewelers, such as Cartier and Tiffany, and 89 art
galleries. The district covers 42 streets in Mayfair, St. James
and Piccadilly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Savage in London at 
 rsavage10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  