-- Money-Market Funds Face Capital Buffer Rules in EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/money-market-funds-face-capital-buffer-rules-in-eu-plan.html
Banks and asset managers running
money-market funds may be forced by the European Union to raise
capital buffers and hoard easy-to-sell assets as part of a
regulatory push to tame the $4.7 trillion global industry.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, set out
plans to toughen regulation of the funds, saying they were part
of a shadow-banking system that could pose risks to stability if
left unchecked.  The EU must ensure that “benefits achieved by
strengthening certain financial entities and markets are not
diminished by the risks moving to less highly regulated
sectors,” Barnier said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  Regulators have sought tighter restrictions on money-market
funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run
on the industry that helped freeze global credit markets.  Money funds act as intermediaries between shareholders
seeking liquid investments and borrowers seeking short-term
funding. They typically invest in money-market instruments such
as commercial paper and government debt.  The EU plans include requiring  funds  that maintain a fixed
share price to build up a cash buffer equivalent to 3 percent of
their assets, according to the statement. Funds that are already
in place before the rules become law would have 3 years to fully
meet the requirement.  Confused Investors  The  European Fund and Asset Management Association , a group
representing the investment management activities of banks
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and JPMorgan Chase and Co., has
 warned  that setting capital requirements for money funds risks
destabilizing their business model and confusing investors, who
may simply look elsewhere.  Under the draft EU plans, funds with either fixed or
floating share prices would face limits on the timespan of their
investments, and minimum rules on diversifying their portfolios.  Funds would be forced to hold at least 10 percent of their
assets in instruments that mature within a day, and 20 percent
in securities that mature within a week.  Other parts of the draft EU rulebook would further limit
the assets that funds can invest in, and ban them from
activities including short selling and securities financing
transactions.  Concentrated Market  The EU money-market fund industry is concentrated in
France, Ireland and Luxembourg. Funds domiciled in these three
countries account for more than 95 percent of the EU money fund
market, according to European Commission data.  Such funds hold more than a fifth of short-term debt
securities issued by governments and corporates in the 28-nation
bloc and more than a third of short-term bank debt. The EU
industry has about 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of assets
under management.  Funds with a fixed share price have come in for particular
attention from regulators, as they give “an impression of
safety even though money funds are subject to credit,  interest
rate  and  liquidity risk ,” the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions  said last year. The failure of one fund
to honor this commitment can put pressure on others, and trigger
runs, Iosco said.  Shadow Banking  The disorderly failure of a money-market fund could “cause
broader consequences, such as contagion to the real economy and
bail-out risks for their sponsor and, ultimately, public
authorities,” the commission said in today’s statement. “These
problems can have repercussions across the European Union, since
both investments in MMFs and investments by MMFs are largely
performed across borders,” it said.  The  International Monetary Fund  and global regulators at
the Financial Stability Board have urged national governments to
press ahead with regulating money-market funds, identified as
part of the global shadow-banking system. Iosco published a set
of recommendations to regulators last year.  The EU measures, which require approval from the European
Parliament and national governments to take effect, have some
parallels to draft rules issued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The SEC has sought views on two proposals, one of which
would impose a floating-share value on the riskiest money-market
mutual funds, while the other would allow them to suspend
redemptions in times of stress.  Barnier also unveiled broader plans for toughening
regulation of shadow banking, according to the EU’s  website .  The EU is weighing measures such as tightening rules on re-lending or re-investment of collateral provided on securities
financing transactions, and extending which kinds of firms are
covered by minimum capital rules, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  