-- Hospice Care Overlooked for End-of-Life Cancer Care
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-04T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/hospice-care-overlooked-for-end-of-life-cancer-care.html
End-of-life cancer care, whether
decided by doctor or patient, favors intensive treatment that
may be shortchanging a person’s chance of greater comfort in
their dying days, Dartmouth College researchers said.  Too many advanced-cancer patients receive invasive hospital
treatments such as feeding tubes while they are dying instead of
being directed to hospice and other palliative care that could
ease suffering, the Dartmouth Atlas Project said today in a
report. The group looked at data for Medicare, the U.S. health
plan for the elderly, that showed an increase in cancer patients
in intensive care units in the last month of life.  The share of cancer patients receiving  hospice care  has
increased to about 61 percent in 2010 from 55 percent in
2003-2007, according to the report. That improvement obscures a
more telling statistic: those admitted to hospice in the last
three days of life -- when it’s too late to provide much comfort
-- rose 31 percent, said  David Goodman , co-principal
investigator for Dartmouth Atlas.  “We’re seeing some pretty rapid changes in patterns of
care but the move toward the care that most patients prefer is
happening very unevenly, at the same time that many patients are
receiving more aggressive in-patient care and less effective
hospice care,” Goodman said in a telephone interview.  End-of-life cancer care varies widely across the nation,
with large differences in the use of intensive care versus
palliative care depending on where patients live, the Dartmouth
study found. In  Manhattan , for example, 43 percent of Medicare
patients with cancer died in a hospital, compared with about 11
percent in Mason City,  Iowa .  Medicare Policy  Patients with cancer whose illnesses advance despite
treatment and find themselves with waning strength and energy
should “be cautious about excessive medical care,”  Ira Byock ,
a former director of palliative care at Dartmouth-Hitchcock
Medical Center, said in an essay accompanying the study.  “Under the influence of the more-is-better mentality,
well-intentioned clinicians and loving families can
inadvertently cause people to spend precious, fleeting days at
the end of a long illness in hospitals and ICUs, instead of at
home or other places they would rather be,” he wrote.  Medicare policy, which requires patients to forgo curative
care if they enter hospice, may discourage palliative care,
Goodman said. Patients can and should seek palliative care,
which is not the same as hospice, even while they’re undergoing
treatments aimed at curing their cancer, he said.  “Palliative care in particular has lots of advantages when
it’s introduced concurrently with efforts to prolong a patient’s
life,” Goodman said. “If it looks like a patient is likely to
pass away in weeks or months, it makes sense to have a wider
range of options and transitions, and not what is often felt as
a black-and-white situation.”  The study examined care in the last six months of life for
more than 212,000 Medicare patients.  Dartmouth Atlas  studies
variations in health-care spending and practices across the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  