-- Total to Shut French Steam Cracker in Switch to Resins
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-04T15:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/total-to-shut-french-steam-cracker-at-carling-in-switch-to-resin.html
Total SA (FP)  will shut a money-losing
steam cracker at Carling in France and invest 160 million euros
($211 million) in making resin and polymers at the site in a bid
to boost profitability of petrochemicals production.  The closure in the second half of 2015 will result in a net
loss of 210 jobs without redundancies,  Europe ’s third-biggest
oil company said in a statement. The northeastern steam cracker
is losing about 100 million euros a year, unions have said.  “The European petrochemicals market is facing continued
overcapacity and growing international competition,” said
Patrick Pouyanne, Total’s head of refining and chemicals.
Hydrocarbon resins and polymers are “promising” markets.  Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie has pledged
to boost profitability of the explorer’s refining and
petrochemicals businesses as European demand for fuel products
falls. Total has had to tread carefully in announcing job losses
amid government pressure to keep industrial production in  France 
and after a battle with unions over the shutdown of the Flanders
refinery.  The Carling site will become Total’s European center for
resin production through its Cray Valley company, said Total,
based near Paris. The move will ensure delivery to local
customers of ethylene and propylene that was made by the steam
cracker.  Cray Valley specializes in the production of resins for
adhesives, automotives and electronics like touch-screen
tablets, it said.  Lack of investment and a rapid souring of the market led to
a decline of activity at the site, the CFDT union said in a
statement today, condemning the job cuts.  The changes at Carling are part of a wider reorganization
of Total’s refining and petrochemicals businesses. The explorer
wants 2015 downstream profitability to rise by 5 percent
compared with 2010 and has promised to reduce European refining
and petrochemicals exposure by 20 percent, according to its
 website . It is focusing on six facilities including Normandy in
France as well as plants in  Saudi Arabia , Qatar,  South Korea  and
 Port Arthur  in the U.S.  Total in 2010 sold resin units for 550 million euros to
Arkema SA, the chemical maker it spun off. Total unveiled an
overhaul in 2011 to merge crude processing and petrochemicals
and separate out fuel marketing.  Europe accounts for 56 percent of Total’s petrochemicals
capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  