-- Louisiana-Pacific to Buy Ainsworth for $863 Million
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-05T13:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/louisiana-pacific-to-buy-ainsworth-for-863-million.html
Louisiana-Pacific Corp. (LPX)  agreed to
buy Ainsworth Lumber Co. for about C$906 million ($863 million)
to add Canadian output of oriented strand board, a plywood
substitute, as it bets on growth in U.S. and Asian housing.  Louisiana-Pacific will pay about C$3.76 a share in cash and
stock, the companies said yesterday in a statement. The deal’s
value including assumed debt less Ainsworth’s estimated cash
balance is about $1.1 billion. The per-share bid price is 30
percent more than Vancouver-based Ainsworth’s closing price in
Toronto on Sept. 3.  The acquisition boosts Nashville, Tennessee-based
Louisiana-Pacific’s exposure to a recovery in U.S. house-building and gives it greater access to Asian markets including
 Japan , Chief Executive Officer Curt Stevens said on a conference
call. Construction spending in the U.S. increased in July to the
highest level in four years, propelled by gains in residential
real estate, the Commerce Department reported Sept. 3.  “If you look at the North American market, I think we are
in pretty good shape” with this deal, Stevens said on the call.
Ainsworth has two mills set up for products meeting Japanese
specifications, which will help boost sales there, he said.  Louisiana-Pacific gained as much as 10 percent, the most on
an intraday basis since November 2011, and was up 8.8 percent at
$16.61 as of 9:35 a.m. today in  New York . Ainsworth surged 30
percent to C$3.82 in Toronto. The takeover was announced after
the close of regular trading yesterday.  Brookfield Accord  The transaction is “strategically compelling,” Josh Zaret, a New York-based analyst at Longbow Research LLC, said
today by telephone. “It extends Louisiana-Pacific’s leading
market share to about 30 percent from about 20 percent, further
consolidating the industry.”  Louisiana-Pacific makes construction materials including
siding, sub-flooring and molding at plants in the U.S.,  Brazil ,
 Chile  and  Canada , according to its  website . Oriented strand
board was the top contributor to revenue last year, accounting
for 47 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity funds managed by Brookfield Asset Management
Inc., which own 54 percent of Ainsworth, agreed to support the
deal, which is expected to close by the year-end. Louisiana-Pacific will fund the cash portion of the takeover through a
combination of cash on the two companies’ balance sheets and new
debt. BMO Capital Markets and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed to
provide a secured  term loan .  The transaction was unanimously approved by the Ainsworth
board and includes a C$32.5 million termination fee. It’s the
largest deal in the wood building-product industry since Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC bought Boise Cascade Co. from OfficeMax
Inc. for $3.7 billion in 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Deal Advisers  Louisiana-Pacific said on the call that it’s paying about
5.7 times Ainsworth’s earnings before interest, taxes,
deprecation and amortization. The median Ebitda multiple paid in
three comparable deals during the past 10 years was 3.6,
according to the Bloomberg data.  Ainsworth’s access to Asian markets was a “pretty
important” aspect of the deal, Stevens told reporters
yesterday. Exports to Japan accounted for about 12 percent of
Ainsworth’s shipments in the 12 months ended June 30, according
to a presentation on Louisiana-Pacific’s website.  “Having a presence in  Asia  gives us a global reach which
allows for geographic diversifications when local markets aren’t
as active,” Stevens said. “We think as Asian markets continue
to grow that we’ll have even more business over there.”  Louisiana-Pacific’s financial advisers are BMO and Goldman
Sachs and its legal advisers are Jones Day LP, Stikeman Elliott
LLP and Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP. Ainsworth’s financial
adviser is  RBC Capital Markets  and its legal advisers are
Goodmans LLP and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  