-- IMF Board Approves $6.7 Billion Loan Package for Pakistan
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-04T17:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/pakistan-approved-by-imf-for-6-7-billion-loan-over-three-years.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a $6.7 billion loan for Pakistan intended to help
stabilize the nation’s economy and boost its currency reserves.  The three-year program will be disbursed under the IMF’s
Extended Fund Facility aimed at aiding nations with long-term
payments imbalances, the lender said in a statement in
 Washington  today. The fund had initially agreed on a $5.3
billion loan, with the government requesting more assistance.  The loan “means a great deal for the country’s economy,
giving them significant breathing space,” Sayem Ali, a Karachi-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said on Sept. 3.
“The rupee is under pressure, reserves are at around $5
billion, large payments are in the pipeline. It was a very
uneasy situation.”  The nation’s foreign reserves fell 42 percent this year to
$5.2 billion as of Aug. 29, not enough to cover two months of
imports, central bank data show.  Pakistan  has repaid $5.1
billion to the IMF since July 2011, the monetary authority has
said, and the government in July requested a loan of $7.3
billion with a “very robust reform” agenda to help secure the
assistance, Finance Minister Ishaq Dar said July 4.  “The authorities’ program is expected to help the economy
rebound, forestall a balance-of-payments crisis and rebuild
reserves, reduce the fiscal deficit, and undertake comprehensive
structural reforms to boost investment and growth,” the IMF
said in the statement. “Adherence to the program is also
expected to catalyze the mobilization of resources from other
donors.”  Earlier Loan  An earlier $11.3 billion loan from the IMF expired in
September 2011 after the South Asian nation failed to implement
measures attached to it. Today’s approval enables an initial
disbursement of about $540 million, with the rest depending on
compliance with the program, according to the fund.  Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , who took charge of the
government after a record third-term victory in May’s general
election, is struggling to revive the $231 billion economy
crippled by chronic energy shortages and a spike in violence
from a Taliban insurgency in the northwest.  The rupee has fallen more than 7 percent against the dollar
this year, among the worst performers in  Asia , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  