-- Panasonic May Beats Profit Forecast as Yen Stokes Exports
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/panasonic-may-exceed-forecast-as-weak-yen-boosts-sales.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s second-largest television maker, said full-year earnings could beat
its forecast as a weaker yen lowers prices for its products in
overseas markets.  “We’re seeing better numbers than we had anticipated,”
President  Kazuhiro Tsuga , said in an interview yesterday,
declining to give details. The company in July  forecast  net
income of 50 billion yen ($502 million) for the year ending
March 2014.  Panasonic is headed for its first annual  profit  in three
years as Tsuga deepens efforts to revive the electronics maker
after back-to-back losses totaling 1.5 trillion yen. The Osaka-based company plans restructuring spending of 250 billion yen
through March 2015 to end losses in operations for TVs,
semiconductors, mobile phones and optical devices. Consumer
smartphone operations will likely shrink due to falling sales,
according to Tsuga.  The Japanese currency has declined about 21 percent against
the U.S. dollar in the past 12 months as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe uses fiscal and monetary policy to try and revive economic
growth. An expected rise in  Japan ’s consumption tax has boosted
large-sized spending for housing and will probably help the sale
of whitegoods, the executive said.  Tsuga, who took the top job in June 2012, also cited higher
sales of electric-car batteries and housing systems for the
potential earnings boost.  “We had long battled quite severely from strengthening
yen,” he said. “That changed and our devices are more
competitive than before.”  Consumption Tax  Japan’s feed-in-tariff system is also boosting sales of
solar power systems, he said.  Japan is due to raise the nation’s 5 percent sales tax to 8
percent in April before an increase to 10 percent in October
2015 to curb the world’s heaviest debt load. Abe will decide
whether to go ahead with the plan after the Oct. 1 release of
the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey of business
confidence.  Japan’s solar market is booming thanks to an incentive
program that pays above-market rates for power produced from
renewable sources such as the sun and wind. Introduced in July
2012, the program is intended to diversify the country’s energy
mix following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.  In July, the maker of Viera TVs reported  first-quarter 
profit of 107.8 billion yen, outstripping analyst estimates,
helped by cost cuts and one-time gain from changes in pension
accounting.  Smartphones  While cost cuts and a weaker yen, triggered by Abe’s
monetary stimulus, is helping Tsuga revive 95-year-old
Panasonic, global competition in consumer electronics is adding
to pressure.  The company has stopped offering handsets in Europe and is
“reconsidering” how to sustain its mobile-phone operation,
Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai said July 31. The unit
reported an operating loss of 5.4 billion yen during the three
months ended June.  The company’s smartphone operation for consumers will
probably shrink due to falling sales and Panasonic will seek to
apply its expertise in making handsets to business-use products
or automotive-related products, Tsuga said. The company doesn’t
have a plan to sell any of its mobile-phone assets, he said.  Panasonic’s TV shipments dropped about 10 percent to 2.72
million during the quarter ended June 30, while the digital
still camera segment was unprofitable, Kawai said in July. The
company raised its portion of worldwide revenue for flat-panel
televisions to 5.3 percent in the second quarter, up from 4.6
percent in the first three months of this year.  Business Review  Panasonic is reviewing its marketing operation for TVs in
North America and  China  where price competition is harsh, Tsuga
said. Making exclusive models for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , a
business it inherited from Sanyo Electronics Co., has been
successful and Panasonic may replicate the structure with other
partners, he said.  The company is reviewing smaller businesses. In July, it
agreed to sell its ultrasound diagnostic equipment operations to
 Konica Minolta Inc. (4902)   Panasonic is also seeking a sale of its stake in a health-care unit. In June, the electronics maker selected KKR & Co. and
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  on a shortlist for second-round bids after
receiving offers that valued the division at about 200 billion
yen, people with the knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Panasonic, which has grown into a consumer-electronics
giant producing everything from TVs to eyelash curlers, has
eliminated 92,423 jobs since March 2010,  data  complied by
Bloomberg show. Fourteen-months into the job, Tsuga, 56, is
deciding what it can’t afford to make any more.  In his restructuring plan, Tsuga has said Panasonic will
consider pulling out of businesses with operating  margins  below
5 percent by March 2016. None of the company’s main four
divisions reached that target during the June quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  