-- Rafael Nadal Strolls Into U.S. Open Semifinals as Azarenka Wins
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-05T03:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/pennetta-tops-fellow-italian-vinci-to-reach-u-s-open-semifinals.html
Rafael Nadal  swept past fellow
Spaniard Tommy Robredo and into the U.S. Open semifinals at
windy Arthur Ashe Stadium, improving his record to 20-0 this
year on hard courts.  Nadal, seeded second, won 6-0, 6-2, 6-2 tonight against the
19th-seeded Robredo, who two nights earlier had ousted five-time
champion  Roger Federer  in straight sets.  In women’s play, second-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  and
unseeded Flavia Pennetta advanced to the semifinals with
straight-set wins at the National Tennis Center in New York.  “I think I play my best match here in the U.S. Open this
year,” said Nadal, a 12-time Grand Slam winner who lost five
points in the first set.  Nadal, 27, who has not lost a game on his serve in the
tournament, next faces  Richard Gasquet , who became the first
Frenchman to reach the U.S. Open semifinals in 14 years by
beating another Spaniard,  David Ferrer , in five sets.  The eighth-seeded Gasquet survived a three-hour, 23-minute
match against No. 4 seed Ferrer, winning 6-3, 6-1, 4-6, 2-6, 6-3
to reach his only Grand Slam semifinal other than Wimbledon in
2007.  Ferrer, 31, who was a U.S. Open semifinalist last year,
double-faulted to give the 27-year-old Gasquet a 4-2 lead in the
final set. It was the only service break of the set, which
Gasquet finished off with a forehand passing shot.  “I have experience in five sets, as I’ve played a lot in
my life,” Gasquet said in a televised on-court interview. “I
knew I had to serve well. It’s important for my game, especially
against a big player like him.”  The only other Frenchman to reach the semifinals during the
U.S. Open’s professional era that started in 1968 was Cedric Pioline, who lost to  Pete Sampras  in the 1993 final and reached
the semifinals in 1999.  Azarenka Advances  Ferrer, who has reached the quarterfinals of eight straight
Grand Slams, was 8-1 entering the match in career meetings with
Gasquet, including a straight-set win last year in the fourth
round in New York.  In the other men’s quarterfinals, set for tomorrow,
defending champion  Andy Murray  of the U.K. will take on ninth-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland, and top seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays No. 21  Mikhail Youzhny  of  Russia .  Azarenka, 24, who lost last year’s U.S. Open final to
 Serena Williams , defeated Daniela Hantuchova 6-2, 6-3 and now
has reached the semifinals in seven of the past 10 majors. She
is the two-time reigning Australian Open champion.  Hantuchova, 30, of Slovakia, was playing in the U.S. Open
quarterfinals for the first time since 2002.  Williams and  China ’s  Li Na  reached the semifinals yesterday.
Azarenka, who is from Belarus, next will play Pennetta, who
reached the semifinals of a Grand Slam tennis tournament for the
first time.  Pennetta defeated fellow Italian Roberta Vinci, the 10th
seed, 6-4, 6-1.  Close Friends  “It’s not easy to play against one of your best friends on
the tour,” Pennetta, who earlier beat Italian No. 4 seed Sara Errani, said in a televised on-court interview. “This is the
first week where I feel better, where I feel myself.”  Pennetta, who had lost in three previous quarterfinals at
the season’s final Grand Slam tournament, missed last year’s
event with a wrist injury.  Pennetta, 31, ended her 2012 season in August because of a
right wrist injury that required surgery. She’s now ranked 83rd
on the WTA Tour after ending 2011 ranked 20th, and today’s win
improved her career record against Vinci to 5-3.  “It was, of course, a special day for us,” Vinci, 30,
told reporters. “This time she won, but I think I’m happy too
about this tournament.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at the U.S. Open at  rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  