-- Pennsylvania Court Hears Same-Sex Marriage Ban Challenge
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-04T18:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/pennsylvania-court-hears-same-sex-marriage-ban-challenge.html
A  Pennsylvania  county clerk’s
decision to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples violates
state law and poses the risk of creating legal chaos, lawyers
for the state argued in court.  Allowing the clerk of Orphans’ Court of Montgomery County
to continue issuing licenses to same-sex couples would
“generate chaos and uncertainty,” a lawyer for the state told
a Commonwealth Court judge today in a hearing to decide whether
the state’s Department of Health has a legal right to sue over
the licenses.  “We don’t want to encourage public officials to take the
law into their own hands without waiting for the courts to
decide,” Gregory Dunlap, Pennsylvania’s deputy general counsel,
said.  The fight for same-sex marriage rights gained momentum
after the U.S. Supreme Court in June struck down the Defense of
Marriage Act, which denied federal benefits to married gay
couples. Thirteen states and the  District of Columbia  allow
same-sex marriage.  D. Bruce Hanes, the Orphans’ Court clerk in the
Philadelphia suburb of Norristown, began issuing the licenses
after state Attorney General Kathleen Kane said she wouldn’t
defend a lawsuit filed in federal court seeking to overturn the
state’s ban on same-sex marriage.  ‘Clear Derogation’  The Department of Health sued in July, accusing Hanes of
acting in “clear derogation” of the state’s marriage law,
which defines the union as a civil contract between a man and a
woman. Hanes, a Democrat who has issued more than 160 licenses
since July 24, countered that the department lacked standing to
bring the complaint, and that the issue should be addressed by
the state’s highest court.  Under state law, Hanes’s actions are governed by the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court because he was acting in a judicial
capacity on behalf of the Orphans Court, Montgomery County
Solicitor Raymond McGarry said during today’s hearing. In that
role, Hanes has discretionary power to determine the legality of
marriage licenses, McGarry said.  McGarry acknowledged that Hanes relied on his own views and
statements from Kane to form an opinion that the state’s ban is
unconstitutional.  The hearing today focused on what powers Hanes is entitled
to exercise against the  Department of Health ’s supervisory role
over marriages in the state.  Commonwealth Court President Judge Dan Pellegrini didn’t
address the constitutionality of the state’s ban on same-sex
marriage.  Pellegrini also didn’t say when he would rule on the case.
He deferred a decision on a request to intervene by 32 couples
granted licenses by Hanes.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of
Health v. Hanes, 379 MD 2013, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net  