-- Philippine Supreme Court Asked to Stop Bond-Exchange ‘Monopoly’
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-04T09:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/philippine-supreme-court-asked-to-stop-bond-exchange-monopoly-.html
A group of former Philippine policy
makers has asked the  Supreme Court  to stop what they see as the
monopoly of the nation’s sole bond exchange.  In a 117-page petition, two ex-lawmakers, a former budget
secretary and two ex-national treasurers asked the court to void
regulatory orders that gave the Philippine Dealing & Exchange
Corp., or PDEx, the power to operate the nation’s only debt
bourse, according to a legal filing. The Securities and Exchange
Commission, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima and National Treasurer Rosalia de Leon were also named
as respondents in the petition.  “The hallmark of a free market is freedom of choice,” the
petitioners said, alleging PDEx’s status as a self-regulated
organization has led to high transaction costs. “PDEx’s
requirements unduly impede this freedom and impose barriers to
the establishment of a free market.”  The suit, filed on Aug. 22, threatens a planned merger of
the country’s stock and bond exchanges that seeks to deepen
financial markets. Any court decision that leads to a disruption
in Philippine financial markets may fuel fund outflows,
according to PCCI Securities Brokers Corp., at a time when the
prospect of the U.S. cutting stimulus has already hurt demand
for emerging-market assets.  Philippine Dealing & Exchange President Cesar Crisol
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg, while Bankers
Association of the  Philippines  President Lorenzo Tan didn’t
reply to calls and a text message to his mobile phone. Bangko
Sentral Governor  Amando Tetangco , SEC Chairman Teresita Herbosa
and Treasurer de Leon haven’t replied to mobile-phone messages
seeking comment.  ‘Capital Flight’  The average daily bond trading volume in the Philippines
has more than doubled to 28.5 billion pesos ($642 million) this
year from 10.6 billion pesos in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Trading peaked at 122 billion pesos on Oct. 15, 2010,
according to data going back to August 2008.  “A temporary restraining order that leads to a trading
halt could trigger a capital flight because a number of overseas
investors hold Philippine debt,”  James Lago , an analyst at PCCI
Securities Brokers, said by phone. “The most rational move for
the court is to compel both parties to present their arguments
and settle this issue soonest.”  The high tribunal gave the respondents 10 days to comment
on the filing, court spokesman Theodore Te said.  “We are working with regulators who are likewise
respondents to the petition to avoid market disruptions and
implement mechanisms that will preserve transparency, price
discovery and market stability,” Purisima said in a mobile-phone message.  ‘Special Favors’  In their filing, former Senator Aquilino Pimentel Jr., ex-Congressman Luis Villafuerte, ex-Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno and former National Treasurers Caridad Valdehuesa and
Norma Lasala accused the SEC of giving PDEx “special favors,
undue advantage and unwarranted benefits.”  They also cited conflict of interest when PDEx,
incorporated in 2003 as a fixed-income exchange, was allowed to
act as a self-regulated organization that also operates the
over-the-counter market for  government securities .  The twin roles “create distortion in the free market,
allowing the shifting or alternate trading in an exchange and in
the OTC market under the auspices of a single entity,”
according to the suit.  The PDEx’s “imposition of unreasonable fees” is
“reprehensible for being confiscatory and coercive,” according
to the filing. “None of these exorbitant fees go to the
government but instead remain with PDEx.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , provided a
platform for interbank trading of peso-denominated Philippine
 government bonds  before PDEx took over.  “A restraining order shouldn’t hamper trading because
transactions are done over the counter,” Paul Joseph Garcia,
head of institutional business at BPI Asset Management Inc.,
said by telephone. “It’s only after transactions are done when
the prices are inputed into the bond exchange. A TRO shouldn’t
have an impact on trading.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  