-- Pimco Total Return Fund Lost 14% of Assets in Four Months
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-04T21:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/pimco-total-return-fund-lost-14-of-assets-in-four-months.html
The world’s biggest mutual fund
keeps getting smaller.  Bill Gross ’s $251 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  dropped
more than $41 billion, or 14 percent of its assets, in the past
four months through losses and investor withdrawals. The fund
suffered $7.7 billion in net redemptions in August, Chicago-based researcher  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said today in an e-mailed
statement, the fourth straight month of withdrawals and the
second highest amount this year.  Top managers from Gross to  Jeffrey Gundlach  and  Dan Fuss 
have seen their funds shrink after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in May raised the possibility that the central bank
would begin to scale back bond purchases. The Barclays U.S.
Aggregate Index, among the most widely used fixed-income
benchmarks, declined 3.2 percent this year and fell almost 3
percent since May 22.  The  yield  on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose to 2.9
percent today from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before
Bernanke spoke. U.S. Treasuries lost 3.5 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  In the past four months, investors redeemed about $26
billion from Pimco Total Return Fund, which became the world’s
largest mutual fund in 2009. The fund  lost  3.9 percent this year
through yesterday, trailing 86 percent of peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. During the past five years, the fund
advanced 6.7 percent, putting it ahead of 87 percent of
similarly managed funds.  Record Redemptions  An e-mail and phone call to  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman
for Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
 California , weren’t returned.  Investors pulled about $60 billion from U.S. bond funds in
June, the biggest monthly redemptions in records going back to
1961, and $26.2 billion last month through Aug. 28, according to
 estimates  from the Investment Company Institute. Pimco Total
Return suffered $9.6 billion in redemptions in June, according
to Morningstar.  Gundlach’s $37 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
had its third straight month of net withdrawals in August, as
clients pulled $1.1 billion, according to Morningstar estimates.
Since April 30, the fund has lost about 10 percent of its assets
through investor redemptions and market losses, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Gundlach’s fund declined 1.2 percent
this year through yesterday, putting it ahead of 86 percent of
rivals, and returned 7 percent over the past three years, ahead
of 97 percent of peers.  Rivelle, Fuss  The $24 billion  Metropolitan West Total Return Bond Fund (MWTIX) ,
run by  Tad Rivelle , lost 4 percent of its assets since April 30,
and the $7.9 billion TCW Total Return Bond Fund, also managed by
Rivelle, lost 17 percent of its assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors pulled a net $519 million from
the Metropolitan West Fund since the start of June and $1.4
billion from the TCW Fund, according to Morningstar estimates.  Fuss’s $21 billion  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX)  is down about 10
percent in assets. Like Pimco Total Return, Loomis Sayles Bond
Fund had four straight months of withdrawals, Morningstar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  