-- Pimco’s El-Erian Says Fed to Taper Asset Purchases Next Meeting
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-04T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/pimco-s-el-erian-says-fed-to-taper-asset-purchases-next-meeting.html
The  Federal Reserve  will start
decreasing its unprecedented bond-buying program at its next
meeting, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian.  “The longer you stay unconventional, the greater the risk
of policy ineffectiveness,” El-Erian said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The Fed, which
next meets Sept. 17-18, is “concerned about the costs and
risks. They are trying to strike the balance between not
interrupting the healing process but, on the other hand, making
sure they don’t distort excessively the functioning of markets
and asset allocation.”  Any cut in  purchases  will be announced alongside caveats in
the Fed’s language that will allow policy makers to resume the
purchases if needed, said El Erian, Pimco’s chief executive and
co-chief investment officer, as the economy hasn’t reached
“escape velocity.”  Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July meeting
released on Aug. 21 showed members were “broadly comfortable”
with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper purchases this
year if the economy strengthens, with a few saying a reduction
may be needed soon.  The Fed will trim its monthly purchases of $85 billion in
Treasury and mortgage debt at the meeting in two weeks,
according to 65 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey this
month.  Forward Guidance  The Fed’s transition away from asset purchases in favor of
forward guidance, or announcements on short-term interest-rate
policies, as their primary monetary easing tool may weaken the
central bank’s ability to impact the economy, El Erian Said.  “When you move from a policy that has a direct impact on
markets because you are purchasing securities, to one where
you’re trying to change and alter behavior through language, the
effectiveness goes down,” El Erian said.  The proportion of  U.S. government debt  in  Total (PTTRX)  Return, the
world’s biggest bond fund, rose to 39 percent in July, from 38
percent in June, according to data on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s  website .  The Total Return Fund shed $41 billion, or 14 percent of
its assets, in the past four months through losses and investor
withdrawals. The fund suffered $7.7 billion in net redemptions
in August, Chicago-based researcher  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said today
in an e-mailed statement, the fourth straight month of
withdrawals.  Over the past five years, the $251 billion Total Return
Fund has returned 6.72 percent, outperforming more than 87
percent of competitors. It lost 1.87 percent over the past year,
placing it in the 50th percentile of its category, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed $1.97 trillion in assets as of June
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  