-- Poland to Cancel Bonds From Pension Funds in System Revamp
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-09-04T17:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/poland-to-take-over-bonds-from-pension-funds-in-system-revamp.html
Poland will take over and cancel
 government bonds  held by its privately managed pension funds,
stopping short of fully “nationalizing” the system as it seeks
to curb public debt, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said.  Pension funds will keep current assets that they invested
in stocks and future contributions to the system by Poles will
be “voluntary,” Tusk told reporters today in Warsaw.  The government, gearing up for elections in 2015 and
trailing the opposition in polls, is seeking to spur recovery in
the European Union’s largest eastern economy, which is forecast
to expand this year at the weakest pace since at least 1997. The
owners of companies running Poland’s pension funds include  Aegon
NV (AGN) ,  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  AXA SA (CS) , Assicurazioni
Generali S.p.A., ING Groep NV and  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   “The privately run pension system is partly built on
expanding debt and that has turned out to be very costly,” Tusk
told a news conference. “The system’s impact on public debt is
crushing and has effectively prevented us from making another
civilizational leap.”  The shift would reduce public debt by about 8 percentage
points, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told reporters.  Yields Rise  Yields on the government’s 10-year zloty-denominated bonds
increased 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 4.79
percent, the highest since October 2012. The zloty pared its
gains, trading 0.1 percent stronger against the euro at 4.2763
at 6:04 p.m. in Warsaw. The WIG20 Index of the country’s largest
and most-liquid stocks declined 2.5 percent, the lowest close
since July 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The economic slowdown forced the government last month to
widen the  budget deficit  by 16 billion zloty ($5 billion) to
51.6 billion zloty. It also suspend thresholds limiting
increases in public debt, a move  Fitch Ratings  said Aug. 23
“reduced fiscal credibility.”  The government outlined in June three options to overhaul
the country’s three-tier pension system, which was set up in
1999. Contributions to privately managed funds have reduced
funding for the pay-as-you-go state system that delivers
benefits to current retirees, forcing the government to cover
the shortfall through bond sales.  The 14 privately managed pension funds in the mandatory
system held 281 billion zloty of assets, including 111.4 billion
zloty of equities and 121.2 billion zloty of bonds as of July
31, data from  Poland ’s financial markets regulator show.  State Takeover  The state will take over the amount of bonds that pension
funds held as of end of Sept. 3 and turn them into pension
liabilities in the state-run social security system, Deputy
Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk told today’s news
conference.  The state will assume control of 51.5 percent of pension-fund assets, including bonds guaranteed by the government and
“other non-stock assets,” he said in an e-mailed statement.
The changes were designed as to “avoid negative market
impact,” he said.  The security system will also gradually absorb pension-fund
assets for people due to retire in the 10 years prior to
reaching the official pension age, Tusk said.  The pension changes will take effect by mid-2014, Labor
Minister Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz said at the briefing.  Foreign Share  Pension funds will continue to hold about 48.5 percent of
their current assets, Rostowski said. While the funds won’t be
allowed to buy government bonds, they’ll be able to buy more
corporate debt and will be freed from having to comply with
performance benchmarks, according to comments from the labor and
finance ministers.  While the cancellation of bonds cuts public debt, it would
also increase the share of outstanding bonds held by foreign
investors to about 45 percent from 36 percent as of July 31,
according to Rafal Benecki, chief economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s
Polish unit said in e-mailed comment.  “Pension funds will no longer work as shock absorbers,”
Benecki said today. “The relative exposure of foreign investors
on the zloty  debt market  should grow.”  Poles will have three months to declare whether they still
want to save for their retirement with privately run funds, Tusk
said. If they opt not to, their future contributions will go to
the social security system, he said.  The Polish chamber of pension funds said it was “deeply
disappointed” with the plans outlined by the government and
said they raise “serious legal doubt,” according to a
statement e-mailed today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  