-- Poland Leaves Rates at Record Low as Economy Starts to Recover
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-09-04T10:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/poland-leaves-rates-at-record-low-as-economy-starts-to-recover.html
Poland  left its  main interest rate 
at a record low amid signs the European Union’s largest eastern
economy is emerging from the slowest  growth (POGDYOY)  in four years.  The 10-member Monetary Policy Council kept the  reference
rate  at 2.5 percent, the Warsaw-based central bank said today in
a statement. That matched all 38  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey
of economists. Governor  Marek Belka  will hold a news conference
at 4 p.m. in Warsaw to explain the decision.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a quarter-point
in July to end a nine-month cycle of rate cuts, with Belka
saying that “the road to recovery is open.” Growth in the $490
billion economy accelerated in the second quarter as the euro
area, the destination for 51 percent of Polish exports, emerged
from its longest recession on record.  “The improving balance of payments and lack of bond
outflows for now allow Poland’s central bank to keep rates
steady, in contrast to many emerging-market economies,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist at ING Bank in Warsaw, said in a
research note today before the decision was announced.  After the decision, the zloty held on its 0.4 percent
advance today to 4.2585 per euro at 12:39 p.m. in Warsaw,
trimming this year’s decline against the common currency to 4.2
percent. The government’s 10-year bond yield was unchanged at
4.65 percent.  India, Brazil  Hungary ’s central bank last week slowed the pace of
 interest-rate  cuts as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to scale
back bond buying triggered an exodus from emerging-market
assets. Policy makers in India and  Brazil  raised borrowing costs
in August to shore up their currencies.  After Poland’s central bank eased borrowing costs by 2.25
percentage points since November, there’s a “wide consensus”
among policy makers to keep rates steady for an “extended
period,” Belka said in comments posted Aug. 21 on the central
bank’s Obserwatorfinansowy.pl  website . More rate cuts “could be
harmful,” he was quoted as saying.  Data suggest economic growth has begun to gather pace.
Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, accelerating after an increase of 0.5 percent
in the previous three months, the slowest rate since 2009.  Improving foreign demand helped Poland record its third
monthly  trade surplus  in June, the first such streak since the
data series began in 2000. Industrial output grew at the fastest
pace in 18 months in July, while  retail sales  increased the most
since last August.  Slowest Pace  The recovery began mid-year and it would be “safe” to
expect that growth will reach 1.2 percent to 1.3 percent in
2013,  Ludwik Kotecki , the  Finance Ministry ’s chief economist,
said told TVN CNBC on Aug. 20. Still, that would be the slowest
pace since 2001.  Policy will continue to focus on economic growth during the
next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists,
which predicts borrowing costs will remain at 2.5 percent
through the third quarter of 2014. The first rate increase may
come next June, according to forward-rate agreements,
derivatives used to wager on interest-rate levels.  While  inflation  unexpectedly quickened to 1.1 percent in
July, it remains below policy makers’ 2.5 percent target.
Consumer prices will rise 1.2 percent next year and 1.5 percent
in 2015, the central bank’s staff  projects .  Inflation is “clearly under control and there is nothing
to worry about,” Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, a member of the
central bank’s Monetary Polish Council, was cited as saying by
the PAP newswire on Aug. 21. Jan Winiecki, another member, who’s
voted against rate cuts since February, told TVN CNBC last week
that there’s no need for rate changes in “the near term.”  “There seems to be an agreement among policy makers that
there’s no need to change interest rates until the end of this
year, or even the end of the first quarter,” Janusz Dancewicz,
chief economist at DZ Bank Polska SA, said yesterday by e-mail.
“Recent positive surprises in monthly data serve as a strong
argument for the Council to balance its rhetoric.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  