-- Princeton Drug Royalties Spark Suit Over Tax Exemption
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-09-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/princeton-drug-royalties-spark-suit-over-tax-exemption.html
Edward C. Taylor ’s fascination as a
Princeton University chemistry professor with butterfly wing
pigmentation led him to invent a compound that  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
turned into the $2.5 billion-a-year cancer drug  Alimta .  Princeton, the fifth-richest U.S. university, patented
Taylor’s invention, and the school reaped $524 million from 2005
to 2012 in license income, mostly from Lilly. The school used
part of the money to build a new chemistry building and pay
$118 million to faculty through 2011 beyond their salaries.  As with many discoveries, Taylor’s had unintended
consequences.  Residents in Princeton,  New Jersey , have sued the
municipality and the university, saying the school should lose
its tax-exempt status because it shares royalties with faculty.
A state  Tax Court  judge refused to dismiss the case this summer
and said it may have wide implications beyond Princeton.  “We don’t give tax exemptions to universities so they can
take profits and pay selected faculty,” Bruce Afran, an
attorney for the residents, said in an interview. “Some faculty
are becoming fabulously wealthy, while taxpayers are paying more
than they should. That is fundamentally unfair.”  At a June 27 hearing, Judge Vito Bianco refused the
school’s request to dismiss the case, ordering the pretrial
collection of evidence to proceed. He limited the case to the
2011 tax year, dismissing claims for 2010.  “There’s a lot riding on this,” Bianco said at the
hearing. “It’s not just for this university or for every
university in the country, but for nonprofits as a whole. I
think this case is going to have very, very deep” impact.  $17 Billion Endowment  Princeton’s $17 billion  endowment  as of June 2012 ranked
fifth behind  Harvard University ’s $30.4 billion, according to
the  National Association  of College and University Business
Officers and Commonfund Institute. As universities increasingly
rely on royalties to help fund research, the potential effect of
the Princeton dispute concerns Sean Flanigan, president of the
 Association of University Technology Managers .  “Any time you impose new costs, something has to give,”
Flanigan said. His organization represents managers of
intellectual property at universities, research institutes and
teaching hospitals.  “Even at a small  tax rate , that dollar is not going into
research,” said Flanigan, whose members collected $2.6 billion
in license income in 2012. Most royalties, he said, “are being
plowed back into research or scholarships or general upkeep.”  The university denies operating for profit and has tax-exempt status under the federal  tax code , as well as for various
taxes in New Jersey.  ‘Every Confidence’  Princeton “welcomes the opportunity to develop the facts
and address the issues,” said Martin Mbugua, a spokesman. It
seeks “to serve the public good through programs of teaching
and research, and the purpose of tax exemption is to allow the
university to devote its resources to this mission,” he said.
“We have every confidence that the court will uphold our tax
exemption.”  Afran said the school, which owns some taxable properties
and has long been the top taxpayer in town, should pay far more
than it does. It will pay about $10.2 million for municipal,
school district, county and sewer taxes this year, as well as
$2.48 million in voluntary payments, according to Kathryn Monzo,
the municipality’s assistant administrator.  The municipality will collect a total of $150 million in
local, school, county, sewer and open-space taxes, she said.  Residents sued under state tax law. A 33-year-old federal
statute, the Bayh-Dole Act, encourages patent-royalty payments
to faculty. It allocates  patent rights  among the government,
inventors and institutions that get federal money.  Schools’ Stance  Universities are watching with concern, said Flanigan.  “Do we want, by virtue of the courts, universities being
treated as businesses when this is not a core mandate of any
university?” Flanigan said. “We would not want any type of
result that could have a chilling effect on innovation.”  Companies look more to universities to help with
specialized research, and the schools in turn can become
incubators for businesses. One profitable relationship has come
through  Stanford University , which owns the page-ranking patent
invented by former students  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page .  Google Inc. has paid the school $337 million in royalties
on that patented algorithm, which formed the basis for the
creation of the world’s biggest search engine.  Columbia University researchers came up with a gene-splicing technology that revolutionized the biotechnology
industry and received more than $600 million in royalties before
the patent expired a decade ago.  Advanced Cancer  Alimta is approved to treat advanced-stage lung tumors
after previous treatments fail, and is used to fight
 mesothelioma , a rare cancer caused by exposure to asbestos. The
Princeton patent ensures that Lilly won’t face competition for
Alimta from generic-drug makers until January 2017.  A separate patent, developed by Lilly, is the subject of a
case before a judge in Lilly’s hometown of Indianapolis. The
case may extend that protection until 2021.  The school ranked fourth in royalties in 2012, reaping
$130.1 million, behind  New York  University ($184.6 million),
 Columbia University  ($161.7 million), and the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  ($137.1 million).  Afran, who represents four residents and the estate of a
fifth, filed his suit in 2011 to challenge Princeton’s tax-exempt status because of the royalties. He also challenged the
status of 19 of the school’s 230 buildings on campus, saying
they engage in commercial activities including catering,
computer sales and travel agency services.  Tax Form  He said Princeton misled the municipal tax assessor on a
form called the “Initial Statement of Organization Claiming
Property Tax Exemption.” It directs an organization to name
individuals receiving profit or, if none, to “state none.”  Over several years, Princeton never stated “none.” It
replied, “Only the officers & employees of the corporation
receive normal compensation for their services. The trustees do
not receive any compensation.”  “They’ve deliberately avoided acknowledging that they give
profits to faculty,” he said. “They simply omitted the
information and came up with an answer that avoids the question.
It’s not only bad faith but it’s a form of deception.”  At the June 27 hearing, Keith Lynott, a university
attorney, argued that the school “is not operated as a
business, and it is not operated for the purpose of generating a
profit. Research is an essential core element of the educational
mission.”  The test under the law, he said, is “whether the
institution seeks to generate profits from its activities, not
merely whether it makes payments to individuals,” he said.  Property Rights  Payments to inventors, he said, are not profits. Rather, he
said they are recognition that faculty members have property
rights to inventions that they lose because, under the Bayh-Dole
Act, they must assign them to the university.  “The royalty-sharing program is not a sharing of profits;
it’s simply recognition in the form of just compensation for
ownership interests that the faculty inventor would otherwise
have,” said Lynott, of McCarter & English LLP.  Princeton  Mayor Liz Lempert said residents have a
complicated relationship with the university. The town, with a
population of about 30,000, hasn’t made a public statement on
the litigation.  “One of the fundamental underlying tensions is that they
are an internationally recognized research university, and they
have a need to grow and expand to stay competitive and continue
to attract the greatest minds,” Lempert said.  Tax Increase  Residents want the university to pay more, particularly
after a 2009 revaluation raised taxes for many, she said.  “There’s a broad feeling that they should be paying more
than they’re paying,” Lempert said. “The impact of the
revaluation was it shifted the tax burden from the wealthier
properties onto more modest homes.”  While residents understand Princeton’s “tremendous
benefit,” she said, “they also want to feel the university is
being a good community partner and paying its fair share.”  The university’s treasurer, Carolyn Ainslie, said in an
October court filing that all of the school’s “fundraising,
investments, and other activities” support its educational
mission. In the 2010-11 fiscal year, the cost of education was
150 percent to 200 percent of tuition, and 60 percent of
undergraduates got financial aid to offset that amount.  Afran, an  adjunct professor  at Rutgers University School of
Law in  Newark , New Jersey, argued in court that Princeton
doesn’t have to commercialize its patents. Instead, he said, the
school could put them in the public domain.  Universities’ Choice  “They’re not forced against their will to give royalties
to inventors,” Afran said. “Bayh-Dole says if the university
chooses to commercialize its patents, it must give royalties to
faculty.”  Patent lawyer William Atkins said it can cost drugmakers
$100 million or more to develop a compound and conduct tests
needed for regulatory approval to market a medicine.  “They wouldn’t have invested that money because the rights
wouldn’t have been exclusive” if the invention were placed in
the public domain and not patented, said Atkins of the Pillsbury
law firm. He isn’t involved in the case.  A former patent lawyer at drugmaker  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Jason
Rutt, said pharmaceutical firms increasingly form partnerships
with universities and small companies to handle drug research,
while large companies develop medicines for market.  “A lot of universities are trying to do this,” said Rutt,
now with the Rouse law firm in  London . “They come up with ideas
at a very early stage, and someone else makes it happen. They
get recompense for it. I see it as a win-win.”  Taylor, now an emeritus chemistry professor, declined to
comment for this article.  Butterfly Wings  Taylor’s research into the molecular composition of the
butterfly wings led him to study a field of chemistry that in
turn led to investigating ways to retard the growth of cancer
cells. In a 2011 article in Chemistry International, he wrote
about his discovery.  “I have often been asked how an interest in the lovely
white, yellow, and red pigments in the wings of butterflies
could have led to the discovery of Alimta,” Taylor wrote.  It began in 1946, when he was a graduate student at  Cornell
University , he said. He found an article about how researchers
isolated a compound from the human liver that had a core
observed only as pigments in the wings of butterflies and the
skin of tropical fish.  FDA Approval  After getting his doctorate from Cornell, he held different
jobs before joining Princeton in 1954. He worked in several
areas of research, not turning to cancer chemotherapy until the
1970s, he wrote. He had been a consultant to Lilly, and
developed the compound that became Alimta.  In 2004, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved the
drug for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma when
surgery isn’t an option. The FDA later approved it for the
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.  Sales went from $142.6 million in 2004 to $1.15 billion in
2008 to $2.59 billion last year, or 11 percent of Lilly’s total
sales. Total sales since 2004 have been $12 billion.  The case is Estate of Eleanor J. Lewis v. Trustees of
 Princeton University , 010656-2011, Tax Court of New Jersey
(Morristown).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  