-- Qualcomm to Sell ‘Toq’ Smart Watch to Show Off Display
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-09-04T19:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/qualcomm-to-sell-toq-smartwatch-to-show-off-display.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of
chips for mobile phones, will begin selling a connected
wristwatch called Toq, seeking to ensure that its display
technology finds a place in the wearable-computing market.  The smartwatch features wireless charging and an always-on
screen built on the company’s Mirasol technology, Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said today at an event in  San
Diego . The watch will let the wearer manage calls and text
messages and get calendar notifications from a connected phone.  Qualcomm wants its chips and displays to be part of the
growing market for wearables, and is using Toq to show what it
can offer. Customers such as Sony Corp. and Samsung Electronics
Co. have released wearable products or have said they’re
planning devices. Google Inc., whose Android operating system
runs most of the world’s smartphones, may also be considering an
entry after purchasing smartwatch designer WIMM Labs in 2012.  “Think about it, how many times a day do you check your
smartphone? And you’re going to have more reasons to access that
device,” Jacobs said at the event. Toq is “a second screen for
your smartphone, and it’s always available to you.”  Toq will go on sale only in the U.S. in limited numbers and
will retail for $300 to $350, Rob Chandhok, a senior vice
president at Qualcomm, said at a briefing. The device will be
available in the tens of thousands of units, he said. Toq also
comes with wireless headphones that let the user listen to music
or make calls.  Samsung’s Gear  South Korea ’s Samsung unveiled its own smartwatch, the
Galaxy Gear, at at event in Berlin today. To avoid competing
with its customers, San Diego-based Qualcomm will limit
production of Toq and doesn’t plan to enter the device market on
a wide scale, the company said. When it goes on sale in the
fourth quarter, the watch will be compatible with Android
devices.  The adoption of wearable technology is still in its early
stages, with the majority of devices focused on fitness and
health monitoring. The market for all wearable technology,
including smartwatches, will more than double to $18.8 billion
in 2016 from $9.3 billion this year, according to market
researcher  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Qualcomm’s Toq accesses data and services via short-range
wireless connections to a user’s smartphone. It comes with a
carrying case that doubles as a wireless charger, and goes about
5 days between charges. Its battery is built into the strap
clasp to keep the unit slim, and parts of the strap also contain
touch sensors used to access the watch’s functions.  Mirasol Display  The main feature of the device is the display. Qualcomm is
using its  Mirasol  technology to give the watch a screen that can
be left on without draining the battery. By using reflective
technology, Mirasol can be used in bright sunlight and consumes
little power.  Those features haven’t helped Mirasol meet the company’s
original goal of overturning the dominance of liquid crystal-based technology in the display industry, because Mirasol
displays don’t yet deliver colors as vivid as their rivals do.
That has held back the technology’s adoption in tablet computers
and larger-screen smartphones, particularly for use with video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  