-- Rajan Says Low Inflation Outlook Key Aim After Taking RBI Reins
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-09-04T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rajan-says-low-inflation-outlook-key-aim-after-taking-rbi-reins.html
Raghuram Rajan  said containing
inflation expectations is the  Reserve Bank  of India’s key goal
after becoming its 23rd governor, as the country grapples with a
plunging currency and weakening economic growth.  Rajan, 50, said monetary stability is the RBI’s primary
role and “this means low and stable expectations of inflation,
whether that inflation stems from domestic sources or from
changes in the value of the currency, from supply constraints or
demand pressures.” He said inclusive growth and development,
and financial stability, are important mandates too.  The former International Monetary Fund chief economist,
giving his first briefing in Mumbai after taking office, said
India remains a sound economy even as it faces challenges. The
rupee has plunged 18 percent this year as the prospect of
cooling U.S. monetary stimulus and  India ’s slowdown prompt
investors to pull out funds. The decline risks stoking consumer-price  inflation , already running at almost 10 percent.  “The RBI has been criticized earlier about losing track of
this key goal -- that of getting monetary stability,” said
Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd. in Mumbai. “To that extent I will agree that inflation
will be the first thing on his mind.”  Rajan, credited with predicting the 2008 global financial
crisis, began a three-year term as RBI head yesterday after
serving as top adviser to India’s finance minister since 2012.  The new head of the monetary authority said a panel will
report in three months on how to “revise and strengthen”
India’s monetary policy framework.  Meeting Delayed  Delaying the next scheduled review of policy to Sept. 20,
after the U.S. Federal Reserve’s meeting, Rajan said
communication with the public will be key.  He inherits the challenge of helping to revive an economy
that  expanded  4.4 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
weakest pace since 2009, as investment fell and  consumer
spending  in the nation of 1.2 billion people moderated.  India’s government is trying to pare its  budget shortfall ,
narrow a record current-account deficit, and speed up stalled
reforms and infrastructure projects ahead of polls due by May.  The deficits have jeopardized India’s investment grade
credit rating. Slower expansion also risks impairing the
country’s push to curb poverty.  The lower house of parliament yesterday passed a bill
allowing overseas investment in the country’s pension providers
for the first time, as the government tries to woo inflows.  Rupee, Stocks  The rupee strengthened 1 percent to 67.09 per dollar in
Mumbai yesterday. Its drop this year is one of the steepest in
the world. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  of stocks rose 1.8 percent.
The yield on the 7.16 percent government bond due May 2023 slid
to 8.39 percent from 8.58 percent on Sept. 3.  The requirement for banks to invest in  government
securities  needs to be reduced in a calibrated way to free up
funds for lending, Rajan said, while adding such a change can’t
happen “overnight.”  India will push for more settlement of trade in rupees to
bolster the internationalization of the currency, he said.  The currency’s woes have revived memories of India’s 1990s
crisis, when the nation needed an IMF loan.  Rajan, on leave from his post as professor of finance at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said he
wouldn’t use the word “crisis” in India’s context.  The RBI since July has raised two  interest rates  and capped
cash injections into the banking system, seeking to curb the
supply of rupees. Higher funding costs imperil the already
subdued pace of expansion in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy.  “Rajan’s immediate challenge is to stabilize the currency
and then get back to addressing growth concerns,” said Vivek Rajpal, a Singapore-based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “A
lot depends upon how the global picture pans out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  