-- Rand Gains 1st Day in 3 as Yields Fall on Global Recovery Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-09-04T11:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rand-gains-1st-day-in-3-as-yields-fall-on-global-recovery-bets.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days amid evidence of a global recovery that may stoke
demand for South Africa’s commodity exports. Bonds rose, sending
yields lower.  Australia ’s economy expanded at a faster pace than
economists’ predictions in the second quarter, data showed
today. The euro-area economy returned to growth in the second
quarter after a record-long recession, while U.K. services
growth unexpectedly accelerated last month at the quickest pace
since 2006. South Africa’s purchasing managers’ index
unexpectedly rose to its highest level in six years in August,
Kagiso Tiso Holdings said two days ago.  “Risk appetite seems to have moderated,” Mohammed Nalla,
head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said by phone
from Johannesburg. “The rand, being a commodity currency like
the Australian dollar, is taking a bit of support on the back of
that.”  The rand appreciated 1 percent to 10.2321 per dollar as of
12:20 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.53 percent. Metals and other commodities
account for more than 50 percent of  South Africa ’s exports,
according to government data.  South African gold producers are closer to a wage agreement
with the labor union that called two-thirds of the industry’s
140,000 workers out on strike as talks continue, Charmane
Russell, a spokeswoman for the Chamber of Mines at Russell &
Associates, said in a text message. Talks will continue today,
she said.  National Union of Mineworkers members began a strike at the
start of yesterday’s evening shift after the chamber failed to
meet the organization’s wage demands. The chamber represents
seven companies in talks, including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,
 Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  and Gold Fields Ltd. The group on Aug. 29 had
made a final offer to increase pay 6 percent to 6.5 percent. The
NUM wants as much as a 60 percent increase in starting salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  