-- Rate Freeze Seen Entering 4th Year as Canada Misses U.S. Rebound
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-09-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rate-freeze-seen-entering-4th-year-as-canada-misses-u-s-rebound.html
The  Bank of Canada  will probably
begin a fourth year with a 1 percent policy interest rate as the
U.S. rebound fails to spark the exports and investment Governor
Stephen Poloz says are needed to revive the world’s 11th largest
economy.  Growth  slowed  in the April-June period,  Statistics Canada 
reported last week, with business investment declining for a
second straight quarter. While the U.S.  Federal Reserve  is
considering tapering its asset purchases,  Canada ’s central bank
won’t change its policy because the economy is forecast to
remain below full output and inflation to stay below the bank’s
2 percent target until 2015.  “There’s no case for tightening monetary policy in
Canada,” said  Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency
Economics in Valhalla,  New York . “That is an implausible
position.”  The bank will announce a 1 percent  benchmark  rate for a
24th straight time in a decision due at 10:00 a.m. in Ottawa,
according to all 22 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
Business spending has been sluggish since former Governor  Mark
Carney  tightened policy three times in 2010, and companies are
 holding back  even as Europe comes out of recession and U.S.
growth exceeds Canada’s.  At their last announcement, policy makers led by Poloz said
current policy will remain appropriate “as long as there is
significant slack in the Canadian economy, the inflation outlook
remains muted,” and consumers continue to show signs of
moderating their record debts. A “normalization” of borrowing
costs can be expected as the economy improves “over time,” the
central bank said.  Fed Tapering  The bank will be on hold until the last quarter of next
year, according to the median forecast in a separate Bloomberg
survey last month.  Before the bank tightens, “inflation has to pick up and
the output gap has to start closing,” said  Benjamin Reitzes , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. The
possibility of Fed tapering “is definitely not the only
thing,” Canadian policy makers will consider, he said.  Consumer prices advanced 1.3 percent in July, the 15th
straight month the rate was slower than the bank’s target, and
policy makers have said growth will be “choppy” in coming
months after flooding in oil-rich Alberta and a construction
strike in Quebec in June.  Output growth slowed to a 1.7 percent annualized pace in
the second quarter, including a monthly decline of 0.5 percent
in June that was the biggest since a 2009 recession. That
suggests third-quarter growth may fall short of the central
bank’s 3.8 percent forecast, economists said.  Global Risks  “There are still risks out there to global growth that
present risks to Canada,” said  Craig Wright , chief economist at
Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest bank
by assets. “It’s been remarkable how long it’s taken to turn
around” business investment, he said.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s second-largest mining
company, said in July it would delay a copper project in Chile
and the start of production at a  coal mine  in British Columbia
after a decline in commodity prices.  The central bank’s last quarterly business survey showed 35
percent of executives planned more spending on machinery and
equipment while 26 percent were cutting back. It was the third
lowest balance of opinion since the country exited recession in
2009.  The Federal Reserve will begin to slow its bond purchases
at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month. Canada will
benefit as tapering begins because that means the U.S., which
buys three-quarters of Canada’s exports, is recovering, Deputy
Governor  John Murray  said in a speech last week. Slower
purchases may also weaken the Canadian dollar, supporting
exports, Murray said.  Those forces won’t lead to a quick recovery or interest-rate increase in Canada, said Reitzes at BMO Capital Markets.
“The Fed has to finish tapering before the Bank of Canada even
considers rate hikes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  