-- RBA Board’s Corbett Says Rudd Damaged Labor in 2010 Election
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-04T00:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rba-board-s-corbett-accuses-rudd-of-destabilizing-labor-party.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia board
member Roger Corbett accused Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  of
damaging and destabilizing the  Labor party  and praised
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  days out from an election.  “In my view, Kevin Rudd is a leader that has been really
discredited by his own conduct,” Corbett, who is also chairman
of  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , told the  Australian Broadcasting Corp. 
last night. “Here’s a man that really has done the Labor Party
enormous damage, destabilized it and is now wishing to present
himself to the Australian people as a prime minister.”  Senior Labor party figures have accused Rudd of leaking
against predecessor  Julia Gillard  after he was ousted in June
2010, triggering a plunge in her poll ratings that resulted in
the closest election in  Australia  since World War II two months
later. Rudd denies leaking. Abbott’s opposition led Labor 54
percent to 46 percent on a two-party preferred basis ahead of
the Sept. 7 election, a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper this week showed.  Rudd’s alleged leaks “had a terrible effect upon Labor and
probably put them into a position that they needed to enter into
coalition with the Greens, which was a very limiting factor,”
Corbett told ABC TV’s Lateline program.  “His colleagues sacked him because they judged him to be
incapable as prime minister,” he said. Shares in Fairfax have
fallen 87 percent since Labor was elected in November 2007.  ‘Free Country’  The comments are “a matter for Mr. Corbett,” Rudd told
 Channel 9 television  today in response. “It’s a free country,
anyone can say what they like.”  Corbett, a former chief executive officer of  Woolworths
Ltd. (WOW) , was appointed as one of the  six non-staff members  of the
central bank’s board in 2005 by the then Liberal-National
coalition government and reappointed by the ruling Labor party
in 2010.  The central bank yesterday left the  benchmark interest rate 
at a record-low 2.5 percent after 2.25 percentage points of
reductions since November 2011 to help rebalance the economy as
a mining investment boom wanes.  The RBA declined to comment. Under the  code of conduct  for
board members, the central bank’s website says: “Members, who
in the ordinary course of their activities outside the Bank have
occasion to discuss economic matters, will do so on the basis
that the views so presented are personal or affiliated with
another institution, not the Bank.”  Corbett said Abbott will probably be a “pretty good prime
minister because he is a very sincere, nice type of human
being.” He said the country certainly needs “clear and good
leadership” for the economy in the period ahead.  Greens leader  Christine Milne , whose party currently holds
the balance of power in the Senate and helped Labor form a
minority government in 2010, said Corbett’s timing was wrong.  Business leaders should express their views “at the time,
not wait until they think there’s a certainty in terms of who
they think is going to be in government,” the ABC cited her as
saying on its website. “They then, by their remarks, guarantee
themselves access, that’s exactly what goes on through the
corporate sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  