-- RBC Names Golub as Chief U.S. Market Strategist
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-04T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rbc-names-golub-as-chief-u-s-market-strategist.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  hired  Jonathan Golub  from  UBS AG (UBSN)  as chief U.S. market strategist for its
investment-banking unit, filling a role left vacant since Myles Zyblock’s April departure. The firm also added two former UBS
analysts to cover the consumer industry.  Golub, 49, who joined Zurich-based UBS in 2009 and was
chief U.S. equity strategist until he left in June, has 18 years
experience including at JPMorgan Asset Management Inc., Toronto-based RBC Capital Markets said today in a statement. Golub is
based in New York and reports to Marc Harris, 43, RBC’s co-head
of global research. His experience building up UBS’s franchise
made him “a perfect fit” for RBC, Harris said in an interview.  “The clients absolutely loved him and thought of him as
one of the best assets on the Street,” Harris said. “On our
platform, he’s really going to be able to shine.”  Zyblock joined  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Dynamic Funds in May
as chief investment strategist.  Also moving to RBC’s New York office from UBS are equity
research analysts David Palmer and Nik Modi, the firm said.
Palmer, 43, was previously sector head of UBS’s U.S. consumer
group, specializing in packaged food and restaurants. Modi, 37,
was UBS’s senior analyst specializing in tobacco and household
personal care. Both have similar roles at RBC, with Modi adding
additional coverage of beverage companies, the firm said.  “They’re great new hires,” Harris said. “They shine
really nicely because they’re well ranked and well thought of by
the clients.”  Palmer and Modi replace Jason Gere, Larry Miller and  Edward
Aaron , who are no longer at RBC Capital Markets, Harris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  