-- Rents in Rio Fall First Time Since 2010 as Petrobras Cuts Costs
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-04T19:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rents-in-rio-fall-first-time-since-2010-as-petrobras-cuts-costs.html
Rental prices in  Rio de Janeiro  fell
last month for the first time in more than three years as
Brazil’s economy struggles to gain steam and state-run oil
company Petroleo Brasileiro SA cuts costs.  Prices in the beachside city, host of the 2016  Summer
Olympics , fell 0.1 percent last month, according to a housing
index by economics research institute FIPE. It was the first
contraction since June 2010, said the Sao Paulo-based FIPE,
which bases its index on apartments listed by real-estate
website ZAP Imoveis.  While prices to buy and rent in Rio’s most sought-after
neighborhoods have jumped six-fold in the past decade, rising to
levels that rival  New York  and Paris, demand this year has been
cooling amid a plunge in the real, above-target inflation and
weak growth. Also weighing on confidence is cost-cutting at Rio-based Petrobras,  Brazil ’s second-biggest company by market
value. The cutbacks have had a cascading effect on suppliers.  “When Petrobras takes its foot off the gas, everything
slows down,” said Ron Radnik, owner of Focal Point Relocation
Services, which caters to foreigners moving to Rio to work in
the oil industry. “This is good news because when people get
here and they see how expensive it is they say, ‘Holy Cow.’”  Job Growth  Employers in the country’s second-largest metropolitan area
generated 31,000 jobs so far this year, less than half the
seven-month average of the previous three years, according to
Labor Ministry data. Nationally, job growth in July was the
worst for that month in a decade.  Housing costs in Rio are still the steepest among major
Brazilian cities, with an average sale price per square meter of
9,534 reais ($4,040), a 15 percent increase from a year ago,
according to FIPE. Average rental prices range from 20 reais per
square meter in working-class neighborhoods like Meier to nearly
70 reais in Leblon, one of the city’s ritziest neighborhoods.  “We’re seeing the oil and gas bubble deflate a little,”
said Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes, a former central bank
director who’s now chief economist at the Rio-based National
Commerce Confederation. “A strong dollar is making families
pull back on spending.”  Petrobras plans to cut its 2014 budget by 800 million reais
from this year’s 97.8-billion-real spending plan, Planning
Minister Miriam Belchior told reporters in Brasilia Aug. 29. It
would be the first annual spending cut by the world’s biggest
producer in deep waters since at least 2006.  Brazil’s real has declined 16.4 percent in the past six
months, more than any major emerging market currency except
 India ’s rupee. The economy,  Latin America ’s largest, is forecast
by analysts to grow around 2.3 percent this year and next, after
expanding 0.9 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  