-- Rhode Island’s Governor Chafee Won’t Seek Re-Election
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-09-04T21:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rhode-island-s-governor-chafee-says-he-won-t-seek-re-election.html
Rhode Island  Governor Lincoln Chafee
won’t seek re-election in 2014, saying he’s quitting a nascent
primary race to focus on running the nation’s smallest state.  The announcement came just four months after Chafee, a 60-year-old former Republican elected as an independent in 2010,
announced he’d seek re-election as a Democrat.  “He’s committing all of his time and energy to running
government and not running a campaign,” Christine Hunsinger,
Chafee’s spokeswoman, said by telephone. “The state has made a
lot of progress and he’s ensuring it stays on the same path.”  Chafee’s decision leaves next year’s primary fight to
candidates who may include Rhode Island Treasurer Gina Raimondo,
42, and Mayor Angel Taveras, 43, of Providence, the state’s
biggest city. Had Chafee sought re-election, he would have faced
a steep climb. A Brown University poll in February showed just
26 percent of voters approved of his job performance.  The Brown survey showed Raimondo, a Democrat who has
indicated she was weighing a bid for the governor’s job, had a
56 percent approval rating from voters and while potential party
rival Taveras stood at 64 percent. He has also indicated he is
considering a run for the office.  Largely Democratic  Rhode Island is among the nation’s most Democratic states,
backing President  Barack Obama  in the 2012 election with 63
percent of the vote, his fourth-best percentage among the 50
states, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Chafee, a former
Republican U.S. senator from the Ocean State, became an
independent in 2007 to run for governor in 2010 and served as a
co-chairman of Obama’s re-election campaign last year.  Chafee served in the Senate from 1999 to 2007, after being
appointed to the seat to replace his father, John Chafee, who
died in office. He won a full term in 2000 and lost a re-election bid to a Democrat in 2006. When he became an
independent, the former moderate lawmaker cited the  Republican
Party ’s turn to the right.  A Democrat last won election to the governor’s office in
Rhode Island in 1992.  Investors Win  Investors in Rhode Island debt have fared relatively well
under Chafee, who signed into law an overhaul of the state’s
pension system that pushed back the age for full retirement for
public workers and introduced 401(k)-type savings plans for
employees to supplement traditional pensions. He also suspended
cost-of-living increases for retirees.  At the time, the state’s retirement fund held less than
half the assets needed to cover future benefits. Chafee
described the changes as essential to restoring stability to the
pension system.  Rhode Island state and local debt is the best performer
among all 50 U.S. states this year through Sept. 3, according to
a Barclays Capital index. The state’s securities fell about 2.6
percent, compared with a drop of 5.2 percent for the $3.7
trillion U.S. municipal market. Rhode Island also beat  Maine ,
which has the same  credit rating  and dropped 5.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  