-- Tropical Storm Gabrielle Drifting Toward Puerto Rico
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-05T10:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/tropical-depression-forms-south-of-puerto-rico-in-the-caribbean.html
Tropical Storm Gabrielle formed in
the eastern Caribbean Sea and was drifting northwest toward
 Puerto Rico , triggering storm warnings on the island and the
neighboring  Dominican Republic , according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center.  Gabrielle was about 40 miles (65 kilometers) south-southwest of Ponce, Puerto Rico, with top winds of 40 miles per
hour, the Miami-based center said in an  advisory  before 5 a.m.
 New York  time. It’s bringing heavy rains to Puerto Rico and
adjacent islands, according to the advisory.  “Biggest impacts will be heavy flooding rainfall over the
Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands,” Dan Kottlowski, an expert senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc.
in  State College , Pennsylvania, said by e-mail before Gabrielle
became a tropical depression. “Flash flooding and mudslides
could be life threatening across the higher terrain.”  Gabrielle is the seventh tropical storm of the 2013
 Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. So
far, none of the Atlantic systems have strengthened into a
hurricane, which has winds of at least 74 mph.  The current track forecast takes the system through the
Mona Passage, a part of the Caribbean that separates the
Dominican Republic from Puerto Rico.  The storm will probably be pulled northward and into the
Atlantic, according to Jack Boston, another AccuWeather
meteorologist.  “It does not look like this will be a threat to the East
Coast of the U.S.,” he said by phone yesterday.  A tropical storm warning, meaning high winds and rain may
strike within 12 hours, has been issued for all of Puerto Rico
and from Cabo Engano to Cabo Frances Viejo in the Dominican
Republic, according to the hurricane center. A tropical storm
watch is in place from  Santo Domingo  to Cabo Engano.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  