-- Rudd Set to Avert Wipeout as Labor Faces Australia Poll Loss
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-05T04:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rudd-set-to-avert-wipeout-as-australia-s-labor-faces-poll-defeat.html
Kevin Rudd vowed to save Labor from
a “catastrophic” Australian election defeat when he took over
as leader in June. While polls show he’s narrowed the gap, the
party still faces eviction after six years in power.  Under Rudd, Labor initially erased a  14-point deficit  with
the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National coalition. As his
popularity waned over the course of the five-week campaign the
gap crept back to eight points and he was eclipsed as preferred
leader by Abbott. If Labor loses, the immediate question would
be whether Rudd stayed on as opposition leader.  His struggle to revive Labor’s fortunes ahead of the Sept.
7 ballot underscores the challenges facing Australia’s oldest
party, which has been battered by corruption scandals,
leadership spats and the loss of power in the four largest
states. Labor as the traditional party of the worker has
struggled to stem a loss in membership as a decline in
manufacturing and a rise in education levels sees voters drawn
to coalition policies aimed at the middle class.  “Rudd’s comeback has probably saved it from a complete
wipeout, but it hasn’t been nearly as successful as Labor would
have hoped,” said Paul Williams, a political analyst at
Brisbane’s Griffith University. “The damage to Labor was
already done.”  The party may face further turmoil if Rudd, who mounted two
challenges to predecessor Julia Gillard and was criticized by
Labor lawmakers for undermining her government, opted to return
to the back benches in  parliament  rather than resign his seat.  Salvage Seats  Opinion polls forecast Rudd will salvage some districts,
while failing to keep Labor in office. The party needs to win at
least five additional seats in the lower house of parliament,
where government is formed, to get a majority, compared with
four for the coalition. Labor currently has a minority in the
150-member house.  The coalition leads Labor by 54 to 46 percent on a two-party preferred basis, a Newspoll published Sept. 2 in the
Australian newspaper showed. The survey of 1,116 voters was held
Aug. 30-Sept. 1, and had a 3 percentage point margin of error.
 Such a swing  to the opposition from the 2010 election -- if
uniform across the nation -- would see Labor lose about 14
seats.  Before Gillard was ousted by Rudd in a party-room vote on
June 26, Labor trailed the coalition by 14 points. That deficit
would have translated into a loss of about 30 seats.  Sold Themselves  “Politics in  Australia  have come to be dominated by the
Liberals, who have sold themselves as a non-class party that
represents the whole community,” said Frank Bongiorno, a
historian at the Australian National University in Canberra.
“The big issue facing Labor after the election is whether it
has the will to reform itself to again make itself palatable to
the mainstream.”  Internal tensions and corruption scandals have overshadowed
 Labor’s achievements  under Rudd, 55, and Gillard, 51, who led a
minority government for nearly three years. Since coming to
power in December 2007, the party has implemented a 30 percent
tax on coal and iron ore profits, paved the way for greater
funding for government-run schools and disabled care, and
apologized to the indigenous population for past abuses.  During the campaign, Rudd has promoted the party’s economic
record leading Australia through the 2008 global financial
crisis, and said Abbott’s planned spending cuts would risk
sending the country into recession. He’s adopted a tougher
approach to asylum seekers attempting to arrive in Australia by
boat, pledging to send them to camps in developing nations such
as Papua New Guinea.  Fixed Price  Rudd has also vowed to scrap a fixed price on carbon
emissions by moving a year early to a trading mechanism. He’s
taken steps to end the infighting that saw three leadership
contests in as many years by changing internal party rules for
selecting or removing a leader.  “It could take a sobering defeat for real changes to be
made” within Labor, said Rob Manwaring, a lecturer in politics
at Adelaide’s Flinders University who’s writing a book on the
party. “Some of Labor’s problems are internal, some are policy-related and some are structural.”  Founded more than 120 years ago with unions as its
cornerstone, Labor formed a  minority government  in 1904 -- the
first Labor party worldwide to govern at a national level.  Fortunes Waned  Its fortunes have waned as the unions have declined and
manufacturing heartlands have been battered by a strong
Australian dollar that undercut competitiveness. Economic growth
is forecast by the central bank to slow to 2.25 percent by the
end of the year and Treasury estimates unemployment will reach
an 11-year high by the middle of 2014. Demographic shifts have
turned some of Labor’s more loyal areas on the fringes of state
capitals into middle class districts where the policies of the
coalition resonate.  “Labor has to offer something the coalition cannot,” said
Griffith University’s Williams. “That’s a tough one, because
the coalition has done a good job at making itself the catch-all
party for Australia.”  Males identifying themselves as union members in their main
job fell from 43 percent in 1992 to 18 percent less than two
decades later. Labor’s membership was around 50,000 in 2007,
according to a report by its  national secretariat ; the party
said in an e-mailed statement it currently has about 44,000
members. The  Liberal party  -- the main wing of the coalition --
has more than 80,000 paying members, according to its website.  Structural Decline  The report commissioned by Gillard after the  2010 vote  that
saw Labor forced to cobble together a minority government to
stay in power said “the party is in decline” structurally.
“Membership continues to age,” the report said. “Members feel
alienated and disenfranchised.”  About half of Labor’s candidates are selected from unions,
according to Manwaring.  “Unions that represent an increasingly smaller part of the
workforce have a disproportionately large influence on the
party,” said Bongiorno, co-author of “A Little History of the
Australian Labor Party.”  The last losing prime minister to stay on as opposition
leader was Labor’s Gough Whitlam, whose government was  dismissed
in 1975  by Governor-General Sir John Kerr and who went on as
opposition leader to contest and lose elections in 1975 and
1977.  Labor’s Future  While nine present and former Labor ministers are not
standing for re-election, Deputy Leader Anthony Albanese, 50,
Education Minister Bill Shorten, 46, and Treasurer Chris Bowen,
40, have been touted as future leaders if Rudd were to resign.  After the election, Labor needs to “be in the business of
maintaining continuing values but reforming our structures and
policies consistent with the challenges of the future and the
different compositions of our society,” Rudd told reporters in
Canberra today. He declined to answer questions regarding his
future after the ballot.  He may be hard to dislodge if he wanted to stay. Sixty
percent of caucus members must now back a leadership ballot if
Labor is in opposition, up from a third previously.  “Rudd has just got the leadership back again and may well
argue that he hasn’t been given enough time to turn the party’s
fortunes around,” said Manwaring. “He may not rush off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  