-- Central Bank Adviser Says Rupee in Danger of Sliding Past 70
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-09-04T08:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/rupee-in-danger-of-sliding-past-70-central-bank-adviser-says.html
The rupee could sink to a record low
past 70 per dollar and the Reserve Bank of  India ’s struggle to
stem the drop has hurt its credibility, one of its advisers said
as the currency tops incoming Governor  Raghuram Rajan ’sagenda.  “There’s a high probability” of the rupee ending 2013 at
65 to 70 and an “external shock could push it above 70,”
Arvind Virmani, a member of the Reserve Bank’s advisory panel on
monetary policy, said in e-mailed responses to questions. Rajan
is due to take over today, according to the central bank.  The rupee has plunged 19 percent this year as the prospect
of cooling U.S. monetary stimulus and India’s record current-account deficit prompt investors to pull out funds. The drop
risks stoking inflation and Virmani said the RBI has struggled
to fight the currency’s slump even after raising  interest rates 
and engineering a cash squeeze.  “It should have let the rupee depreciate to a point
between 65 and 70 that it could successfully intervene to
demonstrate effectiveness and give a message to speculators,”
Virmani said in the e-mailed comments yesterday. The loss of
credibility made it more difficult to keep the rupee from
overshooting above 65 per dollar, he said.  The currency weakened as much as 1.3 percent before paring
losses on suspected central bank intervention and was trading at
67.28 as of 1:24 p.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  of
stocks rose 1.1 percent. The yield on the 7.16 percent
government bond due May 2023 slid to 8.46 percent from 8.58
percent yesterday.  Rajan’s Authority  Rajan, who predicted the 2008 global financial crisis and
is a former International Monetary Fund chief economist, has
been appointed RBI governor for three years.  He is on leave from his post as professor of finance at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business and has been the
top adviser in India’s  Finance Ministry  since 2012.  He brings with him an authority that could usher in changes
at the RBI and influence reforms both at financial regulators
and in the Finance Ministry, Virmani said.  “Rajan’s immediate challenge is to stabilize the currency
and then get back to addressing growth concerns,” said Vivek Rajpal, a Singapore-based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“A lot depends upon how the global picture pans out.”  RBI Clarifications  The RBI today clarified some restrictions on outflows
implemented Aug. 14, giving companies more scope to invest
abroad if the funds come from overseas borrowings.  The central bank also allowed businesses to borrow from
foreign shareholders subject to conditions, and said residents
can remit more for expenses including medical treatment and
education fees than a $75,000 limit imposed last month.  Asia ’s third-largest economy  expanded  4.4 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009, as
investment fell and  consumer spending  moderated.  Higher funding costs threaten to weigh on growth after the
RBI capped cash injections into the banking system and raised
the marginal standing facility and bank rates in July.  Virmani said he expects India’s slowdown to bottom out in
the July through September quarter, followed by a “very slow”
recovery unless policy reforms steady the economy and business
investment accelerates.  Duvvuri Subbarao, the outgoing governor of the  Reserve
Bank , repeatedly flagged the challenge of price pressures fanned
by  government spending .  Deficit Challenge  The new governor will have “little influence” on the
administration’s approach to the  budget deficit , said Virmani,
the president of Indian think-tank Chintan.  Virmani and the six other external members of the RBI’s
technical advisory committee only provide recommendations and
don’t vote on monetary policy.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram targets a  budget
shortfall  of 4.8 percent of gross domestic product and a
 current-account deficit  of 3.7 percent of GDP in the year
through March 2014.  The deficits have jeopardized India’s investment grade
credit-rating.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday there’s a more
than one-in-three chance of a downgrade within two years.  The country also faces inflation risks even as economic
expansion moderates. Consumer prices climbed more than 9 percent
in July from a year earlier, the fastest pace in a basket of 17
Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The main reason for the rupee depreciation is the loss of
competitiveness of the Indian economy due to high inflation and
low corporate investment,” said Virmani, adding he favors
reduced government expenditure and looser monetary policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  