-- Russia Joins India to Taiwan in Missing Debt Auction Targets
-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-09-04T15:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/russia-joins-india-to-taiwan-as-emerging-debt-sales-miss-targets.html
Russia  failed to raise as much money
as planned at a government bond auction, joining nations from
 India  to  Taiwan  in missing borrowing targets as investors keep
away from emerging-market assets.  The  Finance Ministry  in Moscow sold 6.07 billion rubles
($182 million) of its so-called OFZ notes due May 2016 after
offering 13.6 billion rubles, according to a statement on its
website. Russia canceled an auction last week as only one bidder
took part. The ministry issued today’s bonds at a 6.5 percent
average yield, the top of its proposed range.  Developing nations are scaling back as the prospect of the
U.S. paring financial stimulus measures and tensions over Syria
curb investor appetite for riskier assets. India’s central bank
said it cut the size of a debt auction this week to 100 billion
rupees ($1.5 billion) from 150 billion rupees.  Indonesia  scaled
back an Islamic debt offering for the first time since July,
while Taiwan’s note sale yesterday fell short of the
government’s goal for the first time since 2011.  “It does suggest banks and other investors either would
rather sit on the sidelines until international developments
become clearer or they are waiting for yields to reach a new
base,”  Richard Segal , the head of international credit strategy
at Jefferies Group Inc. in  London , said in e-mailed comments.  Investors demand yields 3.4 percentage points over U.S.
Treasuries to buy emerging-market dollar bonds, compared with a
spread of 2.1 percentage points at the start of this year,
according to  Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index. (BEMS)   ‘Under Pressure’  The yield on Russia’s benchmark ruble bonds due 2027 fell
one basis point to 7.99 percent as of 5:54 p.m. in Moscow, up
from this year’s low of 6.8 percent on May 6. The ruble kept its
advance after the auction, trading 0.3 percent stronger at 33.41
per dollar. The currency has weakened 7.4 percent against the
dollar since the end of April.  The “ruble remains under pressure” and “until this
situation reverses, we do not see any reason to expect a
decisive return of demand to the local  bond market ,” Dmitry Dudkin, head of fixed-income research at UralSib Financial Corp.
in Moscow, said by e-mail. While higher yields should attract
local investors, they are also “reluctant to buy when the
currency is under pressure.”  Budget Shortfall  While Russia may run a budget shortfall of as much as 400
billion rubles this year, crude averaging above $105 a barrel in
the second half could “erase this deficit,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, the chief economist for Russia at Bank of America in
Moscow, said last week. Russia’s local-currency bonds lost 0.4
percent last month, compared with declines of 2.9 percent for
 Brazil  and 1.2 percent for India and China, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Oil, the country’s chief export earner, snapped two days of
gains, falling 1.1 percent to $114.45 per barrel in London.  “The relatively weak demand at the OFZ auction today is
more to do with external sentiment than Russia-specific
factors,” Esther Law, who helps oversee 4.2 billion euros ($5.5
billion) of emerging-market and high-yield debt as a  fund
manager  at Pioneer Investments, said by e-mail. Russia’s
“comparatively low fiscal balance and current-account surplus
should argue for further outperformance,” Law said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  