-- Russian Inflation Unexpectedly Keeps Pace in Blow to Easing Plan
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-09-04T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/russian-inflation-unexpectedly-keeps-pace-in-blow-to-easing-plan.html
Russia’s inflation rate held steady
in August after slowing for two straight months, weakening the
case for the central bank to lower  interest rates  for the first
time since 2011.  Consumer prices increased 6.5 percent from a year earlier,
unchanged from an eight-month low reached in July, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed statement
today. That was above the median estimate of 6.4 percent in a
Bloomberg  survey  of 22 economists. Prices rose 0.1 percent in
the  month  after a 0.8 percent increase in July.  Inflation has exceeded the top end of the central bank’s
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent for 12 months, thwarting
the central bank from easing monetary policy to counter the
worst economic slump since 2009. Policy makers are waiting for a
slowdown in inflation to begin a “gradual” reduction in
borrowing costs, Bank Rossii Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  said in
an interview with state-run Itar-Tass published yesterday.  “The continuing ruble devaluation” in August has
contributed to inflation pressure last month, Tatiana Orlova,
senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London ,
said before the release.  The ruble has depreciated for seven straight months against
the dollar, trading 0.3 percent stronger at 33.4180 per dollar
as of 3:50 p.m. in Moscow.  Bank Rossii held the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent on
Aug. 9, while signaling increased concern about the economy.
Russia is set to meet this year’s inflation target thanks in
part to a favorable trend in food prices, Nabiullina, 49, who
took over as central bank chairman in June, told Itar-Tass.  Most Russians named rising prices as their biggest concern,
topping corruption and poverty, the Moscow-based Levada Center
said, citing a poll of 1,601 people conducted Aug. 23-26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  