-- Ryanair Says Annual Profit May Be at Lower Forecast Range
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-04T11:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/ryanair-says-annual-profit-may-be-at-lower-forecast-range.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, said it may miss its profit target
this year after a heat wave prompted people to holiday at home
and increased competition depressed ticket prices.  Net income through March is likely to be at the low end of
a 570 million-euro ($750 million) to 600 million-euro range,
Ryanair said today. If yields, a measure of fares, continue to
weaken, profit may be “slightly below” that target, the
carrier said, sending its stock down as much as 15 percent.  “This looks a genuinely negative update, with the group
seeing some higher capacity and competitive pricing on key
routes,” said James Hollins, an analyst at Investec Securities
in London. The revision suggests analyst consensus figures for
full-year profit may be 10 to 12 percent too high, he said.  The muted outlook marks a rare miss for Dublin-based
Ryanair and comes a month after it issued full-year guidance
which Hollins had said was “overly cautious.” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael O’Leary  said he’ll respond “aggressively” by
slashing prices and grounding as many as 80 aircraft during the
winter season to take capacity out of the market.  Shares Drop  Ryanair declined as much as 1.01 euros to 5.77 euros in
Dublin, the most since Oct. 16, 2009, and was trading 13 percent
lower at 5.91 euros as of 1 p.m. in Dublin. The stock has gained
25 percent this year, trailing  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest discount carrier, which has advanced 57 percent.  EasyJet traded 6.3 percent lower at 1,200 pence in London,
while IAG, or  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the
owner of British Airways, Madrid-based Iberia and discount
carrier Vueling SA of Barcelona, was down 3.1 percent at 285.60
pence.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  fell as much as 5.8 percent in
 Frankfurt , while Air France KLM Group lost 3.7 percent.  Ryanair may be facing greater price competition from
 Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  in Scandinavia, Irish rival  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL)  and IAG SA’s Iberia, Goodbody Stockbrokers analyst
Donal O’Neill said in a note. Adjusted fiscal year net income is
estimated at 650 million euros, according to analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Both Ryanair and EasyJet are looking to expand their
networks as the former flag carriers undertake the latest
revamps of their short-haul units. Ryanair is among the biggest
carriers in eastern Europe, a market that’s shown particular
weakness in recent months as demand from migrant workers such as
builders dwindles, O’Leary told analysts on a call today.  No Catastrophe  Lufthansa and  Air France (AF)  have bolstered their European
offerings and IAG is beefing up Vueling with new planes. Iberia
yesterday announced a discount fare to win back clients who have
left for rivals like Ryanair. Rates for the “basic” ticket,
which won’t allow checked bags, will be this week.  O’Leary said the revision isn’t a major calamity and
reflects a “general weakness” in the European air travel
market. Rather than sitting out the drop, Ryanair decided to
“refocus” investors’ expectations to take into account the
outlook for a weaker September and October, the CEO said.  “It’s marginal, it’s around the edges,” he said the call.
“We’re not talking about some collapse or catastrophe.”  Price Competition  In October and November the airline will be offering an
introductory airfare of 14.99 euros on close to 1,000 routes, up
from about 600, O’Leary said. Grounding the aircraft in the
winter period means taking about 750,000 seats out of the market
from November through to March, the executive added.  O’Leary cited increased price competition and some capacity
increases -- as well as weaker sterling to euro exchange rates -
- as the cause of lower forward fares and yields in September,
October and November.  The U.K. pound accounts for about 25 percent of the
airline’s sales, Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said on
the call. Costs associated with a weaker sterling may trim
profits by 30 million to 50 million euros, the executive said.
The pound has dropped 3.8 percent against the euro this year.  The company still aims to meet its revised passenger target
of “just under” 81 million, though at lower fares and yields.
There is no change to a planned share buyback program, he said.
Falling short of the lowest end of the earnings target is
“unlikely” at this moment, O’Leary said, adding the chance of
remaining withing the bandwidth stands at 6 to 4.  “Ryanair has historically delivered results well ahead of
its own guidance so this is disappointing news,” RBC Capital
Markets analyst Damian Brewer said in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  