-- S. African Gold Output Weathers Strike Thanks to Union Divisions
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/s-african-gold-output-weathers-strike-thanks-to-union-divisions.html
Production at South Africa’s biggest
gold mines is so far weathering the industry’s third strike in
as many years as more strident demands lead to union divisions.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s Mponeng mine, Harmony Gold Mining
Co.’s Kusasalethu and  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) ’s Driefontein operated
normally yesterday, according to the Chamber of Mines, as the
Association of Metalworkers and Construction Union held back
from joining a strike by the National Union of Mineworkers.  The AMCU, representing a majority of workers at the three
mines, is seeking to gain workers’ support and usurp the NUM’s
position as the dominant labor group in the industry, partly by
outpacing its demands for better pay. The NUM still represents
about two-thirds of the nation’s 107,000 gold miners.  For mine operators, “the advantage is labor is divided,”
Mark Rosenberg, an Africa analyst at New York-based Eurasia
Group, said by phone. “The rise of AMCU is undermining the
traditional sector-wide collective bargaining in gold.”  Three of AngloGold’s six South African mines ran normally
yesterday. During the 2011 stoppage none of its mines operated.  The AMCU, founded by expelled NUM member Joseph Mathunjwa,
represents 73 percent of workers at Kusasalethu, 65 percent at
Driefontein and the majority at Mponeng. The union is talking to
companies and a strike is a “last resort,” Mathunjwa said.  “AMCU is playing cat and mouse with the chamber and NUM,”
said David Davis, a Johannesburg-based analyst at SBG Securities
Ltd. “If there’s any agreement with NUM, then AMCU may well go
on strike.” The chamber represents companies in negotiations.  60 Percent  The NUM is asking for a 60 percent pay increase to 8,000
rand ($783) a month for entry-level gold miners, while the AMCU
is seeking 12,500 rand. The demands jar with the Chamber of
Mines’ offer on Aug. 29 of a 6 percent to 6.5 percent gain.  While splits between rival unions over demands may have
helped keep mines open, it also complicates wage negotiations.  “It’s difficult to get business done as efficiently as
possible,” Rosenberg said. “There are multiple players and
then the intra-union rivalry is probably driving militancy.”  Pan African Resources Plc (PAF)  said it reached an agreement with
the NUM and the UASA union to increase wages for about 2,500
workers by about 8 percent at its Evander mines. Village Main
Reef Ltd. agreed to gains of 7.5 percent to 8 percent with the
NUM for about 2,550 workers at its Tau Lekoa mine, it said.  “While no formal revised demand has been tabled, positive
discussions have been held,” Charmane Russell, a spokeswoman
for the chamber, said yesterday, referring to the NUM talks.  Still, the chamber maintains that a 27 percent drop in gold
prices since a peak of $1,900 an ounce in 2011 makes it hard to
offer raises at above South Africa’s 6.3 percent inflation rate.  While Harmony’s Kusasalethu stayed open yesterday, output
at its nine other mines was “severely” or “significantly”
affected by the dispute. Sibanye’s Kloof was severely affected
and Beatrix was significantly affected, the chamber said.  “It could be a prolonged strike,” Davis said. “I don’t
think the mining companies are going to budge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  