-- S. Korea Dollar Bond Draws Orders for Five Times Amount Offered
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-09-05T02:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/s-korea-sells-1-billion-of-10-year-dollar-bonds-to-yield-4-02-.html
South Korea’s first global bond sale
since 2009 drew orders for five times the $1 billion offered,
reflecting confidence in  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy at a time
when demand for emerging-market assets is cooling.  The 10-year securities maturing in 2023 were sold to yield
4.02 percent, 115 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, the  Finance Ministry  said. That compares with an
initial guidance of 135 basis points. The nation’s dollar bonds
due November 2025 yielded 115 basis points more than  U.S. debt 
late yesterday in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The tighter yield than guidance shows strong investor
interest in Korean sovereigns,” said  Frances Cheung , a Credit
Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong Kong . “We remain positive
toward its credits given strong economic fundamentals and
external positions.”  The sale took place five months after the country hired
banks, having been delayed as tensions with  North Korea  and a
possible tapering of U.S. monetary stimulus drove borrowing
costs higher. The average yield on emerging-market sovereign
dollar debt climbed to 6.47 percent yesterday, the highest since
October 2011, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index  shows. That compares
with a record low 4.44 percent on Jan. 3 and an average 6.39
percent in the past five years.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc,  Korea Development Bank  and Woori Investment &
Securities Co. arranged the  bond issue . They were selected in
April and the sale of 10-year dollar debt was originally planned
for June, Finance Ministry Director General Choi Hee Nam said
yesterday by phone.  Fed Meeting  “We had to wait for emerging-market issues to calm down a
bit on the Fed tapering concern and we decided to do it before
the FOMC meeting as the  interest rates  might go higher,” Choi
said. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday the
 Federal Reserve  is likely to announce a scaling back of stimulus
at a policy review that concludes Sept. 18.  South Korea’s previous sale of dollar bonds was in April
2009, when it issued $1.5 billion of five-year notes and the
same amount of 10-year securities.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  South Korea ’s
sovereign securities instead of U.S. Treasuries averaged 103
basis points, or 1.03 percentage point, yesterday, down from a
June 27 premium of 129 basis points that was the biggest since
July 2012, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The gap was
70 basis points on Jan. 15, the smallest since July 2007.  Stronger Won  South Korea’s central bank predicts the  current-account
surplus  will be a record $53 billion in 2013 and forecast
economic growth will quicken to 4 percent next year, which would
be the fastest since 2010. The won has strengthened 4.6 percent
against the dollar since the end of June, the best performance
among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
strengthened as much as 0.5 percent today to a four-month high
of 1,089.63 per dollar in  Seoul .  “The government’s dollar bond sale, which drew a fair
amount of demand, lifted sentiment, considering the timing when
emerging countries are struggling,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Steady
foreign inflows also play positively to the market.”  Overseas investors were net buyers of Korean shares for a
10th day today, having pumped more than $1.8 billion into the
securities from Aug. 22 through yesterday. Redemptions from
emerging-markets equity and bond funds hit two-month highs in
the week through Aug. 28, according to EPFR Global.  Credit-default swaps insuring South Korea’s debt against
non-payment have dropped 11 basis points this quarter to 80
basis points yesterday, after increasing 23 basis points in the
first half of the year, according to CMA prices. That compares
with 95 basis points for  China , whose sovereign debt is rated by
Moody’s Investors Service at Aa3, the fourth-highest investment
grade and the same ranking as South Korea.  “Korea’s ratings are underpinned by its fundamental
strengths, which include a resilient economy and a robust macro
economic policy framework,” Fitch analysts led by Art Woo wrote
in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  