-- SAC Forfeiture Case Delayed as Criminal Trials Near
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-04T15:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/sac-capital-forfeiture-case-evidence-exchange-put-on-hold.html
The exchange of evidence in the
government’s forfeiture lawsuit against SAC Capital Advisors LP
was delayed by a judge until Jan. 6 while the U.S. pursues
insider trading prosecutions tied to the hedge fund.  A postponement of the case is warranted until insider
trading cases against the company, as well as SAC fund manager
Michael Steinberg and former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, are concluded, Assistant U.S. Attorney Micah Smith told
U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan today in  Manhattan  federal
court. Steinberg and Martoma face separate trials in November.  A federal grand jury in July indicted the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based hedge fund owned by  Steven A. Cohen . The
government also filed a related money laundering lawsuit seeking
forfeiture of ill-gotten gains. The delay of civil cases while
related prosecutions proceed is a standard government request.  “Our concern is the defendants would request to depose
government witnesses who may not yet have testified at trial,”
Smith said, adding that the stay could be in place until after
the Martoma and Steinberg trials are concluded.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , who called SAC “a
veritable magnet for market cheaters,” said the hedge fund
reaped hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit profits
through separate insider-trading schemes by at least eight
former SAC fund managers and analysts. Cohen has denied any
wrongdoing.  Don’t Oppose  Michael Schachter, a lawyer for the hedge fund, said today
that the defendants didn’t oppose the request for a stay. He
said that the government had already produced “multiple
terrabytes” of information.  The judge granted the request saying that by Jan. 6 he
expected to receive a letter from the parties about the status
of the SAC criminal cases as well as if lawyers in this case
believed discovery could begin.  The cases are U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541;
U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP 13-cv-05182, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  