-- SAC Is Said to Raise 2014 Bonuses After Insider Charges
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-09-04T18:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/sac-said-to-raise-bonuses-for-2014-after-insider-charges.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge-fund firm that’s facing federal insider-trading charges and a
money-laundering lawsuit, is raising 2014 bonuses for its
portfolio managers by 3.5 percentage points to help retain
employees, a person with knowledge of the decision.  The increase, announced to employees in meetings today,
will be paid to equity, macroeconomic and quantitative-trading
portfolio managers, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. SAC portfolio
managers are typically paid an annual bonus of 15 percent to 25
percent of the profits they generate from their investments.  SAC founder  Steven A. Cohen  last month sought to reassure
employees that business will continue as usual after U.S.
prosecutors indicted the 21-year-old firm and raised the
prospect that its assets may be subject to forfeiture. Many of
SAC’s employees have contacted friends,  hedge funds  and
recruiters in a bid to land jobs next year when they expect the
firm will need far fewer employees, people who have spoken to
them said last month.  SAC told employees today that it will guarantee a minimum
compensation of $300,000 for its equity analysts for next year,
the person said. A spokesman for the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
firm declined to comment.  Managers’ Pay  Cohen had raised bonuses for this year as the government’s
insider-trading probe intensified following the November arrest
of former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma. Equity, macro and
commodity portfolio managers received an increase of 3
percentage points, a person with knowledge of the plan said in
January.  SAC has about 1,000 employees working out of offices from
New York to  Hong Kong . While the firm doesn’t disclose portfolio
managers’ pay, it said in a July 22 report that “numerous”
portfolio managers have earned more than the $9.3 million bonus
made in 2008 by Martoma.  SAC was accused by the U.S. in a July 25 indictment of
engaging in an unprecedented insider-trading scheme lasting more
than a decade. The same month, regulators in an administrative
action said Cohen failed to supervise Martoma and another
portfolio manager.  The firm was granted court approval to continue operating
until the cases are resolved.  Clients have pulled their money as the government
investigation progressed. Executives at SAC, which oversaw about
$15 billion in assets at the start of the year, expect to begin
2014 with about $9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  