-- Scrap Gold Sales Jumping in India as Price Advances to Record
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-09-04T10:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/scrap-gold-sales-jumping-in-india-as-price-advances-to-record.html
Sales of scrap gold in  India  are
surging as the plunge in the nation’s currency drives bullion
prices to a record, easing a supply crunch caused by curbs on
imports by the world’s largest consumer.  Supplies of recycled bullion, mostly coins and bars, have
climbed to 100 kilograms to 150 kilograms a day in Mumbai, the
country’s biggest gold market, from 5 kilograms to 10 kilograms
a week earlier, said  Prithviraj Kothari , managing director of
Riddhisiddhi Bullions Ltd. Investors, who bought the metal at
lower prices, are leading the rush to sell, said S. Venkatesh
Babu, president of the Jewellers’ Association of Bengaluru.  “Investors are selling gold all across the country,” said
Kothari, who is also a director of the Bombay Bullion
Association, which represents about 1,000 jewelers and traders.
“There is a huge amount of scrap supply coming into the market.
There is a liquidity crisis and people are selling and putting
the money in the bank.”  Futures in Mumbai advanced to an all-time high last week,
rebounding 41 percent from a two-year low in June, as the rupee
slumped to the lowest level against the dollar. The increase in
scrap supplies is helping jewelers meet demand as banks and
traders have yet to resume shipments after the  Reserve Bank  of
India tightened import rules in July, said Kumar Jain, a
spokesman for the  bullion association .  Consumers Selling  Recycled bullion supply in India fell 44 percent to 31
metric tons in the first six months of 2013, even as gold
imports jumped 45 percent to 553 tons, according to the World
Gold Council. Scrap supplies were 117 tons in 2012 and 59 tons
in 2011, council data showed. Consumption in the country, which
imports almost all the bullion it needs, accounted for about 20
percent of global demand in 2012, council data showed.  “Consumers are selling coins and bars to benefit from the
increase in prices,” said Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director with the
All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, which represents
about 300,000 jewelers and bullion dealers. “Gold is available
at a discount as everyone wants to sell.”  The rupee weakened 18 percent against the dollar this year,
set for the worst loss since 1991 when the nation had to pawn
its gold for loans to pay for imports. The slump prompted the
government to raise  import taxes  three times in 2013 to moderate
consumption and curb a record current-account deficit.  “All the people who thought they were stuck with the gold
when the prices fell are looking to exit and a lot of investor
selling is happening,” Babu said. “There are no buyers in the
market. Only sellers.”  Dollar Price  The contract for delivery in October surged to an all-time
high of 35,074 rupees per 10 grams ($522) on the Multi Commodity
Exchange Ltd. on Aug. 28 and was at 33,429 rupees today. Prices
in rupees gained 10 percent this year, compared with a 16
percent drop in the metal priced in dollars as some global
investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value.  India’s rupee fell 8.1 percent in August, its biggest
monthly loss since 1992 on concern a deepening economic slowdown
will deter investors at a time when the U.S. prepares to pare
stimulus. It fell to a record low of 68.845 on Aug. 28.  “Demand for jewelry is weak in the local market now and it
will start looking up from the first week of next month when the
festival season starts,” said Haresh Soni, chairman of the
jewelry trade federation. “Unless and until the rupee
stabilizes the current situation will continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  