-- SK Hynix Expects to Reopen Fire-Damaged Plant in China Soon
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-09-04T20:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/sk-hynix-shuts-china-computer-memory-chip-factory-after-fire.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker of computer-memory chips, said it expects to
resume operations at a fire-damaged plant in Wuxi,  China , “in a
short time,” so supply volume won’t be affected.  There was one minor injury from yesterday’s blaze and no
major damage to production equipment, Icheon, South Korea-based
SK Hynix said in an e-mailed statement. The company said it’s
still investigating the cause of the fire.  “Currently, there is no material damage to the fab
equipment in the clean room, thus we expect to resume operations
in a short time period so that overall production and supply
volume would not be materially affected,” SK Hynix said. The
majority of the cost of the damage will be covered by insurance,
it said.  The factory makes dynamic random-access memory chips for
mobile phones and personal computers. SK Hynix, which supplies
chips to global smartphone manufacturers including Apple Inc.,
said in July there was limited second-half supply growth for
memory chips. Lower-end smartphones will drive demand for
dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, chips, it had said.  The fire started at 3:50 p.m. local time yesterday during
deployment of equipment and was extinguished by 5:20 p.m., the
company said. The fire produced large amounts of black smoke
that made it look more severe that it was because it was
concentrated in air-purification facilities.  Hynix shares rose 0.7 percent to 28,650 won at the close in
 Seoul . The stock has gained 11 percent this year, compared with
a 3.2 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi index.  Competitors  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  rose
in U.S. trading yesterday as Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. cited
potential disruption to SK Hynix’s supply. The shares later
pared their gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  