-- Slovak Government Agrees to Buy 49% Stake in SPP Gas Provider
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-09-04T14:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/slovak-government-agrees-to-buy-49-stake-in-spp-gas-provider.html
Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico’s
cabinet agreed to buy back a minority stake in gas company
Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel, completing a multi year push to
regain full control over consumer gas prices.  The government will buy the 49% percent in SPP it doesn’t
already own from Czech utility Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding
AS, it decided during in a meeting today. EPH purchased the
stake from  E.ON SE (EOAN)  and  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  in January after agreeing to
tighter price regulation that Fico’s government demanded last
November as part of the sale.  “We are gaining total control over gas prices,” Fico said
at a press conference in Bratislava. “We don’t have to worry
about a sudden increase in gas prices for households at the
beginning of next year.”  Fico had criticized SPP’s two previous investors, E.ON SE
and GDF Suez, as far back as 2008 for seeking increases in
household gas prices that ignored living standards in the euro-area’s second-poorest country. His government expects economic
growth this year to slow to 0.5 percent, from 2 percent last
year.  EPH, which also owns assets in the Czech Republic, Germany
and  Poland , will continue to hold a 49 percent stake SPP unit
SPP-Distribucia AS, which controls distribution and Eustream AS,
the most lucrative part of SPP which handles transit of Russian
gas from Ukraine, Economy Ministry spokesman Stanislav Jurikovic
said in a telephone interview from Bratislava.  EPH “respects Slovakia’s decision” and will continue to
cooperate with the government,’’ EPH Chairman Daniel Kretinsky
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Krynica, Poland at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  