-- Korea Selling First Dollar Bonds Since 2009 as Yields Climb
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-09-04T06:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/south-korea-sells-first-dollar-bonds-since-2009-as-yields-climb.html
South  Korea  is selling its first
global bonds since 2009, seeking to raise $1 billion at a time
when developing nations are paying the highest borrowing costs
in almost two years.  The government is offering 10-year notes at a yield of
about 135 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. “This
is the best time to sell bonds given the market situation,”
Finance Ministry Director General Choi Hee Nam said by phone
today, adding that pricing is expected to be finalized at about
1 a.m. in  Seoul .  The sale is taking place at least five months after
arrangers were appointed, having been held up as tensions with
 North Korea  and a possible tapering of U.S. monetary stimulus
drove borrowing costs higher. The average yield on emerging-market sovereign dollar debt climbed to 6.42 percent yesterday,
the highest since October 2011, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index 
shows. That compares with a record low 4.44 percent on Jan. 3
and an average 6.39 percent in the past five years.  “They better issue now rather than later as borrowing
costs will climb even faster” once the  Federal Reserve  begins
to rein in asset purchases, said Rees Kam, a strategist at SJS
Markets Ltd., a Hong Kong-based financial services company that
specializes in fixed income. “We expect solid demand for the
debt given Korea’s better economic fundamentals relative to
other  emerging markets .”  Fed Concern  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc,  Korea Development Bank  and Woori Investment &
Securities Co. are arranging today’s bond sale, according to a
finance ministry statement. They were selected in April and the
sale of 10-year dollar debt was originally planned for June,
Choi said.  “We had to wait for emerging-market issues to calm down a
bit on the Fed tapering concern and we decided to do it before
the FOMC meeting as the interest rates might go higher,” he
said.  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said today the U.S.
central bank is likely to announce a scaling back of stimulus at
a policy review that concludes Sept. 18.  South Korea  last sold dollar bonds in April 2009, when it
issued $1.5 billion five-year notes and the same amount of 10-year securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Premium  The extra yield investors demand to hold South Korea’s
sovereign securities instead of U.S. Treasuries averaged 104
basis points yesterday, down from a June 27 premium of 129 basis
points that was the biggest since July 2012, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. The gap was 70 basis points on Jan. 15,
the smallest since July 2007.  “The sale is not to raise dollars but to assure overseas
investors that Korea’s capital markets are solid,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in
Seoul. “The sale will likely succeed even in the face of U.S.
tapering risk” and rising geopolitical risks in  Syria , he said.  The nation’s  current-account surplus , forecast to reach a
record $53 billion this year, is enabling  Asia ’s fourth-biggest
economy to keep  interest rates  low to support growth as other
emerging markets raise borrowing costs to defend their falling
currencies. Gross domestic product will increase 4 percent next
year, the fastest pace since 2010, compared with an estimated
2.8 percent this year, the Bank of Korea said in July.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps insuring the nation’s debt against
non-payment dropped 12 basis points this quarter to 79 after
increasing 32 basis points in the first half of the year,
according to CMA prices. That compares with 96 for  China , whose
sovereign debt is rated by Moody’s Investors Service at Aa3, the
fourth-highest investment grade and the same ranking as Korea.  The won strengthened 4.3 percent against the dollar since
the end of June, the best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s dollar bonds due November
2025 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.23
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread over similar-maturity Treasuries is 109 basis points,
compared with this year’s high of 123 on July 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  