-- Soybeans Drop After Biggest Rally in a Week; Corn, Wheat Decline
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-04T03:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/soybeans-drop-after-biggest-rally-in-a-week-corn-wheat-decline.html
Soybeans fell after their biggest
rally in a week as a report showed crops in the U.S., the
biggest producer, had not worsened as much as some analysts
expected after hot, dry weather.  The contract for delivery in November dropped as much as
1.6 percent to $13.6525 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade,
and was at $13.71 at 10:48 a.m. in  Singapore . Futures gained 2.2
percent yesterday, the most since Aug. 26, on speculation lack
of rain in the past 30 days damaged prospects for yields.  An estimated 54 percent of the soybean crop was in good or
excellent  condition  in the latest week, down from 58 percent on
Aug. 25, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a report
yesterday, based on a survey of the 18 biggest growing states.
The corn crop was rated 56 percent good to excellent, down from
59 percent a week ago.  “Some of the crop conditions for soybeans didn’t
deteriorate as much as would have been expected,” said  Michael Pitts , a commodity sales director at National Australia Bank
Ltd., from Sydney today. “Soybeans are the ones most at risk.”  Weekend rains favored parts of the eastern and far western
Midwest as well as the northeastern Delta, Commodity Weather
Group LLC said in a report yesterday. The weather will continue
to be dry today, with ominous implications for production loss
especially in soybeans, DTN said yesterday.  “We’ve seen a pretty big rally off the back of some
concerns of how dry it was in the U.S. particularly for
soybeans,” said Graydon Chong, a grains and oilseeds analyst at
Rabobank International in Sydney. “We’ll see these little bits
of correction when the markets think we’ve rallied too far.”  Wheat, Corn  The biggest grain-handler in  Australia ’s largest wheat-producing state has raised its crop forecast after late rains
eased dryness before the harvest gets under way next month,
boosting global supply prospects.  CBH Group may receive 10 million metric tons to 10.6
million tons of Western Australian grain, up from 9 million tons
forecast a few weeks ago, according to David Capper, general
manager operations at the Perth-based company, who said wheat
receivals will be about 6.5 million tons.  Wheat for delivery in December dropped as much as 0.6
percent to $6.4325 a bushel before trading at $6.45, while corn
lost as much as 1.7 percent to $4.6725 a bushel and traded at
$4.70. Both grains fell to the lowest level since Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  