-- Spain’s Deficit Struggle Shows Threat to ECB Rally
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-09-05T10:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/spain-s-deficit-struggle-shows-threat-to-ecb-rally-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s bid to meet its budget-deficit target for the first time in five years is running into
trouble, fueling concerns that increased financial stability is
masking deeper economic problems.  The shortfall for the central government in the first seven
months of the year was 4.38 percent of Spanish output, compared
with a 3.8 percent goal for the year, government data show.
Economists at the savings banks’ foundation Funcas, Mizuho
International and Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Spain may
miss the European Union’s  overall goal  for this year of 6.5
percent as benefit spending climbs and tax income falters.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , campaigning
ahead of this month’s national general election, has cited signs
of economic recovery in Spain as evidence that  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s prescription of forcing budget cuts on euro-area
countries in exchange for support is bearing fruit. The
unraveling of Spain’s consolidation program may undermine his
case and jeopardize the 13-month rally in Spanish debt that set
the spread with German bunds at a two-year low last month.  “Probably influenced by crisis fatigue and criticism of
European austerity policies, the European Commission has
overlooked the lack of progress this year in some structural
reforms and the deficit,” said Ruben Segura-Cayuela, a former
Bank of Spain economist who works at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  London . “The key question is whether rating agencies
will also look the other way.” He forecasts a 7 percent deficit
this year.  Draghi’s Pledge  Spain sold 10-year bonds with the lowest borrowing costs in
three years at an auction in  Madrid  today. The yield on the  10-year benchmark bond  rose 3 basis points to at 4.54 percent at
12:07 p.m. in Madrid while the spread with similar German Bunds
was 255 basis points.  That compares with a euro-era record spread of 650 basis
points in July 2012, before European Central Bank Chairman  Mario Draghi  pledged to do “whatever it takes” to protect the euro.  “Draghi’s remarks may continue to cap funding costs,”
said Neil Williams, a London-based chief economist at Hermes
Fund Managers Ltd., who declined to say whether he owns Spanish
debt. “It will do little to address the underlying problem.”  Standard & Poor’s , which rates Spanish debt at BBB-, its
lowest investment grade, said in July that missing the target
may result in a downgrade. Should Spain lose its investment-grade status, some funds will be forced to sell their holdings
of Spanish debt and investors could face steeper haircuts when
presenting the securities as collateral with lenders.  Meeting the Target  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to cut Spain’s
deficit after raising levies on income, savings and property
since taking office in December 2011. Last year, he increased
the  sales tax , with the main rate rising by 3 percentage points
to 21 percent, and he reduced corporate-tax deductions in July.  “We expect to end the year meeting the deficit target for
the public sector overall,” Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Spain’s reforms are likely to “produce a greater increase in
revenue in the last part of the year,” she said.  The EU’s ability to ensure Spain honors its budget
commitments has a knock-on effect for its negotiations with
governments across the rest of the periphery who are struggling
to meet European demands in the face of domestic resistance.  Greece to Ireland  Greece  needs as much as 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of
extra help,  Portugal  will have to extend its bailout program
beyond next year and Ireland may be the first nation to test the
ECB pledge to lend to governments granted aid by the bloc’s
rescue fund, Williams said.  Spain’s economic reforms have created “very strong export
dynamism,” Schaeuble said in an Aug. 29 interview. “Everyone
is on the right track.” A German Finance Ministry spokesman
declined to comment further yesterday.  Rajoy has until Oct. 1 to ensure the deficit program is
moving ahead and EU officials will assess the outlook in the
fall, Simon O’Connor, the Brussels-based spokesman Economic
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , said by e-mail.  Spain’s central government deficit fell by 1.5 billion
euros to 45.1 billion euros in the first seven months of 2013,
compared with the year-earlier period. Revenues, mainly taxes,
increased in the same period by 7.3 billion euros. That was
mostly offset by a 5.7 billion-euro increase in expenditure.  Subsidizing Security  The government almost doubled its subsidy to the social
security system to 13.8 billion euros in the first seven months
as falling employment reduced contributions from workers by 3.6
percent. That transfer explained part of the increase in the
central government’s deficit, Fernandez Curras said.  Catalonia, Spain’s largest region, is challenging the
deficit target the central government approved July 31, the
region’s president Artur Mas said Aug. 6.  “Tax receipts are increasing less than forecast,” said
Angel Laborda, chief economist at Madrid-based Funcas, who is
considering raising his 6.5 percent deficit forecast.  “Social security is doing worse than last year and there
are doubts over the regions,” he added.  Mizuho International plans to update its projection for a
6.5 percent deficit in October, said its London-based Chief
European Economist  Riccardo Barbieri .  “Given the trend in the central government budget in the
first seven months of the year, I see upside risks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  