-- Spieth Becomes First PGA Tour Rookie to Make Presidents Cup Team
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/spieth-becomes-first-rookie-selected-for-golf-s-presidents-cup.html
Jordan Spieth was chosen by U.S.
captain  Fred Couples , making him the first PGA Tour rookie to be
named to the U.S. team in golf’s  Presidents Cup .  Couples also chose 2012 U.S. Open champion  Webb Simpson  to
complete his 12-man roster for the biennial event. Australian
Marc Leishman and Zimbabwean Brendon de Jonge were added by
captain Nick Price to his team of international non-Europeans.  While Spieth ranked 22nd on the points list, he has six
top-10 tournament finishes this year and won the John Deere
Classic in July to become the youngest PGA Tour winner since
1931. He shot 7-under par 64 in the final round of the Deutsche
Bank Championship to finish fourth, two days before Couples
selected him.  “I feel like he is one of our top players, even though he
is only 20,” Couples said. “I’m excited to have a young kid on
the team. Everybody I talked to on the team wanted Spieth. He
definitely deserves it.”  Spieth, Leishman and de Jonge will each be making their
first appearance in the event. It’s the second time three
rookies were added as captain’s picks.  Simpson, 28, was set to gain an automatic berth before  Zach Johnson  knocked him to the 11th spot with a putt on the final
hole of Monday’s Deutsche Bank Championship.  “All along, I was going to take No. 11,” Couples said.
“And with Webb being in the top 10 for two years only to get
pushed out with one putt - there was no way I could leave him
off.”  Automatic Qualifiers  The U.S. team also includes automatic qualifiers  Tiger Woods ,  Brandt Snedeker , Phil Mickelson, Matt Kuchar,  Jason Dufner , Keegan Bradley, Steve Stricker, Bill Haas,  Hunter Mahan 
and Johnson.  Leishman and de Jonge join fellow International team
rookies Louis Oosthuizen, Branden Grace and Richard Sterne of
South Africa, Hideki Matsuyama (Japan) and Graham DeLaet
(Canada). Other International players include Australians Adam Scott and Jason Day, South Africans Charl Schwartzel and Ernie Els and  Angel Cabrera  of Argentina.  The Presidents Cup is scheduled for Oct. 3-6 at Muirfield
Village Golf Club in Dublin, Ohio. The U.S. holds a 7-1-1 lead
in the event, which debuted in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  