-- Spitzer, Stringer Almost Tied in NYC Comptroller Poll
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-04T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/spitzer-stringer-almost-tied-in-nyc-comptroller-poll.html
New York’s race for the Democratic
nomination for city comptroller between Manhattan Borough 
President Scott Stringer and former Governor  Eliot Spitzer  
is too close to call, according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  Stringer led Spitzer 47 percent to 45 percent in the survey
of likely voters released today, similar to an Aug. 29
Quinnipiac finding that had them tied at 46 percent. Today’s
results lie within the poll’s 3.6 percentage-point margin of
error. The primary is Sept. 10.  Spitzer entered the race July 7 and led Stringer 56 percent
to 37 percent in an Aug. 14 survey. Stringer has since run
television commercials and appeared in debates characterizing
Spitzer as a failed governor who resigned in 2008 after getting
caught consorting with high-priced prostitutes. Stringer was
endorsed by the New York Times, New York Post and Daily News,
with the newspapers blasting Spitzer.  “The Democratic primary for New York City comptroller is
no longer a Spitzer romp,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of
the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. “Stringer has made
the comptroller race a nail-biter.”  The comptroller acts as the city’s chief financial officer,
monitoring its $70 billion annual budget, auditing the mayor’s
programs and all municipal agencies and overseeing $140 billion
in assets held by five pension funds.  Wasteful Spending  Spitzer, 54, a Harvard-educated lawyer and the son of a
Manhattan-based real estate investor, has vowed that as
comptroller he would reprise his eight years as state attorney
general, when his probes of financial-industry abuses made him
known as the sheriff of  Wall Street . He is funding his campaign
with his own money.  Spitzer said he would use the office’s subpoena and audit
power to find wasteful spending and fix failing programs. He
says he would use city pension stock holdings to improve
corporations’ profitability and influence them on social and
political issues.  Stringer, 53, a graduate of John Jay College of Criminal
Justice in  Manhattan , is a career politician who served in the
state Assembly for 13 years before his election as borough
president in 2005. His job makes him a trustee of one of five
city pension funds and gives him a voice in borough zoning and
land-use planning. He also appoints members to local community
boards and acts as a booster for Manhattan commerce and quality-of-life issues.  Black voters backed Spitzer over Stringer, 61 percent to 32
percent, while white voters favored Stringer, 60 percent to 36
percent, the poll reported. Male and female voters were evenly
split.  The survey conducted interviews with 750 likely Democratic
voters between Aug. 28 and Sept. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  