-- Sprint Seeks Early Airwaves Auction as Rivals Urge Delay
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/sprint-seeks-early-airwaves-auction-as-rivals-urge-delay.html
Sprint Corp. (S)  is pushing regulators
to quickly auction airwaves for high-speed mobile data, a move
rivals say may leave the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier as
the sole bidder.  Sprint  told  the Federal Communications Commission in August
that it supports a January auction of frequencies, known as the
H Block, which abut its existing airwaves and can improve its
high-speed wireless broadband service.  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  urged the FCC to
consider waiting until later in 2014, when additional
frequencies can attract more bidders and money. The FCC asked
for comments as it prepares the biggest sale of commercially
useful frequencies since 2008 -- the year after Apple Inc.
introduced the iPhone and helped ignite a surge in demand for
wireless data.  “It gives everybody more flexibility in their bidding
strategies, which likely leads to a higher price,” said Tim Farrar, an analyst at research firm TMF Associates Inc. in  Menlo
Park ,  California , in an interview.  The H Block could raise $1 billion if auctioned alone,
compared with $1.5 billion to $2 billion if offered along with
other frequencies, Farrar said.  In a January auction, “It is possible that only one bidder
will participate,” T-Mobile, the fourth-largest U.S. mobile
provider, told the FCC in an August filing.  Carriers like buying adjacent frequencies because that
makes it possible to deploy a single channel covering both
swaths. Handsets then can operate at higher peak speeds.  Auction Proceeds  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , was bought by
Tokyo-based SoftBank in July for $21.6 billion. SoftBank’s
takeover included a $5 billion cash infusion, giving Sprint
money to bolster its network and pursue acquisitions.  There’s no evidence that delaying the H Block auction would
increase the government’s revenue, and any number of competitors
with frequencies near that swath might bid, Lawrence Krevor,
vice president of government affairs for Sprint, said in an
interview.  “It’s expansion spectrum near the airwaves used by all the
major players,” including largest carriers  Verizon Wireless  and
 AT&T Inc. (T) , Dish and regional carriers, Krevor said.  Companies don’t need to say whether they will participate
in an auction until a date and filing deadlines are set.  Mandate to Sell  Congress last year mandated the sale of the H Block and the
other frequencies for commercial use by February 2015 as a way
to address wireless demand and raise money for a nationwide
communications network for emergency workers.  Lawmakers identified most of the airwaves to be sold and
told regulators to identify one more swath for auction. It
hasn’t been chosen, adding uncertainty to plans to offer
frequencies alongside the H Block.  The stakes are high for the multibillion dollar auctions,
which can leave winners flush with frequencies to feed
smartphones and losers barraged with complaints of slow apps and
Web pages.  While the FCC’s staff is ready to hold the H Block auction
in January, a date hasn’t been set, and the agency’s politically
appointed commissioners are divided over the details, as are
companies.  Democrat Jessica Rosenworcel advocated a bundled auction to
raise more money in a May speech. Republican Ajit Pai in June
said the auction should be held by early 2014 to meet customer
demand. Acting Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn, a Democrat, said in
August  the agency  is “moving expeditiously” and didn’t specify
a timetable. Clyburn declined to elaborate, Justin Cole, an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  A Tepid Response  Dish, the satellite-TV service that says it wants to move
into the mobile business, probably won’t “meaningfully
participate” in an H Block auction, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said in FCC filings. Proposals to offer the
airwaves later along with other blocks merit consideration, the
company said.  T-Mobile is “less likely” to participate in an H Block
auction because it is more interested in another band, called
the AWS-3, the Bellevue, Washington company told the FCC in its
filing. “However, if the auctions were combined, T-Mobile could
readily participate in bidding for both the H Block and AWS-3
spectrum.”  Tim O’Regan, a T-Mobile spokesman, declined to comment.  Major Players  The H Block comprises 10 megahertz of spectrum, a fraction
of President  Barack Obama ’s target of 500 megahertz for
commercial mobile data. Congress has told the FCC to auction an
additional 55 megahertz next year, for a total of 65 megahertz.
The FCC estimated that the largest auction planned, of airwaves
relinquished by TV stations, would free up 120 megahertz.  The TV-airwaves auction may raise  $15.2 billion  as it sells
off frequencies surrendered by stations in return for a cut of
the proceeds. That event, which also may be held next year, is
designed to turn over to mobile providers their largest chunk of
airwaves since an auction in 2008 that raised $19.6 billion,
with AT&T and Verizon offering the largest winning bids.  Together the auctions add up to a puzzle preoccupying
lobbyists, lawyers and engineers. Leading carrier Verizon, based
in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , and No. 2 Dallas-based AT&T are
working to make sure they aren’t restricted in bidding. All four
major carriers including Sprint and T-Mobile are assessing which
frequencies fit their needs, in what parts of the U.S., and at
what cost.  It would be unusual for only one bidder to appear when a
patch of airwaves is offered for auction, Coleman Bazelon, a
Washington-based economist and principal at the Brattle Group
consulting firm, said in an interview.  “People will show up and not let bargains get away,”
Bazelon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  