-- Staffline Gains Most in a Month on Sales Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   R a c h e l   S a v a g e
-- 2013-09-04T16:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/staffline-gains-most-in-a-month-on-sales-outlook-london-mover.html
Staffline Group Plc (STAF)  rose the most
in almost a month after Chief Executive Officer Andy Hogarth
said the recruitment company plans to treble annual sales to
1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) by 2017.  Staffline gained 3.4 percent at the close of trading in
 London , the most since Aug. 7, giving the company a market value
of 135 million pounds.  “In the last five to six years we’ve trebled the size of
the business twice,” Hogarth said today in a telephone
interview. “Our aim is to treble it again over the next five
years.”  Staffline shares have risen 84 percent this year, beating a
gain of 30 percent for  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest provider
of temporary employees.  Hays Plc (HAS)  and  Michael Page International
Plc (MPI)  have gained 28 percent and 19 percent respectively.
Recruitment companies are benefiting from signs of recovery in
the U.K. economy and employment. The economy grew by 0.7 percent
in the three months through June and manufacturing and services
indexes have strengthened.  Staffline is also experiencing growing demand from its
clients for truck drivers and identifies “significant
opportunities” in driving recruitment, the Nottingham, England-based company said today in a statement.  The Driving+ division, opened in the first half of this
year, is forecast to deliver 10 million pounds of revenue in
2014 and 75 million pounds a year by 2017, Hogarth said.  New Orders  Staffline has agreed to 10 million pounds of new work for
the second half of this year, and is bidding for contracts worth
30 million pounds a year, Hogarth said.  The company is in the “early stages” of looking at
acquisitions in its core business of placing administrative
staff in industrial companies, after buying three businesses in
the last 12 months, he said.  Staffline posted a 14 percent increase in first-half
revenue to 187.2 million pounds helped by its Welfare to Work
division, the company said. Adjusted pretax profit rose 32
percent to 4.9 million pounds.  “Underlying earnings per share increased by 35 percent to
17 pence, ahead of our forecast of 14.7 pence,” wrote analysts
William Shirley and Joe Brent at  Liberum Capital  in a note to
clients. “Welfare to Work was the key growth driver.”  The brokerage firm increased its share price estimate for
the year to 570 pence from 530 pence and retained a buy
recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Savage in London at 
 rsavage10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  