-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2013-09-04T18:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the  Beige Book .  The  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  prepared the
latest report. Information was collected on or before Aug. 26.  BOSTON: “Economic activity in the First District continued
to expand at a modest pace. Most contacts reported low-to-moderate single digit year-on-year growth rates. Higher interest
rates appear to have different effects on commercial real estate
where some contacts reported upward pressure on capitalization
rates and residential real estate where contacts report that the
prospect of rising rates ‘‘nudged’’ buyers into the market,
increasing demand. No firms report major cyclical layoffs but
hiring remains subdued except among fast-growing technology
firms. Sequestration has yet to have had any direct effect on
contacts with major government businesses but contacts
anticipate weakness in the future.”  NEW YORK : “Economic growth in the Second District has
continued at a moderate pace since the last report. Contacts
indicate that cost pressures remain moderate, while selling
prices continue to be steady to up slightly. Labor market
conditions have shown further signs of improvement, while wage
increases have remained subdued. Retailers report that sales
picked up a bit in July and August and were on or close to plan;
new automobile sales have strengthened since the last report.
Tourism activity has been mixed since the last report.
Commercial and especially residential real estate markets have
shown signs of firming. Finally, bankers report steady to
somewhat softer loan demand, little change in credit standards,
some leveling off in loan spreads, and widespread declines in
delinquency rates.”  PHILADELPHIA: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District continued at a moderate pace of growth during this
current Beige Book period. Moderate rates of growth continued
for general services, existing home sales, and  home
construction . Homebuilders felt their sales may have been
partially dampened by rising mortgage rates; however,
construction remained well above its level of a year ago.
Meanwhile, auto sales continued their strong rate of growth;
growth of freight shipping was also strong. An overall outlook
for moderate growth has continued since the last Beige Book.
Contacts expressed greater confidence in the  U.S. economy  and in
global conditions. However, firms remained cautious in their
hiring and long-term capital expenditure plans and expressed
concern about a potential fiscal crisis regarding the federal
debt ceiling.”  CLEVELAND: “Business activity the Fourth District expanded
at a moderate pace since our last report. On balance, demand for
manufactured products grew at a moderate rate. Housing market
activity has leveled out after a six-month period of strong
growth; sales of new and existing homes were above year-ago
levels. Nonresidential builders experienced a rise in backlogs
and the number of inquiries. Retailers were disappointed with
sales during June and July, while new motor vehicle purchases
posted robust gains on a year-over-year basis. Shale drilling
picked up in regions rich in wet gas and was above year-ago
levels. Output at coal mines trended lower. Hiring was sluggish
across industry sectors. Staffing firm representatives reported
that the number of  job openings  increased, with vacancies found
primarily in healthcare and manufacturing. However, job
placements were lower.”  RICHMOND: “Economic conditions in the Fifth District
improved moderately since our last report. Manufacturing
shipments and orders rose, and  capital spending  increased.
Retail weakened, with the exception of robust auto sales.
Revenue growth was strong among non-retail services firms and
tourist destinations reported good attendance. In banking,
lending activity slowed somewhat under the pressure of higher
 interest rates . Residential real estate and construction
activity varied, while commercial real estate and construction
markets were little changed. Heavy rains in the Mid-Atlantic
hindered harvests and raised concerns about crop damage. In
energy markets, natural gas production increased sharply as more
infrastructure came online; in contrast, coal mining declined.
Conditions in District labor markets improved modestly. Growth
in manufacturing prices for inputs and finished goods slowed;
service sector price increases also slowed.”  ATLANTA: “According to reports from Sixth District
contacts, economic conditions modestly improved from July to
mid-August. Most businesses noted a positive outlook for the
remainder of the year. Merchants indicated a slight pickup in
retail sales and automobile sales were strong. The travel and
tourism sector remained a bright spot across much of the
District. Residential real estate continued to recover at a
solid pace as sales and prices stayed ahead of last year’s
level. However, low housing inventories were still restraining
sales growth. Manufacturers cited a decrease in new orders and
production. Bankers noticed very little pickup in loan activity,
overall. District payrolls improved slightly.”  CHICAGO: “The pace of economic activity in the Seventh
District improved in July and August, and contacts generally
expected moderate growth for the rest of the year. Growth in
consumer and business spending picked up. Manufacturing
production increased, as did construction. Credit conditions
tightened some. Cost and wage pressures were modest. Abnormally
dry weather hurt crop prospects in many areas of the District,
but to a much lesser degree than during last year’s drought.”  ST. LOUIS: “The economy of the Eighth District has
expanded at a moderate pace since the previous report. Recent
reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have
been positive. Reports of retail and auto sales over the past
three months have also been positive. Residential real estate
market conditions have continued to improve, and commercial and
industrial real estate markets have also improved. Lending
activity at a sample of large District banks was little changed
during the second quarter of 2013. Prices, wages, and employment
levels over the past three months have stayed the same or
increased for a majority of contacts across the District.”  MINNEAPOLIS: “The Ninth District economy grew at a
moderate pace since the last report. Increased activity was
noted in  consumer spending , tourism, residential and commercial
real estate and construction, manufacturing, energy and
agriculture. Growth in residential real estate and construction
has slowed somewhat, but is still strong. The mining sector was
flat, and professional services were mixed. Hiring announcements
were more prevalent than layoff announcements since the last
report. Wage increases were moderate. Prices were relatively
level since the last report.”  KANSAS CITY: “The Tenth District economy expanded
moderately in July and early August with further gains
anticipated during the coming months. Strong retail and auto
sales fueled consumer spending with positive expectations for
future sales. District manufacturing activity picked up, and
some plant managers were hiring additional workers. Residential
and commercial real estate markets continued to strengthen with
an upswing in construction and a rise in sales. Agricultural
growing conditions were affected by drought, but lower farm
income expectations did not dampen farmland prices. District
energy activity remained solid with stronger natural gas
exploration offsetting a slight drop in oil drilling. More
contacts commented that difficulty finding qualified labor,
particularly in highly skilled fields, was placing modest upward
pressure on wages. Most firms reported little or no effect on
business activity from sequestration budget cuts, though some
manufacturers reported a decline in defense orders and hotels
noted fewer government employees were traveling.”  DALLAS: “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
moderate pace over the past six weeks. While many respondents
noted steady demand, there were more noting improving versus
declining demand. Sales grew for firms in residential
construction, retail, accounting, fabricated metals, food and
kindred products, and automobile dealerships. Financial firms
and paper producers reported a decline in demand. The energy
sector noted some flattening of activity at high levels. Drought
continued to plague the region although recent rains have
slightly improved growing conditions in some areas.”  SAN FRANCISCO : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of early
July through late August. Price inflation was subdued for most
final goods and services, and upward wage pressures were very
modest. Retail sales rose on net, while demand for business and
consumer services was more mixed. District manufacturing
activity edged up. Agricultural production and sales expanded.
Demand for housing strengthened, and commercial real estate
activity firmed. Reports from financial institutions indicated
that loan demand increased slightly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  