-- Obama Sweden Stop Offers Moscow Alternative
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-04T08:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/sweden-stop-gives-obama-an-alternative-amid-putin-rift.html
President  Barack Obama  arrived in
Sweden today on a visit prompted by his falling out with Russia
that now is overshadowed by U.S. moves to strike militarily at
 Syria .  Air Force One touched down in Stockholm mid-morning local
time, after the president campaigned yesterday for congressional
authorization to use force in response to Syria’s attack on
civilians with sarin gas. The stop gives Obama a chance to focus
on economics before a summit with other leaders of the Group of
20 nations, where Syria also will dominate the discussions.  Sweden instituted economic reforms that helped it weather
Europe’s crisis and may give Obama a message to take to European
countries when he arrives tomorrow in  St. Petersburg , Russia,
for the summit, said  C. Fred Bergsten , senior fellow and
director emeritus of the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  “It really is a positive model,” he said. “A lot of
people still think of the old Sweden, this image from the
distant past of a socialist utopia, even though they changed all
that 20 years ago and have developed this really successful
model.”  “When they had a financial crisis in the 1990s they
reformed it,” Bergsten said. “They came through this latest
crisis in flying colors.”  Meeting Agenda  Trade and investment,  climate change  and security issues
including Syria and Egypt are on the agenda for Obama’s meeting
and news conference today with Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
and their dinner tonight with leaders of Finland, Denmark,
Iceland and Norway.  Sweden and its Nordic neighbors have demonstrated how
nations can “maintain a degree of social responsibility and
also draw on the benefits of market forces,” Bergsten said.  Swedish  consumer confidence  is at its highest in two years.
The  consumer confidence  index rose to 99.3 from a revised 98.3
the previous month, the Stockholm-based National Institute of
Economic Research said on Aug. 28.  A manufacturing confidence index jumped to 100.1 from a
revised 94.9. Seasonally adjusted  unemployment  was 7.8 percent
in July, according to Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden.  Reinfeldt, in power since 2006, is seeking a fifth round of
income tax cuts next year to increase incentives to work and
boost demand in the $540 billion economy. The government this
year is spending about 25 billion kronor ($3.9 billion), about
0.7 percent of gross domestic product, on infrastructure,
education, research and on cutting the corporate  tax rate  to 22
percent.  Swedish Support  Sweden has contributed to the  International Security
Assistance Force  in  Afghanistan  and supported the NATO action in
Libya in 2011.  Obama’s Sweden stop is a substitute for a Moscow meeting
with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  ahead of the G-20 in St.
Petersburg. The White House made the scheduling switch after
Russia’s decision to grant temporary asylum to fugitive former
security contractor Edward Snowden deepened the rift between
Obama and Putin. Snowden faces espionage charges in the U.S. for
revealing National Security Agency surveillance programs.  The U.S.-Russia split also involves the approach to Syria.
Putin is Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s most prominent
foreign ally and has blocked any strike authorization by the
 United Nations Security Council .  Putin’s Stance  Putin has cast doubts about U.S. evidence that Assad’s
forces used chemical weapons against civilians in the Aug. 21
attack in a suburb of Damascus.  Obama will seek to rally support from other nations at the
G-20 summit, though only French President  Francois Hollande  has
said his country would support a U.S. strike.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  was blocked by the House
of Commons from taking part in a military action against Syria.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told Parliament this week that
Cameron would pursue options “through every channel” while at
the G-20.  While in St. Petersburg, Obama plans to hold bilateral
meetings with Hollande and with Chinese President Xi Jinping,
according to a White House official who asked not to be
identified discussing the talks before an announcement.  Hollande has pressed for a global response to punish the
Syrian government over the use of chemical weapons near Damascus
last month. Xi’s government has said it’s “gravely concerned”
some countries may act unilaterally and has called instead for a
full UN inquiry into the incident.  Before Obama leaves  Sweden  for Russia, he plans to take
part in a celebration of the life of Raoul Wallenberg, the
Swedish diplomat credited with saving the lives of tens of
thousands of Jews from Nazi-occupied Hungary during World War
II. While the details are still in dispute, Wallenberg is
believed to have died in a Moscow prison in 1947, two years
after Soviet authorities detained him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  