-- Syria Differences Magnifying Frayed Obama-Putin Relations
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-04T16:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/syria-differences-magnifying-frayed-obama-putin-relations.html
The strife in Syria is casting a
shadow over the Group of 20 economic talks in  Russia  and
magnifying the frayed relationship between President  Barack Obama  and Russian President Vladimir Putin.  Obama heads to the summit in St. Petersburg tomorrow with
his call for a military strike dominating the theme of jobs and
prosperity set by host Putin, who backs Syria with arms and
opposes the use of force against his ally, Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.  The U.S. president said today in Stockholm that the
credibility of the community is on the line in the confrontation
with Assad. At a news conference with Swedish Prime Minister
Fredrik Reinfeld, Obama said there is a longstanding
international consensus against the use of chemical weapons and
a failure to act would erode the norm.  “Are we going to try to find a reason not to act?” he
said, hours before a Senate panel was set to start debate on a
measure authorizing Obama to use force. “If that’s the case, I
think the world should admit it.”  At almost the same time, Putin was in Moscow was decrying
the U.S. move to action.  “Anything outside the framework of the UN Security Council
is aggression, other than self-defense,” Putin said following a
meeting with human rights activists at the Kremlin. “What
Congress and the Senate are doing now is essentially
legitimizing aggression. This is unacceptable.”  Meeting Canceled  Obama was in  Sweden  as a substitute for a one-on-one
meeting with Putin in Moscow before the G-20 gathering. The
White House made the scheduling switch after Russia’s decision
to grant temporary asylum to fugitive former security contractor
Edward Snowden.  Snowden’s asylum came on top of differences over trade,
human rights, missile defense and approaches to  Iran ’s nuclear
ambitions and the Syrian civil war. The rift deepened further
after the U.S. presented evidence that Assad’s regime used
chemical weapons against civilians. Russia has rejected the
evidence and blocked United Nations authorization for a military
response, leaving Obama to act on his own.  “There’s no doubt that, as I indicated a while back, we’ve
kind of hit a wall” on U.S.-Russian cooperation, Obama said at
the Stockholm news conference.  “But I have not written off the idea that the United
States and Russia are going to continue to have common
interests, even as we have some very profound differences on
some other issues,” he said. “Where we’ve got differences, we
should be candid about them, try to manage those differences,
but not sugarcoat them.”  Putin’s Summit  With  Syria  a dominant topic Putin may find the glow from
having a global summit in his hometown dimmed.  Syria is “going to kind of suck the oxygen out of the
meeting” in St. Petersburg, said William Pomeranz, an expert on
Russian economics at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center,
an independent research group.  The Russian leader, 60, also has domestic political
concerns to contend with that may exacerbate the tensions with
the U.S. Alexey Navalny, a top Putin critic, has surged in
recent polls in the mayoral election, scheduled for Sept. 8.  Putin’s “got to defend his flank in Russian domestic
politics,” Pomeranz said. “He has to look tough, he has to
look effective.”  That means Putin will try to keep the agenda focused on
economic growth and jobs, the theme of the two-day summit,
without appearing too accommodating to Western powers,
especially to Obama.  ‘Worst’ Relationship  “This is the worst personal relationship of the U.S. and
Russian leaders in history,” said Andrew Kuchins, an expert on
Russia at the Center for International and Strategic Studies in
 Washington .  “I really think these two guys, Mr. Putin and Mr. Obama,
don’t like each other at all,” he said. “I think there’s a
deep degree of disrespect.”  When Obama at an Aug. 9 news conference compared Putin to
the disinterested slouching kid in the back of the classroom
“you’ve taken the relationship to a personal level,” Kuchins
said. “Mr. Putin is not a person that forgets many personal
insults, and it’s not played well in the relationship.”  The White House said the two leaders aren’t scheduled to
hold private talks at the economic summit, though they will have
“ many opportunities to engage.”  Russian Ships  Putin sent three more ships to the eastern Mediterranean to
bolster its fleet there. The buildup raised the stakes as the
U.S. prepares for possible action against Syria, which is
sending warships and submarines to the east Mediterranean armed
with Tomahawk cruise missiles.  “Russia is sending a strong signal that the conflict
surrounding Syria touches on its interests, to ensure that
international law is upheld and there is no bypassing the UN
Security Council,” Ivan Safranchuk, deputy director of the
Foreign Ministry’s Institute of Contemporary International
Studies in Moscow, said by phone.  “Do I hold out hope that Mr. Putin may change his position
on some of these issues? I’m always hopeful,” Obama, 52, said
today. “And I will continue to engage him because I think that
international action would be much more effective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Stockholm  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Stockholm at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  