-- Syria Attack Has China Outraged -- at U.S.
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-09-04T14:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/syria-attack-has-china-outraged-at-u-s-.html
As the U.S. prepares for a potential
attack on  Syria ,  China  is left in the awkward position of
reacting to the news and occasionally justifying opposition to
any U.S. action.  This is not new. In early 2012, China joined Russia in
 vetoing  a United Nations Security Council draft  resolution 
condemning Syrian violence and supporting an Arab League peace
plan. It was a controversial move at the time, and the criticism
was so overwhelming that People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s
mouthpiece newspaper, felt compelled  to editorialize  in favor of
China’s veto -- after the fact.  That move itself was unusual for a government that rarely
feels the need to explain itself retroactively. But on Syria,
Chinese leaders appeared unusually sensitive to suggestions that
they may have been insensitive to an unfolding humanitarian
crisis. Referring to the U.S. as “the military giant,” the paper
wrote in February 2012:  “Even if it stays for a while, it will not take protecting
lives of local civilians as its primary task. The tragedies that
have occurred in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  have proved it.  “Using violence to prevent humanitarian disasters sounds
just and responsible. However, aren’t the attacks and explosions
that have occurred after the regime changes in the two countries
humanitarian disasters?”  Needless to say, many Western critics  weren’t convinced 
that China and Russia had blocked the UN resolution out of
humanitarian motives.  Writers  tended to highlight that a desire
to maintain a limited but critical sphere of influence in the
Middle East drove China’s policy of non-intervention in Syria
(and other countries). Over the last week, as evidence of
chemical-weapon use against Syrian civilians has driven calls
for military action, that  notion has returned  -- much to the
irritation of China’s most prominent Communist Party-owned
newspapers and commentators.  “The past couple of days witnessed a reemergence of voices
hyping Beijing’s so-called strategic dilemma in the  Middle
East ,”  wrote  Chen Chenchen, an opinion editor with the
conservative Global Times newspaper on Aug. 30. These voices, he
claims, are engaged in a kind of discussion. “Namely the
conflict between China’s demand to protect its interests in this
region and its lack of influence there. Beijing should not be
bothered by this discussion.” Rather, Chen reiterated an
informal principle established during the Security Council
debate, “Beijing is simply pursuing the principle of prompting a
political solution to the Syrian crisis, which should not be
complicated by any external military intervention.”  It’s a high-minded claim, and one that Chen might well
believe. But his commentary is hardly the last word on why
China’s leadership has so far refused to get out of the way of
UN resolutions on Syria. A more authoritative voice is Chen’s
own newspaper, the influential Global Times, which is widely
acknowledged to reflect the opinions of more hawkish elements of
the Chinese military. On Aug. 30, it published  an editorial  on
the Syria situation acknowledging that China lacks U.S. military
power, and thus China must “guard against the possibility that
the  United States  might one day take its small-state bullying to
China, even though it has become increasingly difficult to do
so.”  In the meantime, the paper has found a proxy to represent
China’s interests:  Russia . “Russia must not let the United
States comfortably win this war,” it wrote. “Russia should
mobilize their capabilities, maximizing the cost of the war for
the Americans so that American society has as many negative
memories of ‘surgical warfare’ as possible.”  However, as far as China’s news media hierarchy goes, the
Global Times still isn’t the final word on the country’s
position regarding the war. That lofty status is reserved for
the People’s Daily, and so far that newspaper has been
relatively mild in its condemnations of a U.S.-led intervention,
couching its opposition in terms directed at U.S. hegemony,
while acknowledging, as it did in a Sept.  2 editorial , that the
use of chemicals weapons will result in “sanctions and severe
discipline.” It added, “Facts are the preconditions for action.”  However, the paper neither defined what facts regarding
chemical-weapons use would be sufficient, nor what might
constitute acceptable action if such facts were established. In
this, it reflects the  broad pronouncements  of China’s Ministry
of  Foreign Affairs , which express concern but offer few
specifics, while urging all parties to await the UN’s guidance.  What is unusual is that the People’s Daily’s  editorials 
have not enjoyed hegemony in the state-owned media. Typically,
the People’s Daily editorials on high-profile foreign-policy
issues are re-published across Chinese state-owned newspapers,
serving as the party’s de-facto definitive statement and a
substitute for whatever the individual papers might have to say.  In the case of Syria, however,  smaller  and  less  influential
 papers  have been free to publish their own takes on the crisis.
Those editorials don’t diverge dramatically from the foreign
ministry’s official statements (or People’s Daily’s voicing of
them), but their mere existence suggests that on the hierarchy
of Chinese foreign-policy priorities, Syria probably does not
rank as high as  Japan ,  North Korea  or various aspects of China’s
relationship with the U.S., which require definitive, high-ranking editorials.  The Chinese news media’s relative ambivalence toward the
issue at least partially reflects the lack of meaningful
discussion of a potential U.S. intervention on Sina Weibo,
China’s top microblogging platform. Compare that with the recent
Egyptian uprising, which did garner some --  limited  -- interest.
Perhaps the difference is in the lack of mass protest images
such as those that emerged from  Tahrir Square . In China, where
such protests are generally prohibited, there’s an audience for
accounts of the causes and courses of these demonstrations. In
contrast, Syria has offered images of what looks like a distant
guerilla war and an excess of human suffering -- events that
don’t command much attention in a China still scarred from a
century of similar troubles. Likewise, the specter of chemical
weapons barely exercises anyone.  Among those microbloggers who bother to tweet about a
possible U.S. military intervention, many wearily, and warily,
categorize the action as just another instance of the U.S.
hegemony in regions that don’t directly impact China. “Using
weapons of mass destruction as an excuse, America invaded Iraq
and still hasn’t put forward any evidence,”  tweeted  an anonymous
Sina Weibo microblogger in Beijing on Aug. 31. “Now they’re
against Syria using the same suspicious pretexts.”  That message is at least partially in line with what
China’s state news media and foreign ministry have been saying,
in hope of undermining the case for a U.S. intervention. If and
when sufficient evidence convinces China’s government, and its
online masses, that a chemical weapons attack did take place,
the onus will be placed on China to explain anew whether no
action should be taken.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  