-- U.K. Banks Pay Out 500,000 Pounds Over Improper Swap Sales
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-04T09:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-k-banks-pay-out-500-000-pounds-over-improper-derivative-sales.html
The U.K.  Financial Conduct Authority 
said banks have agreed to pay out 500,000 pounds ($779,000) to
companies that were improperly sold derivatives to hedge the
effect of  interest-rate  changes.  The amount will increase over the coming months as banks
continue to send hundreds of compensation offers to businesses
and consumers, the FCA said in a statement on its  website  today.  “With 85 percent of cases now under review, banks have
made progress,” Martin Wheatley, the chief executive officer of
the FCA, said in the statement. “But like the thousands of
affected small businesses, we want to see redress paid quickly
to those who have suffered loss as the result of mis-selling.”  British banks may end up paying billions of pounds for
improper sales of swaps, according to analysts. It’s one of at
least three mis-selling scandals facing U.K. banks. Lenders have
also had to pay out billions over payment-protection and
identity-theft insurance products.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  has more than 10,000
claims under review, more than the combined total for  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the FCA
said. The Edinburgh-based bank may have to increase its 750
million-pound provision for settling swap disputes, Investec
Ltd. analyst  Ian Gordon  said in a note to clients.  Reasonable Redress  “We are committed to ensuring that all those that were mis-sold these products get fair and reasonable redress,” RBS said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are prioritizing those businesses
that are most in distress first, and working towards processing
the majority of cases within the timeframe set by the
regulator.”  RBS  shares  fell 0.9 percent in London trading.  Groups representing businesses that bought the interest-rate products said the process wasn’t moving fast enough. The
FCA report is “depressing” because it shows that only 10
companies out of 15,000 claims have been offered compensation,
said John Allan, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses.  “We are quickly losing confidence in the banks and the
regulator as this scheme remains unbelievably slow,” Allan said
in an e-mailed statement.  The British Bankers’ Association said the FCA report
indicates that financial institutions have been working to
contact all parties potentially affected by the swap sales.  “Banks are working hard with the regulator to ensure that
the process, which began four months ago, is completed as
quickly as possible,” the BBA said in a statement.  Floating Rate  Rate swaps are contracts that convert floating-rate debt
into fixed-rate debt, or vice versa. They are supposed to keep
payments within a specific range. When interest rates fall, for
example, customers might pay less interest on a loan to balance
out the higher cost of the swap.  The  Bank of England  has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.  HSBC is trying to complete reviews as quickly as possible
to provide a fair outcome for customers, bank spokesman Steve
Gracey said in an e-mail. Lloyds spokesman Ian Kitts said the
bank was making good progress and is confident it will review
all cases within the 12-month deadline.  The owners of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. last year sued
Barclays Plc for about 12 million pounds over swaps sold on two
loans in 2007 and 2008 in one of the biggest swaps lawsuits
filed in the U.K.  Municipal governments from Milan in  Italy  to Jefferson
County,  Alabama , bought swaps from firms such as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Deutsche Bank AG. Such derivatives have cost Italian
taxpayers more than $1.5 billion, according to the country’s
central bank, and U.S. taxpayers about $4 billion by 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  