-- U.K. Didn’t Get Value for Money on Welfare System: Audit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-k-didn-t-get-value-for-money-on-welfare-system-audit.html
The U.K. government mismanaged the
implementation of a 300 million-pound ($470 million) computer
system designed to deliver a new welfare program, auditors said.  Universal Credit, which will replace the multiple separate
types of welfare currently paid, was supposed to be introduced
nationally next month. That has now been delayed, and a report
today by the National Audit Office questions whether Department
for Work and Pensions Minister Iain Duncan Smith will to reach
his 2017 deadline to have the new system fully operational.  “The department’s plans for Universal Credit were driven
by an ambitious timescale,” Amyas Morse, head of the NAO, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The relatively high risk trajectory
was not, however, matched by an appropriate management approach.
Instead, the program suffered from weak management, ineffective
control and poor governance.”  The Universal Credit system is intended to simplify
welfare, and remove a structure that currently means people can
be poorer if they move off benefits and into low-paid jobs.  The DWP has already had to write off 34 million pounds
spent on computers, and doesn’t know whether the ones it has
will support the national rollout, the NAO said.  The DWP said that the report failed to reflect recent
changes made to the management of the project.  “We are committed to delivering Universal Credit on time
by 2017 and within budget, and under new leadership we have a
plan in place that is achievable,” the DWP said in an e-mailed
statement. “The report does not cover the significant
developments we’ve made since April.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  