-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate
pace since the previous report. Recent reports of planned
activity in manufacturing and services have been positive.
Reports of retail and auto sales over the past three months have
also been positive. Residential real estate market conditions
have continued to improve, and commercial and industrial real
estate markets have also improved. Lending activity at a sample
of large District banks was little changed during the second
quarter of 2013. Prices, wages, and employment levels over the
past three months have stayed the same or increased for a
majority of contacts across the District.  Consumer Spending  Reports from retail contacts were generally positive. Two-thirds
of contacts noted increases in sales over the past three months
relative to the same period last year, while seventeen percent
noted moderate decreases and the rest saw no changes. Half of
retail contacts reported that sales levels met their
expectations, and the other half reported that sales fell short
of expectations. In addition, half of retail contacts reported
an increase in the sales of low-end products relative to high-end products. The sales outlook for the next three months
compared with the same period last year was slightly
pessimistic: About half of contacts expect sales to stay the
same, twenty-five percent of contacts expect sales to increase
slightly, and the remaining contacts expect sales to decrease
moderately.  Reports from auto dealers about sales over the past three months
were generally positive. Seventy-five percent of the car dealers
surveyed saw increases in sales relative to the same period last
year, seventeen percent saw decreases, and the rest saw no
changes. Similarly, seventy-three percent of contacts reported
that sales met or exceeded their expectations. Two-thirds of car
dealers reported an increase in used car sales relative to new
car sales, and twenty-two percent reported the opposite. The
sales outlook for the next three months relative to the same
period last year was optimistic: Half of contacts expect sales
to increase, while twenty-one percent expect sales to decrease.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive
since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported
plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities
in the District, while a smaller number of manufacturers
reported plans to reduce employment. Firms that manufacture
appliances, food, outdoor equipment, automobile parts,
refrigeration compressors, safety products, automobiles, roofing
shingles, barges, ammo, apparel, and watercrafts plan to hire
new employees and expand operations in the District. In
contrast, firms that manufacture plastic products and printing
products reported plans to lay off workers in the District.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in
health care benefit management, logistics, pharmaceutical
benefit management, information, transportation, and restaurant
services reported new hiring and expansion plans. In contrast,
firms in  information technology , health care, and disability
benefit application services reported plans to reduce
employment.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the
Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the
same period in 2012, July 2013 year-to-date home sales were up
19 percent in Louisville, 21 percent in  Little Rock , 10 percent
in  Memphis , and 9 percent in St. Louis. June 2013 yearto-date
single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the
District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012.
Permits increased 15 percent in Louisville, 24 percent in
Memphis, 3 percent in Little Rock, and 18 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
continued to improve moderately. Compared with the first quarter
of 2013, the second quarter 2013 industrial vacancy rates
declined in Louisville, Little Rock, Memphis, and St. Louis.
During the same period, downtown office vacancy rates decreased
in Louisville, Little Rock, and St. Louis and increased in
Memphis. A contact in Evansville reported new plans for
speculative  office space , while a contact in Louisville reported
new plans for speculative industrial space. Contacts reported
industrial construction plans in southwest  Missouri  and several
commercial construction plans in St. Louis. A contact in Little
Rock noted a mixed-use commercial project, while another contact
noted an industrial factory expansion in Baxter County.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks found little change in overall lending activity during the
second quarter of 2013. During this period, the credit standards
for commercial and industrial loans remained mostly unchanged,
while demand ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger.
Credit standards for commercial real estate loans ranged from
basically unchanged to eased somewhat, while demand was
moderately stronger. Credit standards for prime residential
 mortgage loans  remained unchanged, while demand was moderately
stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards for auto loans were mostly
unchanged, while demand ranged from moderately weaker to
moderately stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Farmers in the District expect that the corn crop in 2013 will
produce, on average, 59 percent more corn than last year. In
contrast, the District cotton crop is expected to fall short of
2012 levels both in terms of acres harvested and production.
Across the District states, 92 percent of the corn crop was
rated in fair or better condition; the sorghum and soybean crops
were similarly rated, with 93 percent and 91 percent in fair or
better condition, respectively. District coal production
improved modestly.  Prices, Wages, and Employment  Fifty-eight percent of contacts indicated that prices charged to
consumers over the past three months have stayed the same, while
35 percent indicated that prices have increased relative to the
same period last year. In turn, 36 percent of contacts noted
that wages over the past three months have stayed the same,
while 64 percent noted that wages have increased. Meanwhile, 39
percent of contacts reported that employment levels have
remained the same over the past three months, while 42 percent
reported that employment levels have increased, compared with
the same period last year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 