-- U.S. Federal Reserve Sept. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-sept-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest
that national economic activity continued to expand at a modest
to moderate pace during the reporting period of early July
through late August. Eight Districts characterized growth as
moderate; of the remaining four,  Boston , Atlanta, and San
Francisco reported modest growth, and  Chicago  indicated activity
had improved.  Consumer spending  rose in most Districts,
reflecting, in part, strong demand for automobiles and housing-related goods. Activity in the travel and tourism sector
expanded in most areas. Demand for nonfinancial services,
including professional and transportation services, increased
slightly on net. Manufacturing activity expanded modestly.
Residential real estate activity increased moderately in most
Districts, and demand for nonresidential real estate gained
overall. Lending activity was mixed. Lending standards were
largely unchanged, while credit quality improved. Demand for
agricultural products was strong during the reporting period,
but growing conditions and production in some areas were
somewhat weak as a consequence of extreme weather. Demand for
natural resource products was stable or up slightly, and
extraction increased in anticipation of further demand growth.  For most occupations and industries, hiring held steady or
increased modestly relative to the prior reporting period.
Upward price pressures remained subdued, and prices increased
slightly during the reporting period. Wage pressures continued
to be modest overall.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Reports indicated that consumer spending rose in most
Districts. A few Districts mentioned that back-to-school sales
contributed to overall consumer spending growth. Districts
reported retail sales generally grew moderately in Boston,
 Kansas City , and  Dallas ; sales were mixed in New York; and sales
grew more modestly in Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis,
 Minneapolis , and San Francisco.  Cleveland  noted that sales came
in below many retailers’ expectations, and Richmond indicated
that sales revenues weakened. Boston noted that  consumer
confidence  improved, while New York reported that it retreated a
bit. According to reports from Boston, some retailers
experienced robust demand gains, with “year-over-year comparable
store sales increases between 4 and 5 percent.” Many Districts
noted strong demand for home furnishing and home improvement
items. However, reports from several Districts indicated that
consumers remained cautious in their purchases and highly price-sensitive.  For example, Philadelphia observed that consumers engaged
in “price-shopping,” as “sales of children’s apparel were
stronger at outlets than at traditional malls.”  * Prepared at the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  and
based on information collected on or before August 26, 2013.
This document summarizes comments received from business and
other contacts outside the  Federal Reserve System  and is not a
commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  Attractive financing conditions and pent-up demand
supported a robust pace of automobile sales in most Districts.
New York noted that sales of high-end brands were especially
robust. Richmond reported that one dealership had its best sales
month ever, and sales at another dealership doubled relative to
twelve months earlier. Used vehicle sales were strong in
Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco but a bit soft in New
York. New car inventories rose or remained high in Cleveland and
San Francisco, but dealers were generally satisfied with their
inventory positions; by contrast, Minneapolis reported sales
were constrained at some dealerships due to a lack of inventory.
Reports from dealerships across the nation were optimistic about
demand growth for new and used automobiles for the remainder of
the year.  Many Districts pointed to solid gains or high levels of
travel and tourist activity, with pickups evident in both the
business and leisure segments. Travel and tourism activity
expanded overall in the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts. Relative to the same
period a year earlier, Richmond and Minneapolis reported that
the number of camping permits and visitors at state and national
parks in their Districts increased substantially. New York
reported that business at Broadway theaters picked up since the
previous reporting period, but Boston highlighted low attendance
at some museums. New York and Kansas City both reported that
some hotels experienced slightly lower occupancy rates, which
may be a result of cutbacks in government travel. A few
Districts indicated that business travel activity had also
expanded.  Nonfinancial Services  Demand for nonfinancial services improved modestly overall
since the previous  Beige Book . Adjusting for seasonal
fluctuations, providers of various professional and business
services such as accounting, consulting, information,
transportation, and legal services generally expanded their
activities according to reports from Philadelphia, Richmond, St.
Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Providers of staffing services
in the Boston and New York Districts reported improved business
conditions. Several Districts noted increased demand at
restaurants, although San Francisco was an exception, with
reports from parts of the District indicating that demand had
eased. Health-care organizations in the Richmond, St. Louis, and
San Francisco Districts reported soft demand for various health-care services. Boston noted that sales of technology services to
businesses and consumers were a bit weaker than expected, and
reports from St. Louis indicated that some information
technology firms may downsize their workforces. Cleveland
indicated that ground cargo volumes were strong; Dallas reported
an increase in railroad volumes but a decline in small parcel
volumes; and Atlanta observed a decrease in overall trucking
volumes. Both Cleveland and Atlanta noted a short supply of
truck drivers as a consequence of new hours-of-service
regulations. Air freight tonnage ran slightly above year-ago
levels for the Atlanta District but was unchanged over the past
six weeks for Dallas.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity expanded modestly during the
reporting period. Kansas City noted a slight contraction in the
previous reporting period but indicated that manufacturing
activity had expanded moderately in recent weeks. Cleveland and
Minneapolis also reported a moderate expansion, although
Minneapolis specified that the pace of growth was uneven across
District states. Atlanta noted a decrease in the pace of growth
as indicated by modest decreases in new orders and production.
Several Districts, including Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta,
Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco, expressed that demand
for inputs related to autos, housing, and infrastructure were
strong. Chicago highlighted the  auto industry  as a main source
of strength for that District’s overall manufacturing sector,
and contacts there expect demand for heavy and medium trucks to
ratchet up further and to support growth in overall
manufacturing for the remainder of the year. By contrast,
Cleveland was the only District to report that auto production
activity declined, although reports specified that it was a
normal seasonal pattern and sales were up relative to twelve
months earlier. In the Richmond District, a lumber company
purchased new equipment to expand its production; and in
Chicago, demand for construction equipment and materials
continued to strengthen. Philadelphia reported some increased
demand related to ongoing repairs of infrastructure damaged
during Superstorm Sandy last year. Reports from San Francisco
indicated that shipments of steel products used in
nonresidential construction continued to increase, and reports
from Chicago indicated that steel output grew at a moderate
pace. Boston and San Francisco noted increased demand for
semiconductors. High-tech manufacturing firms in the Dallas
District noted that demand was stable, and, while Kansas City
District firms reported that sales dipped, contacts there expect
sales to bounce back in the next three months. In general,
contacts in most Districts expressed optimism about a near-term
pickup in overall manufacturing activity. Production in the
defense industry was mixed across Districts. Contacts in the
Boston District reported minimal direct effects of the federal
sequestration, although they were concerned about the prospect
of larger effects in the fourth quarter. On the other hand,
defense firms in the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts
reported that the effects of the sequestration have already been
passed through to actual reductions in production.  Real Estate and Construction  Activity in residential real estate markets increased
moderately. The pace of sales of existing single-family homes
continued to increase moderately in most Districts. Sales
activity in New York City’s co-op and condominium market was
described as unusually strong in July and August, and the
Cleveland District reported that year-to-date sales of existing
single-family homes were up substantially relative to the same
period last year. Reports from several Districts suggested that
rising  home prices  and mortgage  interest rates  may have spurred
a pickup in recent market activity, as many “fence sitters” were
prompted to commit to purchases. Sales of new single-family
homes stabilized during the past few months in the Cleveland
District after accelerating earlier in the year.  New home sales 
declined slightly in parts of the Philadelphia and Richmond
Districts in July. Philadelphia conveyed that some borrowers
apparently preferred to lock in a mortgage rate for an existing
home rather than wait for a new home to be completed and chance
higher  mortgage rates . Home prices climbed in most Districts.
Richmond and Boston reported that houses in some areas were
staying on the market fewer days and increasingly receiving
multiple offers. New York noted that bidding wars were common in
the Buffalo area. Many Districts reported that limited
inventories of desirable properties contributed to upward price
pressures. Single-family  home construction  was strong in the
Minneapolis and Dallas Districts, and Chicago reported that a
number of builders are planning new developments to begin later
this year. However, several Districts noted constraints on the
construction of single-family homes. San Francisco pointed to
shortages of construction workers. In the Kansas City District,
some building materials, such as drywall and roofing shingles,
were in short supply.  Demand for nonresidential real estate increased. Office
vacancy rates and other indicators in markets for  office space 
improved modestly in the major metropolitan markets in the New
York, Richmond, and St. Louis and Districts. Rents for Class B
office space in Manhattan have risen more than 10 percent over
the past twelve months. Demand for commercial real estate showed
strong growth in the Dallas District and moderate growth in the
Minneapolis District. Both Districts reported new plans for
construction of industrial space. Philadelphia, Cleveland,
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco
reported modest growth in demand for commercial real estate.
Philadelphia highlighted a shift in recent leasing activity
toward larger commercial spaces. The Boston, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts all
reported increases in construction of multifamily residential
properties.  Banking and Finance  Lending activity weakened a bit, and several Districts
reported less-favorable conditions than in the preceding
reporting period. Most Districts indicated no better than modest
growth. Loan growth in the Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and San
Francisco Districts was slower than in the previous reporting
period. Kansas City reported a decline in lending, reversing
slight growth earlier in the summer. Several Districts
characterized business lending as largely flat. Chicago reported
that recent interest rate increases likely were depressing
commercial investment. However, Kansas City noted that
expectations for better economic conditions and stronger profit
growth had offset any effects of rate increases on business loan
demand. Demand for mortgage refinance loans declined in the New
York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts. By
contrast, purchase mortgage lending continued to grow moderately
in most Districts, although San Francisco noted that
applications have dropped a bit in some areas of that District.
In the Atlanta District, increases in home values generated a
surge in second mortgages, and Philadelphia and Cleveland
reported modest increases in demand for home equity lines of
credit.  Lending standards were largely unchanged, while  credit
quality  improved. Reports indicated little change in standards
across all lending categories. However, a few Districts
commented that stiff competition for high-quality commercial
borrowers was eroding loan volumes at banks that maintained
prudent interest rates and terms. New York reported widespread
declines in delinquency rates, especially for consumer loans and
home mortgages, while Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and
Kansas City all reported general improvement in loan quality.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Demand for agricultural products expanded during the
reporting period, although production activity was limited by
extreme weather in some areas. Droughts or dry weather in the
Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts constrained farming
activity, but some growing areas within the Chicago and Dallas
Districts were relieved by much-needed rainfall. By contrast,
extremely wet conditions led to delayed planting and reduced
yields for some crops in the Richmond and Atlanta Districts.
Kansas City noted that wheat production was below average and
corn crops were threatened by disease, and Atlanta and Dallas
indicated that the cotton crop was smaller than anticipated.
Chicago noted that, despite the dry weather, corn and soybean
crops were in better condition than they were during the drought
last year. Meanwhile, the St. Louis District anticipates robust
production activity, with corn crop yields expected to increase
substantially over last year. San Francisco noted that demand
was generally strong for most crop and livestock products, and
Atlanta found that poultry farming and fruit production were
robust.  For producers of natural resource products, demand was
mostly steady, while production and extraction activity rose.
San Francisco reported a modest decline in demand for some oil
products, and Dallas reported stable drilling activity at a high
level. Contacts in San Francisco and Dallas expect near-to
medium-term oil-related sales and production activity to pick
up; contacts in Dallas and Atlanta expect drilling activity in
the  Gulf of Mexico  to increase as demand continued to grow.
Richmond and Kansas City reported that the number of natural gas
rigs increased, but coal production in the Cleveland, Richmond,
St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts was below year-ago levels.
Minneapolis reported upgrades to a nuclear power plant and
development of oil sands production facilities, and Cleveland
noted that unconventional drilling activity increased. Mining
activity was flat in the Minneapolis and Richmond Districts.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  For most industries and occupations, hiring held steady or
increased somewhat in most Districts. Hiring in manufacturing
rose modestly. St. Louis reported increases in employment at a
variety of manufacturing firms connected to the auto industry or
the home construction industry. Boston, Richmond, and
Minneapolis reported shortages of some types of skilled
manufacturing workers. Hiring increased for selected services
occupations. Increases in demand for information technology
workers were widespread. Hiring increased for workers in
accounting and health services occupations in several Districts.
Retail employment gains were limited. Atlanta reported slight
employment increases in Georgia and Florida, and Dallas reported
gains in oil and gas producing areas. Cleveland noted that
retail employment increases were limited to new stores. Boston
and Richmond reported that temporary workers are increasingly
being offered permanent employment. A health-care staffing firm
in the Boston District reported a 30 percent increase in
permanent placements this year. Similarly, a staffing firm in
the Dallas District reported “near-record” levels of direct
hiring by health-care and engineering clients.  Wage pressures remained modest overall. The Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts reported that wage pressures were largely subdued.
Cleveland and Dallas highlighted that, overall, wage pressures
at homebuilding and other construction-related firms were
contained. New York reported that some firms have become
increasingly willing to negotiate salaries, although pay rates
have not escalated significantly. Reports from a few Districts
highlighted significant labor supply constraints and, in some
cases, large compensation increases for workers with specialized
skills in selected sectors, including the construction and high-technology sectors in Atlanta and Kansas City and the
engineering sector in Dallas. Kansas City also reported that
some firms in the retail, leisure, and hospitality industries
were beginning to raise wages to attract salespeople,
housekeepers, maintenance staff, and clerical staff. Increases
in the costs of employee health benefits continued to put upward
pressure on overall compensation costs, although Minneapolis
indicated that growth in the price of healthcare has slowed.  Upward price pressures were subdued, and price increases
were limited during the reporting period. Reports from many
Districts indicated modest growth, no change, or slight
decreases in overall commodity and input prices. In a few
Districts, prices of some construction inputs in short supply
increased, including lumber, drywall, concrete, and roofing
shingles. However, Cleveland noted that the rate of increase for
construction input prices slowed, and lumber prices in the
Chicago District declined. Dallas reported that law firms had
reduced their billing rates slightly. Atlanta and Chicago
reported that firms have limited pricing power in general.
Similarly, food costs continued to increase in the Kansas City
District, but most restaurant owners did not increase menu
prices. However, Richmond reported that several construction-related businesses said that they were able to pass along rising
input prices.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 