-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in July and early
August with further gains anticipated during the coming months.
Strong retail and auto sales fueled consumer spending with
positive expectations for future sales. District manufacturing
activity picked up, and some plant managers were hiring
additional workers. Residential and commercial real estate
markets continued to strengthen with an upswing in construction
and a rise in sales. District banks reported improved loan
quality and stable deposits, but slightly weaker loan demand.
Agricultural growing conditions were affected by drought, but
lower farm income expectations did not dampen farmland prices.
District energy activity remained solid with stronger natural
gas exploration offsetting a slight drop in oil drilling. The
price of raw materials continued to trend higher, but finished
goods prices generally held steady. More contacts commented that
difficulty finding qualified labor, particularly in highly
skilled fields, was placing modest upward pressure on wages.
Most firms reported little or no effect on business activity
from sequestration budget cuts, though some manufacturers
reported a decline in defense orders and hotels noted fewer
government employees were traveling.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending strengthened in July and
early August and was expected to rise further in coming months.
District retailers reported higher sales, particularly for
large-ticket home goods such as mid-priced appliances and
furniture as well as seasonal items and clearance merchandise.
However, sales of premium goods such as jewelry and high-end
appliances slowed. Auto dealers reported somewhat easier access
to credit and a rise in sales that was expected to continue in
coming months. Economy cars and used vehicles sold well with
strong demand for trucks in rural areas. Restaurant sales
increased, as more diners paid higher average check amounts.
Tourism activity remained solid through the summer, though
gasoline sales were down from year-ago levels. After rising
during the last survey period, District hotel owners reported a
moderate drop in occupancy despite previous reductions in
average room rates. Some hoteliers attributed fewer bookings to
less government travel.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing
activity rose moderately in July and early August while sales at
high-tech service firms and transportation firms generally held
steady. Following a downturn in June, District factory activity
strengthened with increased production, especially for  food
processing , machinery and metal manufacturers. Some
manufacturers noted a drop in orders from defense contractors
due to federal spending cuts. Overall, however, the volume of
new orders rose in July and was expected to strengthen during
the next six months. In addition, a rise in the volume of
shipments reduced order backlogs and finished goods inventories
held steady. Plant managers indicated modest hiring and capital
spending plans with solid expectations for future factory
output. After slowing during recent survey periods,
transportation activity stabilized, despite an upswing in prices
charged. Several trucking firms noted more shipments of
refrigerated goods. Sales at high-tech firms dipped during the
survey period but were expected to bounce back during the next
three months.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate activity strengthened further in July and early August
and was expected to remain robust through the fall. Home starts
rose, though some builders were concerned that a shortage of
skilled labor could constrain growth. Lot prices were expected
to increase with tighter supplies of available sites. Sales at
construction supply firms were up and some building materials,
particularly drywall and roofing shingles, were in short supply.
A rise in home sales supported higher  home prices  even with an
uptick in the number of houses on the market. Residential
mortgage lenders reported solid demand for home purchase loans
but a sharp drop in refinancing activity that was attributed to
higher  interest rates . Commercial construction escalated during
the survey period and was expected to expand further in the
coming months. Commercial real estate prices and rents moved
higher as sales activity picked up and vacancy rates trended
down. Developers reported little change in access to credit.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported slightly
weaker overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and stable
deposit levels. Respondents reported steady demand for
commercial real estate, consumer installment loans, and
commercial and industrial loans, while demand for residential
real estate loans declined. Bankers noted a moderate improvement
in loan quality since the last survey period with additional
quality improvements expected during the next six months. Credit
standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories and
respondents reported stable deposits.  Agriculture. Farm income prospects dimmed since the last survey
period as drought persisted and crop prices fell. While yields
varied, winter wheat production was below average across the
District. In some areas without irrigation, dry weather hindered
corn development and weakened plants against disease. Much of
the District’s corn crop was considered in fair condition
although the soybean crop was still rated in mostly good
condition. Crop prices fell in August on higher global
production estimates. Even with a drop in feed prices, losses
continued for most feedlot operators as cattle prices moved
lower. In contrast, a rebound in hog prices returned profits to
some hog producers. Demand for farm operating loans strengthened
with high input costs and reduced farm income. Despite weaker
farm income prospects, farmland values continued to set records,
with demand for farmland driven in part by high levels of wealth
in the farm sector.  Energy. District energy activity remained solid in July and
early August and was expected to strengthen somewhat in the
coming months. The number of active natural gas rigs in the
District edged up, particularly in  Wyoming  and  Colorado , despite
further declines in natural  gas prices . Natural gas prices,
however, were expected to rise seasonally as increased demand
for winter heating draws down supplies. In contrast, the number
of active oil rigs in the District tapered during August even
though  oil prices  have recently risen. Some District contacts
noted a lack of qualified labor and difficulty obtaining
financing were constraining drilling activity. Several energy
firms were also concerned that government budget cuts due to
sequestration could cause further slowdowns in permitting.
Wyoming’s coal production through early August remained below
year-ago levels. After falling in July, ethanol production rose
modestly in early August when corn prices fell.  Wages and Prices. Wage pressures edged up during the survey
period, raw materials prices trended higher, and finished goods
prices generally held steady. On-going shortages of high-skilled
labor in some specialized industries, particularly construction,
energy, high-tech and transportation, placed slightly more
upward pressure on wages during the survey period. Other firms,
primarily in retail, leisure and hospitality industries, were
beginning to raise wages to attract salespeople, housekeepers,
maintenance and clerical staff. Builders and construction supply
companies noted higher prices for construction materials in
short supply. Some transportation companies charged more for
freight hauling in light of higher input costs. The cost of raw
materials for manufacturing rose at a similar pace compared to
the previous survey period and most finished goods prices were
flat. Despite an ongoing rise in food costs, most restaurant
owners were not increasing menu prices. Retailers held selling
prices steady and did not anticipate raising prices during the
next three months. As occupancy rates fell, hotel operators
planned to lower average room rates.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 