-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  Economic activity in the First District continued to expand
at a modest pace. Most contacts reported low-to-moderate single
digit year-on-year growth rates. Higher interest rates appear to
have different effects on commercial real estate where some
contacts reported upward pressure on capitalization rates and
residential real estate where contacts report that the prospect
of rising rates “nudged” buyers into the market, increasing
demand. No firms report major cyclical layoffs but hiring
remains subdued except among fast-growing technology firms.
Sequestration has yet to have had any direct effect on contacts
with major government businesses but contacts anticipate
weakness in the future. Contacts did not complain of higher
input prices and did not report that they were raising prices
significantly either.  Retail and Tourism  Most contacts report year-over-year comparable store sales
increases between 4 and 5 percent. Demand remains quite strong
for all apparel, home furnishing, and home improvement
categories, as well as technology products like tablet
computers. Contacts indicate that prices remain steady, and feel
that consumer sentiment continues to improve. There is some
cautious optimism that this more positive trend will continue
but expectations for 2013 sales still center on modest single-digit increases.  Both business and leisure travel remain strong with leisure
driven by both domestic and international visitors. Attendance
at some museums and other attractions is below expectations.
While a contact noted that July and August are not heavy months
for government-related travel, there is some concern that U.S.
government travel budgets, cut 30 percent because of the
sequester, will start to have a negative impact on travel
industry revenues later in the year.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Three companies--a semiconductor industry supplier, a
medical device maker, and a fitness equipment manufacturer--
reported double-digit increases in sales compared to the same
period a year earlier, four reported single-digit increases from
the previous quarter and three companies reported declines. Some
contacts reported that sales in  Europe  were finally growing
again. The majority of contacts report no change in prices from
the first quarter, either the input prices they face, or their
own sale prices. Employment growth continues to be modest. A
rapidly growing medical device manufacturer reports increasing
headcount at a 15 percent annualized rate but most firms are
hiring only “selectively.” One firm did report layoffs due to a
repositioning of a formerly bricks and mortar business as e-commerce. Defense industry contacts reported little direct
effect of sequestration but continued to worry with one contact
mentioning rumors that major cuts would come in the fourth
quarter. Contacts reported no major revisions of their
investment plans and most expect single-digit year-on-year
growth in the next quarter.  Software and Information Technology Services  New England software and information technology services
contacts generally report weaker than expected business activity
through August, with slow revenue growth. Several attribute this
sluggishness to continued macroeconomic uncertainty in the U.S.
and Europe. In contrast, a contact which mainly works with
health care firms attributes the slowdown to the expiration of
federal stimulus funding for health records software; however,
business in the post-stimulus slump has been better than
expected. A business advisory contact sees early signs of
improvement in the overall market, as evidenced by an uptick in
Q2 sales activity in terms of customer expenditure. Four out of
five contacts continue to be cautious in hiring, and plan to
remain close to their current headcounts through 2013. Both
selling prices and capital and technology spending have gone
largely unchanged in recent months. Looking forward, New England
software and IT firms are cautiously optimistic, with most
expecting only modest growth through the second half of 2013.  Staffing Services  New England staffing contacts generally report strengthened
business conditions through August, characterized by mid-single-digit year-on-year revenue growth. This continued growth
reportedly reflects both an increase in overall labor demand and
a shift to more aggressive marketing strategies at the firm
level. Generally, there is a high demand for skilled IT workers
and engineers; contacts also report increased demand for
manufacturers and medical assistants. On the supply side, there
remains a shortage of skilled technical workers to fill high-end
IT and engineering jobs. The general consensus is that despite a
large pool of available workers, the skills mismatch prevents
staffing firms from fully meeting client demand. The number of
temporary-to-permanent placements continues to grow; a
healthcare contact reports a 30 percent increase in permanent
placements this year. Bill rates and pay rates are largely
unchanged, with the exception of one firm reporting a decrease
relative to May due to the current client mix. Looking forward,
staffing contacts continue to be cautiously optimistic,
expecting mid-single-digit year-on-year revenue growth through
the remainder of 2013.  Commercial Real Estate  Contacts were mixed in their analysis of the effects of
higher  interest rates . In Boston and Providence, contacts
reported upward pressure on capitalization rates noting that the
frequency of renegotiation (or “re-trading”) of deals in
progress increased in recent weeks. Contacts in Hartford
reported no effects so far of higher rates on demand for
commercial real estate. A regional lender to commercial real
estate continues to face challenges securing desired loan volume
in the face of competition from other lenders willing to offer
commercial mortgages at very low rates. Construction activity
remained robust in greater Boston and the pipeline of deals yet
to break ground increased significantly over one year ago.
Current and planned construction projects in the Boston area are
concentrated in high-end multifamily and mixed-use
(retail/residential) structures, although construction activity
is poised to rise in the hospitality sector and among
institutions of higher education. Contacts continued to expect
slow improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals in the
coming months, but roughly half of contacts raised the
uncertainty around their projections relative to last report,
with much of the growing uncertainty linked to uncertainty over
long-term interest rates.  Residential Real Estate  Throughout the First district, the market for single-family
homes and condos continues to make a healthy recovery as sales
and prices continued to increase and days-on-the-market
continued to fall. According to contacts, increases in the
 mortgage rates  have nudged potential buyers, hoping to take
advantage of low-interest rates, to enter the market. In some
areas, particularly in the Greater Boston area and
 Massachusetts , realtors have observed an increasing frequency of
multiple offers being made on properties. Despite shrinking
inventory, sources state that modest appreciation in regions
where multiple bids are common indicates that the market is not
overheating.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 