-- U.S. May Require Stronger Tank Cars for Hazmat and Crude
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-04T21:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-may-require-stronger-tank-cars-for-hazmat-and-crude.html
Rail tank cars, which are moving an
increasing volume of crude oil and other hazardous materials,
may have to be stronger and better able to withstand a crash,
U.S. regulators said.  The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
today took the first step in a rulemaking for what are known as
DOT-111 tank cars, a model transportation safety investigators
have criticized as rupture-prone. It’s the type of car that was
hauling crude on July 6 when a runaway train plowed into Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , sparking an explosion and fire that killed 47
people.  “Now is the time to make sure safety regulations are
robust enough for the increased hazmat movement on our rails,
roads and in our pipelines,” PHMSA Administrator Cynthia Quarterman said in an e-mailed statement.  The agency released the proposal following two decades of
criticisms of the tank cars by North American transportation
safety investigators, who can recommend rule changes while
lacking regulatory authority. The changes PHMSA called for today
include more puncture resistance of the head and shell of the
cars and stronger top fittings protection. A rule could add cost
to transporting crude if it requires more expensive tank cars or
cars that can hold fewer gallons of oil.  Fracking Crude  Tank cars are moving an increasing amount of crude as North
American production increases through the use of hydraulic
fracturing and as rail gains on pipeline in popularity for
transporting the liquid.  The volume of crude oil moved by large U.S. railroads more
than doubled in the second quarter from the same period a year
earlier, the  Association of American Railroads  said last week.
U.S. railroads originated 108,605 carloads of crude in the
quarter ended June 30, setting a U.S. record for crude rail
shipments in a quarter.  Holly Arthur, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based
association, whose members include Burlington Northern  Santa Fe 
LLC, owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , and
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad by track miles,
had no immediate comment.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has
investigated rail crashes dating back to 1992 when this type of
tank car ruptured. Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman  last year in a
letter to Quarterman said DOT-111s have “inadequate design”
and that in investigations over the years, the board found they
have “a high incidence of tank failures during accidents.”  Bakken Formation  PHMSA wants to ensure the safe transport of oil produced in
the Bakken formation centered in  North Dakota , Quarterman said
today in a  blog  post. Last week, she announced the “Bakken
blitz” of unannounced inspections of railcars carrying Bakken
crude to make sure they’re properly labeled.  “We are also laser focused on the energy boom epicenter --
the Bakken Shale Formation,” she said in today’s post. “Oil
production there has doubled in just the past three years, and
right now countless workers are building pipeline facilities,
hundreds of new trucks are on the road, and many new rail
facilities are moving gas and hazardous liquids from the Bakken
to locations throughout the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  