-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  Economic growth in the Second District has continued at a
moderate pace since the last report. Contacts indicate that cost
pressures remain moderate, while selling prices continue to be
steady to up slightly. Labor market conditions have shown
further signs of improvement, while wage increases have remained
subdued. Retailers report that sales picked up a bit in July and
August and were on or close to plan; new automobile sales have
strengthened since the last report. Tourism activity has been
mixed since the last report. Commercial and especially
residential real estate markets have shown signs of firming.
Finally, bankers report steady to somewhat softer loan demand,
little change in credit standards, some leveling off in loan
spreads, and widespread declines in delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales were mixed but on or close to
plan in July and early August. A major retail chain reports that
sales were on plan in July and in early August, with  New York
City  stores out-performing the rest of the region somewhat. One
major mall in upstate New York notes that sales have picked up
in recent weeks, following a sluggish June when sales were hurt
by inclement weather. However, another upstate mall reports that
sales are down slightly from a year ago, in part reflecting
fewer Canadian shoppers. Inventories are generally at or near
desired levels. Prices are generally described as stable, though
a few contacts say there is significant discounting.  Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that
new vehicle sales strengthened in July, running roughly 15
percent ahead of comparable 2012 levels; early indications are
that sales in August have been similarly robust. High end brands
are reported to be selling particularly well. Sales of used
automobiles have been mixed but generally soft. Wholesale and
retail credit conditions for auto purchases continue to be
characterized as favorable.  Tourism activity has been mixed since the last report.
Hotels across parts of upstate New York have seen some decline
in occupancy rates. Business at Broadway theaters has picked up
somewhat from mid-July to mid-August; attendance is still down
modestly from a year earlier but not by nearly as much as in
June and early July. Moreover, revenue was running ahead of
comparable 2012 levels in July and the first part of August--the
first such gain since March. Finally,  consumer confidence  in the
region has retreated slightly since the last report: both The
Conference Board’s survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic
states (NY, NJ, PA) and Siena College’s survey of New York State
residents show confidence declining modestly in July but running
roughly on par with a year earlier.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District have
strengthened since the last report. Buffalo-area contacts
describe market conditions as very robust, as demand continues
to outstrip supply. Thus far, there has been little new
construction, and the lack of inventory has pushed prices up.
Bidding wars are common for desirable properties. Similarly,
sales activity in New York City’s co-op and condo market has
been unusually strong in July and August. The inventory of
available apartments for sale has declined further and is at new
lows, except at the high end of the market. Prices have been
rising only modestly in  Manhattan , though in  Brooklyn , prices
are reported to be up by close to 10 percent over the past year.
Manhattan’s rental market appears to be at a plateau: rents have
leveled off and are up only marginally from a year ago. Brooklyn
rents, on the other hand are up 5-10 percent over the past year.
As in the sales market, the inventory of available rentals
remains tight throughout New York City.  An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that
market conditions continue to improve gradually: sales activity
has picked up somewhat and prices of existing homes are up
roughly 2 percent from a year ago. Multi-family construction
activity has been robust but single-family construction remains
sluggish; there continues to be little or no spec building. A
sizable inventory of distressed properties persists. The  New
Jersey  shore rental market has not yet recovered to 2012 levels;
markets in communities hardest hit by Sandy remain particularly
depressed.  Commercial real estate markets across the District have
been steady to slightly firmer since the last report.
Manhattan’s office vacancy rate remains little changed at a low
level and is down modestly from a year ago; asking rents for
Class A properties have been flat, whereas rents on Class B
office space have been trending up and have risen more than 10
percent over the past year. Office vacancy rates in Northern New
Jersey, as well as in Westchester and Fairfield counties, have
come down since the beginning of this year, though they remain
elevated.  Long Island ’s vacancy rate is steady at a low level.
Office markets in the Buffalo and Rochester areas have been
stable, while  Albany ’s has been somewhat softer.  Other Business Activity  The labor market has shown signs of strengthening. One
major employment agency notes that summer business has been
unusually strong across the board--in terms of both industries
and occupations. Another major agency describes the improvement
as more gradual. Both these contacts report that people are
finding jobs more quickly and that demand for IT workers has
been particularly strong. Companies are also described as
increasingly negotiable on salary, though pay has yet to start
escalating significantly.  Manufacturing firms in the District report a pickup in
employment levels, and a growing proportion of contacts plan to
add workers in the months ahead. More broadly, manufacturers
report that business activity has continued to improve modestly
since the last report, that input price pressures are steady and
that selling prices are little changed. Non-manufacturing firms
indicate that both business and hiring activity have been steady
since the last report, though these contacts have become a bit
more optimistic about the near term outlook and also in their
hiring plans. Service sector firms report that cost pressures
remain somewhat widespread but are more subdued than earlier in
the year.  Financial Developments  Small- to medium-sized banks in the District report a
decrease in demand for residential mortgages but little change
in demand for other types of loans. Bankers report fairly
widespread declines in refinancing demand--more so than at any
time in the past three years. Respondents indicate that credit
standards are little changed across all loan categories. Spreads
of loan rates over costs of funds are reported to have narrowed,
on balance, but to a lesser extent than has been the case for
most of the past two years. Finally, bankers report widespread
decreases in delinquency rates, particularly for consumer loans
and residential mortgages.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 