-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  Summary  According to reports from Sixth District contacts, economic
conditions modestly improved from July to mid-August. Most
businesses noted a positive outlook for the remainder of the
year.  Merchants indicated a slight pickup in retail sales and
automobile sales were strong. The travel and tourism sector
remained a bright spot across much of the District. Residential
real estate continued to recover at a solid pace as sales and
prices stayed ahead of last year’s level. However, low housing
inventories were still restraining sales growth. Commercial real
estate contacts reported slight improvements in demand and
construction activity. Manufacturers cited a decrease in new
orders and production. Bankers noticed very little pickup in
loan activity, overall. District payrolls improved slightly.
Input cost increases were described as being relatively subdued
by most firms.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  District retailers indicated that sales rose slightly from
July to late-August. Reports described consumers as remaining
cost conscious. Automotive dealers noted that year-end
projections are being revised up as truck sales strengthen
mostly from contractors purchasing vehicles again.  Hospitality contacts continued to witness strong travel and
tourism activity this summer. Overall demand in the sector
remained on the rise resulting in a pickup in hiring of both
full-time and part-time workers, although the cruise industry
reported a decrease in both domestic and international demand as
a result of the recession in  Europe  and a slowing economy in
 China . With the exception of cutbacks in travel in the
government sector, the industry is forecasting steady growth for
the remainder of the year.  Real Estate and Construction  District brokers continued to report that existing home
sales and prices remained ahead of last year’s level. When
polled about rising mortgage rates, some said business had
improved as buyers moved to lock-in rates. However, nearly half
of respondents also said that rising rates were having a
negative impact on their business by slowing buyer traffic,
disqualifying some buyers, and forcing some to shift to lower
price points. Inventory shortages persisted and were seen as a
major factor restraining sales. Low inventory levels continued
to put upward pressure on  home prices  in many submarkets across
the District. Even so, the outlook for sales growth remained
slightly positive, with the majority of brokers anticipating
sales gains over the next several months.  District homebuilders cited that new home sales and
construction were ahead of year earlier levels. The majority of
builders said that rising rates were not having an impact on
their business. Most builders reported that the availability of
development and construction financing remained below demand,
new home inventories were below the year earlier level, and
prices rose modestly. The outlook for new home sales and
construction was positive, but the outlook for growth continued
to moderate from earlier in the year.  District commercial brokers noted that demand for space
improved at a modest pace during the summer. Construction
activity was described as flat to slightly up from earlier this
year with apartment development dominating activity. Brokers
reported that most markets still favored tenants; however, rate
increases continued to be noted in select submarkets. The
outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained
positive with further improvements expected for the rest of the
year.  Manufacturing and Transportation  While the majority of the region’s manufacturers cited
expanding activity, the pace of growth decreased from July to
mid-August. New orders and production experienced modest
decreases which contributed to the slowing of activity. However,
a number of firms, especially those in the auto sector,
continued to report solid demand for their products. When asked
about their outlook, one-third of regional  purchasing managers 
expect higher production over the next three to six months.  Regional railroad companies noted that total year-over-year
volumes remained flat; however, growth was seen in shipments of
petroleum-related products, forest products, nonferrous scrap
metals, and metallurgical coal. District ports cited robust
activity in the movement of energy products as well as rubber
and steel used in automobile production. Reports were mixed for
containerized cargo volumes. Air cargo contacts stated that
year-to-date air freight tonnage rose slightly from a year ago
with notable increases in imports, while declines in exports
were attributed to the recession in Europe and a slowing economy
in China. District trucking companies reported a slowdown in
year-over-year volumes. The recent implementation of the “Hours
of Service” regulation, which restricts driving hours, and a
short supply of new drivers were mentioned as limiting growth
opportunities.  Banking and Finance  Banking contacts did not witness any noticeable increase in
overall lending as most borrowers had already taken advantage of
lower rates. However, the recent uptick in rates did motivate
many businesses to move to lock-in rates through refinancing.
Some bankers also reported a pickup in loan volume for lending
products such as second mortgages, credit cards, auto lending,
and commercial lending. A surge in second mortgage requests was
caused by increasing home values. Qualifying new business loans
remained fairly scarce with many banks competing over the same
few loans.  Employment and Prices  Since the last report, the region’s pace of payroll growth
improved modestly. Gains were seen in Georgia and  Florida , as
those states saw slight payroll increases in retail, leisure and
hospitality, and professional and business services. On balance,
firms were hesitant in hiring new staff due to various
uncertainties, with healthcare reform mentioned most frequently.
Similarly, in recent polls, contacts expressed a clear
preference for investing in  capital expenditures  to improve
efficiencies and reduce costs rather than hiring additional
labor.  Growth in input costs was muted for most businesses as
price inflation for crude and intermediate materials remained
relatively subdued. According to our August Business Inflation
Expectations survey, costs were up 1.7 percent from the previous
12 months and were expected to rise to 2.0 percent in the year
ahead. Businesses continued to note tight margins and very
little pricing power. Wage pressures were largely subdued,
except for industries where workers are in short supply, such as
 information technology  and specialized construction. Wage
increases in the 2 to 3 percent range remained standard, with
the distribution of increases weighted toward workers whose
skills are in highest demand.  Natural Resources and Agriculture  Energy refiners reported a pickup in activity, with more
oil flowing into the region from the central U.S. and  Canada .
Rail transport capacity expanded for crude oil and liquid
feedstocks, with large off-loading and increased storage
capacity occurring along the coast. Contacts expect deep-water
drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  to continue to expand.  Since the last report, most of the District received ample
or, in some cases, excessive rain. These rains have resulted in
problems with pesticide efficacy, delayed planting, and damage
or reduced yield for some crops. On a year-over-year basis,
prices paid to farmers were elevated for meat protein (beef,
hogs, and broilers), corn for grain and cotton saw price
reductions, and soybean prices remained unchanged.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 