-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest
pace during the reporting period of early July through late
August. Price inflation was subdued for most final goods and
services, and upward wage pressures were very modest. Retail
sales rose on net, while demand for business and consumer
services was more mixed. District manufacturing activity edged
up. Agricultural production and sales expanded. Demand for
housing strengthened, and commercial real estate activity
firmed. Reports from financial institutions indicated that loan
demand increased slightly.  Prices and Wages  Price inflation was subdued for most final goods and services.
Reports indicated stable prices for steel and scrap metal
products. Technology industry contacts reported that prices were
slightly lower than had been anticipated for some  business
software  and for computer hardware inputs. Hospitality sector
contacts noted large price declines for linens, versus
persistent price increases for a variety of food products.  Upward wage pressures were very modest overall. Slack in the
labor market held back wage gains in most sectors, occupations,
and regions. Reports indicated that overall wages at technology
firms have been mostly stable or modestly increasing. However,
firms in various industries continued to compete vigorously for
a limited pool of qualified workers to fill certain technical
positions, spurring significant wage growth in these slots.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales rose on net, and most contacts’ outlooks for future
 consumer spending  improved slightly since the prior reporting
period. Technology companies reported increased sales overall,
with growth on the business side outpacing gains in consumer
demand. However, grocery and apparel retailers noted soft sales.
These contacts pointed to evidence of households taking
advantage of attractive financing opportunities and devoting
their budgets to big-ticket items, such as housing and autos.
Large inventories at many dealerships fueled a robust pace for
new and used automobile sales, especially light truck sales.
Contacts indicated strong demand for hobby game products, as the
core customers tend to work in relatively high-wage math and
science professions.  Demand for business and consumer services varied across sectors.
Reports indicated that many service providers increased  capital
expenditures  in anticipation of stronger demand. However,
contacts noted that recent demand has been tepid for elective
health-care and other discretionary services, including
restaurant dining. Contacts also noted soft demand and downward
pressure on fees for legal services. Travel and tourism activity
in  Hawaii  maintained its solid pace of growth, and after
slipping earlier in the year, tourist activity in  Southern
California  picked up during the summer months. Contacts noted
strong convention attendance in  Las Vegas  but some weakness in
leisure travel.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity edged up during the reporting
period of early July through late August. Demand for
semiconductors increased, as indicated by modest growth in new
orders and sales. Although capacity utilization for electronic
components in general held steady, contacts noted that demand
was somewhat subdued. Demand for commercial aircraft remained
solid. Defense manufacturers noted more muted demand due to the
ongoing effects of the federal sequester. Biotech drug
manufacturing increased modestly. Shipments of steel products
used primarily in nonresidential construction continued to
increase, and steel producers reported that overall capacity
utilization ticked up a bit further. In particular, reports
indicated that capacity utilization for steel manufacturing was
stronger for automobile and aircraft-related inputs than for
nonresidential construction inputs. Many contacts expect
manufacturing industry conditions to improve slightly in the
second half of the year relative to the first half.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Sales of agricultural items and resource-related production
activity expanded in the District. Demand was generally strong
for most crop and livestock products. However, relatively light
traffic at fast-food restaurants limited sales of some
vegetables. In addition, some grain producers expect slightly
lower profits due to price declines. Despite a modest decline in
demand for various oil products, contacts expect overall sales
to increase in the medium term. Refinery utilization rates and
gasoline production increased. Utility providers reported that
energy sales to aerospace and housing-related firms were robust.  Real Estate and Construction  Demand for housing strengthened further, and commercial real
estate activity was stable or improved. Although levels remained
significantly lower than in the pre-recession period, both home
sales and house prices climbed further relative to the prior
reporting period in many District cities. In some areas, demand
for new homes substantially exceeded the supply, and shortages
of construction workers held back the pace of new home
construction activity. Multifamily residential construction
projects increased. Rental rates for commercial real estate
edged up as occupancies climbed. Contacts in some major
metropolitan areas noted declining commercial real estate
inventories and expressed near-term concerns about capacity
constraints.  Financial Institutions  Financial institution reports indicated that loan demand
increased slightly on net. Most contacts reported increased
lending relative to a year earlier, but some reported a slight
downtick more recently. Contacts noted that mortgage origination
levels were mostly stable despite the increase in mortgage
interest rates, although the number of new applications has
dropped a bit in some areas. Some contacts expect the pace of
refinancing activity to slow as well. Reports highlighted ample
bank liquidity and substantial competition for high-quality
commercial borrowers. In the District’s Internet and digital
media sectors, mergers and acquisitions activity and venture
capital activity grew in terms of both deal value and volume.
However, the pace of initial public offerings remained weak, and
private equity activity was flat.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 