-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued
at a moderate pace of growth during this current  Beige Book 
period. Moderate rates of growth continued for general services,
existing home sales, and home construction. Homebuilders felt
their sales may have been partially dampened by rising mortgage
rates; however, construction remained well above its level of a
year ago. Meanwhile, auto sales continued their strong rate of
growth; growth of freight shipping was also strong. General
retail sales, commercial real estate leasing, staffing services,
and tourism continued to expand at modest rates, while
manufacturing and commercial real estate construction continued
to expand only slightly. Loan volumes at Third District banks
grew at a modest pace across most categories;  credit quality 
continued to improve. Contacts reported slight increases overall
for general price levels as well as for wages and home prices -
similar to the last Beige Book period.  An overall outlook for moderate growth has continued since
the last Beige Book. Contacts expressed greater confidence in
the  U.S. economy  and in global conditions. However, firms
remained cautious in their hiring and long-term capital
expenditure plans and expressed concern about a potential fiscal
crisis regarding the federal debt ceiling.  Manufacturing  Overall, Third District manufacturers reported further
increases in orders and shipments since the last Beige Book,
although overall growth remained slight. Makers of food
products, paper products, and fabricated metals reported gains.
Producers of lumber and wood products, primary metals,
electronic equipment, and instruments reported lower activity,
much of it seasonal in nature. Reports were mixed for makers of
industrial machinery. Overall, firms continued to report strong
demand from auto- and residential construction-related
businesses. Firms also reported some demand related to
infrastructure repairs in response to Superstorm Sandy. Several
firms reported difficulties meeting demand because of
insufficient physical capacity, an inability to train new
workers quickly enough, and/or customers’ expectations of
shorter delivery times. A large supplier to a broad base of
industry reported that business improved from early summer
through early August, with larger backlogs in key segments.  Optimism has generally grown among Third District
manufacturers that business conditions will improve over the
next six months. A contact described U.S. manufacturing as
“poised to grow” while citing signs of improvement globally,
particularly in Europe and  China . Some capacity expansion
appears to be under way, as infrastructure projects that were
being intentionally delayed are now coming on stream. Though
generally positive, firms have lowered their expectations
somewhat regarding hiring and capital spending plans since the
last Beige Book.  Retail  Third District retailers reported modest growth overall
since the last Beige Book, though results were mixed between
outlets and traditional malls. Contacts said sales were soft in
July, possibly dampened by excessive heat, but began to pick up
in August with more back-to-school shopping. Sales of children’s
apparel were stronger at outlets than at traditional malls,
indicating that consumers were doing more price-shopping. Mall
retailers were optimistic that sales would continue to pick up
into the fall.  Auto dealers continued to report strong sales growth in
July and the beginning of August. Pickup truck sales have been
strong in the shore areas as rebuilding efforts continue.
Contacts cited healthier household balance sheets, pent-up
demand, and attractive leasing options as factors for strong
sales. Dealers noted lean inventories as production has
generally kept in line with demand. Dealers remain very
optimistic, although their hiring continues to lag rising sales.  Finance  Overall, Third District financial firms continued to report
modest increases in total loan volume. The most notable
difference from the last Beige Book period was the further
reduction in mortgage refinancing in response to higher interest
rates. Contacts noted that demand for mortgages to purchase
homes continued to increase modestly, as did demand for home
equity lines and commercial real estate and C&I loans. Stronger
increases were noted for most types of  consumer lending ,
although credit card volumes fell off slightly. Contacts
uniformly reported that small businesses remain very cautious,
doing little or no borrowing for expansion and needed
infrastructure. Credit standards have changed little, according
to most banking contacts. However, many expressed concern about
very tough competition on rates and terms - reflecting a “lack
of reason,” according to one banker. However, most bankers
reported that business was good overall and the credit quality
of their loan portfolios was healthier. They remained
“cautiously optimistic.”  Real Estate and Construction  Homebuilders throughout most of the Third District remained
moderately busy with existing projects from spring sales.
However, several builders reported a dip in traffic and new
sales contracts in July, with modest sales growth resuming in
early August. Higher  interest rates  were partly blamed for the
lull: Locking in a mortgage rate now for an existing home
appeared preferable to getting a mortgage later when the new
home is completed. Sales of existing homes continued to grow at
a moderate pace into August, according to residential brokers. A
broker in the greater Philadelphia area described sales growth
as “good steady improvement, not soaring.” Sales closed and
sales pending grew by double digits (year over year) in some of
the larger metropolitan areas in the Third District and by
nearly double digits in a few others. The estimated months of
supply of homes has risen since May in several areas, described
as a seasonal trend rather than evidence that the shadow
inventory of homes is emerging.  Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report
little change in the modest pace of overall leasing activity and
slight growth of construction. However, architecture and
engineering firms were seeing greater interest and increased
workflow, which are expected to generate construction activity
in the future. Meanwhile, general contractors reported that
activity was very slow, with heavy competitive bidding on each
project. New and ongoing projects continued to be heavily
represented by industrial structures, institutional facilities,
multifamily residential units, and public utilities. Market
analysts observed a shift in recent leasing activity by large
users of commercial space away from a contraction in square
footage to some expansion. In addition, some companies are
opening branches in the Philadelphia area market. Contacts
remained generally optimistic for slow, steady growth.  Services  Third District service-sector firms continued to report a
moderate pace of growth overall. After a slow start to the
summer, traffic counts, bookings, and boardwalk sales at shore
destinations in  Delaware  and southern  New Jersey  picked up to a
modest pace. A Delaware hotel group reported that its properties
matched or exceeded last year’s record; another hotel reported
that July was its best month ever. However, those parts of
central New Jersey hardest hit by  Hurricane Sandy  continued to
struggle, with low numbers of returning summer residents and
tourists. Throughout the District, tourists continued to spend
cautiously. Atlantic City casino revenue continued its years-long downward spiral.  Other service firms reported continued moderate growth,
although some cited seasonal slowdowns for the summer. One
staffing firm explained that its clients’ decision-makers are
away for much of the summer. A large consumer firm anticipates
higher activity in September following a typical August lull.
Freight shipments have grown robustly throughout the District,
tied to the expansion of intermodal facilities along the I-81
and I-76 corridors and to refinery activity along the  Delaware
River . Overall, service-sector firms remained optimistic about
future growth.  Prices and Wages  Overall,  price levels  continued to increase slightly,
similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported
that prices paid and prices received again increased modestly;
the increases were even slighter this period than last. Auto
dealers reported no changes in pricing. A mall operator noted
apparel inflation in recent months. Builders continued to report
land selling at a premium, rising land development costs, and
difficulty finding qualified tradespersons. Most real estate
contacts reported rising prices for lower-priced homes; price
trends for higher-priced homes are closely tied to local market
conditions. Recent safety regulations for truckers are expected
to tighten capacity and spur higher prices this fall until more
workers and new equipment are brought online. Generally,
however, there are few wage pressures, according to most firms,
including staffing companies.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 