-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  Overview  Economic conditions in the Fifth District improved
moderately since our last report. Manufacturing shipments and
orders rose, and  capital spending  increased. Retail weakened,
with the exception of robust auto sales. Revenue growth was
strong among non-retail services firms and tourist destinations
reported good attendance. In banking, lending activity slowed
somewhat under the pressure of higher interest rates.
Residential real estate and construction activity varied, while
commercial real estate and construction markets were little
changed. Heavy rains in the Mid-Atlantic hindered harvests and
raised concerns about crop damage. In energy markets, natural
gas production increased sharply as more infrastructure came
online; in contrast, coal mining declined. Conditions in
District labor markets improved modestly. Growth in
manufacturing prices for inputs and finished goods slowed;
service sector price increases also slowed. Average wages rose
in both sectors.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing shipments and orders rose moderately, and
reports of greater spending on plant and equipment increased.
Producers of auto parts, plastics, and textiles were buying
machinery. A lumber company executive said his business had
purchased new equipment to increase production in response to
higher order volume. Another contact indicated that demand had
picked up for mid-range and high-end cabinetry. In contrast, a
furniture producer reported that all employees had to take
unpaid time off in recent weeks, and a machine parts
manufacturer worried that he might have to begin layoffs by
early autumn. According to our latest manufacturing survey,
growth slowed in prices of both raw materials and finished
goods.  Ports  District port contacts indicated that bulk and container
shipments grew briskly in recent weeks. Agricultural products
accounted for much of the increase in exports, while auto-related products were a large share of the growth in imports.
Coal exports declined in recent weeks while remaining slightly
up for the year. The ports’ peak season began in July, as retail
imports allowed stores to stock up for the holidays. Port
officials were monitoring developments in the  Middle East 
closely because the  Suez Canal  is a “vitally important artery”
for shippers.  Retail  Sales revenues weakened since our last report. Retail and
wholesale suppliers of construction inputs gave mixed reports. A
 West Virginia  building materials wholesaler commented that his
sales were flat and cautioned, “Contractors who normally have a
six-month backlog of work are down to two months.” Several
grocers,  convenience stores , and pharmacies also reported flat
sales, while sales at art and hobby shops and an electronics
retailer declined. Auto sales were strong; a dealer in West
 Virginia  remarked that his dealership had its best thirty days
ever this summer and a dealer in the Washington, D.C. beltway
area said his sales doubled compared to this time last year. He
noted, however, that purchases were based on need, rather than
discretionary spending. Average retail price growth picked up
slightly. In particular, a grocery wholesaler noted gradual but
steady increases in his cost of meat, poultry, and seafood.  Services  Non-retail services firms reported generally robust growth
in recent weeks. Among the categories noting stronger revenues
were architectural services, IT, business law, advertising, and
accounting. A financial services executive reported that clients
were becoming more aggressive with respect to the amount of risk
they would assume while remaining “a little nervous under the
surface.” Construction-related businesses such as contracting
reported more bidding opportunities and project starts; several
also commented that they were able to pass along rising input
prices. Healthcare organizations reported softer demand and many
were making cost reductions to help offset lower reimbursements,
sequestration, and uncompensated care. Smaller hospitals
continued to express concern about their viability under the
Affordable Care Act, and the solution for some has been to
pursue affiliation with a larger healthcare system. Growth in
overall services prices slowed.  Tourism representatives reported strong attendance at
resort locations. Year-over-year National Park visits in the
Washington, D.C. area increased. A contact on the outer banks of
 North Carolina  indicated hotels bookings were up and rentals
were good, albeit not quite “the banner year” people had
expected. She noted that restaurants were generally busy,
although budget-conscious tourists were primarily frequenting
“tapas and deck parties” instead of fine dining establishments.
A resort executive in western Virginia reported that occupancy
rose and revenues increased by double digits over this time last
year. He observed that “the family vacation seems to be coming
back.” In central North Carolina, an hotelier reported that
corporate bookings were up, while government stays fell.  Finance  The pace of growth in District lending slowed somewhat as
many bankers reported a drag from higher interest rates. On the
business side, contacts generally indicated that any adverse
impact from the modest increase in  interest rates  was being
offset by expectations for better economic conditions and
stronger profit growth. One banker flatly stated that “CFOs
understand that rates remain near historically low levels.”
Small business loan volumes increased modestly. A lender in the
D.C. area noted that some small businesses that wanted to grow
were looking to do so through acquisitions. Most banks reported
no changes in standards and terms for business loans, although
competition was reportedly testing lenders’ discipline. New
residential mortgage lending was said to be holding up, but
virtually every banker said that refinancing had slowed.
Overall, mortgage loan volumes were reported to be modestly
lower. Demand for other types of household loans held fairly
steady, and metrics of consumer credit quality displayed fewer
signs of duress.  Real Estate  Reports on residential real estate and construction
activity were more varied since the last survey period. Several
Realtors said that demand for owner-occupied homes remained firm
and a dearth of quality inventory was leading to fewer days on
the market, more multiple offers, and higher selling-to-asking
price ratios. Some reports suggested that rising home prices and
mortgage interest rates may have boosted demand in the near term
as many “fence sitters” were moved to make a decision. While
homes remained affordable, one contact said that “they aren’t
the screaming bargain they once were.” Residential construction
activity increased at a slower rate. A homebuilder who develops
in the Carolinas reported that sales and traffic through models
edged lower since our last report, although he could not
determine if this was due to higher interest rates or a typical
summer lull. A builder in Northern Virginia noted a similar
slowdown, but added that activity had picked up in early August
as potential homebuyers adjusted to higher  mortgage rates . He
expected that strength to be sustained.  Commercial real estate and construction markets were little
changed in recent weeks. Contacts in most areas reported that
vacancy rates continued to decline modestly in office and
industrial markets, while retail vacancies remained very low.
There were a few suggestions that rents were firming and several
real estate professionals noted that landlords were offering
fewer concessions to potential tenants. Given the rather steady
improvement in vacancy rates, and lack of construction in recent
years, respondents in many areas expected commercial
construction to pick up momentum in late 2013, particularly in
the office and industrial markets.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Heavy rains in the Mid-Atlantic delayed the harvest of some
grains and hay cutting, particularly in the lowlands of the
Carolinas. According to one source, cotton, peanuts, and
soybeans might be damaged by the unusually high levels of
precipitation. Another contact in  South Carolina  noted that some
late crops could not be planted and root systems of plants in
the ground have not developed well because of the rain. He added
that cotton and tobacco crops “do not look good at all.” A
number of contacts noted that corn prices had risen and were
expected to remain high for some time. Prices of beef and pork
were also up, according to sources. Poultry farming and fruit
production were strong in recent weeks. Results of our recent
agricultural credit survey indicated that farmland values
remained relatively constant since the beginning of this year.  Natural gas production increased sharply as more
infrastructure came online. An industry executive expected
production and rig counts to continue to rise. Another contact
stated that demand for District coal had declined further since
our last report, idling some mines and resulting in large
layoffs.  Labor Markets  Labor market conditions improved modestly since our last
report. Employment increased in most areas. Demand increased for
workers in financial services, accounting, IT,  health services ,
and manufacturing. Reports of difficulty finding workers with
the “correct” skills were widespread, and a West Virginia
contact commented that it was difficult to find people “at any
price.” A Virginia executive noted that workers went from
temporary to permanent employment more frequently, while a
source in North Carolina indicated that temporary assignments
were lasting longer than they did a year ago. Our most recent
survey results were generally consistent with other accounts:
hiring increased somewhat at manufacturing and non-retail
services establishments, while retail employment declined
slightly. Average wages rose in the manufacturing and service
sectors, including retail.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 