-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over
the past six weeks. While many respondents noted steady demand,
there were more noting improving versus declining demand. Sales
grew for firms in residential construction, retail, accounting,
fabricated metals, food and kindred products, and automobile
dealerships. Financial firms and paper producers reported a
decline in demand. The energy sector noted some flattening of
activity at high levels. Drought continued to plague the region
although recent rains have slightly improved growing conditions
in some areas.  Prices  Most responding firms said that prices were stable since the
last report. Contacts in oil, paper and beef production reported
slight increases in prices while law firms and retailers noted
slight price reductions. Fabricated metals producers and
accounting firms said that increasing cost pressures may result
in price increases in the coming months. Contacts in the
residential housing sector noted that overall  home prices  in
most major metros continued to rise at a moderate to fast pace.
Energy prices were mixed, with natural  gas prices  holding steady
and the price of West Texas Intermediate crude rising to an
average of $104 per barrel over the past six weeks. Gasoline and
diesel prices declined modestly.  Labor Market  Employment was flat to slightly higher at most responding firms
with few reports of layoffs. Wage pressures remained subdued
except in the case of a few professions such as information
technology and engineering. Construction-related contacts noted
some labor shortages, although there were no reports of wage
pressures. Contacts in auto dealerships, primary metals, high-tech manufacturing and accounting firms said that employment was
up slightly. Retailers reported flat employment growth, except
in oil and gas producing areas where jobs continued to grow.
Financial firms reported a slight decline in jobs.  Manufacturing  Construction-related activity was mixed, according to
respondents. Some contacts reported flat to slightly improved
demand, although one contact noted strong demand from Houston
infrastructure projects. Fabricated metals producers noted
demand was up due to oil and gas activity and outlooks were
positive. Primary metals producers said demand held steady, but
outlooks were mixed, with some concern for the rest of the year.  Food producers said demand picked up since the last report and
the pickup was above normal seasonal increases. Paper producers
noted weak demand and uncertain outlooks.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said that growth in
demand remained stable at a modest pace since the last report.
Demand for tablets and cloud-related products continued to grow
strongly while personal computer-demand remained weak. One
contact noted a pickup in U.S. demand for communications
infrastructure. Employment was reported as flat to slightly
increasing. While overall wage pressures were modest, in some
locations, such as Austin, respondents said that competition for
skills such as electrical engineering was driving wages higher
and causing employees to change jobs more frequently.
Respondents remain cautiously optimistic about growth over the
next six months with one respondent noting that growth has
become more persistent in recent quarters.  Retail Sales  Retail sales picked up since the last report, spurred in part by
back-to-school shopping. According to two national retailers,
Texas sales continued to outperform the national average.
Contacts’ outlooks through the end of the year were positive.  Automobile sales picked up over the reporting period, and demand
was up from year-ago levels. Inventories continued to vary by
manufacturer. Selling prices remained stable, but contacts
expect an increase with the new model year this fall. Contacts’
outlooks for the rest of the quarter and the rest of the year
were optimistic.  Nonfinancial Services  Staffing firms’ reports were mixed, with one contact reporting
near-record levels of direct hiring, especially in engineering
and healthcare, and other contacts reporting declines in hiring
in manufacturing and logistics. Outlooks were also mixed.  Legal firms reported modest growth in demand for services, a
positive sign after mixed growth in the second quarter. There
was a continued absence of transactions and litigation work--
with the exception of robust intellectual property litigation
demand. Rates were unchanged, and collections were good,
although not as good as last year. Employment was roughly flat,
with many partners moving laterally, but some firms were
actively seeking experienced associates. A small number of
summer clerks were offered jobs starting next summer. Associate
compensation at large firms rose to match associate compensation
at  New York  firms. The outlook is for modest hiring and growth
over the next two months, with some recent growth in
transactions work spurring more optimism  Accounting demand remained strong and exhibited growth across
the board. Rates remained stable, and wages have increased or
will increase moderately. Firms continued to hire, and
headcounts were up. A San Antonio contact noted it was hard to
find good, experienced candidates because of competition from
other firms. The outlook is for a strong close to the quarter
with robust backlogs for the next six months.  Transportation service firms noted that cargo volumes were
mixed, with increases in railroad and container volumes, but
flat air cargo and declining small parcel volumes. Rail volumes
were boosted by robust growth in petroleum shipments.  Airline contacts said demand was seasonally down but bookings
and yields were up year-over-year. Demand was strong over the
summer and the outlook is quite optimistic compared to last
year.  Construction and Real Estate  Single-family housing activity remained strong over the past six
weeks according to contacts. Most responding firms noted that
new  home construction  has increased in response to robust sales,
especially in the Houston, Dallas and Austin metro areas. Some
contacts expressed concern about the high level of multi-family
construction in major Texas metros, but overall apartment
occupancy rates improved since the last report. Contacts are
mostly optimistic in their forecasts through year-end.  Office and industrial construction was reportedly rising, with
several announced projects in the Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston
areas. Overall, Texas commercial real estate markets continue to
fare well compared to other parts of the U.S. Contacts noted
moderate to strong growth in rental rates in most commercial
real estate sectors as leasing activity has increased.  Financial Services  Financial institutions experienced a modest decline in loan
activity and the level of loan demand was soft. Demand for real
estate loans, especially in the San Antonio and Austin, areas
was good, with the exception of weakness in multi-family real
estate lending. Contacts reported loan quality was good and
continued to improve and borrowers continued paying down debt.
Loan pricing remained competitive. Deposit volumes remained
strong and grew at a moderate pace, although slower than a year
ago. Deposit rates were mostly unchanged, with increases on some
long-term certificates of deposit. The outlook for financial
institutions is for continued softness in lending; however,
there is a good pipeline for loans, and there is hope for more
mergers and acquisitions activity according to responding firms.
The finalized Basel III regulations were a relief to community
bankers.  Energy  Drilling activity was little changed at high levels. Global
demand held steady. Respondents expect improvement in energy
activity in the second half of the year, due in part to
anticipated increases in rig activity and production from the
 Gulf of Mexico . The recent increase in  oil prices  has increased
the cost advantage of domestic petrochemicals firms.  Agriculture  Drought conditions continued to affect most of the district,
although the severity in several areas was eased by unusually
good July rainfall. Farmers began harvesting row crops, and
conditions were mostly fair to good. The cotton crop is expected
to be smaller than previously anticipated, causing cotton prices
to improve slightly. Feeder cattle prices rose over the
reporting period because of tight supplies and lower feed costs.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 