-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew at a moderate pace since the
last report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, residential and commercial real estate and
construction, manufacturing, energy and agriculture. Growth in
residential real estate and construction has slowed somewhat,
but is still strong. The mining sector was flat, and
professional services were mixed. Hiring announcements were more
prevalent than layoff announcements since the last report. Wage
increases were moderate. Prices were relatively level since the
last report.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased modestly. A  Montana  mall manager
reported that sales increased about 5 percent in June and July
from a year earlier. Recent same-store sales at a Minnesota-based retailer were up slightly compared with last year. In the
Minneapolis area, a mall manager noted that summer traffic and
sales increased slightly compared with a year ago, while another
mall reported modest decreases in traffic and increases in
sales. Truck and car sales during the summer were generally
higher at a number of dealerships in Montana, according to an
auto dealers association; some dealerships noted that sales were
constrained due to a lack of inventory.  Tourism increased from a year ago. Summer tourism activity was
strong after a slow start in northern Wisconsin, according to a
representative of a chamber of commerce. The number of visitors
to Glacier National Park in Montana increased more than 5
percent compared with a year ago. Tourism activity was solid in
southwestern Montana. Camping permits and revenue at state parks
in  South Dakota  were up from last year.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity continued to grow since the
last report. A commercial real estate research firm noted an
increase in planned construction of industrial and medical
office space in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. The value of July
hotel building permits in Billings, Mont., increased
significantly from last year. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., the
value of July commercial permits was down from a year ago.
Growth has slowed somewhat but is still strong in residential
construction. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of
residential permits in July was up by 25 percent from July of
2012. The value of July single-family residential building
permits in Billings was up 24 percent from last year;
multifamily building increased by $23 million. However, the
value of July residential building permits in  Sioux Falls  fell
from 2012.  Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the
last report. A commercial real estate professional noted an
increase in transactions, including a portfolio of retail
centers, a large distribution center, an office building, a
mixed-use property and a hotel in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.
Growth has slowed somewhat but is still strong in residential
real estate markets. July home sales were up 13 percent from the
same period a year ago in  Minnesota ; the inventory of homes for
sale increased by 1 percent, and median sale prices rose 13
percent. In the Sioux Falls area, July home sales were up 25
percent and inventory was down 11 percent, but the median sale
price decreased 3 percent relative to a year earlier.  Services  Recent activity at professional business services firms was
mixed, depending on the service. An information technology
consulting contact noted continued strong demand. A health care
consulting contact said business was up. Mortgage and real
estate title company contacts reported an increase in purchase
activity but a decrease in refinance activity. An architectural
contact noted flat activity since the last report. A large
Minnesota-based  law firm  noted a slight decrease in July
billable hours compared with a year ago primarily due to reduced
merger and acquisition business.  Manufacturing  The District manufacturing sector continued to grow moderately.
A July survey of  purchasing managers  by Creighton University
(Omaha Neb.) indicated that manufacturing activity increased in
Minnesota and the Dakotas; the pace of growth rose in South
Dakota but declined in  North Dakota  and Minnesota. An
electronics manufacturer recently broke ground on a new plant in
Minnesota. However, a large beef slaughter and packing facility
in South Dakota filed for bankruptcy in July.  Energy and Mining  Growth in the energy sector continued, while mining activity was
flat. Oil and gas exploration activity decreased slightly in
mid-August in North Dakota and Montana from a month earlier. The
Bureau of Land Management in South Dakota recently auctioned off
50 oil and gas leases, indicating that exploration is expanding
into the area, but activity is expected to be modest relative to
North Dakota. An electricity utility completed multiyear
upgrades to a nuclear power plant in Minnesota, at a total cost
of nearly $600 million. Two facilities that will serve Canadian
oil sands development are under construction in Montana. July
output at District iron ore mines was slightly above its year-earlier levels after several slower months. Some Minnesota and
 Wisconsin  mines that produce sand for hydraulic fracturing have
idled recently.  Agriculture  Conditions for District agricultural producers improved since
the last report. While progress remains slower than average,
recent warm and dry weather has helped crops catch up, as the
majority of the corn, soybean and spring wheat crops are listed
in good or excellent condition in all District states. According
to the Minneapolis Fed’s second-quarter (July) survey of
agricultural credit conditions, 90 percent of respondents said
farm incomes increased or held steady over the previous three
months, with similar results for household and capital spending.
Despite the wet beginning to the growing season, USDA estimates
indicate that acres of corn and soybeans planted in District
states saw only a small decline compared with last year. North
Dakota wheat acreage fell nearly 1 million acres, or 12 percent,
from last year. Prices received by producers increased in July
from a year earlier for cattle, hogs, milk, eggs, chicken, hay
and potatoes; prices for corn, wheat, dry beans and turkeys
fell, while soybean prices were flat.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Hiring announcements were more prevalent than layoff
announcements since the last report. A new  information
technology  support center broke ground in South Dakota that will
bring 200 jobs to the state. In Minnesota, a manufacturer
recently completed an expansion of its headquarters, with plans
to hire 200 new workers over the next few years. Another
manufacturer recently purchased a new industrial building in
Minnesota and will hire 100 new workers. A representative of a
Minnesota staffing firm noted continued solid demand for
temporary work placements. Some district manufacturers were
having difficulty filling job openings for technical positions
due to a lack of suitable workers. In contrast, the
aforementioned South Dakota meat packer laid off about 250
workers and a bank in Minnesota is laying off 160 employees due
to slowdown in mortgage refinancing activity.  Wage increases were moderate. A Minnesota county recently
offered a contract to union employees with wage increases of 4.5
percent, spread over three years.  Prices were relatively level since the last report, with some
exceptions noted. Recent fertilizer prices were down from a year
ago, while lumber prices were up about 10 percent compared with
last year. Metals prices increased somewhat since the last
report. Representatives of health systems with operations in the
District noted that medical cost inflation subsided recently,
and they expect it to remain relatively subdued going forward.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 