-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a
moderate pace since our last report. On balance, demand for
manufactured products grew at a moderate rate. Housing market
activity has leveled out after a six-month period of strong
growth; sales of new and existing homes were above year-ago
levels. Nonresidential builders experienced a rise in backlogs
and the number of inquiries. Retailers were disappointed with
sales during June and July, while new motor vehicle purchases
posted robust gains on a year-over-year basis. Shale drilling
picked up in regions rich in wet gas and was above year-ago
levels. Output at coal mines trended lower. Freight transport
volume remained strong. Applications for business credit were
flat, while consumer demand for credit rose slightly.  Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing firm
representatives reported that the number of job openings
increased, with vacancies found primarily in healthcare and
manufacturing. However, job placements were lower. Wage
pressures remain contained. Input and finished goods prices saw
little change, apart from increases in construction materials
and oil.  Manufacturing  Reports from District factories indicated that demand grew
at a moderate pace during the past six weeks. Companies seeing
the strongest activity were suppliers to the energy, housing,
medical device, and transportation industries. Defense
contractors are still coping with uncertainty. Compared to a
year ago, manufacturing production levels are similar or higher.
Many of our contacts are optimistic and they expect that demand
will rise during the next few months. Steel producers and
service centers reported that shipping volumes were stable or
fell below expected levels. Some respondents continue to express
concern about the quantity of steel imports and the negative
impact it is having on domestic producers. The outlook by steel
producers is uncertain. As a result, they have been reducing
inventories. District auto production showed a substantial
decline in July on a month-over-month basis, due to normal
seasonal retooling for model changeovers. Compared to a year
ago, July production figures revealed a sizeable increase.  We heard some reports about a need by motor vehicle parts
suppliers and assembly plants to expand capacity in order to
meet demand. Other reports indicated that small manufacturers
have reduced capacity utilization rates and bypassed growth
opportunities because they were unable to hire skilled
production workers. A majority of our contacts anticipate
increasing capital budgets in the upcoming fiscal year. Raw
material and finished goods prices were generally flat or
trended lower, although producers acknowledged volatility in
commodity prices. Steel producers who attempted to raise prices
met with limited success. Factories expanded payrolls at a
modest pace. Wage pressures are contained, though there is
concern about rising health insurance premiums. One executive
commented that he sees downward pressure on domestic labor costs
due to excess production capacity off-shore.  Real Estate  Sales of new single-family homes have stabilized during the
past couple of months, when compared to the solid growth seen
earlier in the year. Builders characterized their sales as good,
and most reported that they are higher than a year ago. One
builder commented that he is concerned about a lot shortage in
the near term. On-line traffic and inquiries are rising. New
home contracts were found mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multifamily housing remains strong.
Builders expressed confidence that demand for new homes will
persist in the upcoming months, but they are apprehensive about
rising interest rates and difficulties in obtaining construction
loans. They also believe that a rise in  consumer confidence 
would bring additional first-time buyers into the market.
Selling prices of new homes across the District were up about 5
percent on average year-over-year due to rising costs and larger
building footprints. The number of existing single-family homes
sold year-to-date is up substantially across many regions of the
District, relative to a year earlier. Contract prices rose
moderately. In some regions, the supply of existing homes for
sale is a challenge, which is leading to higher prices.  Nonresidential builders continued to see slowly improving
business conditions. Although inquiries have picked up,
uncertainty about interest rates and the economy led to
hesitancy on the part of some customers. Backlogs have grown
substantially. The strongest activity was on the industrial and
manufacturing side. The former is related to shale gas work and
the conversion of coal-fired generators to natural gas. Work in
higher education has replaced government-sponsored projects as a
major revenue source. Multifamily housing, including senior
living, was also strong. Our contacts were more optimistic about
near-term growth prospects than they have been in recent months.  We heard many comments from homebuilders about price
increases for construction materials (lumber, drywall, and
concrete), though the rate of increase has slowed during the
past month. Several builders reported that they plan to retain
their temporary summer workers through the fall season. Hiring
of permanent employees (office and field) was modest. Wage
pressures are contained. General contractors reported a shortage
of qualified subcontractors. On the residential side, requests
for higher rates by subcontractors were met with mixed results.
Commercial builders said their subcontractors are having
difficulty obtaining operating capital.  Consumer Spending  Retailers were disappointed with their June and July sales.
They cited consumers being strapped for money and unseasonably
cool weather as factors that held down spending. On a year-over-year basis, same-store revenues were fairly even or lower.
Products in greater demand included core goods such as food,
back-to-school items, and furniture. Looking ahead, fourth-quarter sales are expected to improve slightly when compared to
those in the third quarter. Inventories were characterized as a
little high, but manageable. Vendor and shelf prices held
steady. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year,
with no changes expected in the near term. Hiring will be
limited to staffing new stores.  Sales of new motor vehicles increased at a robust pace
during July, and year-to-date sales were running ahead of last
year’s pace. The number of new vehicles sold in July was
moderately higher than in June. Buyers prefer smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles. One dealer commented that the
unpredictability of gasoline prices is a primary factor behind
the sales of smaller cars. New-vehicle inventories are rising,
but a majority of dealers said that they are satisfied with
their inventory positions. Our contacts are optimistic about
sales for the remainder of the year.  Dealers pointed to pent-up consumer demand, the
availability of financing, and the option to lease as reasons
for their optimism. Dealer service departments in the eastern
third of the District are especially busy due to the influx of
work generated by shale gas activity. Used-vehicle purchases
rose during the past six weeks. Inventory is building as lease
rollovers start to come in, which is putting some downward
pressure on used-car prices. Even with an increase in business,
dealers are reluctant to hire a large number of employees. For
the few open positions, finding qualified applicants remains
difficult.  Banking  Bankers reported that their industry is functioning in an
environment of low interest rates, rising operating costs, and
over-capacity. Net interest margins are showing signs of
widening but remain below acceptable levels. Demand for business
credit is flat or up slightly, with no loan category or industry
performing significantly better than others. Our contacts
attribute this to firms holding large cash reserves. A financial
intermediary reported on a loosening in venture capital funding
and commented that a substantial number of startups in the
District are now contemplating an S-1 filing. Consumer-credit
demand improved slightly, especially for auto loans, credit
cards, and home equity lines of credit. Several bankers reported
a slowing in residential mortgage activity. While new-purchase
mortgages are trending higher, refinancing has dropped off. No
changes were made to loan-application standards. Delinquency
rates declined slightly. There were few reports about workforce
reductions.  Energy  District coal production remains below year-ago levels,
with the largest declines seen in eastern  Kentucky . Spot prices
for steam-coal declined slightly, whereas metallurgical coal
prices were flat. Unconventional drilling picked up in regions
rich in wet gas since our last report, and the number of
drilling rigs is higher than last year at this time. However, in
dry gas regions, drilling has declined during the past 12 months
due to the low price for natural gas. Total output from gas
wells was down slightly, while oil production was stable. Well-head prices for natural gas are flat to down, while oil prices
were up substantially. Capital expenditures remain at targeted
levels. One driller commented that the low price for natural gas
is affecting the value of his reserves, which he uses as
collateral for loans. As a result, banks are increasingly
reluctant to extend credit for drilling new wells. On balance,
little change was seen in production equipment and material
prices. Labor costs are steady other than for rising healthcare
insurance premiums.  Freight Transportation  Freight executives reported that shipping volume remains
strong and they are seeing an improvement in net profits. Their
outlook is cautiously optimistic. Freight haulers are still
sorting through the effects of the hours-of-service regulations
(HOS) that went into effect on July 1. The primary concern
focuses on the availability of drivers and the ability of
shipping companies to effectively schedule those drivers. Prices
for equipment and maintenance items were stable. Capital outlays
were allocated more for equipment replacement than capacity
expansion. Some of our contacts have begun evaluating the use of
tractors that run on compressed natural gas (CNG). Preliminary
results indicate that these trucks may be more suitable for
short-haul situations due to infrastructure issues. The industry
is still experiencing a shortage of drivers, due in part to HOS
rules and a high turnover rate.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 