-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-09-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. The pace of economic activity in the Seventh District
improved in July and August, and contacts generally expected
moderate growth for the rest of the year. Growth in consumer and
business spending picked up. Manufacturing production increased,
as did construction. Credit conditions tightened some. Cost and
wage pressures were modest. Abnormally dry weather hurt crop
prospects in many areas of the District, but to a much lesser
degree than during last year’s drought.  Consumer spending . Growth in consumer spending picked up a bit
in July and August. Non-auto retail sales increased modestly,
with sales of luxury and housing-related items such as
furniture, appliances, plumbing-related hardware, and flooring
improving. Compared with last year, retail contacts expected a
slight increase in back-to-school sales with a high level of
promotional activity. Auto sales rose, and continued to outpace
growth in non-auto retail sales. Dealers reported an increase in
demand across all vehicle segments, but especially for fuel-efficient cars and light trucks. Used vehicle sales remained
strong. Several dealers indicated that they expect leasing and
sales activity to pick up further in the fall, boosted in part
by still-elevated replacement demand.  Business spending. Growth in business spending increased some in
July and August. Contacts reported moderate investment in
equipment and software and structures as well as a small
increase in merger and acquisition activity. In contrast,
inventory investment decreased, as manufacturing and retail
contacts indicated a reluctance to increase inventories at the
current pace of sales. Labor market conditions softened a bit.
The pace of hiring slowed, with some contacts noting layoffs in
recent weeks. Manufacturers and retailers, in particular,
indicated that if they needed to add labor, they were more
likely to boost hours or temporary and part-time hiring than
expand their existing full-time workforce. Nonetheless, overall
contacts reported an increase in their hiring plans for the
remainder of the year. Demand for skilled workers remained
relatively strong, particularly for finance, healthcare,
engineering, accounting, and information technology occupations;
and contacts again noted shortages of qualified truck drivers
and workers in some skilled manufacturing and construction
trades.  Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate activity
increased further in July and August. Demand for residential
construction grew steadily, as multifamily construction remained
strong and single-family homebuilders reported an increase in
showroom traffic. New single-family construction remained
concentrated in infill areas, but an industry contact noted a
number of homebuilders are planning new developments slated to
begin later this year. In residential real estate markets, home
sales, prices, and rents all continued to rise. Contacts
speculated that recent increases in  mortgage rates  had
stimulated home sales, as buyers attempted to make purchases
before rates rose further. Several also noted that a limited
supply of existing homes currently on the market had pushed  home
prices  higher, and that residential rents in some areas were now
back above their prerecession peaks. Nonresidential construction
grew at a more modest pace, again in large part reflecting the
ongoing expansion of the auto industry. Commercial real estate
conditions continued to improve, as rents rose slowly and
vacancies fell. In particular, leasing activity for specialty
food stores was noted to be strong.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased in July and
August. Steel output continued to grow at a moderate pace. In
addition, specialty metal manufacturers reported an increase in
orders, particularly from the auto and aerospace industries. The
 auto industry  continued to be a source of strength for District
manufacturing. In addition, a contact indicated that demand for
heavy and medium-duty trucks is likely to increase over the
remainder of the year in anticipation of new emission standards
in 2014. Demand for construction equipment, construction
materials, and household appliances continued to strengthen with
the recovery in the housing market. However, overall demand for
heavy equipment remained soft, hampered by weak export demand
and a reduction in mining activity.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions tightened some over the
reporting period. Several financial market participants
expressed concern about the impact of changing perceptions
regarding monetary policy on long-term Treasury yields and
equity markets. Net corporate borrowing costs were up slightly
as benchmark  interest rates  rose. Banking contacts cited a
modest reduction in overall business loan demand, but noted
continued steady growth for commercial and industrial loans in
the middle market. Contacts involved with commercial real estate
finance indicated that the recent rise in interest rates was
likely depressing some commercial investment. In contrast,
consumer loan demand continued to increase, particularly for
auto lending. Mortgage lending also rose, with new originations
beginning to outpace refinancing activity for some banks.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures were modest in July and August.
Contacts noted an increase in some commodity prices, such as
those for metals like steel, copper, and aluminum. A few also
cited higher energy costs, particularly for fuel and natural
gas. In contrast, prices paid for some building products such as
lumber moved lower. Retailers again reported mostly small
increases in wholesale prices; and, overall, pass-through to
downstream prices was limited. Wage pressures were also modest,
although many contacts again noted rising healthcare and other
benefit costs.  Agriculture. Dry weather affected crop conditions in much of the
District during the reporting period, lowering expectations for
crop yields. Soybeans especially needed rain in order to fill
out pods. Some of  Iowa  once again faced drought conditions.
Nonetheless, corn and soybean conditions remained much better
than they were during the drought last year. There were even
parts of the District that received adequate moisture and should
have above normal yields. Indeed, corn and soybean prices
decreased on both spot and futures markets. There were also
reports that less of this year’s harvest than usual was pre-sold. Milk, hog and cattle prices declined from the prior
reporting period, with livestock producers benefiting from
falling feed costs. District milk production once again outpaced
the levels of a year ago.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 