-- Lufthansa Hires Temporary Staff as Cabin Crew for New Aircraft
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-09-04T12:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/lufthansa-hires-temporary-staff-as-cabin-crew-for-new-aircraft.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, will hire cabin crew on part-time,
temporary contracts to help staff new, larger planes intended to
boost ticket sales.  Lufthansa plans to hire 500 employees in 2014 on contracts
that expire after two years, with a one-time option to extend
them by the same timespan, the Cologne, Germany-based company
said in a  statement  today. The offer is designed to attract
students and young people willing to work full-time for six
months a year, while pay and social benefits are paid over a
full 12 months, according to the statement.  “This is an entirely new model to help us cover peaks in
demand for personnel,” Lufthansa spokesman Michael Lamberty
said by phone. The agreement caps the use of temporary staff at
15 percent of total cabin crew, of which Lufthansa employs about
19,000, he said.  The move comes as Lufthansa takes delivery of more  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s 747-8 jumbo jets, the Chicago-based plane manufacturer’s
largest model, and is switching to a longer version of the
Airbus SAS A340. Lufthansa has capped the number of planes in
use under an efficiency push intended to boost operating profit
to 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion) by 2015. The company plans to
sell more tickets by using bigger planes on popular routes, and
will also cut 3,500 jobs in administration.  The new contracts are being offered after a wage agreement
with Lufthansa’s biggest cabin-crew union Unabhaengige
Flugbegleiter Organisation, Lamberty said. The company agreed a
new contract with the union in November that included a 4.6
percent pay rise for this year as well as allowing for different
compensation models for new employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  