-- Africa Oil, Tullow May Sell Stakes in Kenya Finds, Hill Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-09-04T16:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/tullow-africa-oil-may-sell-half-of-kenyan-fields-to-share-costs.html
Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  and  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) 
may sell as much as half of their fields in Kenya to a strategic
partner to share costs, Africa Oil Chief Executive Officer Keith
Hill said.  Each company holds a 50 percent stake in the South Lokichar
Basin fields and may sell 40 percent to 50 percent of the
combined assets to “a multinational” company, Hill said in
Oslo today. Tullow declined to comment.  “Early on it would be a very small piece, maybe a 10
percent piece of our 50 percent interest,” Hill said in an
interview. Interest in buying a stake may rise because the oil
resource estimate “could easily triple by the end of next year,
using any reasonable risk on the wells we’re drilling.”  Africa  Oil yesterday increased more than sixfold its
 estimate  for gross contingent resources to 368 million barrels
of oil. The partners are ready to start pumping crude as soon as
next year after discovering first oil last year.  Africa Oil climbed 5.7 percent to 48.50 kronor in
 Stockholm . Tullow declined 1.3 percent to 1,030 pence in  London .  “We’re talking probably 18 months to two years from now,
until we’ve drilled enough wells to feel confident enough about
what we have,” that “we can attract a partner on terms that
we’d find acceptable,” Hill said.  Africa has been in talks with some interested companies,
Hill said, declining to name any. A possible partner would have
to offer “a big premium” to compensate for reserves that have
yet to be found, he said.  Kenya  may become East Africa’s first oil-exporting nation
as soon as 2016 after the companies increase oil production,
Tullow Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  