-- Hundreds of Newborn Babies’ Genomes Will Be Analyzed in Studies
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-09-04T19:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/hundreds-of-newborn-babies-genomes-will-be-analyzed-in-studies.html
Hundreds of newborn babies will have
their full DNA sequences analyzed in a five-year, U.S.-funded
effort to understand how to use the results in clinical care.  Researchers at four medical centers received funds to look
at whether quick studies of babies’ genomes can help explain and
treat mysterious diseases and whether genetic analysis can
assist doctors caring for healthy children, according to a
statement today from the two U.S. agencies funding the $25
million effort, the  National Human Genome Research Institute  and
the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.  Costs for sequencing the human genome -- the code for
making all the body’s cells and proteins -- are dropping. The
information within contains clues to health and disease, and
researchers are trying to determine when the information is most
needed and how to handle it, Alan Guttmacher, director of the
 child health institute , based in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a
statement.  “What happens in a world where genome sequencing is
readily available?” said  Robert Green , a Harvard University
geneticist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston  who’s
leading one of the studies. “This is a place where questions of
privacy, empowerment, the potential for misunderstanding and
miscommunication all collide.”  Just Starting  Doctors are just beginning to study how to use the human
genome to predict disease risk and diagnose conditions in
adults. A study led by Green and Alan Beggs of  Boston Children’s
Hospital  will receive $6 million to extend this line of inquiry
in routine patient care of both ill and healthy babies.  Babies born in the U.S. are routinely screened for numerous
disorders. When previously unseen diseases strike, analyzing the
whole genome can help doctors diagnose and understand babies’
conditions. The U.S. research effort will provide $5.9 million
to Stephen Kingsmore and his colleagues at Children’s Mercy
Hospital in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , who have a system for
analyzing such children’s full genomes within 50 hours of birth.  The technique has already been used on about 40 newborns in
the neonatal intensive care unit, and at least one of them was
able to quickly get therapy as a result, Kingsmore said.  “This is an immense need,” he said in a telephone
interview. “We think about 30 percent of babies in the NICU
could benefit from this type of testing.”  The agencies are also funding a study at the  University of
California ,  San Francisco , led by geneticist Robert Nussbaum,
that will explore legal and ethical issues in how families
receive information about the results of broad-based genetic
testing of newborns. Researchers Cynthia Powell and Jonathan
Berg at the University of  North Carolina ,  Chapel Hill , will
study how to return the results of DNA sequencing to parents in
a way that people from a variety of cultures can understand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  