-- Video Games May Help Memory of Older Players, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-09-04T17:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/video-games-may-help-memory-of-older-players-study-finds.html
Video games, largely considered the
province of the young, may help the elderly, according to a
study looking to boost memory among those ages 60 and older.  A car-racing game played for 12 hours helped 60- to 85-year-old players improve their memory and attention span, and
the effects lasted for six months, according to  research 
published today in the journal  Nature .  Nintendo Co. (7974) , the Kyoto, Japan-based maker of the Wii
console, and closely held  Posit Science Corp.  of San Francisco,
are among companies that have targeted the elderly and baby
boomers with video games meant to improve their minds. Video
games may offer the same memory benefits that games such as
Sudoku have shown in population studies, said Maria Carrillo,
the vice president of medical and scientific relations at the
Chicago-based  Alzheimer’s Association .  “Challenging yourself with new situations is needed for
maintaining your brain,” Carrillo said today in a telephone
interview. “The healthier our brain is, the more we can
withstand cognitive aging.”  In the study, the video-game players raced a car resembling
a Volkswagen Beetle around a gray, yellow and red track
surrounded by green hills. Road signs resembling rear-view
mirrors would pop up in the middle of the screen, displaying
different shapes and colors. Participants were expected to press
a button when a sign of a specific shape and color appeared.  Divided Attention  The task split the players’ attention, requiring them to
steer the car and monitor the signs for relevance, said Adam Gazzaley, an associate professor of neurology at the  University
of California , San Francisco, and an author of the study. The
game’s design addressed difficulties older patients often have
with multitasking, he said in a conference call with reporters.  After 12 hours of training, the elderly players improved so
much that they could beat people in their 20s who were trying
the game for the first time.  Gazzaley co-founded a company called  Akili Interactive
Labs , which will develop a new, mobile version of the game. His
group will test both versions of the game and choose other
populations to see if they benefit as well. His lab is
developing four more games aimed at different populations and
targeting different cognitive abilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  