-- Vietnam Airlines to Choose Strategic Investor as IPO Moves Ahead
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-04T04:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/vietnam-airlines-to-choose-strategic-investor-as-ipo-moves-ahead.html
Vietnam  Airlines Corp., the national
carrier, plans to select a strategic investor as early as the
fourth quarter as it prepares for an initial public offering
next year.  The national carrier considers the equitization as a  “key
mission” in 2013 and is moving the process “as fast as
possible,” it said in an e-emailed statement yesterday in
response to Bloomberg questions. A corporate evaluation report
is expected to be completed this month to submit to authorities
for approval, the Hanoi-based airline said in the statement.  The plan has been revived as VietJet Aviation Joint Stock
Co., the country’s only privately owned carrier, said last week
it’s considering an IPO to fund expansion. The government has
been trying to conduct an IPO of state-owned Vietnam Airlines
since at least 2010 amid intensifying domestic competition. The
company expects to hold the share sale in the second half of
next year, after a planned offering in 2012 was delayed twice.  “It makes sense for them to move toward an IPO,” said K. Ajith, Singapore-based director of Asia transport research at
UOB Kay Hian. “The risk faced by Vietnam Airlines is market
penetration by low-cost carriers.”  Vietnam Airlines said it has been working with advisers
including Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. to evaluate its
assets for equitization.  Market Woes  The benchmark VN Index of Vietnamese stocks has decliend 11
percent from this year’s high on June 7. The slump has slowed
down Vietnam’s equitization process, Dominic Scriven, the chief
executive officer of Ho Chi Minh City-based fund manager Dragon
Capital, said on behalf of the Capital Market Working Group at a
conference in June.  Vietnam Airlines CEO Pham Ngoc Minh said in March last year
that the market was “attractive” for a sale.  The company carried about 7.3 million passengers in January
through June, a 6.4 percent increase from the same period last
year, it said in the statement. The company said it expects to
carry 14.4 million passengers this year, up from 13.5 million in
2012.  VietJet, which started flying in December 2011, has
increased its share of domestic seat capacity in Vietnam to
about 20 percent, compared with 67 percent for Vietnam Airlines,
according to a research note today by CAPA Centre for Aviation.  VietJet said last week it is now profitable, with pretax
profit in the seven months ended July of about 120 billion dong
($5.7 million), and that it’s considering an initial share sale
in 18 months to 42 months. The sale would help fund expansion
that would include international markets beyond Bangkok, its
only current overseas destination.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  