-- Wallabies Hit by Horwill Injury as Carter Returns for All Blacks
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-05T01:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/wallabies-captain-horwill-ruled-out-for-two-weeks-with-injury.html
Australia captain  James Horwill  will
miss his team’s next two Rugby Championship matches after
injuring his hamstring in training, dealing a blow to the
Wallabies’ chances of rebounding from back-to-back losses.  Scrum-half Will Genia will take over as skipper for the
match against South Africa in Brisbane in two days after Horwill,
28, got injured yesterday, the team said in a statement. Kane
Douglas will replace him in the second row.  “It’s extremely disappointing to lose James but, after
discussions with medical staff, we felt it was important not to
risk further injury when he isn’t ready,” Wallabies coach Ewen McKenzie said. “Scans revealed his injury was on the lower end
in terms of severity and we expect him to be back to full
fitness when we embark on our two-game tour of South Africa and
Argentina in a few weeks.”  Australia, which hosts Argentina in Perth on Sept. 14, is
pointless at the bottom of the southern hemisphere championship
standings following successive defeats to New Zealand, which
today recalled fly-half  Dan Carter  and handed Francis Saili his
Test debut for its home game against the Pumas in two days.  Saili, 22, replaced the injured Ma’a Nonu at inside center
in one of the three starting changes that beat Australia on Aug.
24. He’s the 17th player to make his Test debut for New Zealand
during the past two seasons.  “We have complete faith in his ability to do the job,”
All Blacks coach Steve Hansen said of Saili’s selection. “He is
a very exciting, young player who has a multitalented skill set
that should suit Test rugby.”  Carter, who missed both matches against the Wallabies
because of a calf injury, returns to the playmaking position in
place of Tom Taylor. Prop Charlie Faumuina came in for Owen
Franks, who has a calf strain.  REVISED AUSTRALIA TEAM: Israel Folau, Nick Cummins, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Christian Leali’ifano,  James O’Connor ,  Quade
Cooper , Will Genia (captain), Ben Mowen, Michael Hooper, Scott
Fardy, Kane Douglas, Rob Simmons, Sekope Kepu, Stephen Moore,
James Slipper.  Reserves: Saia Fainga’a, Scott Sio, Ben Alexander, Ben
McCalman, Jake Schatz, Nic White, Matt Toomua, Jesse Mogg.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Ben Smith, Conrad Smith, Francis
Saili, Julian Savea, Dan Carter,  Aaron Smith , Kieran Read,
 Richie McCaw  (captain), Steven Luatua, Samuel Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Charlie Faumuina, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Charles Piutau, Beauden Barrett, Tawera Kerr-Barlow, Sam Cane, Jeremy Thrush,  Ben Franks ,  Wyatt Crockett ,
Dane Coles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  