-- Washington’s Proposed Pot Plan Allows 334 Retail Shops
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-05T18:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/washington-s-proposed-pot-plan-allows-334-retail-shops.html
Seattle  will be allowed to license
21 shops selling recreational marijuana over-the-counter, or
about one for every four square miles, under regulations
proposed by the  Washington State Liquor Control Board .  The  rules  given preliminary approval today would set the
total number of retailers in the state at 334, dispersed by
population. King County, where Seattle is located, accounts for
almost 30 percent of the state’s residents and can have 61 shops
including those in the 84-square-mile (218-square-kilometer)
city.  Voters in Washington and  Colorado  became the first in the
U.S. to legalize recreational marijuana for adult use in
November. Officials in both states are designing regulations for
the cultivation and sale of the plant.  “These rules fulfill the public expectation of creating a
tightly-regulated and controlled system while providing
reasonable access to participation in the market,” Sharon
Foster, the control board’s chairwoman, said in a statement.  Under the Washington rules, nobody will be allowed to hold
more than three producer or processor licenses, nor control more
than 33 percent of a city or county market. The rules limit
total annual production of legal marijuana to 40 metric tons
(88,000 pounds).  Marijuana inventory must be tracked from farm to sale and
background checks will be required on all license applicants.
Packaging must include dosage and warning labels.  While growing, selling or possessing marijuana remains
illegal under federal law, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said last week that the  Justice Department  won’t challenge the
Washington and Colorado laws. Twenty states allow medical use of
marijuana, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  The control board must hold public hearings on the proposed
rules before granting final approval in October. They would
become effective in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  