-- Wealthy New Yorkers Call De Blasio’s Tax Plan Offensive
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-09-04T15:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/wealthy-new-yorkers-call-de-blasio-s-tax-plan-offensive.html
When New York mayoral candidate Bill de Blasio first proposed taxing the rich so every child in the
city could attend all-day preschool, it was October and he had
support from fewer than 10 percent of Democrats in polls.  Now he leads the pack. And some of the wealthy New Yorkers
who’d pay more under his plan say it bewilders and offends them.  “It shows lack of sensitivity to the city’s biggest
revenue providers and job creators,” said Kathryn Wylde,
president of the Partnership for New York City, a network of 200
chief executive officers, including co-Chairman  Laurence Fink  of
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager.  Days before next week’s primary election, de Blasio, 52,
has seized the lead decrying economic inequality. After 20 years
of Republican and independent mayoral rule during which crime
rates and welfare rolls plummeted and parks, stadiums, shopping,
tourism and luxury apartments and office towers rose up, de
Blasio speaks of a “Tale of Two Cities,” where almost half of
New York residents are poor or struggling.  De Blasio’s new frontrunner status has renewed attention to
his tax-the-rich idea, with opponents saying the plan hinges on
unlikely support from the state legislature. Finance executives
say it may hurt the local economy and drive out the wealthy, who
already pay a disproportionate share of income levies.  ‘Old Thinking’  “A bold proposal isn’t about putting forward something
that’s never going to happen,” former city Comptroller William Thompson said last night during a televised debate among five of
the seven Democratic mayoral candidates, the last one before the
primary. De Blasio retorted: “The notion that we can’t convince
the legislature -- that’s old thinking.”  De Blasio, elected in 2009 to the watchdog post of public
advocate, says he’s concerned that the number of middle-income
city residents is shrinking. The city's richest 1 percent took 
home 39 percent of all earnings in 2012, up from 12 percent in 
1980, according to the  Fiscal Policy Institute , a nonprofit 
research group in New York.  “Almost anyone with a self-perceived degree of affluence
will be uncomfortable with de Blasio’s tax ideas,” said Michael Steinhardt, chairman of New York-based asset manager  WisdomTree
Investments Inc. (WETF)  While growing inequality is troubling,
Steinhardt said, “perhaps even more so is the thought that more
government spending is the way out of our problems.”  ‘Absurd Thing’  E.E. “Buzzy” Geduld, who runs the hedge fund Cougar
Capital LLC in the city and is a trustee of  Manhattan ’s Dalton
School, where annual tuition tops $40,000, said de Blasio’s plan
“is the most absurd thing I’ve ever heard” and “not a smart
thing to do.”  De Blasio first presented his tax plan to a quiet audience
attending his Oct. 4 speech to the  Association for a Better New
York , a real-estate developers’ civic group. He called on them,
as some of the city’s wealthiest individuals, to provide about
$532 million for universal all-day pre-kindergarten and after-hours middle-school programs.  About 20,000 of New York’s 68,000 four-year-olds get city-funded full-day pre-kindergarten classes, with 38,000 enrolled
in three-hour programs and 10,000 in none. The added pre-K slots
would cost roughly $342 million, de Blasio said.  Game Changer  Approximately a third of middle-schoolers participate in
after-hours extracurricular programs, and to enroll the rest
would cost about $190 million, according to de Blasio’s plan.  “We need a game-changer, and at a time when so many
families are struggling, it’s right and fair that we tax the
wealthiest New Yorkers to achieve it,” de Blasio said last
week. “There is no investment that will prove more
transformative for our kids.”  De Blasio’s plan would raise the marginal tax rate on
incomes above $500,000 to 4.4 percent from almost 3.9 percent.
For the 27,300 city taxpayers earning $500,000 to $1 million,
the average increase would be $973 a year, according to the
Independent Budget Office, a municipal agency.  For those making $1 million to $5 million, the average
extra bite would rise to $7,793, the budget office said. At
incomes of $5 million to $10 million, it would climb to $33,518,
and for those earning more than $10 million, it would mean
paying $182,893 more.  Fair Share  These high-earners already contribute more than 43 percent
of the city’s income-tax revenue, Wylde said. New Yorkers also
face top state tax rates of more than 6.8 percent for joint
filers on income of more than $300,000 to about 8.8 percent on
couples’ annual incomes that exceed $2 million.  “The business community asks whether city leaders will
continue to foster a strong, vibrant economy or will they try to
undertake huge social and economic changes, which really are the
result of global and national forces, at the expense of city
businesses and taxpayers,” she said.  The city should be cutting spending and taxes, said Peter Solomon, chairman of New York-based investment bank Peter J.
Solomon Co. and a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. vice
chairman.  “Anybody who proposes raising taxes in the city of New
York is barking up the wrong tree,” Solomon said.  Soros Backing  George Soros , the billionaire hedge-fund pioneer and
philanthropist, endorsed de Blasio last month, partly because of
his tax-the-rich plan. Soros, 83, who resides and votes in
Katonah, a suburb in Westchester County, donated $2,000 to de
Blasio’s campaign, saying the proposal “is sound public policy
and will have a powerful impact on reducing inequality.”  Former Citigroup Inc. Chairman Richard Parsons said that
he’d “gladly pay higher income taxes if all of the increase
went to fund early education.” At the same time, Parsons said,
he harbors doubts about de Blasio’s appreciation of “the
importance of the business community and more significantly,
what it will take to keep business thriving.”  About 46 percent of four-person New York families had
incomes of no more than about $46,000, or roughly 150 percent of
the city’s poverty level in 2011, according to an April report
from the Center for Economic Opportunity, an agency Mayor
Michael Bloomberg created in 2006 to measure and develop
programs for the poor. It said 21 percent lived below the
poverty line of about $31,000 for a family of four in 2011.  Term Limit  The mayor, a billionaire, is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP. He’s barred by law from
seeking re-election after three four-year terms that began in
January 2002.  From 2000 to 2010, the median income of the city’s eight
wealthiest neighborhoods jumped 55 percent, according to the
Fiscal Policy Institute. During the same period, median income
fell 3 percent in middle-income areas and 0.2 percent in the
poorest neighborhoods, the group said, citing U.S. Census data.  De Blasio first proposed his tax plan before he had
formally announced his mayoral candidacy, when public opinion
polls measured his support at 10 percent or less.  He seized the lead in three separate polls last week, and
his edge climbed to 43 percent among likely Sept. 10 primary
voters in a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday.  Of de Blasio’s two closest opponents, Thompson had 20
percent and City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, 18 percent.
Thompson, the party’s last nominee, came within 4.3 percentage
points of denying Bloomberg a third term in 2009.  October Runoff  If no candidate gets 40 percent in the primary, the top two
in each party will compete in an Oct. 1 runoff. Registered
Democrats hold a 6-to-1 advantage over city Republicans, giving
their nominee an advantage in the Nov. 5 general election.  Although de Blasio’s Democratic opponents have expressed
agreement with the goal of providing universal all-day pre-kindergarten programs, they have attacked his proposal because
it relies on lawmakers passing a tax increase.  Thompson, 60, has described it as a “fantasy plan” and a
“tax in search of an idea.” The city would have to find the
money on its own or seek state aid to make it happen, he said.  Quinn, 47, also opposed raising taxes and touts her record
as the leader of the governing body that budgeted the existing
20,000 all-day kindergarten spots.  De Blasio gets little opposition on the desirability of
expanding pre- and after-school programs.  Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, endorsed the
idea in a July 2012 speech, saying: “Economically speaking,
early childhood programs are a good investment, with inflation-adjusted annual rates of return on the funds dedicated to these
programs estimated to reach 10 percent or higher. Very few
alternative investments can promise that kind of return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 