-- Why Do We Even Care About Syria’s Chemical Weapons?
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-09-04T20:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/why-do-we-even-care-about-syria-s-chemical-weapons-.html
The  United Nations  estimates that
more than 100,000 Syrians have died since the country’s civil
war began in March 2011. More die every day. But the U.S. is not
considering military action to save them.  The strikes that the  Barack Obama  administration favors,
and that Congress is now debating, have a more limited purpose:
to ensure that Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad uses conventional
weapons to massacre his people rather than the chemical variety
that recently killed 1,400 in the suburbs of Damascus. The hope
is that U.S. intervention will encourage future tyrants to kill
by firepower rather than by sarin.  “The goal here is to deter dictators in 2022 from using
chemical weapons on a mass scale against civilians,” said
Democratic Representative  Brad Sherman  of  California ,  who
supports the strikes . “That is a very abstract objective.”  Chemical weapons were first outlawed at the  1899 Hague
Convention . But the prohibition didn’t stick. They were widely
used in World War I, and  Germany  even argued that they were more
humane than, say, a bayonet to the gut. But the ban was affirmed
in the  1925 Geneva Protocol , and in World War II neither the
Allies nor the Axis deployed chemical weapons on the
battlefield. The ban has more or less endured since. Only a
handful of countries -- including Syria -- have refused to sign
the treaty prohibiting their use.  “No one wants to cross the line even Hitler didn’t
cross,”  said political scientist  Richard Price. “He did use
gas in the concentration camps, but not really on the
battlefield. So in war there becomes this idea that they must be
really bad if even Hitler wouldn’t use them.”  International Norm  There have been violations of that international norm --
and the treaty that codifies it -- but they haven’t inspired
international retaliation. When Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein 
used chemical weapons against  Iran  in the 1980s, the only
international reprisal was a weakly worded condemnation from the
UN. Hussein used chemical agents again as part of his campaign
against the Kurds (earning Iraqi General Ali Hassan al-Majid the
nickname  “Chemical Ali” ). In response, the U.S. established a
no-fly zone over northern  Iraq , but that was more a reaction to
humanitarian disaster than to Hussein’s choice of weaponry.  The military strikes Obama is considering to punish Assad
would be unprecedented, which leads to two questions: First, are
they necessary? Second, are they worthwhile?  As Sherman sees it, we should imagine that “it’s 2035, and
this-or-that dictator is thinking of using chemical weapons. Do
you want them to say Assad used them on a large scale in August
of 2013, nothing happened,” and so Assad kept doing it? If
that’s the case, Sherman said, “you can take that 1925
agreement not to use chemical weapons and kiss it goodbye.”  Price is less adamant. He points out that almost every
country on Earth has signed the treaty against the use of
chemical weapons;  Syria  is a rare holdout. “Bombing Syria would
be the strongest possible upholding and reinforcement of the
norm,” he said. “Will the norm fall by the wayside if that
doesn’t happen? No, I don’t think it will. But if there was a
strike to enforce it, that would be a watershed moment in many
respects.”  Let’s imagine, instead, that Sherman is right. Assad gets
away with the use of chemical weapons, and future dictators
become somewhat more likely to use chemical weapons. To put it
coldly, so what?  The argument against chemical weapons isn’t that they’re
more lethal than conventional artillery. It’s that they’re more
grisly and less discriminate. Chemical weapons are poorly
targeted and subject to the vagaries of the wind. As Price puts
it, they’re “an inherent threat to civilian populations.”  Modern Horrors  A tyrant willing to use chemical weapons in range of
civilians is probably willing to kill civilians directly -- and
in that case, conventional weapons are perfectly effective.
Assad has proved as much, killing orders of magnitude more
Syrians with explosives and bullets than with chemical weapons.
At the extreme of modern horrors,  Rwanda ’s Hutus bypassed modern
technology altogether, ordering more than 500,000 machetes from
 China  to slaughter hundreds of thousands of Tutsis.  The better argument is that the extraordinary success of
the ban on chemical weapons has been instrumental in subsequent
efforts to outlaw weapons ranging from  land mines  to biological
agents.  “I was at a lot of those diplomatic conferences,” Price
said. “I was really struck by how many times diplomats from
various countries made the argument that we’ve already banned
one weapon and so we can do this. That precedent made it seem a
lot more possible. I’m really convinced that if there wasn’t a
quite successful track record on restraining chemical weapons,
many more countries around the world would think it preposterous
that you could ban a weapon that’s used as widely as land
mines.”  The ban on chemical weapons, in other words, is proof that
humanity can make war a little more decent. Consequently, its
continued success is vital to all future efforts to make war a
little more decent. There is a kind of beauty in that, but much
less so when you recall the 100,000 Syrians killed by
nonchemical weapons.  The U.S. is now debating a military campaign that marries
the highest, most abstract idealism to the harshest, most
unsettling pragmatism: Obama wants to punish Assad for violating
the abstract norms of war even as he leaves Assad capable of
continuing his massacre by more conventional means. This is why
there is no enthusiasm for intervening in Syria: Making the
decision to punish Assad means explicitly making the decision
not to stop him. The brutality of what we are willing to accept
tarnishes the better world we seek to preserve.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 