-- Will Microsoft or Verizon Be the Next BlackBerry?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-04T16:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/will-microsoft-or-verizon-be-the-next-blackberry-.html
Microsoft’s “transformational”
 deal  to buy Nokia’s phone business may enable the software maker
to create a third “mobile-phone ecosystem.” Verizon’s complete
takeover of its wireless business from Vodafone, meanwhile,
“will enhance value across platforms” for the U.S.’s largest
mobile-phone carrier.  So goes the business-school jargon from Wall Street
analysts and technology executives. There are, unsurprisingly,
more prosaic -- and comprehensible -- reasons for the two
technology deals announced last weekend.  The most likely explanation may be as a reaction to the
single scariest word in the high-tech lexicon these days:
BlackBerry. Neither  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  nor  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  wants to be known as the next BlackBerry Ltd., which stood
still for too long and is now on the corporate equivalent of a
death watch. Nokia Oyj, like BlackBerry, has stumbled badly in
recent years. With its sale to Microsoft, Nokia joins mobile-phone  pioneers  Motorola and Ericsson in giving up their
independence, or just giving up.  Perhaps the starkest example of failure to adapt is Eastman
Kodak Co., the photography pioneer that declared bankruptcy last
year. Kodak sold the first consumer camera 125 years ago. It
invented film, leading to the development of the motion-picture
camera. Kodak even  invented  the digital camera -- but failed to
commercialize it.  Both deals also show how U.S. fiscal and monetary policy
can affect corporate behavior. Microsoft will pay for its $7
billion purchase from a pile of unused cash sitting overseas.
Like many other U.S. companies, Microsoft won’t bring its money
back onshore unless Congress cuts tax rates on repatriated
earnings.  Verizon will need to borrow heavily for its $130 billion
purchase, and hopes to take advantage of low  interest rates ,
compliments of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Once the central bank
begins scaling back its bond purchases, possibly as early as
this month, rates will rise and the Vodafone Group Plc
acquisition will be more expensive.  The deal also implicates another policy dispute: the so-called  patent wars . Microsoft gets a  trove  of mobile-technology
patents, allowing it to follow in Google Inc.’s footsteps.
Google paid $12.5 billion last year for Motorola Mobility, and
got an arsenal of intellectual property with which to  battle 
patent owners and potential licensees, including Apple Inc.  In the context of U.S. policy, the two deals make eminent
sense. Yet if Congress fixed corporate-tax laws so that
companies didn’t feel the need to stockpile cash offshore, and
if patent laws encouraged innovation over litigation, these
deals might have been less enticing. To truly reward
shareholders and create wealth, though, the companies will have
to think and act more strategically.  Those excitable analysts aren’t wrong when they say that
smartphones are the future. Yet Microsoft and Nokia missed the
smartphone revolution. They were essentially MIA as tablets and
touch screens transformed the consumer market. Now they are
betting that they can help each other with better integration
between software and hardware, a strategy that has worked
wonders for Apple.  As for Verizon, it needs huge investments to upgrade
networks to cope with growing demands for data for everything
from this week’s viral video to tomorrow’s self-driving cars.  The truth is, the Next Big Thing in technology is only
obvious in retrospect. Even as they strive to emulate the
success of Apple, Google or Samsung Electronics Co., Microsoft
and Verizon must take care not to model themselves too much on
their rivals.  Maybe they can take heart in the story of one company that
emerged this week from Chapter 11 proceedings with a new
business strategy -- as a commercial-printing company hoping to
take advantage of the 3-D revolution. Its name may be familiar:
Kodak.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 