-- WilmerHale, Simpson Thacher, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-04T12:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/wilmerhale-simpson-thacher-skadden-business-of-law.html
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr
LLP hired two U.S. government general counsels, Dan Berkovitz
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Mark Cahn from
the Securities and Exchange Commission, to the firm’s securities
department in  Washington .  Berkovitz joins WilmerHale’s futures and derivatives
practice. Cahn, who was previously a partner at WilmerHale, is
rejoining the securities litigation and enforcement practice.  At CFTC, Berkovitz played a key role implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and advised the commission in broadening the agency’s
enforcement program, the firm said. He has also worked at the
 Department of Energy  and as a senior staff lawyer for the Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, focusing on energy
markets probes.  “Dan was at the CFTC during a period of sweeping reforms
and brings great insight into the new regulations and the
workings of the agency during this period of rapid change,”
Bill McLucas, chairman of WilmerHale’s securities department,
said in a statement. “In addition, his congressional
investigations and energy background will benefit many of our
clients.”  Cahn was the SEC’s general counsel from 2011 to 2013, where
he advised the commission and its operating divisions on
proposed actions. Before that, he was deputy general counsel for
litigation and adjudication at the agency from 2009 to 2011.  “We are glad to welcome Mark back to the firm as our
colleague. He served at the SEC during a time of significant
rule-making and enforcement activity, and understands the
complexities of the changing regulatory landscape and the
challenges facing public companies and shareholders,” Harry Weiss, chairman of WilmerHale’s securities litigation and
enforcement practice, said in a statement.  WilmerHale has about 1,000 lawyers at 14 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  King & Spalding Hires Hayes for Financial Services Practice  King & Spalding LLP established a London financial services
regulatory practice with the hiring of former Mayer Brown LLP
partner Angela Hayes.  Hayes has experience advising clients on regulatory
investigations and proceedings, including the startup of new
financial-services businesses and new product development, and
conduct of business and governance systems and controls to
ensure regulatory compliance, the firm said.  “Financial services regulatory law is a highly complex
area of the law -- made even more so with the enactment of the
Financial Services Act 2012 and creation of the Financial
Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority -- and we
are fortunate to have Angela join us,” Richard T. Marooney, co-leader of King & Spalding’s financial institutions practice,
said in a statement.  Hayes is the seventh partner to join King & Spalding’s
London office since 2012. She brings the total number of firm
partners in London to 16.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Bingham Hires Investment Management Partner Tun in London  Bingham McCutchen LLP added Thiha Tun, formerly of Herbert
Smith Freehills, to the global funds practice in London. Tun,
who has advised private equity, real estate, infrastructure and
 hedge funds , also joins Bingham’s investment-management practice
group.  Tun will work closely with John Holton, who relocated his
international funds practice in 2011 to London from  Boston , the
firm said in a statement. He will also work with the firm’s U.S.
and Asian investment management teams.  “Thiha’s arrival strengthens our global funds practice and
enhances our ability to provide clients with a full range of
investment management capabilities across continents,” Roger Joseph, the firm’s investment management practice group leader,
said in a statement.  In May, Bingham hired seven investment management practice
group lawyers from White & Case LLP, including partners
Christopher Wells and Tomoko Fuminaga.  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Linklaters Adds to Pan-Asia R&I practice with A&O Hire  Linklaters LLP announced the hiring of Allen & Overy LLP
restructuring and insolvency lawyer David Kidd, who will lead
the firm’s pan-Asian restructuring and insolvency practice. He
will join the finance group in October and be based in Hong
Kong.  Kidd will work closely with Melvin Sng, who led on
transactions in Asia involving the insolvencies of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and MF Global Holdings Ltd. His
appointment is the result of client demand for additional
restructuring expertise in the region, the firm said.  “David Kidd is an outstanding R&I lawyer,” Tony Bugg,
head of Linklaters’s global restructuring and insolvency
practice, said in a statement. “He has developed a reputation
as a highly-valued adviser who has the intellectual, business
and personal skills to lead, build consensus and develop a
winning strategy for his clients.  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Deals  Simpson, Covington Advise Microsoft on $7.2 Billion Nokia Deal  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Covington Burling LLP
advised  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which agreed to buy  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset
unit and license its patents for 5.44 billion euros ($7.2
billion), seeking to revive two smartphone businesses that have
struggled for a half-decade to gain share against Apple Inc. and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is
representing Nokia Corp.  The lead partner from Simpson Thacher on the Microsoft team
is Alan Klein, mergers and acquisitions. Additional partners
include Bill Brentani,  capital markets ; Greg Grogan, executive
compensation and employee benefits; Lori Lesser, IP; and Gary Mandel, tax.  Covington advised on IP, commercial and regulatory matters
on the transaction with a team led by Ingrid Rechtin, Evan Cox,
and Brad Chernin. Additional partners included Miranda Cole, EU
competition law; Louise Nash mobile operator; Peter Swanson,
litigation; Lisa Peets, EU intellectual property and technology;
and Bruce Deming, corporate.  Covington special counsel Matthew Edwards advised on mobile
operator matters and Ben Wiseman, a litigation senior of
counsel, and special counsel Marie Lavalley advised on trademark
and copyright matters.  The Skadden team includes corporate partners Kenton King,
Michael Mies and Danny Tricot; intellectual property partner
David Hansen; tax partners Paul Oosterhuis and Eric Sensenbrenner; executive compensation and benefits partner
Joseph Yaffe; and antitrust partners Frederic Depoortere,  Steven
Sunshine  and Alec Chang.  The devices and services unit, which accounted for half of
Nokia’s 2012 revenue, along with 32,000 employees, will transfer
to Microsoft, the companies said. Nokia Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop, 49, will return to Microsoft after a three-year
stint running the Finnish manufacturer. The move stoked
speculation he may be a successor to CEO  Steve Ballmer , who said
last month he’d retire within 12 months.  The Microsoft purchase is the second major deal to be
announced during the U.S. Labor Day holiday. Verizon
Communications Inc. agreed to pay $130 billion for  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s stake in their U.S. wireless venture in the biggest
transaction in more than a decade. Simpson Thacher also advised
on that deal, representing Vodafone.  For more, click here.  Kirkland, Greenberg Advise on Jarden Deal for Yankee Candle  Jarden Corp. (JAH)  agreed to buy Yankee Candle for $1.75 billion,
making its biggest acquisition to add the 43-year-old scented
candle maker to its collection of more than 120 consumer brands.
Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents Yankee Candle while Greenberg
Traurig LLP represented Jarden.  Kirkland corporate partners Michael Paley and Tana Ryan and
tax partner Rachel Cantor are leading the firm’s team.  Greenberg Traurig corporate and securities shareholders
advising on the acquisition include Gary R. Silverman, Fred W. Blakeslee II and Peter Lieberman. Additional shareholders
include Frank R. Adams, corporate and securities; Robert D. Simon, tax; and Stephen C. Tupper, antitrust and regulation.  Jarden will use cash to acquire the largest U.S. scented
candle company from a fund managed by private-equity firm
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, according to a statement
yesterday. The transaction is projected to boost Jarden’s
adjusted earnings per share by about 10 percent and the company
expects the deal to be completed in the fourth quarter.  The purchase may help Jarden, whose products range from Mr.
Coffee machines to Health O Meter scales, revive sales growth
that last year slowed to 0.2 percent after increasing 11 percent
in 2011. Madison Dearborn bought Yankee Candle, which sells
items in more than 35,000 retail stores in  North America , for
about $1.4 billion in 2007.  Jarden plans to expand Yankee Candle into new markets and
geographies, according to  slides  posted on Jarden’s website
today. Less than 15 percent of Yankee Candle’s revenue is from
outside the U.S., the slides show.  Firm News  Husch Blackwell Adds Six-Lawyer Government Compliance Team  A team of six attorneys led by a former  Missouri  Speaker of
the House and U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of
Missouri, Catherine Hanaway, joined Husch Blackwell LLP’s
government compliance and investigations team.  In addition to Hanaway, who was at the  Ashcroft Law Firm ,
Jeff Jensen and Matthew Schelp join as partners from Jensen
Bartlett & Schelp LLC. They were also advisers to the Ashcroft
Law Firm.  Cynthia Cordes, previously an assistant U.S. attorney for
the Western District of Missouri from 2004 until this year, will
join the firm as a partner on Sept. 30. In her position, she led
the U.S. Justice Department’s efforts against human trafficking
and spearheaded the multiagency  task force , the firm said.  A senior counsel from Ashcroft and an associate from Jensen
Bartlett are also joining the firm.  ‘‘This team brings the perfect combination of skills,
expertise and finesse to our firm,”  Greg Smith , chief executive
officer and managing partner of Husch Blackwell, said in a
statement. “They are tenacious, bright and savvy, and under
Catherine’s leadership, this team will continue to accomplish
great client successes at Husch Blackwell.”  Hanaway, who leads the firm’s government compliance and
investigations team, has experience litigating complex civil and
white-collar criminal cases and representing clients in
regulatory challenges. Hanaway was the first female Speaker of
the Missouri House of Representatives from 2003 until 2005 and
was U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri from 2005
until 2009. She previously worked at Peper, Martin, Jensen,
Maichel & Hetlage, a predecessor firm to Husch Blackwell.  “When I left Peper Martin 20 years ago, the firm had about
100 attorneys in four offices,” Hanaway said in a statement.
“Now, Husch Blackwell has offices in 16 U.S. cities, including
three newly added locations in  Texas , and an exciting strategic
direction and industry focus.”  News  Tough-to-Kill New York Buses Drive Through U.S. Law’s Loopholes  Outside New York’s Winter Garden Theatre, where “ Mamma
Mia ” is nearing the end of a 13-year Broadway run, unwitting
tourists board a bus bearing the name of a company U.S.
regulators tried to close two years ago,  Bloomberg News ’ Jeff Plungis reports.  New York Party Shuttle LLC was  told  to stop running buses
in 2011 after failing a safety audit. A sister company in
Washington was ordered off the road in April for violations that
included lying about using a driver who failed a drug test,
according to the shutdown  order .  The companies, owned by a Houston lawyer, nonetheless
helped load buses daily in both cities, showing how businesses
can exploit loopholes and murky jurisdiction to stymie
regulators who say they’re aggressively policing buses for hire.  “They’re regulating an amorphous industry with moving
targets, like a game of whack-a-mole,” said  Deborah Hersman ,
chairman of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, which
investigates bus crashes.  The companies’ owner, Houston lawyer C. Thomas Schmidt,
said in an e-mail and interview that his operations now fall
outside of federal, state or local rules. Regulators to date
have agreed or found no evidence to contradict him.  Bus transportation was the fastest-growing form of U.S.
intercity travel last year, with scheduled departures up 7.5
percent to 1,052 trips a day, the most in four years, according
to a DePaul University study. It’s grown between 5.1 percent and
9.8 percent a year since 2006, reversing a 26-year decline.  The growth has come at a cost. In February, a bus carrying
Mexican tourists returning from a daytrip to the mountains
crashed in  California , killing eight people. In 2011, a bus
carrying residents of New York’s Chinatown coming back from a
casino crashed in the Bronx with 15 fatalities.  Schmidt, in an interview, said his New York company can no
longer be federally regulated because it doesn’t operate over
state lines. It isn’t subject to state regulations because New
York City sightseeing tours are exempt, he said. Last year he
persuaded a judge he wasn’t a tour operator, either, in a
decision that overturned a $71,200 fine imposed by the city
Department of Consumer Affairs for operating a sightseeing
company without a license.  In Washington, Schmidt has been allowed by U.S. regulators
to run tours by chartering an outside bus operator. The shutdown
order prohibits him from leasing or renting vehicles.  Federal regulators “have zero authority over a tour
company,” Schmidt said. “They only have authority over buses.
The tour is not a bus thing. It’s a walking thing and a boat
thing. The bus just takes you from a couple of point As to a
couple of point Bs.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  