-- Won Snaps Two-Day Advance on Fed Tapering Concern; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-04T01:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/won-snaps-two-day-advance-on-fed-tapering-concern-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won snapped a two-day
gain as improved U.S. data added to concern the  Federal Reserve 
will taper stimulus this month that has been a key source of
funds for  emerging markets .  Government bonds  were steady.  The Fed may take a decision on cutting asset purchases at
its Sept. 17-18 meeting,  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo
said in Seoul today, adding that the world’s largest economy
showed signs of growth in the past quarter. Manufacturing in the
U.S. unexpectedly climbed to the highest level in more than two
years in August, according to data released yesterday.  “The focus of the market is returning to Fed tapering,”
Son Eun Jeong, a currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul,
wrote in a research note today. “The improved U.S. economic
data is likely to support” demand for dollars, she said.  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,100.58 against the greenback
as of 9:41 a.m. in Seoul, the biggest decline since Aug. 27,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.17 percent.  South Korea’s foreign reserves rose to $331.09 billion as
of end-August from $329.71 billion a month earlier because of
investment gains, Bank of Korea said in a statement today. North
Korea has the capability to “weaponize” its nuclear technology
and put a warhead on a missile, the South Korean Defense
Ministry said yesterday, contradicting the U.S. position that
the country is years away from gaining the technology.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
was steady at 2.93 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  