-- Worst Losses Since 1999 Defy History’s Rally Signal: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/worst-losses-since-1999-defy-history-s-rally-signal-muni-credit.html
The biggest losses since 1999 for
municipal debt signal that  Detroit ’s bankruptcy and 14 weeks of
withdrawals from mutual funds are overwhelming historical trends
pointing to a rebound in the $3.7 trillion market.  Local debt lost 1.6 percent in August, the steepest drop
for the month in 14 years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. It marked just the second time in 25 years that the
obligations fell in both July and August, a period in which the
market usually rallies as investors get cash from coupon and
principal payments while issuance dwindles. The bonds also tend
to gain in September, advancing in 15 of the past 24 years.  Benchmark yields are the highest since 2011 and exceed
those on Treasuries and AAA company debt by the most in at least
20 months,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2011 and 2012,
munis rallied when valuations reached current levels. Yet this
year’s outsized losses suggest a rebound may not materialize in
coming months after Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing helped propel the
longest span of withdrawals from muni funds in two years, said
Chris Alwine, head of munis at Vanguard Group Inc.  “We don’t have expectations of a rapid snapback,” said
Alwine, whose  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based company oversees
about $125 billion in munis. “The technical conditions and the
cloud of Detroit are overwhelming” the market.  Loss Leader  Local debt has joined broad fixed-income declines spurred
by concern that the  Federal Reserve  will slow its bond buying
amid an expanding U.S. economy. Munis have lost 5.8 percent in
the past three months, compared with declines of 2.7 percent for
corporate debt and 2 percent for Treasuries, Bank of America
data show.  Individual investors, who own about 70 percent of local
debt directly or through funds, tend to inflate the market’s
gains or losses, Alwine said. They have pulled about $20 billion
from muni mutual funds this year, including $9.5 billion since
Detroit filed a record $18 billion U.S. municipal bankruptcy on
July 18, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “Munis are more attractive than they’ve been for a period
of time, but negative investor flows are preventing the market
from seeing any significant rebound,” said Benjamin Thompson,
chief executive officer in New York at Samson Capital Advisors,
which oversees about $6 billion in local debt.  Orr’s Proposal  Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr’s proposed treatment of
general-obligation bonds has brought scrutiny to such securities
nationwide. He seeks to give holders of the debt, which is
backed by the full faith and credit of the city, less than 20
cents on the dollar. The bonds traditionally have been viewed as
among the safest in the market.  The longest-maturity munis have led the selloff. The
 interest rate  on benchmark 30-year AAA debt is  4.77 percent , the
highest since April 2011. That compares with about  4.5 percent 
on top-rated company debt, according to Moody’s Investors
Service data, and  3.79 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  Tax-free local yields rarely exceed those on taxable
counterparts. The 30-year tax-exempt yield equals 7.9 percent
taxable for the highest earners, Bloomberg data show.  Since January 2009, investors have demanded an average
 extra yield  of about 0.6 percentage point to own 30-year
corporate debt rather than munis, Bloomberg and Moody’s data
show. That relationship has reversed, with the yield spread on
munis over company bonds the highest in more than four years.  ‘Tremendously Attractive’  “Valuations are tremendously attractive, especially when
you look at the long end,” said Rick Taormina, head of munis at
J.P. Morgan Asset Management, which oversees about $33 billion
in local debt. “We’re at a point where we have low supply and
tend to do pretty well. This year we just have not seen that.”  As in past years, issuance waned during the U.S. summer,
dwindling to about $23 billion in July and $24 billion in
August, the slowest consecutive months since January and
February, Bloomberg  data  show.  Before this year, munis posted monthly declines in both
July and August only in 1999, Bank of America data show. The
bonds extended the slide into September and October that year,
losing 0.7 percent and 2 percent, respectively.  That could be the case again this year as investors grapple
with bankruptcy proceedings in Detroit and President  Barack Obama ’s plan to pick a Fed chairman to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke ,
Alwine said.  Valuation View  “We expect higher volatility, which goes hand-in-hand with
cheap valuations,” Alwine said. “Ultimately, that cheapness
relative to other fixed-income assets should come out of the
market, but that may take some time to be realized.”  Municipal issuers such as The Board of Regents of the Texas
A&M University System are set to sell $1.5 billion in debt this
week, the slowest since January.  They’re borrowing as yields on benchmark 10-year munis have
climbed to about  3.1 percent , close to the highest since April
2011. The interest rate compares with  2.86 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 108 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  