-- WTI Crude Declines as U.S. Weighs Intervention in Syria
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-04T12:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/wti-fluctuates-as-obama-wins-support-for-syrian-military-strike.html
West Texas Intermediate fell as the
U.S. debated a military strike on  Syria  and Russia raised
objections to intervention, clouding the prospects for an attack
that could heighten tensions in the Middle East.  Futures lost as much as 0.8 percent. The U.S. Senate
Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to vote today on a use-of-force resolution that sets a 90-day limit on military action
and explicitly doesn’t authorize use of ground troops. Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  said he will only support a United
Nations resolution for military strikes if there’s conclusive
proof the Syrian government used chemical weapons.  “The  market sentiment  on Syria is muted as it seems not
all governments are gung-ho about action,” said  Robert Montefusco , a senior broker at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London.
“But everyone’s watching for the latest developments.”  WTI for October delivery dropped as much as 91 cents to
$107.63 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $108.05 as of 1:24 p.m. London
time. The contract climbed 89 cents from the Aug. 30 close to
settle at $108.54 yesterday. Floor trading was closed Sept. 2
for the Labor Day holiday. The volume of all futures traded was
about 20 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for October settlement was down 34 cents at $115.34 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $7.30 to WTI,
compared with $7.14 yesterday.  Syrian Strike  WTI has swung in a range of more than $8 a barrel in the
past week as signs of an imminent U.S. attack on Syria bolstered
speculation the conflict will spread.  Israel  yesterday conducted
what it described as a joint test with the U.S. of its Arrow
Ballistic Missile Defense system over the Mediterranean, briefly
rattling stock markets.  Putin said there should only be action against the Syrian
government if there is “objective, precise evidence” that it
was responsible for a chemical attack last month, according to
the  transcript  of an interview with the  Associated Press  posted
on the Kremlin website.  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
crude production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders Iraq, the biggest
producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  Libya Output  Libya , holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves, is not
exporting crude and pumping remains limited to 200,000 barrels a
day, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s director of inspection
and measurement, said today. The country is losing $140 million
a day because of worker strikes at ports, storage facilities and
fields, state-run National Oil Corp. said yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for Libya’s crude
output this month to 500,000 barrels a day from 1 million,
according to a report dated yesterday. The OPEC nation produced
575,000 barrels a day last month, a Bloomberg survey of
producers and analysts showed.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, fell by 2 million barrels to 360 million barrels in
the week ended Aug. 30, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts in a separate Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Information Administration report tomorrow.  Product Inventories  Gasoline inventories  probably dropped by 400,000 barrels,
decreasing for a fourth week, the survey shows. Distillate
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel, are
forecast to have increased by 1 million barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  is scheduled
to release separate stockpile data today. The industry group
collects supply information on a voluntary basis from operators
of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Oil prices  may decline in the fourth quarter as global
demand growth remains “soft,” according to Barclays Plc.
Brent, the benchmark for more than half the world’s oil, will
average $105 a barrel while WTI will be $101, the bank said in
an e-mailed report today.  Brent’s advance is stalling as a technical indicator shows
futures may be rising too quickly for further gains to be
sustainable. The 14-day relative strength index is near 68
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above
70 typically signals the market is overbought. Brent fell on
Aug. 29 and Aug. 30 after the RSI climbed to more than 77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  