-- China’s Yuan Forwards Reverse Decline as Economy Seen Improving
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-04T09:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/yuan-forwards-decline-as-syria-strike-threat-curbs-risk-taking.html
China ’s  yuan  forwards reversed an
earlier loss on speculation an improvement in the world’s
second-largest economy will attract inflows.  Export and factory output growth are forecast to accelerate
in August, according to the median estimates in Bloomberg
surveys before government reports next week. China’s services
industry grew at the fastest pace since March, data from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Market Economics showed today. The People’s
Bank of China weakened the yuan’s daily  reference rate  by 0.02
percent to 6.1729 per dollar.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan advanced
0.04 percent to 6.2345 per dollar at 4:46 p.m. in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts traded at
a 1.8 percent  discount  to the onshore spot rate, which was
steady at 6.1201 in  Shanghai .  “Data out of China should be reasonably positive in the
short term,” said Ju Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC.
“That’s why the yuan is stable.”  Yuan forwards fell as much as 0.17 percent to 6.2475
earlier, the weakest level since Aug. 23, after U.S. House of
Representatives Speaker John Boehner backed President  Barack
Obama ’s call for action against  Syria , urging lawmakers to
authorize a military strike.  An official purchasing managers’ index published Sept. 1
indicated China’s factory output climbed in August by the most
in 16 months.  Growth Strategy  Chinese President Xi Jinping said the government opted for
slower expansion this year to allow it to adjust the structure
of the nation’s economy. China would “rather bring down the
growth rate to a certain extent in order to solve the
fundamental problems” hindering long-run development, Xi said
in a written interview yesterday with media outlets from Russia,
Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, according
to a transcript distributed by the official Xinhua News Agency.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.02 percent
to 6.1137 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.05 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  