-- Yucaipa Demands Morgans Hotel Sale After CEO Resignation
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-04/yucaipa-demands-morgans-hotel-sale-after-ceo-resignation.html
Billionaire  Ron Burkle , an investor
in  Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , demanded its board sell the
boutique-lodging company after Chief Executive Officer Michael Gross resigned.  “Get Morgans on the market and sell it to an appropriate
buyer,” Burkle, founder of Morgans shareholder Yucaipa Cos.,
wrote in a letter to Chairman Jason Kalisman, who took over as
interim CEO after Gross’s departure. “It’s time to sell now for
all stockholders’ benefit.”  Morgans announced the change in leadership yesterday after
its largest shareholder, OTK Associates LLC, led an ouster of
the board in June. OTK, founded by Kalisman, owns about 14
percent of the New York-based hotelier’s  shares . The company,
which operates properties including the Mondrian in  Los Angeles 
and the Delano in Miami’s  South Beach , has  lost money  each
quarter since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I believe you are in breach of your obligation to provide
us with observation rights,” Burkle wrote in the letter, dated
Aug. 30 and filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. “The entire incident with  Michael Gross  is
a great example of not keeping the board informed or board
observers informed of what’s going on.”  Burkle, who said Yucaipa has more than $200 million of
Morgans  debt  and warrants for about 30 percent of the company’s
stock, demanded the right to be informed of discussions on
“refinancings, new CEOs, terminated CEOs and like matters.”  Recapitalization Deal  OTK in April sued Morgans board members over a
recapitalization deal with Yucaipa. OTK called a proposed swap
for the Delano South Beach and a $100 million rights offering
“insider dealings” that would benefit Yucaipa while Burkle was
on the board.  Kalisman, 34, has been a director of Morgans since March
2011 and is also the founder and CEO of Talisman Group LLC, an
 investment company . He will receive $1 in annual compensation as
interim CEO, according to a filing yesterday.  A telephone message left with Rebecca Tafuri, Kalisman’s
assistant, wasn’t returned yesterday. Nathaniel Garnick, a
Morgans spokesman with Sard Verbinnen & Co, declined to comment
on Burkle’s letter.  Gross will be paid in part a lump sum of $500,000, a grant
of 58,334 restricted stock units, and 25,000 additional shares
that will vest a year from his departure date of Aug. 30.  Morgans shares rose 1.5 percent to $6.97 yesterday, and
have  gained  26 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  