-- 
AccessKenya Sees ‘Massive’ Full-Year Profit Growth on Corporate Customers

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-15T12:48:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/accesskenya-sees-massive-full-year-profit-growth-on-corporate-customers.html
AccessKenya (ACCESS)  Group,  Kenya ’s only
publicly traded Internet company, said it expects to return to
profit for the full year as its corporate-customer base grows
and may seek more acquisitions to maintain market leadership.  The company will also consider bids for the business once
its share price rises, after rebuffing three offers over the
past 18 months,  Kris Senanu , managing director of the Internet-
services division, said in an interview today. Earlier this
month, the company reported first-half profit more than doubled
to 61.7 million shillings ($666,000). That figure may double
again for the 12 months through December, Senanu said.  “We are going to make massive profits,” he said. “You can
assume it is going to be 120 million shillings plus for the full
year. Whatever we have done in the half year we are going to
continue and it is going to be better.”  AccessKenya provides  Internet access  via its fiber-optic
network to corporate and so-called high-end residential
customers in East Africa’s biggest economy. Total fiber-optic
subscriptions in Kenya more than doubled to 8,369 in the fourth
quarter of 2010, according to the Communications Commission of
Kenya’s website. Only 26 percent of the country’s population has
access to the Internet, providing AccessKenya with scope for
further growth, Senanu said.  The company is “on track” to grow its number of corporate
customers to 4,600 by December from 4,250 in the first half, he
said. AccessKenya is the market leader with a 40 percent share
of the corporate market, Senanu said.  Worst Performer  Shares in AccessKenya plunged 54.4 percent this year, the
 Nairobi Stock Exchange ’s worst performer. The stock, which began
trading on the bourse at 10 shillings in 2007, fell 5 cents, or
0.8 percent, to 6.15 shillings by the 3:00 p.m. close.  The company rejected the three takeover offers it received
because the bid prices were too low and because they “didn’t
create value for our shareholders,” Senanu said.  “Our share price will go up,” he said. “When our share
price is trading at 18 shillings, 19 shillings, let someone make
us an offer then we are going to listen to it.”  The company may consider for acquisitions to add to the
three purchases it has made since 2007, including Openview
Business Systems Ltd., a computer-hardware retailer.  “We have the money to buy and we have the ability” should
opportunities arise, Senanu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 