-- 
ActiveVideo, Samsung, Waters, Jersey Shore’s JWOWW: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-15T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/activevideo-samsung-waters-jersey-shore-s-jwoww-intellectual-property.html
ActiveVideo Networks Inc., which was
awarded $115 million in a patent-infringement case it brought
against  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , asked a federal court for
an order permanently barring further infringement of its
 intellectual property .  After a three-week trial in Norfolk,  Virginia , the jury
found that ActiveVideo’s patents relating to interactive
television series were infringed and earlier this month awarded
the  San Jose , California-based company the $115 million.  In an Aug. 12 statement, ActiveVideo said it’s asked the
court for an order permanently barring Verizon’s use of
technology covered by four patents.  The company filed suit against Verizon in May 2010,
claiming its patents 6,034,678, 5,550,578, 6,100,883, and
6,205,582 were infringed.  Jeff Miller, ActiveVideo’s president and chief executive,
said in the company statement that the court’s decision
upholding its IP rights “was very clear.”  When the jury verdict came down, Verizon said it would
appeal. “Verizon disagrees with the verdict and is confident
that the court of appeals will agree,” the second-largest U.S.
phone company said in an e-mailed statement. “The company will
not be paying any damages while the appeal is under way.”  Verizon filed a request Aug. 12 that the judgment in the
case be put on hold pending its appeal.  The case is ActiveVideo Networks Inc. v. Verizon
Communications Inc., 10cv248, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Samsung Brief Didn’t Prevent Apple Winning Tablet Injunction  Samsung Electronics Co. failed to convince a German court
to hear oral arguments before issuing an injunction in favor of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  banning sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer
in most European Union countries.  Samsung on July 29 filed a so-called “protective brief”
as part of the dispute it has with Apple over the design of its
device, the Dusseldorf Regional court said in an e-mailed
statement. On Aug. 4, Apple filed a 44-page motion seeking the
injunction. While judges took Samsung’s arguments into account,
they ruled for Apple, the court said.  “It’s rather unusual that the court didn’t schedule a
hearing before issuing an injunction even though it had received
the protective brief asking for that,” said Timo Ehmann, an
intellectual property lawyer in Munich. “It probably means the
judges saw a case of extreme urgency and not too many factual
issues in dispute.”  Apple won the injunction Aug. 9 banning sales of Samsung’s
tablet in all European countries except the Netherlands.
Cupertino, California-based Apple contends Samsung’s Galaxy
phones and tablet computer “slavishly copy” the iPhone and
iPad. Apple is also seeking a court order to block sales in the
U.S. until a trial can be held on patent-infringement claims
there. In  Australia , Samsung has agreed not to introduce a
version of the Galaxy tablet computer until a lawsuit Apple
filed there is resolved.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , filed a motion to
lift the EU ban and the court scheduled a hearing in the case
for Aug. 25. Samsung said it will make further arguments in the
case, the court said.  In the July 29 brief, Samsung had argued the case can’t be
heard under fast-track proceeding rules as Apple can’t show that
it’s an emergency situation. Samsung also said it will ask the
European authorities to invalidate the design rights Apple has
filed for the iPad.  The German case is LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 194/11.  Waters Corp. (WAT)  Unit Sues Aurora SFC Over Chromatography Patents  A unit of Waters Corp., a maker of liquid chromatography
equipment used in drug research and development, sued rival
Aurora SFC Systems Inc. in federal court in  Delaware  alleging
infringement of two U.S. patents.  Milford, Massachusetts-based Waters is represented by
Melanie K. Sharp and Erika R. Caesar of Young Conway Stargatt &
Taylor LLP of Wilmington.  The case is Waters Technologies Corp. v. Aurora SFC Systems
Inc, 1:11-cv-00708-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Eddie Bauer Sued Over Use of ‘First Descent’ Trademark  Golden Gate Capital Corp.’s  Eddie Bauer  unit was sued for
trademark infringement by a  Colorado  non-profit established to
aid youth with cancer.  First Descents Inc.  of  Greenwood Village , Colorado, objects
to Bauer’s use of “First Ascent” and “First Descent” for its
products. According to the complaint filed Aug. 10 in federal
court in Denver.  The non-profit group, which takes young people combating
cancer on a variety of outdoor adventures, said that when it
filed applications to register “First Descents” with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, its application was refused.  First Descents said it’s sold its “First Descent” apparel
nationwide as a way of raising funds for its outdoor activities.
It claims to have used the term beginning in July 2001 and
accuses Bauer of infringing its mark.  According to court papers, Bauer was able to acquire a
pending  application for “First Ascent” from American
Recreation, which had said in its application that it used the
term for tote bags, back packs and sleeping bags for the first
time back in 1988. The non-profit said this use didn’t include
clothing.  First Descents claims its fund-raising activities are
impaired by Bauer’s actions because potential donors are likely
to believe mistakenly that some affiliation exists with the
retailer, and that independent funds aren’t needed.  In addition to a court order barring Bauer’s use of “First
Descents” or similar marks, the non-profit asked the court for
cancellation of Bauer’s “First Descent” and “First Ascent”
marks, for money damages, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Bauer didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  First Descents is represented by  Gayle L. Strong  of  New
York ’s Greenberg Traurig LLP.  The case is First Descents Inc., v. Eddie Bauer Licensing
Services LLC, 1:11-cv-02051-CMA-MEH, U.S. District Court,
District of Colorado (Denver).  Facebook Faces Off Against SNRG Over ‘Shagbook’ Trademark  Facebook Inc., the  Palo Alto , California-based social media
site, has filed opposition to a  Nevada  company’s attempt to
register “Shagbook” as a trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, SNRG Ventures LLC  of Henderson, Nevada, filed an
application in May 2010 to register “shagbook” for computer
dating and related services.  Facebook, in filings with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, said the public would be confused by the similarity
between the two names, and if “Shagbook” were registered, the
strength of Facebook’s various marks would be diluted.  In response, SNRG  is arguing  in its filings that
“Facebook” is a generic term and that the  California  company
has no right to its exclusive use. It also accused Facebook of
trademark misuse, saying the company uses “oppositions,
litigation and threats of the same to maintain a competitive
market advantage.”  The company asked the patent office to cancel Facebook’s
trademark registrations.  The dispute is Facebook Inc. v. SNRG Ventures LLC,
Opposition No. 91200221, In the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
Before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  MTV’s JWOWW Sued for Infringing Tanning Lotion Bottle Design  Three former University of  Oklahoma  students filed a
copyright infringement suit against Jenni Farley, also known as
 JWOWW , a character on MTV’s “ Jersey Shore ” reality television
program.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 10 in federal court
in Oklahoma City, the three former students, who do business as
Phigogam LLC, developed a tanning lotion and its packaging and
sought out Farley as a celebrity endorser.  They said they first contacted her through her then-agent
and boyfriend Tom Lippolis in February 2010. After a series of
negotiations, the parties identified a manufacturer and Phigogam
supplied the manufacturer with a design for the product’s
packaging.  Meanwhile, Farley broke off her relationship with Lippolis.
Lippolis sued Farley in state court, claiming she didn’t
compensate him for the work he did on her behalf. In his
complaint, which is filed as an exhibit in the federal copyright
case, he said he negotiated a contract for her with a
manufacturer of a tanning product.  Phigogam said that somehow in this process, it was cut out
of the deal. The company “inquired about the status of the
deal, but no meaningful responses were received,” according to
the complaint. Farley is marketing the tanning lotion through
her website,  www.jwoww.com , and Phigogam says the packaging is
derived from the company’s designs.  It asked the court to bar further infringement and to be
awarded “all products” that allegedly result from the
infringement. They also seek money damages, attorney fees, and
an award of litigation costs.  The case is Eric Bramlett v. Jenni Farley, 5:11-cv-00898-C,
U.D. District Court, Western District of Oklahoma (Oklahoma
City).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Thompson & Knight Add Kirkland & Ellis’ Corcoran to IP Group  Thompson & Knight LLP hired Peter J. Corcoran III for its
IP practice the Dallas-based firm said in a  statement .  Corcoran , who joins from  Chicago ’s Kirkland & Ellis LLP, is
a patent litigator. He has appeared in federal trial and
appellate courts and before the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  Before he practiced law, he served as a judicial clerk for
U.S. District Judge David J. Folsom in the Eastern District of
 Texas , a popular venue for patent-infringement suits. He was
also a judicial clerk for Judge Randall Rader, now the chief
judge of the Washington-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit, which hears appeals of patent cases.  He has an undergraduate degree in electronic engineering
from the Florida Institute of Technology, a master’s degree in
electrical engineering from Johns Hopkins University, and a law
degree from American University. Corcoran also has a master’s
degree in law from  Georgetown University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 