-- 
Airlines Risk Deeper Seat Cuts Amid U.S. Wealth ‘Destruction’

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-08-15T20:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/airlines-risk-deeper-seat-cuts-amid-u-s-wealth-destruction-.html
U.S. airlines may have to cut back
on flying as the slowing economy erodes their ability to boost
fares while they struggle with higher costs for jet fuel.  That squeeze “calls for contraction,” said  Hunter Keay ,
an analyst at New York-based Wolfe Trahan & Co. A benchmark of
fuel-refining expenses rose to record highs last week, adding to
pressure on carriers to match  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  in paring current capacity or future growth.  Consumer confidence  tumbled this month to the lowest since
1980, stoking concern that Americans will curb spending. That
gauge of public sentiment on Aug. 12 followed record swings in
U.S. stocks as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index whipsawed to
gains or losses of at least 4.4 percent for four straight days.  “I don’t think airlines should view that nervousness as
short term,” Keay said in an interview. “If executives are
going to go out and assume high fuel prices are here to stay,
then they should assume that fear and destruction of consumer
wealth are here indefinitely as well.”  Airlines have raised fares across most of their domestic
networks at least eight times in 2011, and had projected that a
recovering economy would allow more increases. Those
expectations are crumbling after three failures in the
industry’s last four attempts to ratchet up prices.  ‘Very Clear’  “It’s very clear the economy is not recovering,”
Southwest Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said in an
interview. “Business travel, for one, won’t grow until the
economy really does grow at a healthy rate.”  Business fliers are the most lucrative for the industry,
because they typically buy the most-expensive, last-minute
tickets. The peak period for leisure travel ends with the U.S.
Labor Day holiday on Sept. 5.  “At some point, as companies look at a weak economy and
weak  consumer spending , they may pull back” on travel, said
Philip Baggaley, an S&P debt analyst in New York. “It will be
more difficult for the airlines to continue to raise prices.”  That shifts airlines’ focus to chopping expenses. They can
save money with steps such as reducing flight frequencies,
dropping some routes and substituting smaller planes for larger
aircraft. All those moves reduce available seating capacity,
measured by the number of seats flown a mile.  Slowing Economy  U.S. economic expansion for 2011’s second half may be
slower than analysts anticipated after growth in gross domestic
product through June trailed forecasts, suggesting that “we are
in for a business travel slowdown this fall,” Deutsche Bank
AG’s  Michael Linenberg  in  New York  said in a report today.  Investors soured on airlines even before the rout that
erased $6.8 trillion in value from global equity markets from
July 26 through Aug. 11. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index
entered a  bear market  last month by tumbling 20 percent from its
2011 high. Its 33 percent drop this year outstripped the S&P
500’s 4.2 percent decline.  While crude oil settled today at $87.88 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , 23 percent off the 2011 high, not all
airlines benefit. Jet fuel averaged $3.08 a gallon this year
through last week, 45 percent more than a year earlier.  Crack Spread  The pinch on airlines is worse when measured by the so-
called crack spread between crude and heating oil. Many carriers
use heating-oil futures to hedge their purchases of jet fuel,
which doesn’t trade on the Nymex. The spread reached $37.45 a
barrel on Aug. 10, the highest in 25 years of data compiled by
Bloomberg, and has more than doubled this year.  Delta CEO  Richard Anderson  told employees last week they
shouldn’t be “fooled” by crude’s retreat.  “The economy has many challenges, and we have no reason to
think low fuel prices will stick,” he said. Atlanta-based Delta
will pare capacity later this year as much as 5 percent, up from
a planned 4 percent. Buyouts and early retirements this year
helped the world’s second-largest airline eliminate more than
2,000 jobs, a spokesman, Eric Torbenson, said last month.  Southwest, the biggest low-fare airline, trimmed capacity
growth for 2011 to a range of 4 percent to 5 percent from as
much as 6 percent. Seating on Dallas-based Southwest will be
unchanged in 2012, and “possibly slightly down,” Kelly said.  United, American  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the largest airline
company, has said its 2011 available seating would be unchanged.
 American Airlines , No. 3 in the U.S., has trimmed 2011 growth
plans three times, to a goal of 1.9 percent. More adjustments in
early 2012 are likely, according to the unit of  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based  AMR Corp. (AMR)   “Betting on discretionary travel is not a good bet right
now,” said  Robert Mann , a former executive at American who runs
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington , New York. “It
will come down to how corporate travel continues and how
corporate profits look in the third quarter and fourth
quarter.”  Airlines are positioned to respond after slashing their
flying amid the double whammy of record fuel prices in 2008 and
business travel’s collapse in the recession, said John Heimlich,
chief economist of the  Air Transport Association , the industry’s
Washington-based trade group.  “Ever since then, it’s been a pretty watchful eye on
continual refinement of the capacity dial,” Heimlich said in an
interview.  Filling Seats  Airlines filled seats at rates running at or near company
records through July. And demand is holding up at  Hawaiian
Holdings Inc. (HA) ’s Hawaiian Airlines, according to CEO Mark Dunkerley.  “There’s clearly a view out there that the market
contagion is going to spread into what people buy and how they
go about their everyday lives,” Dunkerley said in an interview.
“We’re certainly not seeing it.”  Bond investors aren’t that optimistic. Delta’s 9.5 percent
bonds due in September 2014 plummeted to the lowest since July
2010, Bloomberg data show. AMR’s 6.25 percent convertible bonds
maturing in October 2014 slid to the lowest on record, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Keay, the Wolfe Trahan analyst, said an industry
retrenchment would be inevitable.  “Any capacity plan for 2012 is how much should be cut, not
should it be cut,” he said. “All roads to success ultimately
lead to capacity discipline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  