-- 
Hakkasan’s Sexy Cuisine Served With Lashings of Chaos in Mumbai

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-08-15T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hakkasan-s-sexy-cuisine-served-with-lashings-of-chaos-in-mumbai.html
Walk into one of the most expensive
restaurants in Mumbai and you might anticipate dazzling food, a
glitzy clientele and flawless service. Hakkasan managed enough
magic to score only two out of three on those expectations.  On a Saturday night at the start of the monsoon season,
diners poured into the new venue in the fashionable Bandra
neighborhood. Women slipped into stilettos at the door after
tiptoeing across streets that were wet with fresh rain.  Hakkasan -- which also has outlets in London, Miami and  Abu
Dhabi  -- was in no shape to handle the crowd.  I had to wait 45 minutes for the table I’d booked two days
earlier and the restaurant host disappeared after promising to
get the attention of the bartender. My guest and I waited,
leaving me to work through the crush at the bar to get a drink.  The cocktails, starting at 650 rupees ($14.34) plus taxes,
were top-notch, with the alcohol punching through flavors of
strawberries, lemongrass and watermelons. (Try the Pink Mao Mao,
Hakkatini, Zesty Martini and Lemongrass Martini). The bar can
get cramped on weekends, when you are almost certain to spot
Bollywood stars: Hakkasan has become the latest favorite hangout
for Mumbai’s celebrities.  The design, by Paris-based  Gilles & Boissier , is dramatic,
with blue back-lit walls and a ceiling that appears to reflect
flowing water, giving the space a hip and dreamy feel. If only
the music that plays were more coherent: It swings wildly
between jazz, fusion and assorted Asian tunes.  ‘Indian Chinese’  The food is breathtaking in taste as well as price. The
dishes are mainly Chinese with some Malaysian and Thai twists,
and you get a long list of wines, champagnes and single-malt
whiskeys to go with it. You’re out of luck if you crave “Indian
Chinese,” the ubiquitous cuisine in oriental restaurants across
the country, with its thick, saucy, MSG-laced Chicken Manchurian
and riot of spices that threaten your stomach.  Hakkasan’s Fried Soft-Shell Crab, which comes with flecks
of roasted garlic, and Crispy Prawns (1,450 rupees each) are the
perfect snacks for a drink, while the Hakka Steamed Dim Sum
platter (850 rupees) is good value, with prawns and scallop
among other ingredients packed in soft pockets.  The Stir-Fry Sea Bass (2,300 rupees) and Stir-Fry Lobster
(1,850 rupees) were the best I have tasted, with the right
amount of spices that lets you savor the soft meat. The Seafood
Rice (650 rupees) goes well with the Braised Chicken (750
rupees) and the Roast Chicken with Black Pepper (650 rupees),
which comes in a pungent sauce that adds a nice kick.  There are few beef and pork dishes, replaced with
vegetarian options -- the Edamame Truffle Dumpling looks
beautiful and tastes as good -- to cater to the Indian palate.  Diners Stranded  While the food kept my spirits up, the chaos around me was
unsettling. Waiters and waitresses milled about aimlessly,
plates and glasses were dropped, food was spilled on the table,
restaurant hosts argued, diners were stranded without seats and
I had to raise my voice to be heard over the noise.  The scene was very different when I visited on a weekday
night, when the service was more relaxed, waiters and waitresses
took time to speak with diners, the bar looked sexy and inviting
and you could carry on a conversation without shouting. It felt
like a completely different, and better, restaurant.  For dessert, the Jasmine Creme Brulee wasn’t available
during one of my visits as it had “gone bad,” so I tried the
Chocolate Mousse with Tea Granita (400 rupees). The chocolate
was rich and silky and the granita made an interesting pairing.
It’s also worth trying the Lemongrass Creme Brulee (400 rupees).  With its great food and drinks, as well as stylish design
and crowd, Hakkasan would have been a better experience if
managed more efficiently. This shouldn’t be a problem: There are
several lower-priced establishments in  Mumbai  where the crowds
are as large yet the service is impeccable.  Hakkasan needs to fix the service if it’s to retain its
status as Mumbai’s hippest restaurant. I hope it gets its act
right soon because my taste buds sure want to go back.  Krystal, Waterfield Road, Bandra (West), Mumbai 400050.
Information: +91-22-26444444 or click on
 http://w3.hakkasan.com/mumbai .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 6500 rupees a head for food and drinks. You can  choose to go way above that.  Sound level? Loud and noisy on weekends.  Inside tip?  Try to go on a weekday night; ask for a seat  in the Ling Ling Lounge.  Special feature? A really long bar, irresistible.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes, it’s dreamy and hip when not crowded.  Rating? ***  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 