-- 
Thaksin Granted Visa to Japan After Sister Sworn In as Thailand’s Premier

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-15T03:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/thaksin-granted-visa-to-japan-after-sister-sworn-in-as-thailand-s-premier.html
Japan  said today it had granted an
entry visa to exiled former Thai leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , who
was ousted in a 2006 coup, 10 days after parliament selected his
sister as the country’s first female prime minister.  Thaksin was granted a visa by Japan at the request of the
Thai government, Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
told reporters today. Edano didn’t say when Thaksin would enter
the country.  Thaksin is interested “in visiting and meeting with
victims of the disaster in northern Japan and promoting goodwill
between our two countries,” Edano said.  During the election campaign, Yingluck Shinawatra deflected
questions on whether her Pheu Thai party, which won a majority
in the July 3 vote, would promote amnesty for Thaksin who has
been living in Dubai since fleeing a 2008 jail term for abuse of
power. To engineer the return of her brother, she will have to
overcome opposition from  Thailand ’s military, courts and
bureaucracy.  Germany  has lifted a travel ban on Thaksin, according to a
German official who spoke on condition of anonymity in
accordance with government procedure. The Thai-language Khao Sod
newspaper  reported  on Aug. 11 that Thaksin traveled to Munich by
private jet on Aug. 5 and met with supporters in Hamburg on Aug.
9. Thaksin also visted  Finland  in July, according to a report in
the Helsinki-based  Helsingin Sanomat  newspaper.  The German official cited the changed political
circumstances in Thailand after the July 3 contest as the reason
for lifting the travel ban on Thaksin.  Pheu Thai won 265 seats in the 500-seat parliament, the
fifth straight time a party linked to Thaksin has won the most
seats in an election since 2001. The military ousted him in 2006
on grounds he failed to respect  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83. The
monarch’s 65-year reign has seen nine coups and more than 20
prime ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  