-- 
Malaysia Economy Likly Expanded at Slowest Pace Since 2009

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-08-15T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/malaysia-economy-likly-expanded-at-slowest-pace-since-2009.html
Malaysia ’s economy probably expanded
at the slowest pace since the 2009 recession as a faltering
global recovery hurt manufacturing output.  Gross domestic product increased 3.6 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, after a 4.6 percent
expansion in the previous quarter, according to the median
estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
central bank is scheduled to release the economic report at 6
p.m. tomorrow.  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth have damped
the outlook for exports, putting pressure on Asian policy makers
to delay further interest-rate increases even as inflation
accelerates. Malaysia’s central bank unexpectedly refrained from
raising borrowing costs last month and said “heightened
uncertainties” in the global economy have increased threats to
growth even as there are “upside” risks to inflation.  “The key drag on the economy came from the external
front,” said  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
in  Singapore . “Given that the sluggish growth momentum will be
protracted amid the global uncertainties, the focus of monetary
policy has shifted back to supporting growth.”  Investor confidence has slumped in recent weeks as a
deadlock in the U.S. congress brought the government to the
brink of default and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the  credit rating  of
the world’s biggest economy. Concern Europe’s debt crisis will
spread has sparked speculation the global recovery will weaken,
contributing to a 12 percent decline in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index in the three weeks ended Aug. 12.  Rate Increases  Bank Negara Malaysia  has raised borrowing costs only once
this year to 3 percent after three increases in 2010. Rates
remain “quite low,” Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said July 18.  Inflation accelerated to 3.5 percent in June, the fastest
pace in more than two years. Consumer prices probably rose at
the same pace in July, according to the median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The statistics department
will release the figures tomorrow.  The ringgit gained for a fifth day yesterday. It reached a
14-year high last month on speculation policy makers will
tolerate a stronger currency to damp inflation.  Malaysia will be one of the main beneficiaries of inflows
into the region as global funds step up diversification into
non-dollar assets after the U.S. lost its top credit rating,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  The Southeast Asian economy will probably expand 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, with growth likely to be stronger in the
second half as the impact of  Japan ’s natural disasters
dissipates, Zeti said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 