-- 
Hamptons Scene: Alec Baldwin, Richard Prince, Donald Mullen

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-15T16:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hamptons-scene-alec-baldwin-richard-prince-goldman-s-mullen.html
Alec Baldwin  made his art-buying
intentions clear Friday night at the Summer Gala Benefit Auction
for  Guild Hall , the East Hampton art and entertainment complex.  “Just get the hell out of my way when Clifford Ross comes
up,” he said under a tent on the grounds of a Long Island
estate near Guild Hall. “I really want it and I’m going to get
it.”  When Ross’s 2008 “Hurricane LI,” a scene of crashing
waves, came up for auction, Baldwin playfully glared and
glowered at competing bidder Donald Mullen, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s global head of credit.  Ultimately, the “30 Rock” star, who says he is thinking
about a  New York  City mayoral run, made the winning $70,000 bid.  “I have a room in my apartment that I’m decorating all in
black-and-white photography,” Baldwin said, moments after Simon de Pury, chairman of  Phillips de Pury & Co. , gaveled the sale.
“I have another by Sally Mann of the Virginia countryside --
southern roads and mansions -- which I bought at a Guild Hall
auction a few years ago. This will be a great bookend.”  Baldwin said reactions to his possible mayoral run have
varied: “Either people are supportive or they think I’m
crazy.”  As guests dined on hangar steak and shaved beets, De Pury
auctioned six items, including a 2011 Eric Fischl watercolor
nude that went for $100,000.  Mullen, who wore his sunglasses most of the night, paid
$100,000 for a Barbara Kruger print of a man wearing a blindfold
over which appears the sentence, in red lettering, “He entered
shop after shop, priced nothing, spoke no word, and looked at
all objects with a wild and vacant stare.”  Richard Prince , the artist, paid $30,000 for Bryan Hunt’s
2002 bronze sculpture “Maenad II.”  ‘Covering Pollock’  The event began with guests, including Glenn Fuhrman, co-
managing partner of MSD Capital, art dealer  Larry Gagosian  and
 Martha Stewart , the event’s honoree, visiting  Guild Hall  to view
a Richard Prince exhibition titled “Covering Pollock,” which
opened Saturday and is on view through Oct. 17.  The works are composed of photographs of or related to
 Jackson Pollock , which Prince has collaged with other images and
paint.  “Pollock was the first artist who interested me,” Prince
told Lisa Phillips, the director of the New Museum, in an
interview distributed at the show. “I was very attracted to the
idea of someone who was by himself, fairly antisocial, kind of a
loner, someone who was noncollaborative.”  Prince was hardly antisocial at the benefit. He joined the
dancing at the end of the night during the Foreigner tune “Hot
Blooded.”  Keith Richards ’s daughter, Alexandra Richards, was
the deejay. The event, attended by 260 guests, raised $500,000.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 