-- 
‘Metropolis’ Restored for $840,000 With 200,000 Costumes: DVDs

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/lang-s-metropolis-restored-for-840-000-with-36-000-extras-peter-rainer.html
What do “Blade Runner” and
Madonna’s 1989 “Express Yourself” video have in common?
They’re both inspired by Fritz Lang’s 1927 silent epic
“ Metropolis ,” one of the most influential -- and butchered --
movies ever made.  Lang’s original cut, including 25 minutes of recently
discovered footage, is now available on DVD from Kino
International following a one-year, $840,000 restoration.  Until three years ago, when a 16-millimeter copy of Lang’s
version turned up in the Museo del Cine in  Buenos Aires , it was
presumed that the various heavily re-edited versions circulating
since the film’s Berlin premiere were the only surviving prints.  With an original running time of 153 minutes, “Metropolis”
was easily the most expensive movie made in  Germany  up until
that time, costing the equivalent of $200 million in today’s
dollars. Lang used 36,000 extras and 200,000 costumes for the
financial flop, which was quickly withdrawn from theaters and
then cut by almost an hour.  Set in a futuristic city with surreal skyscrapers that are
almost a template for  Ridley Scott ’s “Blade Runner” (1982),
Lang’s masterpiece is an extravagant, loony parable about
plutocrats who live in Deco decadence while downtrodden laborers
toil deep underground.  Dr. Strangelove Inspiration  The workers are inspired by Maria (Brigitte Helm), a kind
of Weimar Joan of Arc. To crush their rebellion, city boss John
Fredersen (Alfred Abel) enlists the help of fright-wigged
Rotwang (Rudolf Klein-Rogge), a mad scientist with what looks
like one mechanical arm. (He was clearly the inspiration for
Peter Seller’s Dr. Strangelove.)  To lead the workers to their doom, Rotwang creates a
Maria robot that morphs into a slinky temptress. In one of the
film’s most perfervid moments, she performs a nightclub hoochie-
coochie dance that sends the tuxedoed big shots into a froth.  But hope is on the horizon. Fredersen’s son, Freder (Gustav
Frohlich), who wears ridiculously baggy knickers, loves the true
Maria and sees through the false one.  The film’s intertitles summarize the reconciliation between
business and labor: “The mediator between brains and hands must
be the heart.”  Such pieties have little to do with this film’s deranged
grandeur. Along with its manifold absurdities are sequences -- a
re-imagining of the construction of the Tower of Babel and the
flooding of the underground city, with masses of people coiling
like rats through the choked streets -- that are as exciting and
visionary as any ever filmed.  Goebbels Offer  “Metropolis” may have been a commercial flop but  Joseph Goebbels , Hitler’s propaganda minister, was intrigued.  After banning the movie in 1933, Goebbels turned around and
offered Lang the job of running the Nazi film industry. Goebbels
didn’t know that Lang’s mother was a Jew who had converted to
Catholicism, and the director was terrified that he would find
out.  Lang, who by that time had made his classic “M” (1931)
with Peter Lorre as a hounded child murderer, left Germany and
eventually landed in Hollywood. Thea von Harbou, Lang’s wife and
the screenwriter of many of his German films, joined the Nazi
Party and became one of its official screenwriters.  If you’ve only seen the mangled versions of “Metropolis,”
especially the execrable 1984 revamp by pop impresario Giorgio
Moroder with music by Adam Ant and Pat Benatar, you should see
the real deal.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  