-- 
Lansdowne Buys Bank of America Stake, Cuts JPMorgan Holding

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-15T16:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/lansdowne-purchases-bank-of-america-stake-cuts-jpmorgan-holding.html
Lansdowne Partners Ltd., the biggest
hedge fund in Europe that bets on stocks, bought shares of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  in the second quarter, while reducing its
stakes in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Lansdowne purchased 5.1 million shares of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America between April and June, according
to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
today. Lansdowne sold 3.7 million shares of Wells Fargo to cut
its stake to 28.3 million shares. The hedge fund reduced its
JPMorgan holding by 6.8 million shares to 7.1 million shares.  Bank of America, the biggest lender in the U.S., has
slumped 46 percent this year as investors question whether
rising costs from failing mortgages will force the company to
raise capital. Competitors Wells Fargo and JPMorgan have
performed better. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo has fallen 22
percent while New York-based JPMorgan is down 15 percent.  A Lansdowne spokesman in London declined to comment. The
hedge fund held no shares in Bank of America at the end of the
first quarter, according to a May 16 filing with the SEC.  Odey Asset Management LLP, the $7 billion London-based
hedge fund started by  Crispin Odey , sold 1.38 million shares of
 UBS AG (UBSN)  in the second quarter, reducing its stake to 502,243
shares, according to a filing today with the SEC. Odey sold its
entire stake of 938,912 shares of JPMorgan in the period. Chief
Executive Officer  David Stewart  wasn’t available to comment.  Ruddock, Heinz  Lansdowne, started by Paul Ruddock and Steven Heinz,
manages about $14 billion. The U.K. Equity fund, Lansdowne’s
biggest, had declined 16 percent this year through Aug. 5,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The smaller
Global Financials fund, managed by William De Winton, was down
about 12 percent through the first week of August, the person
said.  Lansdowne’s Bank of America stake is held in the Global
Financials fund, according to the SEC filing. The stake is
valued at about $38.1 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The biggest holding in the fund by market value is a
$188.4 million stake in  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the data show.  The firm has been hurt this year by its bets on banks,
among them  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  London-based Lloyds, which
is 41 percent owned by the U.K. government, has plunged 50
percent this year. Britain’s biggest mortgage lender posted a
first-half net loss of 2.31 billion pounds on Aug. 4 after
increasing provisions for bad loans and setting aside funds to
compensate customers improperly sold personal-loan insurance.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is among financial companies
Lansdowne has sold this year. The hedge fund sold its entire
stake of 4.9 million shares in the New York-based firm in the
first quarter. Lansdowne has purchased 4.4 million shares of
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  in 2011, according to SEC filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  