-- 
Apple-Google Duel for Mobile Supremacy Boon for Lawyers: Tech

-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-15T14:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/apple-google-duel-over-mobile-supremacy-drives-patent-lawyer-demand-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and rival
handset and software makers, seeking to defend their turf in the
surging mobile-phone market, are competing for top patent
lawyers as litigation floods courtrooms worldwide.  Google is looking for a vice president of patents, a new
position, said a person familiar with the plans, who declined to
be named because the position isn’t advertised. The company,
which is also hiring a manager of patent acquisitions, said
today it agreed to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $12.5
billion, gaining wireless patents in its biggest deal ever.
Apple created a new position last year to head intellectual-
property litigation, and about half of the 18 legal positions
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  aims to fill focus on intellectual property.  At stake is leadership in the mobile-phone market, which is
predicted by  IHS Inc. (IHS)  to rise 34 percent to $206.6 billion this
year. Even before today’s deal, companies led by Apple,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google had spent more than $5 billion this
year on patents that may help them collect fees or land
partnerships. They need patent lawyers who can hammer out
licensing deals, weigh intellectual property purchases and
pursue or defend against lawsuits.  “The world of intellectual property, and more specifically
patent transactions, is really heating up,” said Steve John,
managing director at attorney search consultants  Major, Lindsey
& Africa LLC  in San Francisco. “There are a number of
technology companies that are essentially retooling how they
think about patents.”  IPhone, Android  While companies still depend on outside firms, they also
need in-house attorneys to mesh patent strategies with larger
corporate aims. Disputes over smartphones are surging in the
wake of the 2007 debut of the iPhone, which has become Apple’s
 best-selling product  and turned it into the biggest smartphone
maker. After winning customers from  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Apple is now sparring with  Mountain View , California-
based Google in the market for mobile-phone software.  Today’s acquisition of Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola Mobility gives Google more than 17,000 patents it can
leverage in negotiations with competitors including Apple.  Google’s Android is the most-used software for smartphones,
with manufacturing split among companies including  Samsung
Electronics (005930)  Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Motorola Mobility. Cupertino,
California-based Apple has accused all three of copying iPhone
inventions and filed  patent-infringement complaints  in the U.S.,
 Europe , Asia and Australia.  “We need to protect Apple’s intellectual property when
companies steal our ideas,” Apple said last week in a statement
concerning Samsung. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple,
declined to comment further.  To reinforce its efforts, Apple last year hired Noreen Krall from Sun Microsystems Inc. to oversee intellectual-
property litigation. B.J. Watrous, formerly  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s deputy general counsel, replaced Richard Lutton Jr. as
Apple’s chief patent counsel earlier this year.  Microsoft,  Oracle (ORCL)  Challenges  Google’s operating system is facing patent challenges on
other fronts too. Microsoft, which contends its technology is
included in Android, has sued companies that refused to pay
licensing fees. Targets include Motorola Mobility and  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) , whose Nook reader runs on Android. And Oracle Corp.
has accused Google of using its Java programming language to
develop Android, seeking billions of dollars in damages.  In a blog posting Aug. 3, Google accused Apple, Microsoft
and Oracle of using patents to wage a “hostile, organized
campaign” against Android. To help fight back, Google hired
Suzanne Michel, a former Federal Trade Commission deputy
director and one of the agency’s top intellectual property
officials. Michel was the chief writer of a  patent report  the
FTC issued in March.  Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.  Acquiring Patents  As the smartphone fight plays out in courts, companies also
are navigating the process of acquiring new patents. In June, a
group led by Apple and Microsoft won an auction of patents owned
by Nortel Networks Corp. after bidding up the price to $4.5
billion, beating out Google in the largest-ever patent auction.
Intel had vied for the assets, and later joined forces with
Google to try to outdo the Apple-led group.  Apple and Samsung are also said to be considering bids for
 InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) , owner of about 1,300 mobile-phone patents.
 Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the camera company whose shares have plunged
this year, has put up 1,100 digital-imaging patents for sale,
and Google bought more than 1,000 patents from International
Business Machines Corp. last month.  This competition to buy intellectual property shows how
quickly the market can change, as newcomers to smartphones such
as Apple and Google outsell incumbents such as Nokia and RIM.
Computer industry leaders, including Microsoft and Intel, are
trying to make sure they don’t get locked out.  ‘Market Displacement’  “You don’t see a lot of these industry wars unless there’s
market displacement,” said Jim Gatto, a partner at Pillsbury
Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP in McLean, Virginia. “When you look
at the companies who have really innovated and driven the market
for smartphones, many of them weren’t in the phone market five
years ago.”  Intel, the largest chipmaker, has taken notice. The  Santa
Clara , California-based company, whose chips dominate personal
computers, is trying to extend the reach of its processors into
smartphones, tablets and consumer electronics.  Intel is hiring more patent lawyers to bolster the
protection of its intellectual property in those markets, said
 Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman. About half of the 18 legal positions
Intel now seeks to fill will focus on intellectual property.  “We are increasing our focus on innovation in new business
segments,” Mulloy said. “This is a reflection of those
efforts.”  Engineers Wanted  Technology companies seeking top patent attorneys may be
vying for potential hires against the same law firms that want
to represent them.  “The best firms are fighting over the same high-quality
candidates,” said Timothy Alger, a partner at Perkins Coie LLP
in Palo Alto,  California , and a former deputy general counsel at
Google. “The tech companies also want to hire the good ones in-
house. And then there’s the challenge of retaining them at firms
where it is extremely difficult to make partner.”  The demand is keenest for lawyers who also have training in
computer science or engineering and can handle both sides of the
arguments in patent disputes or represent companies before
Congress.  “They need people who can speak with the technical
knowledge they need,” said Robyn Ginsberg, a managing director
at BCG Attorney Search. When presenting arguments in courts or
on Capitol Hill, “engineers aren’t always articulate. Why do
that when you can get an attorney who can speak both languages -
- the engineering and the legalese.”  Backwater No More  That trend is reflected in what students want to offer to
potential employers,  Stanford Law School  Dean Larry Kramer said.
As many as 10 percent of new law students have doctoral or
master’s degrees in engineering or biological science, with an
even greater percentage bringing undergraduate degrees in those
fields, he said.  The school itself has shifted curriculum to reflect demand
for lawyers with technical knowledge, and more than 20 percent
of students now get joint degrees in law and science or
engineering, he said.  When he graduated in the 1980s, patent law “was a
backwater field,” Kramer said. “There’s been a huge uptick,
and we’re just at the beginning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Green in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  