-- 
Harmony Gold Plans Production Increase After Missing Target

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-15T15:52:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/harmony-gold-slides-to-quarterly-loss-after-writing-down-value-of-assets.html
Harmony Gold Mining Ltd.,  Africa ’s
third-largest gold producer, plans to raise output this fiscal
year after missing its target last year, benefiting from record
prices for the precious metal.  The company expects higher production at its Hidden Valley
venture in  Papua New Guinea , Kusasalethu in South Africa, and at
other projects in a “build-up” phase, Finance Director Hannes Meyer said today by telephone from Johannesburg. Harmony will
give output guidance on Aug. 24, he said.  The producer is seeking to gain from gold prices that have
surged 28 percent this year, touching a record $1,814.95 an
ounce on Aug. 11 on concern the global economic recovery is
stalling. Safety stoppages and “under-performance” at some
shafts cut output by 9 percent to 1.3 million ounces in the year
through June, compared with a February forecast of 1.45 million
to 1.5 million ounces, according to the company.  Harmony today posted a fiscal fourth-quarter net loss of 42
million rand ($5.9 million), or 10 cents a share, compared with
net income of 238 million rand, or 55 cents, the prior quarter
after writing down the value of mine assets. Earnings excluding
one-time items fell to 30 cents a share from 91 cents, missing a
55-cent median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Impairment Costs  After carrying out an annual assessment of asset values and
mining plans, Harmony booked impairment costs from its President
Steyn 1 and 2 shafts and the St. Helena operation in  South
Africa , where the company mines almost all its gold. Production
costs rose 12 percent in the three-month period, boosted also by
electricity tariffs that increased by a quarter.  Workers at Harmony and other gold producers stopped a five-
day strike earlier this month after settling for pay increases
of as much as 10 percent, twice the nation’s inflation rate.
Labor accounts for more than half of Harmony’s costs.  Harmony fell 4.61 rand, or 4.7 percent, to 94.39 rand at
the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, the biggest one-day decline in
seven weeks. The company declared an annual dividend of 60 cents
a share.  South African competitors have posted profits following
gains in  gold prices . AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. said Aug. 4 that
quarterly earnings surged 68 percent, while Gold Fields Ltd.
reported a 15 percent jump in profit last week. Analysts
covering South Africa’s gold industry study quarter-on-quarter
earnings rather than year-on-year results.  Wafi-Golpu  Harmony has secured a $300 million facility for its Wafi-
Golpu gold-copper venture with Newcrest Mining Ltd. in Papua New
Guinea and may consider issuing corporate bonds in three or four
years as spending on the project increases, Meyer told investors
in Johannesburg today.  It could produce 600,000 ounces to 800,000 ounces of gold
annually and 300,000 to 500,000 metric tons of copper, Newcrest
said in a separate presentation today. Production may start in
2017, with construction costs estimated at A$4 billion ($4.2
billion), it said.  Newcrest would be “happy” to acquire Harmony’s 50 percent
stake in the venture if it was for sale, Greg Robinson, chief
executive officer of Newcrest, told reporters.  Harmony is not selling its stake and would be interested in
Newcrest’s holding if it was offered, Marian van der Walt, a
spokeswoman for the Johannesburg-based company, said by phone
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  