-- 
Ascent Solar Technologies Surges on Investment from TFG Radiant

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-08-15T20:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/ascent-solar-technologies-surges-on-investment-from-tfg-radiant.html
Ascent Solar Technologies Inc. (ASTI) , a
thin-film panel producer that’s lost 64 percent of its value
this year, climbed the most in more than four years after
announcing a licensing and equity deal that may help it increase
sales in the Asian construction industry.  Ascent climbed 48 cents, or 65 percent, to $1.21 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading, the Thornton, Colorado-based company’s
biggest gain since March 2007.  The company agreed to license its manufacturing technology
to TFG Radiant Group, a joint venture of the Chinese
construction and real estate company Radiant Group and the
Singapore-based investment company Tertius Financial Group. The
deal gives Ascent funds to expand manufacturing in the U.S. and
a partner that will help it to pursue the building-integrated
photovoltaic market in  Asia , said Adam Krop, an analyst at
Ardour Capital Partners in New York.  “They were facing a difficult market overall and this
should give them more firepower to gain traction” in the
building-integrated solar industry, Krop said today in an
interview. Krop has a “hold” recommendation on Ascent and a
$1.50 price target.  20 Percent Stake  TFG purchased 6.4 million Ascent shares for $1.15 each, 20
percent of the total shares outstanding. It has an option to
acquire 9.5 million additional shares for $1.55 if certain
conditions are met.  TFG plans to build a solar manufacturing plant in  China 
based on Ascent’s copper, indium, gallium, diselenide, or CIGS,
technology and has exclusive right to sell the panels in China,
Taiwan,  Hong Kong , Malaysia,  Indonesia ,  Thailand , Korea and
 Singapore .  Ascent retains rights to sell its panels in other countries
and will build a production facility in Colorado. It will have
partial ownership of the TFG solar plant and will receive
consulting fees and royalties from its Chinese partner. Ascent
estimated the value of the agreement at more than “$250 million
over multiple years,” it said today in a statement.  Most thin-film solar companies are “small and need capital
to get to volume,” Ascent Chief Executive Officer Ron Eller
said today in an interview. “I think we are going to answer
that question differently by going to a licensing model.”  Ascent announced a strategy shift in March to focus on
specialty markets such as military and defense, near-space
applications, off-grid charging in  developing countries  and the
integration of its panels on the rooftops of buses, trucks and
trains.  The TFG partnership will give it an additional focus. “The
company now has two major anchors and two major leaders in the
building materials industry,” Ashutosh Misra, Ascent’s senior
vice president of corporate development, said today in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  