-- 
Asian Currencies Advance After Data Reduces Concern Recovery is Faltering

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-15T08:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/asian-currencies-advance-after-data-reduces-concern-recovery-is-faltering.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
 Malaysia ’s ringgit, as better-than-forecast U.S. and Japanese
economic data reduced concern the global recovery is faltering,
bolstering demand for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index rebounded from a two-day
decline after the Commerce Department reported on Aug. 12 that
U.S. retail sales for July rose the most in four months.  Japan ’s
economy shrank less than economists surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated, according to data today, signaling the nation is
rebounding from a slump caused by the earthquake and tsunami on
March 11.  “The much better-than-expected retail sales data gave us a
little bit of a reprieve,” said Teck Kin Suan, an economist at
United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “That will be positive
for riskier assets like Asian currencies.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.8 percent to 2.9790 per dollar
as of 4:21 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Philippine peso  gained 0.6 percent to 42.405,
Singapore’s dollar climbed 0.4 percent to S$1.2066 and
Indonesia’s rupiah appreciated 0.2 percent to 8,540.  U.S. retail sales excluding autos climbed 0.5 percent, more
than the 0.3 percent rise forecast by economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Japan’s gross domestic product shrank 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, less than the 2.5 percent
contraction analysts polled by Bloomberg had predicted.  Thai Confidence Rises  The ringgit advanced for a fifth day, the longest winning
streak in six weeks, before a government report on Aug. 17 that
is expected to show Malaysia’s inflation held at a two-year high
of 3.5 percent in July, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg Survey.  “This is a trading market,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of
financial markets at Alliance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The
ringgit’s strength today is helped by the better-than-expected
retail sales data in the U.S.”  Thailand ’s baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.90 per dollar after
data released Aug. 11 showed consumer confidence climbed to the
highest level in more than four years in July. An index
measuring sentiment advanced to 74.4 from 72.3 in June, the
University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said. Financial
markets in Thailand were closed on Aug. 12 for a public holiday.  “There’s a decrease of fear in the market about the global
economic slowdown, but it’s not been completely gotten rid of,”
said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok
Bank Pcl. “Money will still come into  Asia ” when volatility
subsides, he said.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to
NT$28.952 against its U.S. counterpart, while  China ’s yuan
declined 0.02 percent to 6.3909. Financial markets in  South
Korea  and  India  were closed for public holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net 
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  