-- 
S&P 500 Index Erases Last Week’s Loss Amid Global Takeovers; Franc Weakens

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-08-15T20:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/asian-stocks-rebound-from-3-week-retreat-as-metals-gain-yen-franc-weaken.html
U.S. and European stocks rose,
erasing all of last week’s losses for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as companies announced $27 billion in global deals after
equities traded near their cheapest relative to earnings since
2009. Credit risk fell. The Swiss franc and yen weakened.  The  S&P 500  advanced 2.2 percent to 1,204.49 at 4 p.m. in
New York after losing 1.7 percent last week. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index added 0.2 percent. The franc depreciated against all
16 of its most-traded peers. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of credit-default swaps insuring the debt of 15
governments fell to the lowest level this month. The 10-year
Treasury note yield rose five basis points to 2.30 percent. Oil
rallied 2.9 percent.  Global markets are stabilizing following a week of record
swings in U.S. stocks after S&P cut the nation’s credit rating.
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. surged 56 percent to lead gains
in the S&P 500 today after Google Inc. offered to buy the
company. The Swiss government and central bank are in talks
about a possible target for the franc to halt its gains,
SonntagsZeitung reported, citing unidentified people.  “M&A activity in general, and this is M&A with a capital M
and a capital A, is generally synonymous with a relatively
healthy economy and good things to come and a  bull market ,”
 Richard Weiss , a Mountain View, California-based senior money
manager at American Century Investments, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. His firm oversees about $108 billion.
“Although it remains to be seen whether that’s true, it’s
generally a positive.”  Three-Day Gain  The S&P 500 is up 7.5 percent since Aug. 10, its biggest
three-day rally since March 2009, as valuations and the pickup
in takeovers overshadowed more signs the economic recovery is
slowing. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to minus 7.7 from minus 3.8 in July. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a reading of zero, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said the central bank could purchase more Treasuries or alter
its balance sheet if the  U.S. economy  were to slow further. “If
additional actions are required, I can assure you the Federal
Reserve is not out of bullets,” Lockhart said today in a speech
in Florence,  Alabama .  Motorola Mobility, maker of the Droid smartphone, jumped
the most since it was spun off from Motorola Inc. last year
after Google Inc. said it agreed to buy the company for about
$12.5 billion.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  climbed 7.9 percent as the
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets said it will exit the international
credit-card business, including the $8.6 billion sale of its
Canadian card unit to Toronto-Dominion Bank.  More Deals  Time Warner Cable Inc., the second-largest U.S. cable-
television operator, agreed to buy Carlyle Group’s Insight
Communications Co. for $3 billion in cash. Provimi SA said
Cargill Inc. offered to buy the company for an enterprise value
of 1.5 billion euros.  U.S. equity swings last week were unprecedented, according
to data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and
 Howard Silverblatt , a senior index analyst at S&P. The index
fell or rose more than 4.4 percent on each of the first four
days of last week, reversing direction in a back-and-forth
pattern not seen at that magnitude in the history of the
benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks. The S&P 500 finished the week
with a two-day rally of 5.2 percent.  “We’re bouncing off the bottoms and people don’t feel
terrible about valuations,” Sarah Hunt, portfolio manager at
Alpine Mutual Funds in Purchase,  New York , said in a telephone
interview. Alpine oversees about $6 billion. “The M&A deals
make investors feel more comfortable because it shows that this
meltdown isn’t going to wipe out valuations forever,” she said.
“There are good stocks, which are worth buying with the caveat
that you have to be able to handle the volatility.”  Global Advance  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 2.1 percent,
trading at 12.5 times earnings after reaching 11.8 on Aug. 10,
the lowest since March 2009.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
rallied 1.4 percent as the country’s economy contracted less
than economists estimated in the second quarter.  Four stocks advanced for each that declined in  Europe ’s
Stoxx 600. Aker Drilling ASA surged 96 percent after Transocean
Ltd., the world’s largest offshore driller, offered to buy the
Norwegian company for 7.9 billion kroner ($1.4 billion).  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 2.4 percent, the
biggest advance since April 20 as Morgan Stanley raised its
equity allocation for developing-nation stocks to the highest
level since April 2009. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
rallied 4.7 percent, the most since June 2009, while gauges in
Taiwan,  Russia , Hungary and the  Czech Republic  rallied more than
2.3 percent.  Stronger Forint  The Hungarian forint strengthened 4 percent against the
franc, climbing a record 13 percent in three days. Markets in
 India ,  South Korea  and  Poland  were shut for holidays.  The franc depreciated as much as 2.7 percent versus the
dollar and tumbled as much as 10 percent over the three days
against the euro, the most since the start of the common
currency in 1999. The plans to target the exchange rate of the
franc are ready and the Swiss National Bank may set a target in
“coming days,” the SonntagsZeitung newspaper reported
yesterday. Walter Meier, a spokesman for the SNB, declined to
comment.  The yen dropped against 15 of 16 major counterparts,
weakening the most versus the South African rand, the Swedish
krona and the Norwegian krone after Japanese Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  indicated he’s ready to intervene in markets
again.  Credit-Default Swaps  The euro advanced 1.4 percent to $1.444, rising for the
third consecutive day, while the Dollar Index, which tracks the
U.S. currency against those of six trading partners, declined 1
percent.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit iTraxx SovX gauge fell
7.1 basis points to 276. Contracts on Italy dropped 12 basis
points to 342 at the close of trading in  London , after surging
to a record 391 on Aug. 10, according to CMA. Swaps protecting
Spanish debt declined seven basis points to 346, compared with
an all-time high of 430 on Aug. 4.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond climbed four basis
points to 3.77 percent. U.S. debt gained $91.5 billion in value
in the week after S&P lowered America’s credit rating on Aug. 5.
Yields tumbled after the  Federal Reserve  said on Aug. 9 that it
would keep its target lending rate at almost zero at least
through mid-2013.  U.S. Assets  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets weakened in June from a month earlier as the White House
and Congress wrangled over raising the debt limit, government
figures show.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$3.7 billion during the month compared with net buying of $24.2
billion in May, according to statistics issued by the U.S.
Treasury Department. Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners sold a net $29.5 billion compared with
net selling of $48.8 billion the previous month.  Crude oil futures gained 2.9 percent, bolstered by
corporate deal announcements and a report that Japan’s gross
domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent rate in the
three months ended June 30. The median forecast of economists
was for a 2.5 percent drop.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Index climbed
1.2 percent. Corn rose to a two-month high and soybeans gained
for a fourth straight session on speculation that dry weather
will damage maturing crops in the U.S, the world’s biggest
producer and exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  