-- 
Asian Stocks Rise as U.S. Retail Sales, Japan GDP Boost Outlook

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-15T08:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/asian-stocks-rise-as-u-s-retail-sales-japan-gdp-boost-economic-outlook.html
Asian stocks rose following the
longest series of weekly losses since June after U.S. retail
sales increased by the most in four months and  Japan ’s second-
quarter gross domestic product beat economist estimates.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the largest carmaker by market value,
climbed 2.9 percent in Tokyo.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, gained 4.3 percent in Sydney amid
optimism metals demand will pick up.  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) ,
Australia’s biggest builder, surged 8.3 percent after saying it
expects to return to annual profit. PICC Property & Casualty Co.
jumped 10 percent in  Hong Kong  after first-half earnings almost
doubled from a year earlier.  “Investors may be heartened that things don’t seem quite
as disastrous as they seemed,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-
based head of investment markets research at Colonial First
State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. “Still, markets have got to come to terms with the
fact that global growth isn’t going to be nearly as robust as
they once expected.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.9 percent to 124.19 as
of 5:20 p.m. in  Tokyo . Eight stocks advanced for each one that
declined, and nine out of 10 industry groups tracked by the
index climbed. The gauge completed its third straight weekly
loss last week after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on U.S.
credit and concern grew that  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread.
Ten-day historical volatility on the MSCI index climbed last
week to the highest level since March.  Japanese Growth  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 1.4 percent after
the Cabinet office reported gross domestic product shrank at an
annualized 1.3 percent rate in the three months ended June 30.
The median forecast of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a 2.5 percent drop.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 3.3 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 2.6 percent. The Taiex
Index added 2.4 percent in Taipei. Markets in  India  and South
Korea are shut for a public holiday.  Futures on the U.S. S&P 500 Index advanced 0.6 percent. The
gauge rose 0.5 percent on Aug. 12, capping the biggest two-day
advance for benchmark indexes since March 2009, after the
Commerce Department reported a 0.5 percent increase in retail
sales for July. First-time applications for jobless benefits
decreased in the week ended Aug. 6 to the fewest since early
April, the Labor Department said Aug. 11.  “People had been worried about the  U.S. economy  over the
medium term, but after retail sales and an earlier jobs report
exceeded estimates, people’s fears weren’t amplified,” said
 Kazuhiro Takahashi , a general manager at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo. “There will be some buying in
exporters and large-cap stocks.”  Toyota, BHP  Toyota advanced 2.9 percent to 2,901 yen in Tokyo. In Hong
Kong,  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , which supplies clothes and toys to
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and gets 65 percent of
its revenue in the U.S., increased 7.6 percent to HK$13.82.  BHP Billiton rose 4.3 percent to A$39.85 in Sydney as
copper futures in  New York  gained as much as 1.1 percent today.
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company by
sales, climbed 4.2 percent to A$74.52.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has tumbled 11 percent since
July 26 amid a global selloff that erased almost $7 trillion
from world markets and prompted South Korea, France, Spain,
Italy and Belgium to ban short selling. Short-sellers sell
borrowed shares with plans to buy them back later at a lower
price, a practice politicians and some investors blame for
roiling markets.  Bear Market  Investor confidence has been eroded in recent weeks as a
deadlock in the U.S. Congress brought the government to the
brink of default and economic reports showed the nation’s
economic recovery is faltering. Concern Europe’s debt crisis is
widening also battered sentiment.  Benchmark indexes in  China , Hong Kong, India, Taiwan and
South Korea dropped last week to levels that were more than 20
percent from their peaks. Declines of that magnitude signify a
bear market to some investors. The MSCI Asia Pacific now trades
for 12.4 times estimated profit, compared with 14 times at the
start of the year.  Leighton jumped 8.3 percent to A$21.49 in Sydney trading as
it reiterated a return to annual profit after reporting a loss
for the year to June 30 today.  Ansell Ltd. (ANN) , the world’s No. 1
maker of surgical gloves, added 4.1 percent to A$13.68 after
full-year net income beat analyst targets.  Alumina Upgrade  Alumina Ltd. (AWC)  climbed 8.2 percent to A$1.97 after Macquarie
Group Ltd. upgraded the stock to “outperform” from
“neutral.” Alumina, a partner in the world’s biggest producer
of the material used to make aluminum, said on Aug. 11 first-
half profit climbed 53 percent.  Hong Kong-listed PICC surged 10 percent to HK$13.40, the
second-biggest gain in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index today. The
company reported a 97 percent increase in first-half net income
to 5.3 billion yuan ($829 million). That’s higher than the
median 4.1 billion yuan profit estimate of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s
second-largest insurer, rose 8.9 percent to HK$67.65.  Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of video-game
players, jumped 9.8 percent to 11,970 yen in  Osaka  on
speculation that it may be included in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average should the city’s exchange merge with the Tokyo bourse.  Tokyo Stock Exchange Inc. is close to a takeover deal with
Osaka Securities Exchange Co., the Yomiuri newspaper reported
Aug. 13. Both companies have denied the report. A change of
components in the benchmark Nikkei sometimes prompts funds that
mirror the index to adjust their holdings.  “The expectation that Nintendo and other Osaka-listed
shares would be included in the Nikkei if the two bourses manage
to merge drove the shares higher,” Toshihiko Matsuno, a senior
strategist at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo, said.  Nintendo posted the third-biggest biggest increase in
MSCI’s Asian index today. Other companies listed on the Osaka
exchange also gained. Murata Manufacturing Co. climbed as much
as 3.3 percent, and  Omron Corp. (6645)  rose as much as 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 