-- 
Lawyer Daugerdas Seeks New Trial Based on Juror Misconduct

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-15T23:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/lawyer-daugerdas-seeks-new-trial-based-on-juror-misconduct-1-.html
Paul Daugerdas, a former lawyer at
the defunct law firm Jenkens & Gilchrist, and three other
defendants convicted of a 10-year tax shelter scheme asked a
judge for a new trial, claiming a juror lied about her
background to get on the panel.  In papers filed in  Manhattan  federal court, lawyers for the
convicted defendants claimed that Catherine Conrad, Juror No. 1
in the trial, hid details of her background from the court,
including a law degree, at least four arrests and the fact that
she’s serving a sentence of probation for shoplifting.  The request for a new trial was dated July 8. U.S. District
Judge William Pauley today ordered the request made public.  In May, the jury including Conrad convicted Daugerdas on
more than 20 criminal counts, including conspiracy, tax evasion
and attempting to impede the  Internal Revenue Service . The
jurors found three of Daugerdas’s co-defendants guilty of tax
evasion and other charges and acquitted a fourth.  There was no answer at an office phone listing for
Catherine Conrad, a suspended Bronx,  New York , attorney
identified by the defendants as Juror No. 1. A voice message
wasn’t immediately returned. It could not be independently
confirmed whether the suspended attorney is the same person as
Juror No. 1.  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, declined to comment on the matter.  Letter to Prosecutors  In court papers unsealed today, defense investigators said
they first looked into Conrad’s background after she sent a May
25 letter to Assistant U.S. Attorney Stanley Okula praising the
prosecution team and discussing the jury’s deliberations.  In the letter, Conrad described herself as “the nerdy
person with the ‘Susan Brune’ glasses, I was always head down
taking notes!” Susan Brune is a lawyer who represented
convicted defendant David Parse, an accountant who formerly
worked as a client adviser at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown,
in the case.  In the letter, Conrad said she “held out for two days” to
convict Parse of a conspiracy charge, then “had to throw in the
towel.”  The defendants claim Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted to
serve on the jury if she’d told the truth about her background.
Her presence on the panel deprived them of a fair trial, they
said.  Seven Indicted  Daugerdas, the former head of Jenkins & Gilchrist’s Chicago
office, was indicted with six other people in June 2009 on
charges of conspiracy and tax evasion for selling phony tax
shelters from 1994 to 2004. Two of those charged, former BDO
Seidman LLP partner Robert Greisman and former Jenkens &
Gilchrist attorney Erwin Mayer, pleaded guilty and cooperated
with the government.  Jurors convicted Daugerdas on more than 20 criminal counts,
including conspiracy, multiple counts of  tax evasion  and
attempting to impede the IRS, at the end of a 10-week trial.  The jury also returned guilty verdicts for Denis Field, the
former chief executive officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman
LLP, Donna Guerin, a Jenkens & Gilchrist lawyer; and Parse. A
second former Alex. Brown accountant, Robert Craig Brubaker, was
found not guilty.  Daugerdas could be sentenced to as long as 20 years in
prison.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 