-- 
Banco Comercial Said to Prepare for Sale of Polish Bank

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-08-15T14:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/banco-comercial-is-said-to-prepare-for-disposal-of-its-polish-lending-unit.html
Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  will
next week sound out suitors for its stake in  Bank Millennium SA (MIL) ,
a sale that may value the Polish lender at about 1.4 billion
euros ($2 billion), said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The bank,  Portugal ’s second-biggest by market value, is
sending sales documents as early as next week, said the people,
who declined to be identified as the process is private.
Indicative bids will be due around Sept. 15, one of the people
said. All options are open for the unit, and a sale may not
occur, said one of the people.  Banco Comercial, based in Oporto, is exploring the sale as
Portugal’s central bank presses lenders to reinforce their
capital this year and next. While regulators found Portuguese
lenders had enough capital to withstand a recession in European
Union stress tests last month, the Bank of Portugal urged Banco
Comercial and Espirito Santo Financial Group SA to create a
bigger cushion.  Banco Comercial spokesman Erik Burns declined to comment.
The bank in July said it would review options for its operations
in  Poland  and hired Nomura Holdings Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to
review the business.  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Santos Ferreira declined at
the time to elaborate on what the analysis of the Bank
Millennium unit in Poland included or whether Banco Comercial
planned to exit Poland. Warsaw-based Bank Millennium said last
month that second-quarter profit surged 66 percent to 115.3
million zloty ($40 million), boosted by loans and interest
margins.  Eastern European Sales  Poland is one of the few markets in Eastern Europe where
bank assets are for sale as some Western European lenders exit
the area to repair balance sheets or comply with EU conditions
for state aid.  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of a 7 billion-euro
bailout from the Belgian government, said last month that it
plans to sell its Polish banking and insurance units to raise
capital.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)   agreed to buy control
of EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s Polish business in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  