-- 
Moynihan Unravels Another Lewis Deal as BofA Exits Non-U.S. Card Business

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-08-15T20:31:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/bank-of-america-to-sell-canada-credit-cards-to-td-exit-u-k-ireland-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan is unraveling yet another
acquisition made by his predecessor  Kenneth D. Lewis  as the firm
exits credit-card lending outside the U.S.  Moynihan agreed to sell the Canadian card unit, with $8.6
billion in loan balances, to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and plans to
leave the U.K. and Irish card markets,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America said today in a statement.  Moynihan, 51, has sold more than 20 assets or units since
taking over for Lewis last year as the firm seeks to comply with
new international capital standards and focus on corporate
borrowers,  investment banking  and U.S. retail clients. The new
CEO has been forced to write down credit-card and mortgage units
acquired by Lewis, who spent more than $130 billion building the
largest  U.S. bank  by assets.  “Bank of America is shrinking because they need to make
sure they’re using their capital in the most profitable ways,”
said Jefferson Harralson, an analyst at KBW Inc. with a
“market-perform” recommendation on the bank. “During the Ken
Lewis era you could run the bank with much lower capital -- the
changes in  capital requirements  are pushing them to keep the
most profitable customers and shed the rest.”  The sale announced today involves operations included in
the $35 billion takeover of MBNA Corp. in 2006. Moynihan’s
divestitures include  First Republic Bank , acquired in the 2009
Merrill Lynch & Co acquisition, and stakes in asset manager
BlackRock Inc. and Brazilian bank Itau Unibanco Holding SA.  MBNA, Countrywide  TD said it is paying a “modest premium” of about C$100
million for the portfolio, including C$7.5 billion ($7.6
billion) in cash and assuming C$1.1 billion in liabilities.  Moynihan has had to write down the credit-card division by
$20.3 billion in reports filed with financial regulators because
of increased defaults and U.S. regulation limiting fees. Credit-
cards in the U.S. remain a “fundamental core product,”
Moynihan said today in a statement.  Moynihan has also written off the entire value of
Countrywide Financial Corp., the home lender acquired by Lewis
in 2008 for about $2.5 billion. Bank of America has scaled back
home lending and is selling mortgage-servicing rights acquired
in the Countrywide deal.  Capital Needs  Bank of America climbed 57 cents, or 7.9 percent, to $7.76
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m. The
shares dropped by almost half this year through Aug. 12 on
concern the bank would have to sell shares as costs from
defective Countrywide mortgages drained capital. TD rose 96
cents, or 1.3 percent, to C$76.88 in Toronto.  Exiting the Canadian and European businesses would lower
Bank of America’s capital needs by eliminating $27.6 billion of
riskier assets and may help it avoid having to sell new
shares, Ed Najarian, head of bank research at International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc., said today in a research note.  Bank of America is mulling its options regarding the U.K.
and Ireland businesses it is exiting, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a
company spokesman, declining to comment on what those options
are. The TD transaction is expected to be completed in the
fourth quarter, the company said in the statement.  The lender is retaining some reserves linked to the
Canadian business, Dubrowski said, meaning that the purchase
price “reflects the fair value of the business and is in line
with other recent transactions.”  ‘Aggressive Selling’  The portfolios in the U.K. and Ireland have a combined $19
billion in credit-card loans and more than 4,000 employees, the
company said in the statement. It signed an agreement on Aug. 3
to sell the Spain card business to Apollo Capital Management
Inc.  The lender will pursue the “aggressive selling of non-core
assets to continue to generate capital, increase our focus and
lower risk,” Moynihan said in a conference call last week.  Bank of America has to meet the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision standards designed to build a buffer against losses
and prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. Moynihan has
said the bank can avoid a share sale that would dilute
investors’ holdings.  Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-largest bank, said it
will become the largest issuer of MasterCard in Canada.
Previously, the lender issued only Visa cards. TD had about C$8
billion in outstanding credit-card balances at the end of 2010.  U.K. Review  In the U.K., Bank of America said it had a $769 million
liability as of June 30 following an industrywide regulatory
review into abuses tied to so-called payment-protection
insurance, which can cover obligations on cards in case of
illness or unemployment.  The company was among lenders required to examine sales
practices and compensate customers “if evidence of a systematic
breach of the newly articulated sales standards is discovered,”
Moynihan’s firm said in a regulatory filing this month.  Customers who bought payment protection rarely compared
prices and terms or switched providers, and usually weren’t
aware they could buy it from a firm other than their lender, the
U.K.’s Competition Commission has said. The Financial Services
Authority introduced rules last year after it found banks reject
more than half of payment-protection complaints they got, and
some rejected “almost all of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  