-- 
Berkshire Takes Dollar General Stake, Increases Investment in MasterCard

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-15T21:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/berkshire-adds-dollar-general-stake-as-buffett-builds-retailer-investments.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  added a
stake in retailer  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and increased holdings in
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  as Chairman  Warren Buffett  expanded his equity
portfolio with help from new investment manager Todd Combs.  Buffett’s firm had 1.5 million shares of Dollar General at
the end of the second quarter, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
said today in a regulatory filing that listed the company’s U.S.
stockholdings. Berkshire increased its stake in Purchase, New
York-based MasterCard by 88 percent during the quarter and held
405,000 shares as of June 30, the filing shows.  Buffett bought stocks at the fastest pace in almost three
years as Berkshire’s cash was boosted in the second quarter by
earnings and the repayment by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of a $5
billion capital injection. Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive
officer and head of investments, has turned his focus to stocks
as  interest rates  remained near record lows.  “That does encourage one to invest in equity,” said  David Kass , a professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H.
Smith School of Business. Short-term U.S. Treasury securities,
where Buffett keeps most of Berkshire’s $47.9 billion of cash,
“are paying essentially zero or close to zero,” Kass said.  Berkshire’s equity portfolio was valued at $67.6 billion as
of June 30, with 40 percent in consumer products firms and 37
percent in financial firms such as banks and insurers. The rest
of the portfolio was in a group Berkshire labels “commercial,
industrial and other.”  Confidential Treatment  Berkshire omitted information about its portfolio for the
second straight quarter. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sometimes allows companies to withhold data from the
public to limit copycat investing while a firm is building or
cutting a position.  Buffett added about 10 million shares in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
increasing its stake in the biggest U.S. home lender by almost 3
percent. Wells Fargo climbed 3.7 percent to $25.02 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has dropped 19
percent this year.  Berkshire’s holding in the San Francisco-based bank is
valued at more than $8 billion, the second-largest in the
portfolio behind  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   The stake in Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based Dollar General
is valued at $48.2 million based on today’s closing share price
of $32.19. The retailer sells merchandise including food,
cleaning products and pet supplies.  MasterCard Rally  Buffett, 80, is counting on Combs to help reshape a U.S.
portfolio that was cut to 25 holdings at the end of 2010 from
more than 40 in 2009. Combs was assigned to oversee as much as
 $3 billion  with a focus on equities and can make trades without
consulting Buffett. It was Combs, 40, who in the first quarter
added a stake in in MasterCard, a firm that he had bet on while
managing hedge fund Castle Point Capital Management LLC.  MasterCard, the world’s No. 2 payments network, has climbed
33 percent since the end of March and 49 percent this year, the
second-best performance in the 75-company S&P 500 Information
Technology Index after National Semiconductor Corp.  MasterCard, led by CEO Ajay Banga, 51, climbed the most
since 2009 on Aug. 3 after reporting a second-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates amid an increase in  consumer
spending . The firm may be poised to take a bigger share of the
U.S. debit-card market as new U.S. rules on transaction fees and
processing threaten to erode the dominance of larger rival Visa
Inc. MasterCard closed at $335 a share today.  Coca-Cola, Wells Fargo  Berkshire’s biggest holdings, including Wells Fargo
and Atlanta-based Coca-Cola have slipped in the last three weeks
as global equity markets retreated. Buffett has reiterated his
view that the U.S. would avoid a second recession in three
years. Buffett has reiterated his view that the U.S. would avoid
a second recession in three years.  “Financial markets create their own dynamics, but I don’t
think we’re facing a double dip,” Buffett told Bloomberg
Television’s Betty Liu in an interview on Aug. 6.  Berkshire also disclosed that it owned 2.1 million shares
of Verisk Analytics Inc., the actuarial data provider. American
International Group Inc., Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.
and Travelers Cos. were among insurers that sold holdings in the
company in a 2009 initial public offering. Berkshire didn’t sell
its shares in the offering.  Buffett’s firm cut its stake in Kraft Foods Inc. by about
5.5 percent to 99.5 million shares.  Berkshire’s cash soared 71 percent in 12 months from $28
billion on June 30, 2010, as New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Swiss Re Ltd. repaid financing extended by Buffett during the
credit crunch of 2008 and 2009. Buffett, who doesn’t pay
dividends to shareholders, makes investments with Berkshire’s
profits and policyholder premiums accumulated at the firm’s
insurance subsidiaries.  Today’s filing by Berkshire includes U.S. holdings. Equity
investments abroad are reported to local regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 