-- 
Berlusconi Competes With Banks Wooing Italians to Record Debt: Euro Credit

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-08-16T09:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/berlusconi-competes-with-banks-wooing-italians-to-record-debt-euro-credit.html
Italian retail investors are spoiled
for choice as the country’s banks prepare to refinance a third
of their debt at a time when the government is offering yields
at euro-era records on its securities.  The country’s lenders, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , have more than 100 billion euros ($145 billion) of
bonds to repay by the end of 2012. The government, which has
paid more for its money than financial firms for the past four
months, will sell quadruple that amount in the same period.  “The maturities of the Italian public debt create a sort
of competition with the issues of the banking sector,” Paola Sabbione, an analyst at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , wrote in a report
“Families, thus the banks’ clients, are important holders of
Italian public debt.”  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds reached a decade-high
6.3 percent on Aug. 5, slamming the shares of the banks, the
biggest holders of  government bonds . The plunge in UniCredit and
Intesa shares, both down more than 30 percent since the start of
July, threaten to deter Italian savers, who traditionally buy
the bulk of their debt.  Intesa is currently offering as much as  500 million euros
of bonds to retail investors  maturing in 2015 at a fixed rate of
5 percent, 85 basis points more than the yield on Italy’s
government bonds with a similar maturity.  ‘Compelling Spreads’  “Banks have to convince customers that their bonds are
more attractive, so they have to offer compelling spreads on
yields,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a  fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in
Milan.  Italian lenders may have to offer even more sweeteners
after the government on Aug. 12 passed a new package of
austerity measures that raises the capital gains tax to 20
percent from 12.5 percent, an increase that won’t be applied to
holdings of government bonds.  “With reference to banks, what concerns us in the tax
measures is that they make bank bonds less competitive versus
government bonds,” Francesca Tondi a London-based analyst at
Morgan Stanley wrote in a report today. It “may result in
structural shifts for banks funding and possibly changes in
competitive dynamics over time,” she said.  Banks favor Italian savers for their bonds because they can
offer lower returns than to professional investors, and
households tend to hold the debt to maturity. Italians have
traditionally favored fixed-income investments rather than
stocks for their savings.  Local Ownership  Retail investors in the nation own about 63 percent of bank
debt, compared with a European average of 48 percent, data
compiled by the Bank of  Italy  and the banking association ABI
show. Households own 223 billion euros of government debt, about
14 percent of the total, the central bank estimates.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, needs to roll over about
32 billion euros in 2012, while  Intesa Sanpaolo , the second
largest lender, has about 22 billion-euros of bonds expiring
next year.  Intesa is offering higher yields to investors who transfer
money from other banks to buy its debt. Until Sept. 7 the lender
is selling two-year bonds at a 4.5 percent for anyone who
transfers money from competitors, while investors paying from
their Intesa accounts will receive 4.2 percent.  Even before the July surge in government bond yields, banks
were facing rising financing costs. The average funding cost of
Italian banks rose to 1.71 percent in May from 1.5 percent at
the end of last year as the average  interest rate  paid on their
bonds jumped 24 basis points to 3.15 percent,  data compiled by
ABI  show.  Less to Share  The government and the Italian banks are also chasing a
shrinking retail investor base. The saving rate of Italian
families plunged to 12 percent of gross domestic product last
year from as 17 percent in 2002, sapped by anemic economic
growth and inflation, the national statistics institute said.
After expanding in 2008 and 2009, households’ holdings of bonds
last year declined,  Bank of Italy  said in its  annual report .  Italian households may feel a further squeeze from the new
austerity measures Berlusconi adopted on Aug. 12 to balance the
budget in 2013, a year ahead of plans, to convince the  European
Central Bank  to buy the country’s bonds to help bring down its
borrowing costs. The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond has
fallen more than 100 basis points since the ECB began buying on
Aug. 8, while the bank shares have continued to tumble.  The government measures includes higher taxes for anyone
earning more than 90,000 euros, a tax on profit of energy
companies, and cuts in funding to the central and regional
governments that may lead to higher levies for local services.  “Bringing forward the balanced budget to 2013 will
probably require measures that could hurt household confidence
and disposable income, at least in the near term,” said  Marco Valli , chief European economist at UniCredit Global Research in
Milan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  