-- 
Billionaire Ross Sees Ships Rallying as Voyages Lengthen: Freight Markets

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/billionaire-ross-sees-ships-rallying-as-voyages-lengthen-freight-markets.html
Billionaire Wilbur Ross is betting
that the slump in shipping which drove oil-tanker returns to a
14-year low and rates for commodity carriers to the cheapest in
a decade is ending.  The 73-year-old, whose New York-based WL Ross & Co. manages
about $10 billion in assets, is part of a group spending $900
million on 30 ships hauling gasoline, diesel and other refined
products. It is Ross’s first shipping investment and deploying
“another few hundred million” in the industry “is certainly
easy to do,” he said in interviews on Aug. 5 and Aug. 12.  That outlook contrasts with the pessimism of  John Fredriksen , the founder of Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator
of the largest crude carriers. The 67-year-old billionaire said
in May it would probably be another year or two before ship
values collapse and he can start adding to his fleet.  “The history of the industry is one that goes from immense
prosperity to immense poverty and back again, and we think
that’s going to continue,” Ross said by telephone. “We’re not
necessarily at the exact bottom of the cycle, but we think we
are relatively close to it.”  Demand for shipping will strengthen because new refineries
are being built in  China  and India, increasing the distance that
vessels have to travel to deliver crude and pick up refined-oil
products, Ross said. That will compensate for a “lackluster”
 U.S. economy ,  Europe  “in much the same condition” and “very
modest” growth in Japan, he said.  “We do see growth in the emerging countries, but probably
at a little lower rate than it had been,” Ross said. “China
maybe grows at 7 or 8 percent instead of nine plus.”  Railcars to Textiles  Ross made his fortune by taking over distressed companies
and turning them around, with acquisitions in everything from
steel to railcars to textiles. His investment of about $300
million is in Diamond S Shipping of Greenwich, Connecticut,
which is buying the tankers from Cido Tanker Holding Co.  Diamond S Shipping was founded in 2007 by First Reserve
Corp., a private equity company, and Craig H. Stevenson, the
former chairman and chief executive officer of OMI Corp., a
shipping company sold in 2007. Diamond S Shipping already has 10
new tankers on order at shipyards.  Shipping rates plunged in 2008 as economies spiraled into
the worst global recession since World War II. While demand for
raw materials rebounded within a year and stock markets rallied,
returns from hauling commodities by sea have yet to recover.  Oil-tanker owners who were earning as much as $229,000 a
day in 2007 and 2008 ordered the most vessels in three decades,
expanding the fleet just as demand collapsed. Daily returns on
the Saudi Arabia-to- Japan  route, the industry’s benchmark, were
at $167 on Aug. 12, 0.6 percent of the amount Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Frontline says it needs to break even.  Maritime Routes  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of the cost of carrying
coal, iron ore and grain, closed at 1,287 points on Aug. 12,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes
daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes. The gauge peaked
at 11,793 points in May 2008.  The Baltic Clean Tanker Index, reflecting rates on seven
routes for ships carrying refined-oil products, fared better. It
fell to 678 points on Aug. 12, down from 1,509 in June 2008.
Most of the product tankers being acquired by Diamond S Shipping
have charter accords in place for the next four years, which
“will get us through the worst of the period,” Ross said.  Equity markets are not anticipating a rebound any time
soon. A measure of the combined earnings of the 12-member
Bloomberg Dry Ships Index will drop 17 percent this year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Frontline will report a loss of $30 million in 2011 and net
income of $426,000 in 2012, the mean of 19 estimates shows. The
company made $699 million in 2008.  Transport Costs  Forward-freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on future transport costs, are also bearish. They anticipate
returns for owners of very large crude carriers no higher than
$20,760 a day through 2013, according to Imarex ASA, a broker of
the derivatives in Oslo. Returns on capesizes, the biggest ships
in the  Baltic Dry Index , won’t exceed $18,095 through 2016.
Rates reached $234,000 in 2008.  An emerging threat is that economies will slump back into
recession as governments fail to spur the growth needed to
create enough jobs. Unemployment in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil user, is running at 9.1 percent, more than double
the lowest level in 2006.  European economies from  Greece  to Ireland are contending
with debt crises that raised the cost of  government borrowing 
and forced cuts in public spending. The yield on Greek 10-year
bonds is at 15.49 percent, 13.16 percentage points more than on
benchmark German bunds, and the state is planning 78 billion
euros ($112.7 billion) of budget cuts and asset sales.  ‘Hit Hard’  “Shipping will be hit hard if there is a new recession as
the industry is already facing significant headwinds,” Frode Morkedal from RS Platou Markets AS said in a report Aug. 8. “If
there is a new recession, there will be a need to raise equity
or other risk capital in order to survive,” said the Oslo-based
analyst, whose recommendations on shipping companies would have
returned 46 percent for investors following them over two years.  While global demand for crude will expand by a “couple of
percent” a year, most of the growth will come from emerging
economies including  India  and China, Ross said. New refineries
also are more likely to be built in those countries, increasing
the need for ships to import oil and export refined products. A
greater distance between where oil is refined and where it is
consumed means vessels will be tied up for longer, he said.  Energy Agency  Even if economies expand less than forecast next year,
global oil demand would still rise by 600,000 barrels a day, the
Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said Aug. 10.  China’s refinery capacity almost doubled in a decade,
according to data from BP Plc. The Asian nation’s industry would
have to expand another 74 percent to match that of the U.S.,
which has a population about a quarter of its size.  The Chinese economy will increase 9.3 percent this year and
8.75 percent in 2012, according to the median of as many as nine
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s as much as
five times faster than the U.S.  China will consume 10.6 million barrels of oil a day in
2012, compared with 10 million barrels this year, the U.S.
Energy Information Administration is forecasting. That growth is
equal to almost an extra supertanker cargo every three days.
China is already the world’s biggest consumer of coal, iron ore
and wheat, which are carried by capesizes and other classes of
dry bulk carrier.  Global Trade  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  WL Ross & Co. is not the first private equity company to
show an interest in shipping.  Carlyle Group , based in
 Washington , said in March it was creating a venture to buy more
than $5 billion of shipping assets including container and dry
bulk vessels and tankers.  “We are not a mature industry in regard to private
equity,” said Peter S. Shaerf, a managing director at  New York- 
based AMA Capital Partners LLC, which advises on transactions in
the shipping industry. “When the likes of  Wilbur Ross  step up,
then obviously it turns heads and others will take a second or
third look at the space. Bottom fishing is a private equity
specialty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  