-- 
Boston Chefs Serve Lobster, Oysters With Biotech Boom: Review

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/boston-chefs-serve-lobster-oysters-with-biotech-s-mini-boom-john-mariani.html
Can restaurateurs sniff out a
recovery, when the rest of the country has the jitters? It would
seem so in  Boston , where several well-financed new eateries have
opened just as the city’s economy shows signs of a small,
biotechnology-driven boom.  The nation’s largest private construction project is on
Boston’s waterfront, anchored by  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s
$900 million, 1.1-million-square-foot office building. Already
on the scene is Legal Harborside at Liberty Wharf, a venture of
the  Legal Sea Foods  chain, which has 18 casual restaurants and
markets in Massachusetts and units in nine other states.  The new restaurant is President and Chief Executive Officer
Roger Berkowitz’s answer to those who kept asking when he would
open a true fine dining venue. Legal Harborside, set on what
used to be Jimmy’s Harborside for 85 years, is three stories and
20,000 square feet, making it the largest restaurant in Boston.  The first floor is as casual as other Legal eateries. The
second is done in the sleek style of an ocean liner, with curved
rosewood ceilings and black, mast-like columns. The wine list
includes bottles no other restaurant in  Massachusetts  has.  Both levels are packed every night, with crowds spilling
onto the 150-seat rooftop bar, which opened in June and is
designed to look like a ship’s deck.  The menu has 14 species of oyster, sourced in cold northern
waters from Cape Cod to British Columbia. Chef Robert Fathman
does a splendidly rich lobster soup dashed with sherry under a
cap of buttery puff pastry, and while his tempura of soft-shell
crab with grits and white asparagus is the epitome of summer
food, the accompanying squid-ink vinaigrette is anything but.  Squash Blossoms  The simply sauteed gray sole gains a great deal of flavor
and texture from crab-stuffed squash blossoms, a green garlic
veloute and charred spring-onion relish. For dessert, go for the
bruleed mascarpone cheesecake with minted berries and a brandy
snap.  Downtown, three of Boston’s most highly respected chefs
have opened new ventures. Michael Schlow, who also runs Radius
and Via Matta, has  Tico  near the Hancock Center, with a menu
based on his travels in  Spain  and  Latin America . He and head
chef Joshua Smith are exemplary in being among U.S. chefs who
have turned a serious eye on Latino cuisine without going the
molecular route.  Tico is two large, colorful rooms, with an open kitchen,
mismatched tables and reclaimed wood, with an outdoor fireplace
on the patio. Scores of tequila bottles are backlit at the bar.  The long menu of small plates is convincing evidence of
just how far Latino spices and flavors extend beyond the usual
Mexican and tapas fare. Tico’s tacos are terrific, juicy and
well-seasoned, like the two-texture beef with morita chilies.  ‘Can’t Decide’  From the Spanish la plancha griddle comes quail with mango
and yellow aji peppers, and tostados are piled high with tuna
tartare. The now requisite crispy pork belly, decadently fatty,
is enhanced with sweet onions and mustard.  A good idea is to go with Tico’s “Can’t Decide” menu,
chosen by the chef for the whole table. Pray it includes the
creamy, buttered sweet corn with bacon, chilies and Thai basil.  Adjacent to the  Hynes Convention Center  in Back Bay is
Boston’s newest big splurge restaurant,  Towne Stove and Spirits ,
a glamorous, two-level spectacular run by Lydia Shire and Jasper White, both veteran chef-restaurateurs who have been innovators
in Beantown since the 1980s. Shire took over the venerable but
creaking Locke-Ober cafe and turned it around, and two years ago
opened one of the city’s best new Italian restaurants, Scampo.
White, in the vanguard of the new New England Cuisine movement,
runs five Summer Shack seafood houses.  Grand Staircase  At Towne the two of them have put everything they know into
high-end dining with a swank downstairs bar. Up a grand
staircase, past glass walls and polished wood railings, you
enter a two-level dining room that seats 300 people in roomy
booths with starched linens. Yet none of it is very formal, the
rooms have a free-flowing, brash swagger about them.  In that spirit, the menu offers 11 different preparations
of lobster. The one you must not miss is the lobster popover, so
hefty with the crustacean’s meat and so delicious you could make
a lunch of it.  But then you’d miss the skewer of swordfish and octopus
scented with bay leaf and grilled over a wood fire, with a
citrus vinaigrette and pearls of couscous. Shire and White,
along with executive chef Mario Capone, don’t seem to care a
whit for dainty food, so their sugar-smoked Peking chicken --
the whole mahogany-colored bird -- is brought lavishly to your
table, sliced and served with sweet potatoes. It’s an over-the-
top, irresistible masterpiece and should become Towne’s
signature dish.  If there’s still room, share the brown-sugar angel-food
cake with caramel ice cream and maple cotton candy.  Area Four  The Cambridge neighborhood known as Area IV, between
Kendall and Central Squares, near the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , has burgeoned with biotechnology companies like
Dyax-Genzyme on Technology Square, conveniently located across
from the sleek, new, very casual  Area Four  restaurant.  There’s a fine bakery up front, while the dining area,
facing huge, handcrafted ovens, turns out an array of small
plates that include a tangy seviche of wild Rhode Island striped
bass, thin-crusted pizzas with toppings of Wellfleet cherrystone
clams and bacon, mussels cooked in white ale with roasted
tomatoes, and a few larger plates, with a mac & cheese of
daunting richness that you will fight friends not to have to
share it.  Chef-owner Michael Leviton is happy turning out such
desirable comfort food, including the dripping sundae of soft-
serve strawberry ice cream, marshmallow sauce and chocolate
almond meringue crunch. In keeping with the no-frills ambience,
Area Four has communal tables and serves wines mostly from kegs
and boxes along with 12 rotating beers on tap.  The Bloomberg Questions  Legal Harborside:  Cost? Most mains are below $50 upstairs, below $25
downstairs.  Sound level? Loud but OK for conversation: 70 decibels.  Inside tip? Downstairs is far more casual and much cheaper.  Special feature? The rooftop patio overlooking the water.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***  Legal Harborside is at 270 Northern Ave. on Liberty Wharf.
Information: +1-617-477-2900, or visit:
 http://www.legalseafoods.com/restaurants/boston-legal -
harborside.  Tico:  Cost? Most mains are below $25.  Sound level? Fine at lunch, loud at night: 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Let the kitchen choose the menu for your group.  Special feature? A fireside outdoor patio.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***  Tico is at 222 Berkeley St., near the Hancock Center.
Information +1-617-351-0400, or  http://www.ticorestaurant.com .  Towne Stove & Spirits:  Cost? Most mains are below $30.  Sound level? Fine for conversation: 65 decibels.  Inside Tip? Ask for a booth upstairs.  Special feature? Eleven different lobster items.  Will I be back?  Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating: ***½  Towne Stove & Spirits is at 900 Boylston St., next to the
Convention Center. Information: +1-617-247-0400, or
 http://www.towneboston.com .  Area Four:  Cost? Most mains are below $15.  Sound level? Loud: 80 decibels.  Inside Tip? Take something back from the bakery.  Special feature? Communal tables.  Will I be back?  Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating: **  Area Four is at 500 Technology Square in Cambridge. Information:
+1-617-758-4444, or  http://www.areafour.com .  
Decibel levels 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56
to 70: Convivial for conversation. 70 to 75: Lean in if you want
to hear your date. 75-85: You’ll be asking friends to repeat
themselves. 85-95: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 95-100:
Ear-splitting din.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 