-- 
BP Spill Fund Doesn’t Need Oversight, Administrator Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-15T23:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/bp-spill-fund-doesn-t-need-court-supervision-administrator-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  spill-claims fund
administrator  Kenneth Feinberg  doesn’t need court supervision to
ensure victims of the worst offshore spill in U.S. history are
compensated fairly and quickly, his lawyer said.  The Gulf Coast Claims Facility, created to resolve claims
spawned by the April 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil
rig off the  Louisiana  coast, has paid out almost $5 billion to
spill victims who wished to bypass the court system and receive
immediate compensation, David B. Pitofsky, Feinberg’s lawyer,
said in a filing today in New Orleans federal court. The fund’s
accomplishments show there’s no need for court oversight,
Pitofsky added.  “The GCCF is already effectively supervised by the Coast
Guard and several committees of Congress, and it has voluntarily
agreed with the  Department of Justice  to an independent audit of
the claims process,” Pitofsky said in the filing.  Lawyers for victims suing BP over damages from last year’s
 Gulf of Mexico   oil spill  have for months urged U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans to take a supervisory role
over the $20 billion fund. BP created the fund to comply with a
U.S. law requiring polluters to compensate oil spill victims.  Attorneys general from four Gulf Coast states have also
asked Barbier to investigate complaints that the GCCF is
intentionally dragging out and denying interim payments to
“financially desperate” victims to pressure them into
accepting quick, cheap final settlements that prevent them from
suing BP.  Interim Relief  Feinberg’s “near-complete failure to pay interim claims”
is signaling victims that “the only way to ever get any more
compensation is to take the quick payment amount and sign a
release” agreeing not to sue for more, the lawyers said.  Feinberg’s lawyers counter in their filing that the fund
has paid almost $2.6 billion in emergency payments to Gulf Coast
residents damaged by the spill and another $250 million in
interim payments.  “It’s hard to grasp how plaintiffs can assert as fact that
GCCF has failed to provide interim relief,” Pitofsky said in
the filing.  On the question of whether the fund is strong-arming Gulf
Coast residents into signing away their rights to sue in
exchange for inadequate compensation, Feinberg’s lawyer noted
some claimants are drawn by the prospect of immediate cash for
their claims.  ‘Rational Decision’  “It can be a perfectly rational decision to accept an
assured short-term payment over a possibly larger, but postponed
long-term payment,” Pitofsky said in the filing.  BP faces more than 350 lawsuits by thousands of property
owners, fishing interests and tourism businesses claiming harm
from the spill linked to the explosion and sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon rig.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 