-- 
Brazilian Real Climbs as Risk Appetite Increases, Equities Rally

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-08-15T13:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/brazilian-real-climbs-as-risk-appetite-increases-equities-rally.html
Brazil ’s real gained as global stock
markets rose and credit risk fell after European leaders’ ban on
short-selling last week helped shore up markets, boosting demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The real advanced 1 percent to 1.5964 per dollar at 9:46
a.m. New York time, from 1.6117 on Aug. 12.  Global equity markets are advancing after a week of record
swings in U.S. stocks, sparked by  Standard & Poor’s  downgrading
the debt of the world’s largest economy. Japan said its gross
domestic product shrank less than economists estimated in the
second quarter. The  S&P 500 Index  rose 1.3 percent to 1,193.86.  “The market abroad is a little better,” said Felipe Brandao, emerging-markets strategist at ICAP Brasil. “It’s a
continuation of the relief” following European leaders’ ban on
short-selling last week to calm markets, he said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  Twenty-one of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg rose against the dollar. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the international value of the greenback, fell 0.9
percent.  “The market is more comfortable now with things,” Jorge Perez-Duarte, managing director for emerging-market foreign
exchange at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “People are more settled down. The market is a
little bit more comfortable with risk.”  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 11.88
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  