-- 
Warren Buffett Urges Congress to Increase Taxes on ‘Coddled’ Billionaires

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-15T05:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/buffett-urges-congress-to-raise-taxes-on-coddled-billionaires.html
Billionaire Warren Buffett urged
Congress to raise taxes on the nation’s wealthiest individuals
to help cut the U.S. budget deficit, saying it won’t inhibit
investment or job growth.  “My friends and I have been coddled long enough by a
billionaire-friendly Congress,” the chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  wrote in an opinion
article published in the New York Times. “It’s time for our
government to get serious about shared sacrifice.”  Buffett’s advocacy of higher taxes for the “mega-rich”
may reinforce President Barack Obama’s call for an end to tax
breaks for corporate-jet owners. In the op-ed, the 80-year-old
investor said his federal tax bill last year, or the income tax
he paid and payroll taxes paid by him and on his behalf, was
$6,938,744.  “That sounds like a lot of money,” Buffett wrote. “But
what I paid was only 17.4 percent of my taxable income -- and
that’s actually a lower percentage than was paid by any of the
other 20 people in our office. Their tax burdens ranged from 33
percent to 41 percent and averaged 36 percent.”  A 12-member panel, formed in the Aug. 2 law that raised the
nation’s debt ceiling and averted a possible default, is charged
with finding $1.5 trillion in budget savings.  Democratic Representatives  James Clyburn ,  Chris Van Hollen 
and Xavier Becerra will join Republican counterparts Dave Camp,
Fred Upton and Jeb Hensarling. The Senate team includes
Republicans  Jon Kyl ,  Pat Toomey  and  Rob Portman  and Democrats
 Patty Murray ,  John Kerry  and  Max Baucus . Murray, of Washington
state, and Hensarling, of Texas, will be co-leaders.  Millionaires  Buffett said that for those making more than $1 million --
there were 236,883 such households in 2009 -- he would raise
rates immediately on taxable income in excess of $1 million,
including dividends and capital gains. For the 8,274 taxpayers
who made $10 million or more, he said they should get an
additional increase in the rate.  “While the poor and middle class fight for us in
 Afghanistan , and while most Americans struggle to make ends
meet, we mega-rich continue to get our extraordinary tax
breaks,” Buffett wrote.  He cited Internal Revenue Service data showing that the tax
burden on the nation’s wealthy had fallen for the past two
decades.  In 1992 the top 400 American earners had aggregate taxable
income of $16.9 billion and paid federal taxes of 29.2 percent
on that amount, he wrote. In 2008, while the aggregate income of
the highest 400 had soared to $90.9 billion, the rate paid had
fallen to 21.5 percent.  Hiring, Investment  Buffett said the notion that high taxes discourage hiring
and investment is false.  “I have worked with investors for 60 years and I have yet
to see anyone -- not even when  capital gains  rates were 39.9
percent in 1976-77 -- shy away from a sensible investment
because of the tax rate on the potential gain,” he said.  “People invest to make money, and potential taxes have
never scared them off,” he said. “And to those who argue that
higher rates hurt job creation, I would note that a net of
nearly 40 million jobs were added between 1980 and 2000. You
know what’s happened since then: lower tax rates and far lower
job creation.”  The U.S. unemployment rate has averaged 9.5 percent in the
past two years, dropping to 9.1 percent in July from 9.2 percent
a month earlier, a government report showed Aug. 5  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  