-- 
Government to Set Up Victims Panel to Investigate Riots, Theresa May Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-16T09:57:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/cameron-agrees-to-hold-public-inquiry-into-riots-bowing-to-labour-demands.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
agreed to demands from  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition
 Labour Party , for an inquiry into the riots that erupted across
 England  last week.  The “communities and victims” panel, to be led by an
independent figure, will report back to the leaders of the three
main political parties within six to nine months, Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  told a press conference in London today.  “It won’t be a public inquiry, it won’t be established
under the Inquiries Act, but it will serve as a way in which
victims and communities can have their voice heard,” he said.  The prime minister broke his vacation in  Italy  last week to
return to  London  to deal with the worst riots to hit British
streets since the 1980s.  Cameron yesterday promised a review of social policy,
saying family breakdown was partly responsible for the scenes of
young people smashing their way into shops and setting fire to
buildings. He rejected Miliband’s call for an immediate probe
last week, saying Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee was
already preparing to carry out its own investigation. Miliband
yesterday stepped up the pressure by repeating his promise to
help set up an inquiry if Cameron continued to refuse to do so.  Community Payback  Clegg said today the Cabinet Office will tender for a
contract “to do research into the communities affected by the
disturbances to find out more about what happened, who did what
and why they did it.”  Rioters who are not jailed will have to take part in
community payback programs, with those who participated in the
unrest helping to repair the damage done, Clegg said. Victims
will also be given the opportunity to confront their offenders,
he said.  “It’s really important at a time like this that we
shouldn’t allow hope and optimism to be suffocated by fear and
pessimism,” Clegg said.  Cameron gave way last month to Miliband over phone hacking
at the News of the World newspaper and set up a judge-led probe
into the media and its relationship with politicians.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 