-- 
Cameron, Miliband Seek to Seize Initiative Over How to Prevent U.K. Riots

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-15T11:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/cameron-miliband-jostle-to-seize-initiative-in-stance-over-u-k-rioting.html
Britain’s political leaders tried to
seize the initiative following riots last week, with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  promising a review of social policy and
Labour leader  Ed Miliband  demanding a public inquiry.  Both men abandoned vacations last week to return to London
as disorder and looting spread across  England  over the course of
four nights. More than 1,580 people have been arrested in London
since the unrest began and Mayor  Boris Johnson  said the figure
may reach 3,000.  Cameron placed the blame on social breakdown and an
abdication of responsibility by parents, teachers and
government. He pledged intervention to turn around the “120,000
most troubled families in the country.”  “We have too often avoided saying what needs to be said --
about everything from marriage to welfare to common courtesy,”
Cameron said in a speech in Oxfordshire. “From here on I want a
family test applied to all domestic policy. If it hurts
families, if it undermines commitment, if it tramples over the
values that keeps people together, or stops families from being
together, then we shouldn’t do it.”  Miliband, speaking at his old school in North  London ,
attacked the government response, which ranged from suggestions
of cutting welfare for rioters to blocking social messaging
during disturbances. “A new policy a day, knee-jerk gimmicks
rushed out without real thought will not solve the problem,” he
said. He blamed a wider “immorality” in society.  ‘Greed, Selfishness’  “We can’t honestly say the greed, selfishness and gross
irresponsibility that shocked us all so deeply is confined to
the looters or even to their parents,” he said. “It’s not the
first time we’ve seen this kind of me-first, take what you can
culture. The bankers who took millions while destroying people’s
savings: greedy, selfish, and immoral.” He went on to list the
scandals over lawmakers claiming for false expenses and phone-
hacking by journalists.  The unrest began in the north London suburb of Tottenham
after a local man, Mark Duggan, was shot and killed by police
who stopped his car intending to make an arrest.  Cameron today dismissed suggestions that anger over
government spending cuts or racial tensions were behind the
riots, which he said were down to “criminality” and
“indifference to right and wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 