-- 
Camp Says Canada-Colombia Free Trade Puts U.S. at Disadvantage

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-08-15T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/camp-says-canada-colombia-free-trade-puts-u-s-at-disadvantage.html
House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  said a free-trade accord between  Canada  and
 Colombia  that takes effect today puts the U.S. at a disadvantage
and underscores the need to pass the nation’s own stalled
agreements.  “I urgently call on the president to send the job-creating
trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea to
Congress without further delay,” Camp, a Michigan Republican,
said today in a statement.  The U.S. and Canada are vying for sales in Colombia, South
America’s fourth-largest economy after  Brazil , Venezuela and
 Argentina . Colombia’s economy will expand 5 percent this year,
based on the median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. wheat growers may lose $100 million in sales annually
should the pending Colombia agreement fail to win approval,
according to estimates from U.S. Wheat Associates, the export-
market development organization for wheat producers.  U.S. Senate leaders ended an impasse two weeks ago over the
stalled free-trade accords with the three nations. They agreed
to vote after this month’s recess on benefits for workers who
lose their jobs because of overseas competition, and then take
up the three pending trade deals.  President  Barack Obama  wants the agreements and worker aid
passed “as soon as possible, so that American businesses and
workers can get the jobs, market access, and more level playing
fields we fought for in these deals,”  Carol Guthrie , a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade Representative’s office, said
last week.  Worker Aid Deal  Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
have pressed lawmakers on the trade agreements, citing concern
companies will fall behind global competitors.  A South Korean free-trade agreement with the European Union
has been in place since July 1, putting U.S. producers of autos,
pharmaceuticals and scientific equipment at a disadvantage in
the Asian economy.  The three U.S. agreements may increase exports by $12
billion a year and boost the struggling U.S. economy, supporters
say. After Congress agreed to raise the debt ceiling this month,
the White House urged action on the trade deals as a means to
spur hiring in the U.S. amid 9.1 percent unemployment in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in New York at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  