-- 
Carlyle Group Said to Be in Talks to Buy Drug Researcher PPD

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-08-16T20:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/carlyle-group-in-exclusive-talks-to-buy-ppd.html
Carlyle Group  is in exclusive talks
to buy  Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. (PPDI) , a clinical
research company, said five people with knowledge of the
discussions.  Carlyle topped private-equity firms including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co. and Hellman & Friedman LLC that bid or
expressed interest, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the process was private. Most bids were
between $33 a share and $38 a share, or as much as $4.3 billion,
said the people. PPD rose 77 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $32.28 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, giving the
company a value of about $3.68 billion.  A purchase in the middle of this range for Wilmington,
North Carolina-based PPD “would be an attractive deal for
shareholders,” David Windley, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
Nashville said in an e-mail. Going private might allow the drug
research company “to explore more complex deal structures with
clients,” he said  Carlyle is talking to other private-equity firms about
joining it in an offer for the company, one person said. Rival
bidders were informed last week that another firm had been given
exclusivity to negotiate with PPD, said another person. Morgan
Stanley is advising PPD, according to the people. The talks
between Carlyle and PPD may still collapse.  Spokesmen for Carlyle, Morgan Stanley, Blackstone and KKR
declined to comment. Hellman & Friedman and PPD didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Largest Deal  The acquisition would be the largest for Carlyle since
announcing the $3.9 billion purchase of telecommunications-
equipment maker CommScope Inc. in October. Washington-based
Carlyle, which has announced deals valued at $10 billion in the
last 12 months, is selling old investments and entering new ones
as the company plans a formal process for its initial public
offering. Carlyle announced today it would sell Insight
Communications Co., a six-year investment, to Time Warner Cable
Inc. for about $3 billion.  Pharmaceutical firms were not given the option of bidding
on PPD, said two people familiar with the matter. Only private-
equity funds were allowed to bid on the asset, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  