-- 
Caviar, Oysters, Wines Nudge Out Sauerkraut, Beer: Dine & Deal in Berlin

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/caviar-oysters-nudge-out-sauerkraut-dine-deal-in-berlin.html
Berlin is experiencing a gastronomic
renaissance as it adds international allure. Hotels are
springing up to accommodate an increasing number of visitors,
and new restaurants are mushrooming. With so many talented chefs
cooking in the buzzy capital, there’s no excuse for pork and
cabbage every night.  Here, in alphabetical order, is our selection for business
dining in Berlin.  1. Esswein: Fasanenstrasse 40, 10719 Berlin. Information:
+49-30-8892-9288;  http://www.esswein-berlin.de   What: Hearty, meaty Palatinate dishes such as Saumagen
(pig’s stomach), blutwurst, braised ox, liver sausage and
dumplings; some excellent, reasonably priced Palatinate wines.  Why: For heaped plates of earthy German fare in elegant,
quiet surroundings. This is peasant food with a refined twist
for city dwellers.  Where: On a peaceful square in a civilized, residential
part of West Berlin. There’s a large terrace, ideal for warmer
weather.  When: With out-of-town visitors who want to try real German
food. Esswein opens at 9 a.m. from Monday to Saturday and serves
breakfast, lunch and dinner.  Bar: There’s a small one, and a separate, sealed smoking
room complete with hide-covered seats and a fireplace.  Private room: Yes, seating 15.  Sound level: Serene, relaxed.  2. Facil: Potsdamer Strasse 3, 10785 Berlin. Information:
+49-30-59005-1234;  http://www.facil-berlin.de   What: Chic, businesslike restaurant on fifth floor in
courtyard of  Mandala Hotel  with a glass roof that retracts for
al fresco dining.  Why: Slick service, central location, Michelin-starred
cuisine with tiny, immaculate dishes -- a thin sliver of veal
with bottarga caviar, leek and nettle or venison cooked with
celery and strawberries.  Where: Near Potsdamer Platz -- a soulless yet central part
of town. Movie stars dine here with their producers and press
agents during the  Berlin Film Festival .  When: Open for lunch and dinner during the week. Closed on
weekends.  Bar: The Qiu bar is on the first floor of the Mandala.  Private room: Not in the restaurant, though a room on the
same floor of the hotel accommodates a maximum of 16 guests.  Sound level: Lively in February during the film festival,
otherwise calm and laidback.  3. Fischers Fritz: Charlottenstrasse 49, 10117 Berlin.
Information: +49-30-2033-6363;
 http://www.fischersfritzberlin.com   What: Top-rated (and top-priced) hotel restaurant with
focus on fish dishes. Recent hits included a seabream tartar
with celery and avocado and chargrilled quail with bean salad.  Why: Impeccable service, lots of space and privacy, plus
the standard of cuisine you would expect from a restaurant with
two Michelin stars.  Where: In the Regent Hotel, near Gendarmenmarkt and Unter
den Linden.  When: The three-course lunch menu for 47 euros ($67) is
good value compared with four courses at dinner for 110 euros.  Bar: There’s a separate bar in the hotel.  Private room: Yes, for parties of up to 15 persons.  Sound level: Hushed, with carpets and table linen to soak
up sound.  4. Grill Royal: Friedrichstrasse 105b, 10177 Berlin.
Information: +49-0-288-79-288;  http://www.grillroyal.com   What: Steakhouse with panoramic open-plan design, soft
lighting and see-and-be-seen appeal.  Why: Great steak. Superb oysters and artichokes. Good
celebrity-spotting potential. Don’t expect adventurous cooking,
and it’s not cheap, though the wine list offers reasonable
value.  Where: On the banks of the Spree, close to Friedrichstrasse
station.  When: Business meetings, dates; open daily from 6 p.m. It’s
best to go early and in a small group to avoid waits.  Bar: Yes, a long sweeping one with cozy sofas.  Private room: No.  Sound level: The hum of chat and the buzz of business, not
so loud that it will drown out your conversation.  5. Maxwell: Bergstrasse 22, 10115 Berlin. Information:
+49-30-280-7121;  http://www.mxwl.de   What: Modern European cooking in an elegantly converted,
neo-Gothic brewery with a pretty courtyard, removed from the
hubbub of the city.  Why: Reliably good food, nicely presented, with fish and
one vegetarian option as well as robust meat dishes. A relaxed
yet refined ambiance, with prices that won’t break the bank.  Where: On a residential street in Berlin Mitte, away from
the tourist sights. Maxwell isn’t the kind of place you stumble
on -- you need to know where it is and you must book.  When: Business dinners, social occasions. The courtyard is
one of the city’s best outdoor dining locations in summer.  Bar: Yes. There’s a small one in the restaurant, best
suited for pre-dinner aperitifs.  Private room: Yes, seating up to 18 people.  Sound level: Low.  6. Neu Restaurant: Oranienburger Strasse 32, 10117 Berlin.
Information: +49-30-6640-8427;  http://www.restaurant-neu.de   What: Contemporary European cooking at reasonable prices in
one of Berlin’s most touristy districts. This is one of the few
restaurants in the vicinity that expects diners to come back and
gives them a reason to do so.  Why: Scallops with a cucumber and goats’ cheese spring
roll; succulent, dainty quail cutlets, and a squishy chocolate
“baumkuchen” layer cake with slices of blood orange were hits.
The four-course menu costs 49 euros. The wine list is short yet
well chosen, with mainly French and German choices.  Where: In a calm courtyard with a prettily lit conservatory
and terrace, meters from the synagogue on Oranienburgerstrasse.
Don’t try Googling it -- Neu just means new.  When: Tuesday-Saturday evenings, breakfast and lunch at
weekends. It’s a pleasant escape from the sightseeing crowds.  Bar: You can order just drinks and snacks at the tables in
the entrance area.  Private room: Yes, an attractive space upstairs, with
seating for 18 and room for 45 standing.  Sound level: Soothing, a refuge from the masses.  7. Reinstoff: Edison Hoefe Berlin Mitte, Schlegelstrasse 26c,
10115 Berlin. Information: +49-30-3088-1214,
 http://www.reinstoff.eu   What: Still the classiest restaurant in Berlin two years
after it opened and won its first Michelin star. Choose between
two menus: “Ganz Nah” (Quite Near) serves local produce;
“Weiter Draussen” (Far Away) has more exotic fare.  Why: Exquisite dishes that rely on high-quality ingredients
from local organic farms, such as goats’ cheese from the Baltic
Sea island of Ruegen, pike from the Mueritz lakes north of
Berlin, mozzarella from Jueterbog, south of the capital. The
artistic presentation and choreographed service still leave room
for a relaxed, informal ambiance.  Where: In the former fire station of the factory complex
where AEG made the first mass-produced  light bulbs .  When: For a celebration or to impress.  Bar: No. Dinner is served on the terrace in summer.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Relaxed chatter, plenty of privacy.  8. Rotisserie Weingruen: Gertraudenstrasse 10-12, 10178 Berlin-
Mitte. Information: +49-30-2062-1900,
 http://www.rotisserie-weingruen.de   What: Fresh, flavorsome starters and poultry, game, meat
and fish cooked on a rotating spit. Bottles from the owners’
vineyard in Palatinate feature in a list of good German and
Austrian wines.  Why: Fine dishes in a simple, home-cooked style at
reasonable prices (starters and desserts are about 10 euros,
main courses start at about 20 euros.) The game and poultry
dishes are particularly good.  Where: In a central side street, next to a canal. Some
tables are outside. Oddly, you have to go through the entrance
hall of a wedding-ring shop to get to the bathrooms.  When: Monday to Saturday from 5 p.m. Dates or business.  Bar: A few stools.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Tables are close together, so you may find
yourself eavesdropping on your neighbors’ conversation.  9. Weinbar Rutz: Chausseestrasse 8, 10115 Berlin. Information:
+49-30-2462-8760;  http://www.rutz-weinbar.de   What: The wine bar and restaurant was awarded a Michelin
star in the 2008 guide. It recently reopened after a subtle
refurbishment with a bigger, open kitchen, a fabulous menu and
some stiff prices.  Why: More than 1,000 wines; experimental cooking with
ingredients such as sweetbreads and blutwurst. Some favorite
dishes included Wagyu beef with Allgaeu cheese and raspberry; a
1,000-year-egg with morel mushrooms and peas.  Where: A few minutes’ walk from Friedrichstrasse station.  When: For business and private meetings. Evenings only,
closed on Sundays and Mondays. The restaurant also offers
cooking classes and wine tastings.  Bar: Downstairs is a wine bar with a simpler menu, offering
German fare such as roasted blutwurst with leek and mashed
potatoes; or shoulder of ox with cabbage and dumplings. This is
a smart option for a less formal meal.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Background chatter.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This report is the sixth of the 2011 series of Bloomberg Dine &
Deal. The articles survey top cities and offer informed tips on
good restaurants for business and pleasure. For more Dine & Deal
reviews, click here.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 