-- 
CFS Retail Trust Profit Surges 69% on Regional Center Sales

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-15T22:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/cfs-retail-trust-profit-surges-69-on-regional-center-sales-1-.html
CFS Retail Property Trust (CFX) , a real
estate investment trust that invests in Australian shopping
centers, reported a 69 percent jump in profit, beating analyst
estimates, after sales at its regional shopping centers climbed
and the value of its properties increased.  Net income rose to A$532.6 million ($558.9 million) in the
year to June 30, from A$315 million a year earlier, the Sydney-
based company said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange today. The forecast was for profit of A$416.75 million,
according to the median of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CFS Retail saw moving annual turnover across all its malls
and outlet centers climb 5 percent in the year to June 30, with
declines in department stores offset by rising sales at
supermarkets, according to a regulatory filing on July 25.
Consumers spent 0.4 percent more at food retailers in June, even
as retail sales overall declined 0.1 percent, according to the
statistics bureau earlier this month.  “The underlying fundamentals of the Australian retail
 property market  have shown signs of recovery,” said Darren Steinberg, managing director for property at Colonial First
State Global Asset Management, which manages the trust. “This
is despite consumers remaining cautious in their spending
habits.”  The integration of the four Direct Factory Outlet malls
that CFS Retail agreed to buy last September contributed A$1.5
million to unbudgeted earnings, the company said.  CFS Retail will pay a dividend of 12.7 Australian cents a
share for the financial year, the company said today. It
reported a first-half net profit of A$346.5 million in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  