-- 
Chelsea Midfielder John Obi Mikel Appeals for Return of Abducted Father

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-15T16:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/chelsea-midfielder-john-obi-mikel-appeals-for-return-of-abducted-father.html
Chelsea soccer player John Obi Mikel
today appealed for the safe return of his father, who’s been
abducted in the family’s home nation  Nigeria .  Mikel played in yesterday’s 0-0 draw at Stoke City, the
Blues’ first league game of the season, even though he knew his
father Michael had been taken two days previously. Originally
his family didn’t want to tell him what had happened and he was
“shocked” when he heard.  “It was really difficult. I said I would like to play the
game, I didn’t want to let my team down, I didn’t want to let
the club down,” Mikel told Sky Sports News. “I just wanted to
get on with it.”  The 24-year-old Nigerian national team player said there
had been no contact from his father’s abductors, and he did not
have any idea who was responsible. Midfielder Mikel said those
who had taken his father must have known his son was a player
with Chelsea. He appealed for his father’s safe return.  “I’m from Nigeria and I’ve always tried to help the
country in every way that I can, so I think this is the time for
the country to help me as well,” he said. “Whoever has got my
dad, or knows where my dad is, should please contact me and
hopefully he should be released. Please just let him go. He’s an
old man, he hasn’t done any harm to anyone as far as I know so I
don’t know why he’s been taken.”  Mikel’s father was abducted in Nigeria’s central region,
the  Associated Press  cited police as saying. Plateau state
police commissioner Dipo Ayeni told the AP that he disappeared
from his home on Aug. 12. He had no other details.  Chelsea said everyone at the London club is “very
concerned” to hear that Mikel’s father has been reported as
“missing and possibly abducted.”  “We will give Mikel and his family our full support at
this most difficult time,” the club said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  