-- 
China Downplays Local Government Debt Risks, Looks at Bond-Sale Mechanism

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-15T11:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/china-downplays-local-government-debt-risks-looks-at-bond-sale-mechanism.html
China ’s finance ministry said local
governments’ debts are controllable, seeking to damp concern
that the nation’s record lending boom will lead to a jump in bad
loans.  China will speed up studying a mechanism for local
governments to sell bonds, an unidentified official from the
Ministry of Finance  said  in a report posted on its website
today. They should no longer set up companies to fund public
projects off their balance sheet or guarantee their debt, the
official said.  Standard & Poor’s  estimates that as much as 30 percent of
China’s lending to local governments may go sour, after the
outstanding loans reached 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at
the end of 2010. The banking regulator told lenders they haven’t
set aside sufficient funds to cover losses on local government
loans and ordered them to accelerate collections, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  “They will need to sell some assets, it is unavoidable
given their cash flow condition,” said Wei Yao, a Hong Kong-
based economist with Societe Generale SA. “But I don’t expect
them to conduct large-scale sales of assets because that’s
basically privatization.”  Local governments can liquidate their assets to help them
pay back their debt, the Finance Ministry official said in the
statement today, rather than using them as collateral to borrow
by the local financing vehicles.  The government is trying to build confidence that it can
solve the problem given the debt problems in the U.S. and
European markets, Yao said. “At the end of the day the local
governments still need cash from either the central government
or somewhere else.”  Bad Debt  China’s banking sector non-performing loan ratio is already
at 7 percent and local government debts could push that above 16
percent, Yao said.  Moody’s Investors Service estimates regional authorities’
bank loans total about 3.5 trillion yuan more than the official
10.7 trillion yuan and that bad debt may account for as much as
12 percent of total credit, according to a report published last
month.  “When you look at their ability to repay debt, apart from
fiscal income, China’s local governments have fixed assets,
land, natural resources and lots of other assets,” the Ministry
of Finance report said. “ China’s economy  is also at a stage of
fast growth.”  In some areas where debt levels exceed fiscal income, risks
can be controlled by limiting the amount of new debt, it said.
Infrastructure construction will also help local economies and
government income, improving their ability to pay back debt,
according to the report.  Still, some regions’ and industries’ ability to meet
liabilities is weak, the report said. Some local governments
rely too heavily on land income to pay back debt, and some
expressways and other roads have heavy debt loads, it said.  Hidden Risks  “In areas or industries where there are hidden risks, we
should plan ahead, adopt effective measures, appropriately deal
with existing debt, and strictly control the buildup of new
debt, to prevent and reduce possible risks,” it said.  The article didn’t say what measures would be taken. It
said municipal bonds would allow local governments to get funds
in times of crisis and natural disasters.  Separately, China’s local governments will see 4.6 trillion
yuan of debt, or 43 percent of their total borrowing, mature by
next year, the China Securities Journal  reported , citing an
unidentified person. The banks will also reclassify around 2.8
trillion yuan of the loans as “general” corporate lending, it
said.  Risk Weighting  The risk weighting for banks on local government loans is
300 percent, the China Securities Journal said, three times as
high as ordinary company loans. Some 4.46 trillion yuan of local
government debt is due this year and next year, the national
audit office said June 27.  China’s finance ministry has drafted a preliminary plan
that would allow some provincial and city governments to sell
bonds to investors on a trial basis, a person with knowledge of
the matter said Aug. 4.  The proposal aims to boost local authorities’ repayment
ability, the person said, declining to be identified as the
matter is confidential. Local government liabilities fell to 7.1
trillion yuan as of June 30 after banks reclassified 2.1
trillion yuan as normal corporate credit with sufficient cash
flows to meet obligations, the person said.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors: Stephanie Wong, Ed Johnson  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  