-- 
China’s Bright Food Said to Pay $416 Million for Control of Manassen Foods

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-15T11:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/china-s-bright-food-said-to-pay-416-million-for-control-of-manassen-foods.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  China ’s
second-largest food company, agreed to buy a 75 percent stake in
Australia’s Manassen Foods in its latest attempt to expand into
overseas markets.  Bright Food will pay about A$400 million ($416 million) for
the stake, according to two people familiar with the matter. The
companies will sign a contract “soon” and the deal needs
regulatory approval from the Chinese and Australian governments,
the Shanghai-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  The state-owned Chinese foodmaker will buy the stake from
Champ Private Equity in a deal that gives  Manassen , maker of
Albatros bread and Harringtons chocolate, an enterprise value of
about A$530 million, according to the people familiar with the
deal, who declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private.  The transaction would be the biggest overseas investment in
the  food industry  by a Chinese company since at least 1980,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bright Food Chairman
Wang Zongnan is adding Manassen to boost sales abroad after
failing in attempts to buy French yogurt maker Yoplait SAS and
CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit.  “It makes sense for Bright Food to pursue overseas
acquisitions in resource-rich countries, such as Australia,”
said Wu Zhengwu, an analyst with AJ Securities Co Ltd. in
Shanghai who recommends buying stock in unit Bright Dairy & Food
Co. “It will help diversify its portfolio and boost its image
overseas as a major Chinese foodmaker.”  Expansion Plans  Bright Food plans to list the business in  Hong Kong  in
three years, said one of the people.  The Chinese foodmaker will sell its products through
Manassen’s network in  Australia , said Pan Jianjun, a Shanghai-
based spokesman for Bright Food. It will also import Manassen’s
brands into China, he said.  Reuters reported earlier that Bright Food was buying a
stake in Manassen.  Wang has said he wants to increase sales outside China to
as much as 30 percent of the company’s total in five years and
has been looking for foreign assets in the sugar, dairy, wine,
food distribution and manufacturing industries.  Bright Dairy gained 2.5 percent to 9.3 yuan as of the 3
p.m. close in Shanghai, after earlier dropping as much as 1.3
percent.  The transaction will boost Bright Food’s annual sales by
more than 3 billion yuan ($469 million), one person said.  Bright Food’s first-half sales grew 18 percent to 35.7
billion yuan, it said in an Aug. 5 statement. Net income rose 21
percent to 1.63 billion yuan.  “The challenge is to integrate the assets they acquire as
the confectionery market is highly competitive in China,” Wu
said.  Market Share  Bright Food had 1.2 percent of China’s 41 billion yuan
sugar confectionery market in 2010, ranking eighth, data from
Euromonitor International show.  Hsu Fu Chi International led the market with 6.8 percent,
according to the London-based researcher. Nestle SA, the world’s
biggest foodmaker, has a 0.3 percent market share and in July
agreed to buy 60 percent of Hsu Fu Chi.  Manassen Foods has brands in dry groceries, confectionery,
cookies and cakes, perishables and frozen foods, according to
its  website . It was founded in 1953 and has more than 350
employees.  “Bright” is a brand created by  Shanghai  Yimin Foods Co.
after the Communist Party took power in 1949. Bright Food was
created in 2006 by combining Shanghai Yimin with three other
state-owned companies.  Bright Food is also considering a bid for Australia-based
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd., the world’s second-biggest wine
business, two people familiar with the matter said July 1.  Wang said in April that Bright Food may raise as much as 6
billion yuan this year by selling bonds and listing food assets.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  