-- 
China Increased Treasury Holdings for Third Month in June as Demand Waned

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-16T06:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/china-increased-treasury-holdings-for-third-month-in-june-as-demand-waned.html
China  boosted its holdings of  U.S.
government debt  for a third straight month to $1.17 trillion in
June, while other foreign investors were sellers of Treasuries
for the first time since 2009.  Investors in the Asian nation raised their note and bond
holdings by $1.655 billion to a record $1.16 trillion and added
$1.57 billion of bills to $4.55 billion, according to the
Treasury Department  data  released yesterday. Total holdings rose
0.5 percent in the month and the bill purchases were the first
since January.  A surge in the nation’s trade surplus to $31.5 billion last
month, the highest level in more than two years, is helping
sustain expansion in an economy that’s averaged 10 percent
growth for the past five years. Exports climbed 20.4 percent
from a year earlier in July, topping the 17 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. Imports jumped
22.9 percent.  “Given size and liquidity of the Treasury market versus
alternatives, they have to keep buying,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“For all the angst over the U.S. budget position, Treasuries
have actually been a better investment than most this year. The
 hedge funds  who sold in June will have missed out.”  China’s Treasury purchases are likely to be larger than the
June data indicate, as transactions conducted via third
countries are attributed to that country. Annual benchmark
surveys, part of the U.S. system to measure portfolio investment
into and out of the  United States , eventually capture these
flows, Callow said.  Foreign investors sold $4.487 billion of U.S. notes and
bonds in June, after the buying of $37.954 billion in May, the
Treasury said. The last time foreign investors were net sellers
was in January 2009, with net selling of $11.7 billion.  ‘Flight to Quality’  U.S. Treasuries  returned 6.53 percent this year, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index shows, while the MSCI World Index of
stocks fell 5.9 percent and the S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities
rose 3.2 percent. Even as the U.S. lost its top credit ratings,
demand for Treasuries strengthened as investors sought safety to
protect their wealth against  Europe ’s debt crisis and economic
uncertainties.  “China continues to accumulate dollars as we continue to
import from them and they have to do something with them, so
they buy Treasuries,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The
addition of shorter-date paper represents some of the flight to
quality.”  Vice President  Joe Biden  will visit China from Aug. 17 to
22 at the invitation of Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping,
according to a statement posted to the Chinese foreign
ministry’s website on Aug. 8.  ‘Debt Bomb’  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets weakened in June from a month earlier as the White House
and Congress wrangled over raising the debt limit. China’s
Xinhua News Agency, in a commentary dated Aug. 2, warned the
U.S. still faces a “debt bomb.”  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$3.7 billion during the month, compared with net buying of $24.2
billion in May, the Treasury Department reported.  “In June, as the U.S. continued to display dysfunction in
 Washington  ahead of an expiring debt ceiling coupled with the
threat of a U.S. downgrade, foreigners were much less interested
in putting their money in U.S. securities,” said  Adrian Miller ,
fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC
in  New York , via e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net 
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  