-- 
Chrysler’s New U.S. Sales Chief to Try to Repeat Canada Record

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-08-15T15:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/chrysler-s-new-u-s-sales-chief-to-try-to-repeat-canada-record.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s new head of
U.S. sales will try to duplicate the gains he made for the
automaker in  Canada , where it’s almost tied for the No. 2 seller
of vehicles and has already exceeded market-share targets set
for 2014.  Reid Bigland, named to the post in June, also kept his role
as chief executive of Canada operations and added oversight of
the Dodge brand. Chrysler recorded a Canadian sales increase of
13 percent so far this year after a 26 percent gain last year.  “I think he’s going to take his plan and what’s done in
Canada and drop it down on the U.S.,” said Bill Johnston, a
Chrysler franchise owner and dealer council president in Canada.
“Aggressiveness is what he’s going to bring to the U.S.”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler and
 Fiat SpA (F) , wants Chrysler U.S. sales to rise 45 percent this
year. Chrysler’s rate of increase through July is less than half
the target. Bigland takes the reins of U.S. sales as Chrysler
prepares to bring to showrooms next year a new small car derived
from Fiat technology.  Chrysler U.S. sales this year through July rose 21 percent
compared with last year, according to researcher Autodata Corp.,
based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Its market share rose to
10.2 percent in that time from 9.3 percent a year earlier.  Marchionne wants a U.S. market share of more than 13
percent in 2014, according to his November 2009 business plan.
Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , took control of Chrysler during the
U.S. company’s U.S.-backed bankruptcy and reorganization.  ‘Real Proof’  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler’s U.S. sales growth
has been driven by established vehicles, such as the  Jeep Grand
Cherokee , whose deliveries more than doubled through July to
63,869, that have undergone improvements.  “The real proof in the pudding is going to be over the
next couple of years as they become much more active in the
small-car market, a market that they even admittedly have been
on the sidelines for,”  Michael Robinet , vice president of IHS
Automotive in Northville,  Michigan , said in a telephone
interview.  Chrysler will have to take a different approach to win new
business, Robinet said. “Everybody and their uncle are putting
more and more resources into small cars,” he said.  Bigland, 44, replaced Fred Diaz, who is now running Mexico
operations along with overseeing the Ram brand.  Canada Record  Marchionne’s five-year turnaround plan called for
Chrysler’s Canadian market share to expand to 13.8 percent in
2014 from as low as 11 percent in 2009. Chrysler captured 15.3
percent of the Canadian market through July, according to  J.D.
Power  & Associates, a  Westlake Village , California-based
researcher.  Chrysler sold 144,463 vehicles in Canada this year through
July, J.D. Power said, behind  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 145,208 and
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s 165,041.  Bigland navigated Chrysler’s Canada operations through the
uncertainty of the automaker’s U.S. bankruptcy reorganization
and faced challenges with the credit crisis in 2008 that left
his operations without the ability to offer lease deals.  “We leased 55 percent of our vehicles in Canada prior to
July 2008 and to this day our leasing is zero,” Bigland said.
“It really created a significant adjustment for us as to how we
went to market and the types of financing arrangements that we
used to accompany our vehicles.”  Bigland also developed promotions in Canada for specific
models, such as the Journey sport-utility vehicle.  Journey Sales  Sales of the Journey rose 50 percent this year through July
after rising 55 percent last year to finish as the year’s top-
selling crossover in Canada, the company said. U.S. sales of the
Journey only rose 2.9 percent through July, after a 9.8 percent
decline in 2010.  “It’s got a lot of unrealized potential in the U.S.,”
Bigland said of the Journey.  David Kelleher, a Chrysler dealer in Glen Mills,
 Pennsylvania , said he expects Bigland will put resources toward
programs similar to the “No Payments for 90 Days” promotion
announced last week and other sales events that draw attention
while costing less than incentives of the past decade.  “That’s a very small cost item but it’s a heavy retail
message,” said Kelleher, who sits on Chrysler’s U.S. dealer
council. “He’s probably the most retail-oriented executive that
I’ve ever come across.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  