-- 
Construction Companies in Europe, U.S. Face Climbing Costs on Commodities

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/construction-companies-in-europe-u-s-face-climbing-costs-on-commodities.html
Construction companies in western
 Europe  face escalating costs for building materials as they
compete for supplies that producers prefer to ship to faster-
growing countries like  China  and  India ,  EC Harris LLP  said.  The looming supply shortage will make it more difficult for
contractors in Europe to contain expenses unless they plan their
procurement needs better, according to a  report  today released
by the London-based consulting firm.  “Key materials will be unavailable or only within the
reach of those who can afford to pay premium prices,” said
Mathew Riley, head of the cost and commercial unit at the
London-based real-estate adviser. “Serious cost and time
overruns on construction projects will be inevitable” if
companies don’t change strategy, he said.  Companies in Europe have already been forced to absorb
higher commodity costs without lifting their own prices because
of increased competition for contracts. Eight out of the 10
countries with the highest construction costs are in Europe,
where demand is at best lackluster, EC Harris said.  Switzerland  has the highest construction costs for the
second straight year because of its expensive labor and the
strength of the franc, according to a study by the adviser that
measured 55 countries against the U.K. The base currency used
was the pound, which slid to a record low 1.1470 francs on Aug.
9 and has dropped about 11 percent this year against the Swiss
currency.  Each square meter built in Switzerland cost on average 25
percent more than in Denmark, the next most expensive country,
EC Harris said in today’s report. Swiss construction costs are
71 percent higher than in the U.K.  ‘GDP Growth’  The only two non-European countries to feature in the 10
most-expensive countries for construction costs were  Australia ,
which was tied for fourth with France and Ireland, and  Canada  in
10th place.  Construction costs in India and China are 70 percent and 55
percent less respectively than the U.K., which is the world’s
12th most expensive country. Construction costs in the U.S.,
 Singapore  and  Hong Kong  were all about 10 percent lower than in
the U.K., the EC Harris study showed.  “Developing nations are closing this gap as they continue
to invest in significant new-build programs to fuel further GDP
growth,” Riley said in the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  