-- 
Credit Suisse May Settle U.S. Probe by Admitting Wrongdoing, Paying Fine

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/credit-suisse-likely-to-settle-u-s-probe-than-risk-charges-lawyers-say.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the Swiss
bank facing possible U.S. indictment for aiding tax evasion,
will likely settle with prosecutors by admitting wrongdoing and
paying a penalty that may exceed $1 billion, tax lawyers said.  Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank, has too much
to lose by fighting the  Justice Department  and risking
indictment, said lawyers not involved in the case. Prosecutors
told the bank last month that it’s a target of a probe into its
former cross-border banking services to U.S. customers.  The lawyers expect Credit Suisse to reach an agreement like
that of  UBS AG (UBSN) , which was charged in 2009 with aiding tax
evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion , and giving the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250 accounts. 
It later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts.  “The UBS deferred-prosecution agreement is going to be a
template for what happens with Credit Suisse,” said tax
attorney Bryan Skarlatos of Kostelanetz & Fink LLP in New York.
“It’s very likely that they’ll reach an agreement with the U.S.
government, pay a fine, and possibly turn over names.”  Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based Credit
Suisse, declined to comment, referring to a bank statement on
July 21. Seven Credit Suisse bankers, including the former head
of North American offshore banking, Markus Walder, were indicted
that day in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , on a charge
of helping U.S. clients evade taxes through secret accounts.  ‘Fully Compliant’  “Credit Suisse is committed to a fully compliant cross-
border business,” the bank said in that statement. “Subject to
our Swiss legal obligations and throughout this process we will
continue to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to
resolve these matters.”  Tax attorney Robert McKenzie said “it’s an absolute
certainty” that Credit Suisse will enter into a deferred-
prosecution deal with the Justice Department.  “The only smart thing you can do when you’re caught is to
take the best deal and pay some money,” said McKenzie of
Arnstein & Lehr LLP of  Chicago . “If Credit Suisse is indicted,
the government could seek to forfeit the U.S. assets of the
bank. A bank that’s convicted of a felony won’t have a license
to operate in this country.”  Walder and the other Credit Suisse bankers helped U.S.
customers evade income tax through accounts that weren’t
declared to the IRS, according to the indictment.  ‘Aiding and Abetting’  “Managers and bankers working in the cross-border business
knew and should have known that they were aiding and abetting
U.S. customers in evading their U.S. income taxes,” according
to the indictment. Walder couldn't be immediately reached for
comment and has yet to formally respond to the charges.  In the fall of 2008, the bank maintained thousands of
secret accounts for U.S. customers with about $4 billion in
assets, according to the indictment.  The U.S. Attorneys’ Manual says a target is “a person as
to whom the prosecutor or the grand jury has substantial
evidence linking him or her to the commission of a crime and
who, in the judgment of the prosecutor, is a putative
defendant.”  Since 2008, the U.S. has filed criminal tax charges against
more than three dozen former U.S. clients of Zurich-based UBS, 
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, Credit Suisse, and London-based 
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank. Most of those clients 
have pleaded guilty and admitted they didn’t file a Report of 
Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR. As a penalty, 
prosecutors demand 50 percent of the highest account balance in 
the previous six years.  $4 Billion  To settle the Credit Suisse case, the Justice Department
can demand half of at least $4 billion on the theory that the
bank caused FBAR violations, said Jeffrey Neiman, a former
federal prosecutor who handled the UBS case. Banks aren’t
required to file FBARs.  “If the Justice Department applies the same formula to the
bank that it applies to individuals, it could seek up to
$2 billion from Credit Suisse,” said Neiman, who is now in
private practice in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida .  The department also wouldn’t enter into a deferred-
prosecution agreement unless the bank cooperated, which means
“the production of names of U.S. clients who had money
concealed at Credit Suisse in Switzerland,” Neiman said.
“They’re also going to have to admit criminal wrongdoing in the
form of a statement of facts.”  McKenzie said the Justice Department won’t demand
$2 billion because “UBS was the largest bank in Switzerland and
they didn’t pay anywhere near that.”  Swiss Government  He said a more appropriate penalty is based on the amount
of tax loss to the government caused by undeclared interest,
dividends and  capital gains  in the accounts.  “Part of the bargaining is just how much money was the
loss to the government as a result of these activities,” he
said.  Any settlement would likely require the involvement of 
Switzerland's government, which typically makes it illegal to 
turn over account data protected by Swiss bank secrecy, 
according to Neiman and other tax lawyers.   After UBS agreed to hand over data on 255 accounts as part 
of its deferred-prosecution agreement, the Swiss Federal 
Administrative Court ruled in January 2010 that the nation's 
financial regulator exceeded its authority in telling UBS to 
make the disclosures to the U.S. Last month, the Swiss Federal 
Supreme Court ruled that the disclosures were lawful.  Swiss Supervisory Authority  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma, 
``proceeded on the assumption that if this data hadn't been 
disclosed, the U.S. Department of Justice would have filed an 
indictment against UBS, which would arguably have caused the 
bank's ruin and consequently have had serious repercussions 
for the Swiss economy,'' the Lausanne-based court said.  After resolving the UBS criminal case, the U.S. also filed a 
lawsuit seeking data on another 52,000 secret accounts. The 
Swiss and U.S. governments negotiated an agreement for the bank 
to surrender the names of 4,450 clients. The Swiss Parliament 
later ratified that agreement.  ``This demonstrates the game of high-stakes poker that's 
going on between the U.S. and Switzerland, with Credit Suisse 
caught in the middle and Swiss secrecy hanging in the balance,'' 
Neiman said.  Whether the U.S. government can apply a 50 percent penalty 
to Credit Suisse “is going to be the subject of horse trading,” 
said tax attorney  Scott Michel  of Caplin & Drysdale in  Washington .  'More or Less'  “You have to wonder whether they would pay more or less
than UBS,” Michel said. “There’s a general sense that Credit
Suisse didn’t have as many U.S. clients that they marketed to
aggressively in the same way that UBS did. If that’s true, there
would be less income tax that had gone unpaid compared to UBS.”  Before the UBS deferred-prosecution deal, U.S. prosecutors
said the bank managed $20 billion in undeclared assets for
American clients.  The Justice Department has entered dozens of deferred-
prosecution agreements with companies, including Credit Suisse.
In December 2009, the bank agreed to pay $536 million to 
resolve claims that it helped process payments that let  Iran  and 
other nations avoid government sanctions and gain access to U.S.
financial markets.  Prosecutors said the bank made more than $1.6 billion in
illegal transactions involving Iran,  Sudan ,  Burma , Cuba and
 Libya  from the mid-1990s through 2006. Credit Suisse settled
with the Justice Department and  New York  state prosecutors at
the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office, which agreed to 
dismiss the case in December 2011 if the bank complies with 
the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  