-- 
Crude Oil Falls as Investors Speculate Slowing Economy to Sap Fuel Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-16T05:51:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/crude-oil-drops-as-much-as-0-4-in-new-york-trading-trimming-weekly-gain.html
Oil dropped from the highest in
almost two weeks in  New York  as investors bet that signs of a
slowing global economy indicate fuel demand will falter.  Futures slid as much as 0.8 percent today before reports
that may show U.S. housing starts and building permits fell in
July and European growth eased last quarter. Manufacturing in
the New York region unexpectedly contracted in August for a
third month, a report yesterday showed.  “The  U.S. economy  is a little bit weaker than any of us
were expecting at this time of the year and a lot of the
indicators out of Europe have been weak as well,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts oil in New York will
average $93 a barrel in the third quarter. “We all knew that it
was going to take a long time for these areas to get back on
their feet and there would be this lull in activity after all
the stimulus had washed out.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as 71 cents to
$87.17 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $87.26 at 1:48 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract gained 2.9 percent to $87.88, the
highest settlement since Aug. 3. Prices are down 4.5 percent
this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange dropped as much as 68 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $109.23 a barrel. The European benchmark grade was
at a premium of $22 to U.S. futures, down from a record close of
$23.79 on Aug. 10. The more actively traded October contract
fell 67 cents to $109.17.  Slower Growth  Growth in  China , the world’s second-largest oil consumer,
is slowing “significantly,” according to The Conference Board,
a New York-based research organization. The nation’s expansion
may cool to 9.2 percent in the third quarter from 9.5 percent in
the previous three months, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing the State Information Center.  Builders in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer,
broke ground on 600,000 homes at an annual rate in July, a 4.6
percent drop from June, according to the median estimate of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s report.
Building permits, a sign of future construction, probably fell
1.9 percent. Economic growth in the eurozone dropped to 1.8
percent in the second quarter from a year ago, the lowest
expansion in more than a year, another survey showed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called Empire
State Index fell to minus 7.7 from minus 3.8 in July, a report
showed yesterday. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News poll
called for an index of zero, the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The bank’s six-month outlook gauge dropped to
the third-weakest level on record.  Oil Stockpiles  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories declined to a five-month low as imports fell and
refineries operated near the highest rates of the year, based on
a Bloomberg News survey.  Oil stockpiles dropped 750,000 barrels from 349.8 million
in the seven days ended Aug. 12, according to the median of 10
analyst estimates. The fall would leave stockpiles at the lowest
since the week ended March 4.  Tropical Storm Gert turned north-northeast on a track away
from  Bermuda  and the North American coast, according to the U.S.
National Hurricane Center. Gert, packing maximum sustained winds
of 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour, was 135 miles east-
southeast of Bermuda and moving north-northeast at 14 mph, the
Miami-based center said in an advisory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  