-- 
Currency-Swap Spreads Signal Tighter Dollar Funding at Banks: Japan Credit

-- B y   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-08-15T02:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/currency-swap-spreads-signal-tighter-dollar-funding-at-banks-japan-credit.html
Yen currency-swap spreads expanded
to the widest level since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. froze credit markets in 2008, signaling that banks
are facing tighter dollar funding.  Investors exchanging yen for dollars are accepting interest
payments 54 basis points, or 0.54 percentage point, below the
London Interbank-Offered Rate for the Japanese currency in a
one-year swap, according to Bloomberg data, the lowest since
October 2008. The premium European institutions are paying to
get dollars was minus 48 basis points, the most since January. A
negative level indicates investors will receive reduced interest
on the yen and euro to obtain dollar financing.  Banks are charging each other the highest rates since April
to borrow dollars after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spread
beyond Greece and  Standard & Poor’s  removed its AAA rating on
the U.S. The U.S. downgrade on Aug. 5 spurred speculation the
value of assets linked to Treasuries will fall and hurt banks’
balance sheets, according to Tokuyoshi Takano, a derivatives
manager in Tokyo at Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co.  “The move of the swaps shows credit shortage,” said
Takano, whose company manages the equivalent of $70 billion in
assets. “Though there is demand for dollar funding, banks are
wary about their counterparts’ credit risk and refrain from
trading. They’ve become very cautious since the Lehman shock.”  Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said last week
that the central bank may provide banks with foreign currencies
should domestic financial companies face difficulty in funding.  Bank Debt  The cost to protect against a default by U.S. banks rose
and a benchmark gauge of corporate credit risk reached a 14-
month high amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will infect
the global financial system.  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America Corp., the biggest
U.S. lender, surged to the highest since April 2009 last week
before paring the gain.  France , Spain, Italy and  Belgium  imposed
bans on short-selling on Aug. 12 after the rout of European
financial shares. Regulators imposed similar limits on short
sales in September 2008.  Cross-currency basis swaps, which usually range from one to
30 years, are agreements in which an investor borrows in one
currency and simultaneously lends in another. The trade involves
the exchange of two different floating-rate payments, each
denominated in a separate currency and based on a different
index.  The swap spreads show “few are willing to be a
counterparty for European banks for dollar funding,” said
Makoto Noji, a senior bond and currency strategist in  Tokyo  at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest
lender by market value.  Counterparty Risk  Credit-default swaps for France’s debt, used to speculate
on  credit quality , reached 174 basis points on Aug. 10, the
highest level in at least six years, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices in the
privately negotiated market. A gain in price signals
deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness.  S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have
separately affirmed France’s top credit ratings amid concern the
country’s creditworthiness was in doubt.  Three-month Libor for dollar loans advanced to 0.29006
percent on Aug. 12, a level not seen since April 6. The rate for
the yen dropped to 0.19313 percent, the least since March 14,
after Japan sold its currency on Aug. 4 to halt the yen’s climb
toward record levels, the third such intervention in the past 12
months.  Fed Action  The rising dollar Libor indicates “the market is gradually
pricing in counterparty risks,” said  Ayako Sera , a market
strategist at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which manages the
equivalent of $317 billion in Tokyo. “It wouldn’t be a surprise
if the Fed takes action to protect the banking system.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last week
he may expand record monetary stimulus to revive the faltering
recovery. The Fed said on Aug. 9 that officials “discussed the
range of policy tools” to strengthen growth and pledged to keep
its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013.  The yield spread between two-year U.S. notes and the
Japanese equivalent fell to 3.4 basis points today, set for the
least since 1992. Two-year Treasury yields slid to a record low
after the Fed’s announcement.  Yen Intervention  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell half a basis
point to 1.035 percent today after touching 0.975 percent on Aug.
9, the least since November.  The nation’s first intervention in foreign-exchange markets
since March may have contributed to the tightening of dollar
credit relative to the yen, according to Reiko Tokukatsu, a
senior fixed-income strategist at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd.  The intervention amount was probably a record 4.5 trillion
yen ($58 billion) based on changes in deposits at the  Bank of
Japan  held by financial companies, according to Yuichi Takahashi,
a market economist at Totan Research Co. in Tokyo.  “The BOJ’s large-scale currency intervention to sell the
yen and buy up dollars has tightened funding of the U.S.
currency, widening the swap premium,” Tokukatsu said.  The yen traded as strong as 76.30 per dollar on Aug. 1,
approaching the postwar high of 76.25 reached on March 17 that
prompted coordinated intervention by Group of Seven nations a
day later. It traded at 76.93 as of 10:43 a.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  