-- 
Dad’s Kidnapping Leaves Boy Alone With Fetching Stepmom: Books

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/dad-s-mysterious-kidnapping-leaves-boy-alone-with-fetching-stepmom-books.html
In March 1990, 19-year-old Hisham
Matar’s father, a Libyan dissident, was spirited away from Cairo
by Egyptian secret police and passed on to the Libyans,
according to his son. His fate remains obscure.  Matar mined that uncertainty to poignant effect in his
first novel, “ In the Country of Men ,” a 2006 Man  Booker Prize 
finalist, and it defines his mesmerizing second novel, “ Anatomy
of a Disappearance ,” which describes the effect of a man’s
kidnapping on his son.  “Anatomy’’ is set in 1970s Geneva, London and Cairo, where
12-year-old Nuri lives alone with his father, Kamal. He is still
adjusting to the silence that filled their apartment after his
mother’s death when they meet Mona at the swimming pool.  From his first glimpse of her in a yellow swimsuit, Nuri is
smitten. Shortly afterwards Mona marries his father, and Nuri,
grappling with a jealousy he can barely articulate, is sent to
boarding school in  England .  Mystery fogs this pared-down novel. Very little is made
explicit, including Kamal’s past in an unspecified Arab country.
We learn only that he was a royal adviser who shifted to the
left after revolution shook the nation and eventually fled to
 Egypt .  When he is abducted from the bed of another woman in
 Switzerland , operatives from his nameless native country are
blamed, though nothing is proven.  Only Nuri’s feelings for his vanished father are probed
with the precision promised by the novel’s title. As months turn
to years and still no news arrives, sorrow is compounded by fear
and anger. Later, guilt takes over -- the tender guilt of Nuri’s
“not knowing how to find him or take his place.’’  The same recent events that have lent topicality to this
elegiac novel might easily have swamped a lesser work. Its
strength rests in Matar’s decision to focus on emotional rather
than material details, proving that in art, at least, the
personal can trump the political.  “Anatomy of a Disappearance” is published in the U.K. by
Viking and will published in the U.S. on Aug. 23 by the Dial
Press (224 pages, $22, 16.99 pounds.) To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 