-- 
Benchmark DAX Index Drops for First Day in Four as Growth Trails Forecasts

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-16T15:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/deutsche-telekom-mvv-energie-solon-se-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fell, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  ending a three-day rally, after the
country’s economy almost stalled in the second quarter.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, dropped 2.7
percent as the country’s power fell.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and
 Salzgitter AG (SZG)  declined with metal prices.  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) 
slumped 5.3 percent after announcing its chief financial officer
is leaving the company.  The DAX slid 0.5 percent to 5,994.9 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in  Frankfurt , while the broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  decreased 0.6
percent. The DAX has lost 20 percent since this year’s high on
May 2 amid concern that the global economic recovery is
stalling, while European leaders struggle to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis. The measure is trading at 10.5 times its
companies’ reported earnings, near the lowest valuation since
2008.  Germany ’s gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal
effects, rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter, when it jumped
a revised 1.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had forecast growth of 0.5
percent, according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  A separate report today showed euro-area economic growth
slowed in the second quarter more than economists had forecast.
Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.
That’s the worst performance in two years. Economists had
forecast the economy to expand 0.3 percent, according to the
median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Long-Term Buying  “We’ll have a lower economic growth than we’ve had in the
past,” said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity strategist at
Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “Sensitive stocks to economic
growth are being hit today after the economic reports. Investors
are very nervous, but the reaction might be too stormy and it
might not be a bad moment to buy large stocks for the longer
term.”  Stocks recouped some losses as  Fitch Ratings  affirmed its
AAA credit rating on the U.S. and industrial production in the
world’s largest economy climbed in July by the most this year.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. made its biggest bets on the stock market of this year on
Aug. 8 as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged the most since
December 2008.  “I like buying on sale,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chief
executive officer and head of investments, said in a television
interview with  Charlie Rose  on PBS. “Last Monday, we spent more
money in the stock market buying than any day this year.”  RWE, ThyssenKrupp  RWE lost 2.7 percent to 27.34 euros as baseload power for
2012 in  Europe ’s biggest market slid as much as 45 cents, or 0.8
percent, to 56.70 euros ($81.72) a megawatt-hour, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, dropped 2.6
percent to 24.07 euros, while Salzgitter, the second-largest,
retreated 2.3 percent to 43.87 euros. Copper, lead, tin and zinc
all retreated on the London Metal Exchange today.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker, tumbled 2.2 percent to 6.06 euros.  United Internet AG (UTDI)  dropped 3.1 percent to 12.36 euros. The
internet provider may sell more of its stakeholdings after
selling a stake in Versatel AG to a holding company controlled
by funds advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Dommermuth said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today.  Solar Millennium plunged 5.3 percent to 12.40 euros. The
company said CFO Oliver Blamberger is leaving the company at his
own request. Martin Loeffler will succeed Blamberger on an
interim basis from Sept. 1, Solar Millennium said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  