-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Horner Says Yen to Gain Toward 75 Versus Dollar

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-08-15T02:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/deutsche-bank-s-horner-says-yen-to-gain-toward-75-versus-dollar.html
John Horner, a currency strategist
at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney, commented on  currency markets  in
an interview from Sydney on Bloomberg Television.  On the  U.S. dollar :  “Risk sentiment has improved towards the tail end of last
week into this week. That is weighing on the dollar particularly
against those typical beneficiaries” such as the Australian and
New Zealand dollars.  On the yen and the dollar-yen rate:  “We continue to like the Japanese yen, even with all the
talk of intervention and the heightened scrutiny it’s getting
from Japanese policy makers. We continue to see the
gravitational pull of  Japan ’s current-account surpluses, leading
it towards further strength.”  “We’ve had a 75 target for some time and still think that
level is likely tested before the down move is complete.”  On Australian dollar:  “We’re seeing some calming of extreme volatility we saw in
the earlier part of last week and that’s seen the typical
beneficiaries of such better risk sentiment, the Australian
dollar and New Zealand dollar, doing somewhat better.”  “If the data is as soft as things like the consumer
sentiment numbers in the U.S. on Friday indicate, then a test to
the downside very much comes into the cards. A retest of this
year’s lows below 98 cents would seem very likely.”  On the New Zealand dollar:  “We don’t think expectations of an RBNZ hike are going to
come back any time soon, and that’s probably going to stop the
New Zealand dollar rallying too hard from here, or certainly
outperforming from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  