-- 
DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says He Offered to Buy TCW in 2009

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T00:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/doubleline-s-gundlach-says-he-offered-to-buy-tcw-for-350-million-in-2009.html
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  testified that in September 2009 he offered to buy TCW
Group Inc., the asset-management company that fired him three
months later.  Gundlach, who started DoubleLine weeks after TCW fired him
in December 2009, told a Los Angeles jury today that he offered
about $350 million for 51 percent of the firm. He made the offer
at a meeting with TCW Chief Executive Officer Marc Stern when he
believed he was about to get fired, Gundlach said under
questioning by TCW lawyer John Quinn.  Gundlach, whose mortgage-backed securities group managed
more than half of TCW’s assets under management, said Stern was
making a wrong assumption to think his group’s business would
continue as normal if he was fired. At the meeting, members of
Gundlach’s group indicated they would leave as well should Stern
fire him.  “If you fire me, you’re going to blow up the firm,”
Gundlach said, describing his reaction to what he thought was
Stern’s plan.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, a month after more than half
of TCW’s fixed-income professionals had joined his new firm. TCW
seeks $375 million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade
secrets, including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Morningstar Manager  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying that TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started so quickly if he hadn’t had access to the
 trade secrets  and confidential information.  Quinn showed jurors a Sept. 16, 2009, e-mail from Philip Barach, the No. 2 person in Gundlach’s group at TCW who also
joined DoubleLine, saying that, after Gundlach had been
reassured by Stern that he wasn’t getting fired, they now had
the “the luxury of time to plan and prepare.”  ‘Completely Untrue’  Under questioning by a TCW lawyer Quinn, Gundlach said “it
was completely untrue” that he sought a better relationship
with Stern after the Sept. 3 meeting only to buy time to set up
his own firm and leave TCW.  TCW claims that around the time of the September meeting
Gundlach instructed subordinates to download confidential and
proprietary information, including client data, to be used at
his own firm. Gundlach today disputed testimony by Cris  Santa Ana , a co-defendant and counter-claimant, detailing the kind of
TCW information he wanted collected.  TCW fired Gundlach, Santa Ana and the two others when it
discovered the alleged downloading of proprietary information.
DoubleLine maintains they never used any of the TCW information
they had.  Gundlach also said he spoke with Western Asset Management
Co. earlier in 2009 about moving the funds he managed at TCW to
the rival company. The talks were prompted by Paris-based
Societe Generale’s announced intention to get out of the asset-
management business and the arrangement he contemplated would
have been beneficial to TCW as well, Gundlach said.  ‘Extremely Dangerous’  “I thought this was an extremely dangerous development,”
Gundlach told Quinn, referring to Societe Generale’s plan to
possibly sell TCW. “I was scared.”  A proposed June 12, 2009, compensation arrangement by
Western Asset Management, based on an estimated $150 million in
revenue from his business, was a non-starter and he didn’t read
a follow-up proposal, Gundlach said.  The  fund manager  disagreed with Quinn over what clauses his
departure from TCW triggered in client agreements for the
distressed-asset funds for which he was a so-called key person.
Quinn claimed Gundlach was wrong to say that his departure froze
the funds and that it was up to the investors committee to
approve of a new management team.  “I’m not going to argue scripture with a nun,” Gundlach
told the lawyer.  Under cross-examination by DoubleLine’s lawyer, Mark Helm,
Gundlach told the jurors his total return fund at TCW jumped
from $2 billion under management in 2008 to $12 billion in 2009
because it had outperformed competitors’ bonds funds during the
financial crisis.  He also said it was “totally unnecessary” for DoubleLine
to have a technical platform for analyzing and trading
securities up and running when the firm first started because
they had only two clients in January of 2010 and executed just
one trade.  The firm now has about $14 billion under management,
Gundlach said.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  