-- 
Drought Crimps Farmland Values, Equipment Sales, Fed Bank Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-08-15T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/drought-slows-pace-of-great-plains-farm-values-equipment-sales-fed-says.html
A drought that devastated crops in
the southern Great Plains during the second quarter slowed the
growth of land values, eroded agricultural income and led to
fewer purchases of farm equipment, the  Federal Reserve  said.  While the pace of gains in cropland slowed from the first
quarter, properties in a seven-state region that includes
 Nebraska  and  Oklahoma  were 20 percent more expensive than a year
earlier, the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City  said today in a
report on its website. Ranchland was up 11 percent from a year
earlier, and farm-credit conditions remained positive even as
farmers cut back spending, the bank said.  An historic 10-month drought centered in  Texas  that’s
spread through Oklahoma,  New Mexico  and Kansas has now moved
north, according to the Aug. 9 U.S. Drought Monitor. The dryness
has left a “bifurcation” in a domestic farm economy that the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects will earn a record $94.7
billion in profit this year, according to Jason Henderson, a Fed
economist.  The drought “has really affected farm incomes in Kansas
and Oklahoma,” Henderson said in a telephone interview from
Omaha, Nebraska. “Northern areas that have received rain have
strong income prospects, while in the Southern Plains, where
there has been devastation, they’re looking at crop insurance as
their main form of income.”  The bank’s region includes all or parts of Kansas,
Colorado, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, northern New Mexico and
western Missouri.  Farmland values have surged in the U.S. during a crop boom
in the past year that sent the price of corn, the nation’s
biggest crop, up 68 percent in the past year on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Soybeans, the second-largest, are up 29 percent.  Equipment Sales  Bankers surveyed by the Fed reported less interest in
capital spending for items such as  Deere & Co. (DE)  combines than one
year ago. Still, most bankers reported healthy loan portfolios,
the Fed said in its report, because of low levels of overall
farmer debt.  “Farm balance sheets in the Great Plains tend to be
strong,” Henderson said.  On farmland values, regional variation was significant, he
said. Gains in Nebraska cropland were the highest in the region,
with prices up 30 percent from a year earlier, according to the
study. Oklahoma’s 11 percent gain was the smallest, mostly due
to more-expensive mineral rights, Henderson said.  The  Kansas City , Missouri-based bank’s quarterly survey
included responses from 246 banks involved in agricultural
lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  