-- 
Dubai Shares Fall, Snapping Three-Day Advance Before Europe Debt Meeting

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-15T12:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/dubai-shares-fall-snapping-three-day-advance-before-europe-debt-meeting.html
Dubai’s index declined for the first
time in four days, led by  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , ahead of a
meeting tomorrow where French and German officials will discuss
measures to curb Europe’s financial crisis.  Dubai Islamic, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest Shariah-
compliant lender, slipped 1.5 percent and property company
 Deyaar Development (DEYAAR)  PJSC fell the most in almost a week. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  retreated 0.6 percent to 1,470.39, the lowest
since Aug. 11, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. About 34 million
shares traded in the emirate, compared with a 12-month daily
average of 123 million, according to data on Bloomberg. In Oman,
 Renaissance Services SAOG (RNSS)  slid the most in six years.  “Investors are cautious and are awaiting the results of
the meeting between Germany and  France  with regard to what tools
and how much the bailout package will be,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “If results of
the meeting are positive, then we might see a follow-up buying
in the Gulf stock markets.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet Aug. 16 in Paris to discuss economic
governance of the euro region, according to statements from both
leaders’ offices. France, Spain, Italy and Belgium imposed bans
on short selling to stabilize markets after European banks hit
their lowest level since the credit crisis. A short is a bet an
asset will decline.  Renaissance Tumbles  The STOXX  Europe  600 Index declined 0.2 percent, bringing
its loss for the month to 11 percent, while the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index gained 1.6 percent, paring the August drop to 12
percent. Equities tumbled this month spurred by concern the
global economy is slowing and the U.S. may enter a recession.  Trading volumes in Dubai have declined this month to an
average 96 million shares per day as the Islamic holy month of
Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset and business
activity slows, started Aug. 1.  Dubai Islamic fell the most in a week to 1.99 dirhams and
Deyaar lost 1.4 percent, the most since Aug. 9, to 27.5 fils.  Renaissance Services tumbled 10 percent, the biggest drop
since April 2005, to 0.621 rial. The Omani provider of service
to the oil and gas industry said first-half profit tumbled 77
percent to 2.26 million rials ($5.9 million) and the head of its
Topaz unit resigned.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s stocks rose 0.4
percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index, Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) ,
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and Bahrain’s measure were little changed. The
Kuwait Stock Exchange Unweighted Index rose 0.2 percent. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  