-- 
The Real U.S. Crisis Is Not the Debt Downgrade: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/the-real-u-s-crisis-is-not-a-debt-downgrade-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
The U.S. has a fiscal crisis, but
not the one that everyone is talking about. Standard and Poor’s
proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the U.S. still has the
world’s preeminent reserve currency. When shocks hit -- and
investors have no idea who or what might be next in line for a
downgrade -- they buy U.S. government securities.  Downgrades don’t usually have this effect. For example, if
S&P or other rating companies downgraded  France , that would set
off a crisis within the euro region -- pushing up  interest rates 
on French government debt, undermining euro-area banks, and
perhaps putting pressure on the fabric of the European Union
itself. With a one-notch downgrade of the U.S. government, on
the other hand, S&P inadvertently managed to lower the U.S.’s
borrowing costs, both at the federal level and for homeowners
who refinanced their mortgages.  The U.S.’s fiscal problem is not that the market questions
the country’s ability to pay its debts. The willingness to pay
was clearly proved by the outcome of the debt-ceiling debate,
when even a majority of Tea Party adherents in the U.S. House of
Representatives voted to lift the ceiling (though it would have
passed without their votes). We most definitely do not have the
kind of solvency crisis experienced by some emerging markets and
now, for the first time, parts of Western Europe.  Growth Crisis  Instead, our crisis has two dimensions. First, we have a
growth crisis. My MIT colleague, Daron Acemoglu, in a  blog post 
on the Harvard Business Review website, makes the point vividly.
In his view, one percentage point extra growth per year for the
next 20 years would fix the U.S.’s budget problems. If we could
manage to increase our growth rate from 2 percent a year to,
say, 3 percent over the long haul, that would greatly boost
average incomes, as well as  tax revenue .  Acemoglu also argues that the  U.S. economy  can grow through
innovation, but only if U.S. policies foster more basic
scientific research and more effective commercialization of
technology. The U.S. also needs to improve its patent system and
allow more skilled foreign workers into the country, Acemoglu
says.  The general policy mood may be shifting in this direction.
 Jeb Bush , the former Florida governor, and  Kevin Warsh , a former
Federal Reserve governor, made similar points in a Wall Street
Journal  op-ed  last week. Bush’s rhetoric was suitably vague for
someone who is likely to run for president in 2016. Bush and
Warsh felt the need to repeat the mantra of the day, “Cutting
spending is essential,” and then quickly made the right point:
“But we will never cut our way to prosperity.”  Income Distribution  Restoring growth is not easy because of a second, more
debilitating element -- a paralyzing fight over the distribution
of income, in which powerful people can block the government
from doing anything sensible if that is against their narrow
interest.  This dynamic can be seen in the debate over who will foot
the bill for the 2008 financial crisis, which caused a deep
recession that pushed up the federal government’s medium-term
debt -- what we should expect by 2018 for example -- by about 50
percent of gross domestic product. (You can check the
Congressional Budget Office numbers yourself; start with points
9 and 10 in my  testimony  to a July 13 joint hearing of the
Senate Finance and House Ways and Means committees. The
testimony was not refuted.)  Someone Pays  To control future debt levels, someone has to pay for that
fiasco. But people in high-income brackets, working with various
allies, have dug a brilliant defense against tax increases in
the form of the  Tea Party . Backed by 30 percent of the
population, this group exploits the broad design of the U.S.
Constitution, which gives well-organized minorities an effective
veto power over major policy changes. The result is that,
instead of letting President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for the
rich expire, we are headed for deep spending cuts that
disproportionately affect the less-well-off.  More generally, powerful lobbies have amassed great
privilege in the political system, and they can’t be easily
moved from their positions. For example, Jeb Bush and Warsh say,
quite reasonably, “If banks are ‘too big to fail,’ they are too
big. They must be allowed to succeed or fail on their own merit,
without any hint of government support.” But there is precisely
no chance that Congress, the  Federal Reserve  or the executive
branch will end the subsidies that undergird big banks, and that
keep them in business through essentially free insurance against
downside risk. Watch Bank of America in the weeks ahead for the
next demonstration of what it means to be too big to fail.  Innovation and Growth  Acemoglu and James Robinson of  Harvard University  have a
forthcoming book, “Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power,
Prosperity, and Poverty,” that attributes economic success to
political institutions that support innovation and growth.
(Disclosure: I had nothing to do with writing the book, but they
draw on research the three of us did jointly.)  The U.S. has done well over 200-plus years in most of the
areas Acemoglu and Robinson stress. But the country now seems to
be in the grip of an oligarchy that is determined to protect its
position at the expense of spending for the public good on
things like education and scientific research. Nations
frequently fail when powerful interest groups block change. If
this is the U.S. situation, it’s more serious than any rating
company’s view on debt levels.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  professor and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 