-- 
Tea Partiers, China and Democracy’s Genius, Part 2: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T00:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/tea-partiers-china-and-democracy-s-genius-part-2-noah-feldman.html
Is the Communist Party of  China 
behind the  Tea Party ? Via the Xinhua news agency, the Chinese
government told Americans that their days of borrowing their way
out of economic troubles were over. Instead, the U.S. must cut
spending on social programs and defense. There was no mention of
raising taxes.  The confluence between the two perspectives, quasi-
communist and quasi-libertarian, is more apparent than real. The
Chinese leadership doesn’t actually want the U.S. to stop
borrowing. Its holdings of U.S. treasuries are the best leverage
a rising power has ever had over the world-leading hegemon it
plans eventually to challenge.  The public scolding from Beijing was, more than anything, a
symbolic response to Chinese microbloggers who have been
criticizing their own government for over-investing in  U.S. debt 
-- a way for the party to get ahead of Chinese public opinion
without changing its strategy.  Yet it does raise a more serious question about the Tea
Party: Who really is behind it?  For the last several years, liberals have charged that what
appears to be a populist movement was actually generated and
paid for by big business. Now, however, the Tea Party doesn’t
seem to be acting in accordance with what the business community
wants -- at least as reflected in the markets. After all, it was
the Tea Party’s intransigence that generated the near-breakdown
in bipartisanship that  Standard & Poor’s  cited in its decision
to downgrade U.S. debt.  More broadly, in pushing the government to the brink of
default, the Tea Party came close to disproving the conventional
wisdom that the two-party system in the  United States  is
entirely captive to corporate interests. If those interests are
so powerful, why couldn’t they make their political arm -- the
 U.S. Congress  - act quickly and in concert to raise the debt
ceiling? If cuts are needed -- or taxes must be raised -- to
reduce the deficit and improve the nation’s credit, why couldn’t
corporate America push Congress to reach consensus sooner, or at
all?  One possibility is that corporate interests do greatly
shape U.S. politics, but that the tool they mostly use --
influencing electoral democracy through campaign contributions -
- is a blunt instrument rather than a scalpel.  According to this view, many in the business community were
actually very worried about the nearly uncontrollable growth of
the deficit during the George W. Bush presidency. Even with
Republican control over the veto pen (and, for some time,
Congress as well), discretionary spending rose to unprecedented
levels.  This fact of Republican perfidy to the cause of the
balanced budget was so striking that it led traditional
libertarians such as  David Stockman  to the apostasy of
supporting tax hikes.  Responding to this situation in which even Republicans
would neither cut spending nor raise taxes, these business
interests helped finance the Tea Party. They hoped, according to
this theory, that a radical movement demanding cuts would put
pressure on mainstream Republican and Democratic politicians to
rein in spending.  Once the Tea Party tasted success, however, the members of
Congress associated with it could not be controlled as precisely
as its initial corporate donors would have liked. These
representatives pushed too hard, endangering the very sense of
bipartisan stability on which corporate America generally
relies. Of course, in the end, they did act reasonably (if not
responsibly) in providing enough Republican votes to raise the
debt ceiling.  Another theory is based on the fact that genuine populism
does recur in American life. This makes the structure of
bipartisan consensus in hock to corporate interests far less
stable than its critics believe. And when a movement does catch
political fire, it isn’t responsible in any direct way to a
particular corporate or even class interest.  Many observers point out that the Tea Party movement has
trouble converging on any set of ideas except for reducing
deficits without raising taxes. Yet polls suggest that many Tea
Party affiliates also balk at the idea of major cuts to Social
Security and Medicare -- not to mention deep reductions in the
 defense budget . This isn’t a policy prescription, but an impulse
wrapped in a package of denial.  Because it comes from below and not from professional
politicians, populism is simply not responsible to all the
demands of institutional rationality. It expresses strong public
feelings of dismay and frustration. (Just ask the Chinese
microbloggers who are angry that their economy is growing faster
than the standard of living is rising.)  Politicians in a democracy are entrepreneurs who cater to
trends in public opinion so long as those trends can bring in
votes.  The Tea Party congress members therefore didn’t
initially feel the need to act according to a coherent policy
plan. As I argued in my previous column, however, they did
eventually come around -- because their interests began to match
those of other congressional stakeholders.  There is an important lesson here about how popular
movements can or cannot break the stranglehold of the two-party
system. In the U.S., a genuinely popular movement can move one
of the major parties -- and even the system as a whole -- to an
appreciable degree. It is, however, limited by the tendency of
such movements to become part of the bipartisan system rather
than challenging it from outside.  Just a year ago, some imagined that the Tea Party could
become an independent, third-party style movement. Instead it
became a faction of the  Republican Party . This was both a wise
move -- third parties have never really succeeded in the U.S. --
and also the first step in the undoing of the Tea Party’s
radicalism.  Critics of the two-party system take note: You can have an
impact. Corporate interests don’t always prevail. But the
results won’t always be the ones you like. Sometimes, they can
be downright scary.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University , is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah.feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  