-- 
Eastern Europe’s Economic Expansion Falters as Interest-Rate Bets Reverse

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-08-16T12:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/eastern-europe-s-economic-growth-probably-faltered-as-rate-bets-reversed.html
Eastern European economic growth
slowed in the second quarter, supporting expectations that
central banks may have to start reducing borrowing costs.  The Czech and Hungarian economies slowed for the first time
since they emerged from recession in the first quarter of 2010,
Slovak gross domestic product grew at the slowest pace since
that same period and  Romania ’s decelerated after ending a two-
year slump in the January-March period. Poland on Aug. 30 may
say growth slowed, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Eastern Europe’s  export-led recovery from its worst slump
since the end of communism two decades ago is in peril as a
deepening debt crisis in the euro area and a cut in the U.S.
credit-rating intensify threats to the global economy. That
means regional central banks may consider rate cuts to bolster
their economies as long they don’t weaken local currencies and
threaten financial stability, according to Citigroup Inc.  “From the central bank point of view, there is a case for
some rate cuts,” Citigroup economist  Piotr Kalisz  said today by
phone from Warsaw. “Assuming there is no substantial weakening
of regional currencies, we can expect at best stable rates or in
the future some rate cuts, though probably not this year.”  The zloty dropped 1.7 percent against the Swiss franc to
trade at 3.715 at 2:15 p.m., compared with 3.652 late yesterday.
The forint fell 2 percent against the Alpine currency to 242.39
per franc. The Romanian lei weakened 1.2 percent to 3.819. The
BUX benchmark index fell 3.6 percent in Budapest while the
Prague index lost 1.7 percent, the Warsaw index fell 1 percent
and the Bucharest gauge eased 0.6 percent.  Second-Quarter Growth  The Czech economy grew 2.4 percent from a year earlier in
the second quarter, slowing from 2.8 percent in the previous
three months, while  Hungary ’s economic output rose 1.5 percent
after a 2.5 percent increase, the two countries said today.
Hungary’s GDP was unchanged from the previous quarter.  The Slovak economy expanded 3.3 percent in the second
quarter, compared with 3.5 percent in the first. Romanian GDP
grew 1.4 percent, down from 1.7 percent.  Polish growth slowed to 4.2 percent from 4.4 percent, data
due on Aug. 30 will show, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
pace of expansion missed economist’s estimates in Russia and
declined for a second quarter in  Bulgaria , data released last
week showed.  The German, the biggest export market for eastern European
products, expanded at a worse-than-expected quarterly rate of
0.1 percent in the April-June period.  Lagging Behind  Eastern  Europe ’s growth is lagging behind  Asia  and  Latin
America , the two developing regions it competes with for export
markets and investments. While no emerging market is “immune”
from the U.S and European debt crises, Asia will outperform,
while weaker demand for exports and a lack of foreign capital
inflows will hurt eastern Europe the most, according to  Capital
Economics .  Money market traders, who were predicting higher rates last
month, have begun betting on rate cuts within six months in
Poland, the  Czech Republic  and Hungary.  Growth has become the main global concern as policy makers
rush to stave off a world recession. The  Federal Reserve  pledged
last week to keep  interest rates  near zero through at least mid-
2013, the  European Central Bank  bought bonds and the  Bank of
England  indicated it’s ready to add more stimulus if needed.  In eastern Europe, countries including Hungary and  Poland 
are also grappling with the gains in the value of the Swiss
franc, which raise forint and zloty payments on loans in the
Swiss currency, reducing consumers’ purchasing power.  Reports last week showed slowing inflation in the Czech
Republic, Hungary, Poland, Ukraine, Russia and Romania, easing
pressure on policy makers to raise rates.  ‘Most Vulnerable’  Polish six-month forward-rate agreements were 17 basis
points below the three-month Warsaw interbank-offered rate
yesterday, while they were 12 basis points higher a week
earlier, suggesting a rate increase. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Hungarian six-month contracts were 27 basis
points below the three-month Budapest interbank offered rate,
from 7 basis points higher a week earlier.  “The economies of emerging Europe look most vulnerable,”
 Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-markets economist at Capital
Economics, said by e-mail. “First, they rely more heavily on
exports to the troubled  euro zone . Second, they are more
dependent on foreign capital to finance spending and roll over
external debt. Third, high budget deficits mean that there is
limited scope for policy stimulus, if needed.”  Growth in  Russia , the region’s largest economy and the
world’s biggest energy exporter, will be squeezed by a slump in
global commodity prices, according to Shearing and Clemens Grafe, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief economist in Moscow.  Russian Growth  A drop in the price of Urals crude to $80 a barrel would
slow Russian expansion to 2.5 percent, compared with an
estimated 5.4 percent when oil is at $122.3 a barrel, Grafe
wrote in an Aug. 10 report. Russia’s export blend closed
yesterday at $108.01.  Sagging investment volumes and a slower buildup in
inventories dragged down Russia’s growth last quarter. Gross
domestic product expanded 3.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 4.1 percent in the first quarter, and a 4 percent
median forecast of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Bulgarian growth slowed to 1.9 percent from 3.4 percent in
the first quarter, an Aug. 12 government report showed. Romanian
export growth slowed in June on muted demand for manufactured
products, such as Dacia SA cars, according to a report last
week. Czech manufacturing growth slowed for a third month in
July to the weakest level in 1 1/2 years as new orders
decelerated, a purchasing managers index compiled by Markit and
HSBC, published Aug. 1 showed.  ‘Evidence of Deceleration’  “In the third and fourth quarters there will be evidence
of deceleration” in eastern Europe “because of weaker domestic
demand and weaker exports at the same time,”  Raffaella Tenconi ,
an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London , said by
phone.  Hungarian and Polish consumers that bought homes and cars
in Swiss francs are being squeezed by its appreciation against
the forint and the zloty. Defying efforts by the Swiss central
bank to curb its strength, the Alpine currency reached a record
against both local units on Aug. 9. The franc has climbed 12
percent against the forint and 16 percent against the zloty in
the past three months.  “This is basically a monetary tightening in these
countries,” said  Lars Christensen , chief analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  