-- 
Heir Awarded $1.43 Million by Hague for Goering-Looted Part of Old Master

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-15T14:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/heir-awarded-1-43-million-by-hague-for-goering-looted-part-of-old-master.html
The Hague city government agreed to
pay 1 million euros ($1.43 million) to the heir of a Jewish  art
dealer  whose gallery was looted by Hermann Goering for part of a
Jan Steen painting that was in fragments until 1996.  Jacques Goudstikker left about 1,400 artworks in his
gallery when he escaped Amsterdam in 1940 on a cargo boat with
his wife and baby son. He died during the crossing and his
gallery was looted. In 2006, the Dutch government returned 202
works from the national collection to Goudstikker’s sole heir,
his daughter-in-law Marei von Saher.  The Steen painting, “The Wedding Night of Tobias and
Sarah,” now hangs in the  Bredius Museum  in The Hague. Before
Goudstikker acquired the left side of the painting, it had been
split into segments. The smaller right side, which depicted the
Archangel Raphael, was owned by  The Hague . The two fragments
were  reunited by restorers  in 1996.  “Both parties had agreed that they did not want to see the
painting divided again,” Von Saher’s lawyers,  Herrick,
Feinstein LLP  in  New York , said in a statement. “The settlement
resolves the dispute without separating the painting’s two
parts.”  Goering, Hitler’s right-hand man in the Nazi party, looted
the gallery weeks after Goudstikker fled Amsterdam and used the
booty to decorate his opulent country estate outside Berlin.  After World War II and the liberation of Nazi-occupied
Netherlands, the Allies handed recovered works back to the Dutch
government for restitution to the original owners. Those not
returned immediately after the war became part of the national
collection.  Wing Tips  Art historians in The Hague noticed that on the left side
of the painting -- which belonged to Goudstikker -- the tips of
the archangel’s wings are visible in the top right corner. This
proved that the two fragments belonged to the same painting. The
museum says that the pieces that have been reconciled are
probably still only the center of a much larger painting.  Though the Dutch government agreed to return its part of
“The Wedding Night of Tobias and Sarah” in 2006, the prior
joining of the two separated fragments led to a dispute over who
should get the complete painting. The two parties began
negotiating a settlement more than two years ago.  Marjolein de Jong, deputy mayor in charge of culture in The
Hague, wrote in a statement sent by e-mail that the agreed price
is lower than Von Saher’s initial demands for 1.8 million euros
and said the accord “helps preserve the painting for The Hague
and future generations.”  Government Help  The Dutch government and  Mondriaan Foundation  will
contribute 400,000 euros toward the settlement, according to
Esther Andoetoe, a spokeswoman for The Hague. The  Rembrandt
Association  will pay 200,000 euros. The cultural budget of The
Hague will fund 92,000 euros and 308,000 euros comes from
insurance money for the loss of two other paintings, she said.  Steen was born in the Dutch city of Leiden in 1625. He
painted Bible subjects, landscapes and portraits and left about
800 paintings.  Artworks returned to Von Saher from Dutch museums include
pieces by Salomon van Ruysdael, Filippo Lippi and others by
Steen. She also has recovered more than 30 works from museums in
other countries, including Germany and  Israel .  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  