-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Soar as Morgan Stanley Adds to Highest Since 2009

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-15T22:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/emerging-market-stocks-rise-on-u-s-data-morgan-stanley-boosts-weighting.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark gaining the most in four months, after Morgan
Stanley lifted its allocation of developing-country shares to
the highest since 2009 and a smaller-than-forecast contraction
in  Japan  spurred optimism about the global economic outlook.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index soared 2.4 percent to
1,013.41 as of 4:30 p.m. New York time, the largest increase
since April 20. The gauge is rebounding from three weeks of
losses after Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. credit rating and
concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis may spread. Brazil’s
Bovespa index and  Mexico ’s benchmark gauge advanced to the
highest levels since Aug. 3. Indexes in  China ,  Taiwan , Russia,
 Turkey , and the  Czech Republic  all rallied.  Morgan Stanley increased its equity allocation in its
multi-asset emerging-market portfolio to 58 percent, analysts
led by  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report today, citing
“historic” low valuations and prospects the stocks will
outperform developed nations’ shares. Japan’s gross domestic
product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent rate in the three
months ended June 30, the government said today in  Tokyo , less
than the 2.5 percent median forecast from 25 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “Friday’s gains in major U.S. equity indices and stronger-
than-expected Japanese GDP data today have provided modest
support to emerging-market Asian assets at the start of the
trading week,” analysts at  RBC Capital Markets , including
Robert Beange in  London , wrote in a note to clients today.
“Market sentiment remains vulnerable following last week’s
extreme volatility.”  ‘Relatively Low Risk’  The S&P 500 Index rose as more than $20 billion in
corporate takeover deals and valuations near the lowest level in
two years offset further signs the economy is slowing.
Manufacturing in the  New York  region unexpectedly contracted for
a third straight month in August as orders and inventories
dropped, the so-called Empire State Index released by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York showed.  A global recession remains a “relatively low risk”
because of “resilient” commodities, central bank policies in
developed nations and slowing inflation in emerging countries,
Garner, Morgan Stanley’s chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said in his report.  The Bovespa index added 2.2 percent, its fifth session of
gains, after a central bank survey showed analysts covering
Brazil’s economy lowered their inflation forecasts, boosting
speculation policy makers will cut  interest rates .  Currencies Gain  All but two of the 25 emerging-market currencies
strengthened versus the dollar, led by the forint with gains of
3 percent and the Polish zloty which appreciated 1.9 percent.
 South Africa ’s rand rose 1.6 percent.  Hungary’s BUX Index jumped 4.5 percent. OTP Bank Nyrt., the
country’s biggest lender, advanced 6 percent.  Almost two-thirds of Hungarian home mortgages are
denominated in foreign currencies, most of them in francs,
according to central bank data as of June 30.  The Swiss government and the central bank are in
“intense” talks about a possible franc target to stem currency
gains, SonntagsZeitung newspaper reported, citing unidentified
people close to the situation.  Brazilian oil producers Petroleo Brasileiro SA and OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA rose, as crude advanced as much
as 3.1 percent in New York. Lojas Renner SA led gains by
companies that depend on domestic demand.  In Mexico, Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the
Americas, jumped 7.1 percent to 6.79 pesos. Cemex will pay
approximately $350 million to assume full ownership of two joint
ventures with Ready Mix USA, the Mexican cement producer said in
an e-mailed statement on Aug. 12.  Russia, China  Russia’s Micex Index added 2.7 percent and Turkey’s  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  advanced 2.5 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
rallied 2.4 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed
1.3 percent for its strongest four-day winning streak since June
28.  Equity markets in India,  South Korea  and Poland were shut
for holidays.  MSCI’s emerging-market index has tumbled 11 percent this
month, bound for its worst month since October 2008. It’s down
12 percent this year. Valuations on the gauge slipped to 9.3
times estimated profits for the coming 12 months, the lowest
since March 2009, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries plunged 16 basis points, the biggest
one-day drop since December, to 358, or 3.58 percentage points,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps tumbled 15 basis
points to 238.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  