-- 
Cohan: Ending the Moral Rot on Wall Street, Part 2

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-08-15T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/ending-the-moral-rot-on-wall-street-part-2-william-d-cohan.html
Can it be true that the trillions of
dollars we spent bailing out  Wall Street  only restored the
deeply flawed status quo, instead of bringing about the
fundamental system overhaul we needed?  One of the unintended consequences of the rescue of the
banks in 2008 was to restore many of the most heinous aspects of
Wall Street’s culture, thus exponentially increasing the
inherent risks in the system. Indeed, while Main Street
continues to suffer from high unemployment and plunging  home
prices , the financial industry is dancing a jig after paying
itself about $150 billion in compensation in 2010.  In September and October 2008, as the fear of financial and
economic collapse was at its most acute, there was a brief
moment when it seemed there was a real chance that Wall Street
would be reformed. That didn’t happen.  Since 1970, when financial companies began selling shares
to the public, the industry has ensnared the rest of us in
repeated crises of its own making. There was the crash of 1987
and the credit freeze that followed, the Asian crisis, the
Mexican crisis, the Russian crisis, the collapse of Long-Term
Capital Management, the Internet bubble and, most recently, the
risky mortgage-related behavior that led to the Great Recession
and brought us to the edge of economic devastation. As the past
few weeks have shown, we are still suffering its aftershocks.  Capital Markets  At the time, each of these crises seemed existential and
rendered the capital markets -- the engine room of capitalism --
dysfunctional for long periods. The increasing rapidity and
intensity of each of these events is directly correlated with
the decisions by Wall Street companies to go public. The
consequence is that Wall Street replaced its traditional
partnership culture -- where stakeholders shared profit and
losses -- with a bonus culture that encouraged accountability-
free, asynchronous risk-taking with other people’s money. Rather
than accept responsibility for these recurring crises, Wall
Street’s defenders resort to the patently false argument that
they are the result of normal market vicissitudes.  Wouldn’t such an obviously broken system need repairing?
Apparently not. Instead of a genuine fix, in the past two years,
 Washington  has put Wall Street back on its feet without
demanding any accountability for the damage caused to the
economy and with only modest changes to the way business is done.
Although a boon to congressional campaign coffers, such
accommodation damages the credibility of markets and does little
to rehabilitate an ailing economy.  Dodd-Frank Act  Worse, the cozy relationship endures, as Wall Street’s
lobbyists and executives exert influence over regulators such as
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. This gives Wall Street sway over the
drafting of the new rules governing our financial system that
were mandated by the inadequate Dodd-Frank Act.  In June,  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , expressed his concerns to Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke . “I have this great fear that someone’s going
to write a book in 10 or 20 years, and the book is going to talk
about all the things that we did in the middle of a crisis that
actually slowed down recovery,” he said.  What’s more, for years now, the Fed has kept  interest rates 
artificially low, creating a subsidy to banks that penalizes
savers and those on fixed incomes, and encourages investors to
put their money in riskier investments. This replicates the
policies of Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  after the Sept. 11
attacks that led to the real-estate bubble -- only today
interest rates are even lower.  Fed Financing  The Wall Street rescue has also effectively replaced the
pluralism of yesteryear -- when competition among many banks
offered customers many choices -- with a powerful cartel of a
few companies with unlimited access to cheap financing from the
Fed.  After the failures of Bear Stearns & Co.,  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , Washington Mutual Inc. and Wachovia Corp. -- and
the travails of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , American International Group
Inc., Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch & Co. -- there is almost
no pluralism left. Who could have predicted the September 2008
decision that made  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  a  bank holding
company , allowing it to back up to the Fed window and borrow
money at virtually no cost? That change, in turn, supports
Goldman’s largely unchanged, risk-oriented business model, which
is now free of much of the competition it faced before the
crisis. Is the U.S. taxpayer subsidizing Goldman Sachs?
Incredibly, the answer is yes.  Restoring Confidence  Here are three suggestions for restoring public confidence
in companies that once were the envy of the world:  -- The bonus culture must be revamped. Human beings are
pretty simple. They do what they are rewarded to do. On Wall
Street, people are rewarded when they take big, short-term risks
with other people’s money. Trouble is, they are rewarded not
only when the bets pay off, but also when they don’t. There’s
probably no practical way to return to the private partnerships
that required people to put their net worth on the line, but a
way must be found to require bankers, traders and executives to
have skin in the game.  But how? We could start by creating a new security that
represents the entire net worth of the top 100 executives at the
remaining Wall Street companies. These people decide what
business lines to be in, how to deploy capital, who to promote
and how much to pay. This new security would be at the bottom of
the corporate  capital structure  -- below corporate debt and
shareholder’s equity -- and would be the first asset to be wiped
out if the company performs poorly. This would ensure that
today’s Masters of the Universe are focused on the risks their
businesses are taking.  Close the Casino  -- Close the casino. In the early days on Wall Street,
banks prospered by helping their corporate clients achieve their
goals. Among them, going public, raising debt and equity capital
or providing advice on mergers and acquisitions. Now, for the
most part, this is a sideshow to the far bigger endeavor of
trading, which involves taking huge proprietary principal risks,
buying big blocks of stock or debt, buying and selling credit
and equity derivatives and making huge bets on the direction of
commodities. A generation ago,  investment banking  generated the
majority of Goldman Sachs’ revenue and profit; in 2010, it
accounted for just $4.8 billion, or 12 percent, of the bank’s
$39 billion in revenue, and a mere 10 percent of its pretax
profit.  Banks should no longer be allowed to gamble for their own
accounts. Instead, they should return to being the boring, pre-
Enron-style utilities that provided capital to clients who
needed to expand plants and equipment or hire new employees.
They could also provide advice on corporate mergers or asset
management. A new version of the 1933  Glass-Steagall Act , which
separated investment banking from commercial banking, should be
implemented.  At the very least, cheap financing from the Fed should no
longer be used to subsidize risk-taking. The business models of
companies such as Lazard Ltd., Greenhill & Co. and Evercore
Partners Inc. should be emulated.  -- Cut Wall Street pay at least in half. The compensation
is obscene and unjustified, especially now that almost every
company is publicly traded. What other publicly traded
businesses pay out to their employees between 50 and 60 cents of
every dollar of revenue generated? None. Do these companies
exist for the benefit of the people who work there or for the
benefit of their shareholders and creditors? At the moment,
they’re for the executives and employees. Drastically cutting
pay would immediately reduce the largest Wall Street expense and
lift profitability even as revenue and profit are sluggish.  Highly Paid  The industry reaction will be outrage, of course. We will
be told that the best people will leave or that business will
dry up. That’s nonsense. Even after a 50 percent pay cut,
bankers and traders will remain among the most overpaid human
beings. Furthermore, because Wall Street is now a cartel, it
wouldn’t take long for the lower pay to be the new standard,
much to the gain of shareholders. That would also benefit other
professions that have lost their best and brightest to the draw
of Wall Street compensation.  For now, we can pretend that the 2,300-page Dodd-Frank Act
and the new regulations that Wall Street and its proxies are
busy writing will change behavior and prevent the next crisis.
But until we fundamentally overhaul the business model and its
incentives, a reckless industry will continue business as usual.
After all, human beings are pretty simple; they do what they are
rewarded to do.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 