-- 
England Can Dominate Cricket After Taking No.1 Test Ranking, Anderson Says

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-15T00:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/england-can-dominate-cricket-after-taking-no-1-test-ranking-anderson-says.html
England  bowler  James Anderson  called
on his team to aim for dominance in all forms of cricket after
it guaranteed No. 1 Test status by beating  India .  England’s innings and 242-run victory two days ago assured
its place atop the  International Cricket Council ’s Test rankings
for the first time. Anderson took four wickets as India was
bowled out for 244 in Birmingham. England declared on 710-7 in
reply to India’s first-innings 224 all out.  “Every nation wants to be No. 1 in all forms of the game
but it very rarely happens that way,” Anderson, 29, told BBC
Radio 5 Live’s Sportsweek program. “We’ve conquered one step,
we’re the best Test nation in the world. Now we can push
everything else forward now.”  The victory gave England an unbeatable 3-0 lead in the
best-of-four contest against India. England started the series
third in the ICC’s  rankings  and needed to win by at least two
Tests to overtake top-ranked India when the list is updated. The
final Test at the Oval starts Aug. 18.  England was sixth in the Test rankings when Andy Flower was
hired as coach in April 2009. The team has since beaten
 Australia  home and away in the Ashes and the Twenty20 squad won
last year’s ICC World Twenty20 title.  After beating India to achieve his goal of becoming the No.
1 Test team, Flower spoke of his desire to guide England to its
first victory in the one-day  World Cup . The English slumped to a
10-wicket loss to  Sri Lanka  in the quarterfinals of this year’s
competition, and is currently fifth in the one-day rankings.  ‘Small Things’  Anderson has played 62 Tests and taken 237 wickets at an
average of 30.52. In the current series, he’s taken 18 wickets
at 24.27 and is the No. 2 Test bowler in the ICC’s rankings.  He said Flower’s influence had lifted the team’s level.  “Since he came in he sat us down and showed us exactly
what we needed to do to become the No. 1 in the world,”
Anderson said. “The biggest thing for us that has helped is
we’ve concentrated on the small things that have got us here. He
has improved everyone and we’ve seen that in the performances of
the team.”  England’s sixth straight Test series victory means it will
become the fourth country to hold the top spot since the ICC
introduced the current rankings in 2003, after Australia,  South
Africa  and India.  Alastair Cook ’s career-best 294 helped England take control
of the third Test. It was the highest score by an Englishman
since Graham Gooch’s 333 against India in 1990, while the team’s
total was its largest since amassing 903-7 declared against
Australia in 1938. It was the third straight lopsided defeat for
India in the series, after losses by 196 runs and 319 runs.  Series Sweep  Should England complete a 4-0 series sweep, India would
fall from first to third in the rankings behind South Africa. An
English loss or draw would see India at No. 2 ahead of the South
Africans, who don’t play a Test match until November when they
host Australia.  Anderson is determined that the crown shouldn’t slip  “We are not just happy being Test world No. 1 for a
week,” Anderson said. “We want to leave a legacy.”  Former England captain Michael Vaughan says the team has
the potential to stay top.  “This side are going to dominate Test cricket for a period
because of their strength in depth, fitness levels,
determination and the real hunger they display,” Vaughan told
the  BBC . “It’s not just this 11, the depth of the 24 or 25
players England have to choose from is fantastic. There’s some
great talent out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  