-- 
EPA’s Outdated Tests Leave American Cars Guzzling Gas: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-15T00:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/epa-s-outdated-tests-leave-american-cars-guzzling-gas-view.html
The U.S. automobile industry has
come a long way since the 1970s. Today’s vehicles are safer,
more fuel-efficient and more comfortable. Yet public policy
toward cars is marred by standards set in 1978 that are as
obsolete as a rusted Chevy Nova.  At issue is how federal regulators calculate each
automaker’s Corporate Average Fuel Economy. Obscure as these
CAFE ratings may be, their public policy impact is vast.
Whenever the U.S. government tells automakers to boost their
CAFE scores -- as it did this summer -- it transforms the next
generation of cars Americans drive.  The trouble is, the tests used to gauge  fuel efficiency 
don’t reflect the way we actually drive, especially on the
highway. The government’s highway test involves a top speed of
60 mph, an average speed of 48.3 mph, no use of heaters or air
conditioners and an achingly slow initial acceleration in which
it takes more than a minute to go from zero to 50 mph.  It would be one thing if this exercise in pokey driving
produced equally distorted scores for all models. But the
outmoded CAFE process risks short-changing cars with smart fuel-
saving features in favor of others that are engineered for the
test.  An example: The Environmental Protection Agency’s CAFE test
for city driving includes many momentary stops at stop signs,
but only two or three longer stops of the sort made at traffic
lights. This has the effect of devaluing stop-start technology,
which switches off the engine when cars idle in traffic jams or
at stoplights, and has proved popular in Europe and  Asia .  Under current CAFE tests, says John Voelcker, the editor of
Green Car Reports, stop-start technology would be scored far too
low. It would seem to improve cars’ efficiency by barely 0.1
percent, even though one Japanese automaker thinks it could help
big-city mileage as much as 5 percent.  For highway driving, tiny improvements in aerodynamics can
make a big difference. Engineers can increase fuel efficiency by
changing the slope of windshields, closing the front grille at
high speeds and switching to slightly narrower tires. The payoff
is modest at 50 mph; it is far greater at 70 mph, where air
resistance is twice as intense. But with its 60 mph limit, the
CAFE test fails to appreciate the gains.  The EPA has already devised sophisticated new ways to test
how cars perform at high speeds, in cold weather and with air
conditioning turned on. The EPA uses such data for showroom
stickers, but pays it far less heed in the standard CAFE
calculations. Under the current tests, the stated goal of 54.5
mpg by 2025 is a number that will be achieved only on paper, car
experts say.  In practical terms, hitting the CAFE target is likely to
produce a more modest 40 mpg to 42 mpg in real-life driving,
analysts say.  Pushing for greater fuel efficiency is a good way to help
the environment, save money for consumers and help reduce U.S.
oil imports. If federal agencies could overhaul their metrics in
the next year or two, we could get there faster.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 