-- 
Merkel, Sarkozy Won’t Produce Big ‘Bang,’ German Government Says

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-15T11:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/merkel-sarkozy-won-t-produce-big-bang-german-government-says.html
Investors shouldn’t expect a “big
bang” when  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President  Nicolas Sarkozy  meet in Paris tomorrow to discuss the euro-area debt
crisis, Merkel’s chief spokesman said.  Joint euro bonds, which “haven’t been an issue” for
 Germany  in the past and are still “not the right” solution
now, will not be a topic for discussion in Paris, Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin today. He compared the
expectations for the meeting to those before a July 21 summit of
European leaders.  Merkel warned then that people were “expecting a big bang
that will clear the whole sky over Europe and make all the
problems disappear,” Seibert said. “Such a big bag didn’t take
place on July 21. Instead, important steps emerged, the effects
of which will unfold. You shouldn’t expect such a big bag from
the meeting tomorrow either. It is and remains a process.”  The leaders of  Europe ’s biggest and second-biggest
economies will meet as investors question whether the July 21
decision is enough to stem the debt crisis that started in
 Greece . Parliaments are meanwhile preparing to vote on a second
Greek aid package, plus plans to empower the 440 billion-euro
($629 billion) European Financial Stability Facility to buy
bonds in the secondary market, grant precautionary credits and
recapitalize banks by the end of September.  ‘Pressure to Save’  Peter Altmaier , the deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , suggested that the government’s
resistance to joint bonds may be weakening, saying that euro
bonds were not an appropriate solution “for now.”  Euro bonds would “take away the pressure to save among
the affected countries,” Altmaier said in an interview on
Deutschlandfunk radio today. At the same time, with “concrete
problems” to be solved, “it doesn’t make sense to go around
with principles and absolutist positions,” he said.  “In this whole debate, nobody knew at the beginning how
these events would proceed, so we’ve been careful about making
categorical decisions on a permanent basis but rather talk about
the foreseeable future,” Altmaier said. “For that reason we’re
saying that euro bonds are not the right solution for now.”  Asked repeatedly about Altmaier’s comments, Seibert said
that euro-area governments must work toward closer harmonization
in  interest rates  for sovereign debt by stepping up budget
consolidation measures rather than jointly issuing common bonds.  “It’s desirable that the interest rates on bonds of the
various euro states move closer together in the midterm, but the
way to get to closer interest rates can only be through the
efforts of the countries affected,” Seibert said.  Merkel, who spoke to Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  on
Aug. 13, “greatly welcomes” the latest round of Italian budget
cuts and sees that kind of approach as “the right way” to
ultimately bolster the euro, Seibert said. There is still “some
way to go” to a more solid euro area, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  