-- 
Merkel Meets Sarkozy Amid Investor Push for Eurobonds to Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 
2011-08-16T10:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/merkel-meets-sarkozy-amid-investor-push-for-eurobonds-to-stem-debt-crisis.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
meeting with French President Nicolas Sarkozy today comes as
investors clamor for indications that they will do more to stamp
out the euro area’s debt crisis as their economies sputter.  After a July 21 European Union agreement to bolster the
region’s rescue fund failed to calm markets, calls are growing
for the leaders to begin discussing joint borrowing or a mutual
guarantee among the 17 euro states, policies that both countries
have rejected until now. While not on the agenda, the issue will
probably come up at a joint press briefing scheduled for 6:30
p.m. Paris time after the talks.  Merkel and Sarkozy may announce proposals that “go in the
direction” of joint euro-area bonds,  Peter Bofinger , an
economic adviser to the German government, said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television. “They cannot end this day empty
handed. I think they have to deliver something.”  Today’s meeting in Paris was announced last week as debt
concerns rattled France, the second-largest euro economy after
Germany. Doubts over France’s AAA credit rating hammered shares
in the country’s banks and sent the risk premium of its
 government bonds  above Germany’s to a euro-era record as the
 European Central Bank  began buying Spanish and Italian debt.  “We’re moving toward a situation where it’s either euro
bonds or bust,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic
research at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “We’re on the verge of
extreme outcomes.”  Budget Enforcement  The talks between Merkel and Sarkozy will focus on
proposals to tighten enforcement of EU budget rules and expand
coordination of national economies, according to French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin .  Budget consolidation is paramount and joint bonds are not a
topic for discussion, Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert,
said yesterday, warning against expectations of a “big bang”
from the meeting. “It is and remains a process,” he told
reporters in Berlin.  Seibert declined to say whether short-selling will be
discussed after France,  Spain , Italy and Belgium banned the
practice from Aug. 12 to stabilize markets, a move that prompted
Germany to renew calls for a “far reaching” European ban on
some forms of short-selling.  ‘Key Thing’  “The key thing that can be sent by Merkel and Sarkozy is
that they are now beginning to consider these things very
seriously,” Myles Bradshaw, a London-based  money manager  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an Aug. 12 interview
with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television. “A signal from
Merkel would signal greater comfort in the market with the idea
that the Germans are actually changing.”  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, almost stalled in the
second quarter, growing 0.1 percent, as the debt crisis weighed
on confidence, data released today showed.  France , the second
largest, didn’t grow in the same three months.  Unprecedented bailouts by governments totaling 365 billion
euros ($522 billion) in emergency loans and ECB bond purchases
have failed to stamp out the crisis. Faltering investor
confidence may overcome the unwillingness of euro leaders to
forge a U.S.-style fiscal union. Opponents don’t want to
relinquish control of their own budgets or risk the higher
borrowing costs that would result.  Last week’s market volatility prompted Sarkozy to return to
Paris from his vacation for a day to meet top officials and
outline an accelerated schedule to announce 2012 budget cuts. It
forced Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  to issue a
statement that banks were solid and well-capitalized.  Tremonti’s Backing  As the week ended,  Italy  announced extra budget cuts that
were demanded by the ECB, and Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
repeated his endorsement of euro bonds. That view is shared by
counterparts including the head of the group of euro-area
finance ministers, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker.  A French official last month said there isn’t enough
coordination among national economic policies to justify jointly
sold bonds.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told  Der Spiegel 
in an interview published on Aug. 13 that he opposed unlimited
aid, including joint borrowing. “There is no collectivization
of debt or unlimited support,” he told the German magazine.  Merkel last directly addressed the topic in 2010, telling
reporters in Berlin on Dec. 6 that EU treaties don’t “allow
euro bonds, as far as we’re concerned.”  Since opposing any financial aid for  Greece  in early 2010,
 Germany  has bowed to the requirements of the moment. Officials
have since indicated the rejection of euro bonds isn’t ironclad.  ‘Foreseeable Future’  Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said in a July 20
interview Germany may not resist common bonds “forever” if the
euro area were threatened. While euro bonds “are not the right
solution for now,” the government is talking in terms of “the
foreseeable future” rather than on a permanent basis,  Peter Altmaier , deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats , said on Deutschlandfunk radio yesterday.  Anton Boerner, head of Germany’s BGA exporters association,
came out in favor of “euro bonds with a German stamp”
yesterday. The main opposition Social Democrats and the Greens
already back the measure, with Greens co-leader Juergen Trittin
last week calling euro bonds the “only way” to end the crisis.  Merkel is examining whether euro bonds could help end the
sovereign debt crisis, the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported today,
without quoting anyone. Germany’s biggest-selling Bild newspaper
came out against euro bonds, saying in today’s edition that
their introduction would be “explosive for our currency and the
coalition in Berlin.”  The road to euro bonds runs through the German parliament,
which may mean a long slog. Ruling coalition lawmakers last week
rejected a further expansion of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund
or introduction of joint bonds to staunch the debt crisis.  Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner will balk
at any such measure, FDP lawmaker  Frank Schaeffler  told Bild. He
suggested that any attempt to introduce euro bonds with the help
of the opposition might break the coalition. For Merkel,
“there’s no alternative majority,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  