-- 
Hestya to Use Wilhelmshaven as Terminal, Not Refinery, CEO Says

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-08-15T09:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hestya-to-use-wilhelmshaven-as-terminal-not-refinery-ceo-says.html
Hestya Energy BV isn’t planning to
start the Wilhelmshaven refinery in  Germany  it acquired from
ConocoPhillips last week because margins from processing crude
into fuels are unfavorable, its chief executive officer said.  “With the current market economics we believe there is no
way we can operate such a site and make a margin,” Christian
Cleret said in an Aug. 12 telephone interview from his office in
Geneva. “Operating a hydroskimmer at the moment doesn’t make
much sense.”  Refiners such as Petroplus Holdings AG and Preem AB posted
losses in the second quarter because of high Brent crude prices
caused by armed conflict in  Libya  that choked off exports. A
drop in demand for fuels such as gasoline meant that refiners
couldn’t pass on the higher feedstock costs to customers.  Hestya, based in Amsterdam, signed an agreement on Aug. 10
to buy the Wilhelmshaven refinery, tank farm and marine
terminal, it said in a statement. The deal is expected to be
finalized later this year.  The company wants to invest in the north German site to
make it profitable as a terminal, said Cleret, who is 59 and has
worked in the  energy industry  for 30 years. The company is owned
by private-equity firms Riverstone Holdings LLC and AtlasInvest,
according to its  website .  Commercially Viable  “Today our priority is to make the platform commercially
viable as a terminal,” Cleret said. Hestya is studying what
investments need to be made at the site, he said. That could
include more piping, valves and possibilities for blending.  “There is a trend for the large  oil companies  to disengage
progressively from their downstream activity,” he said. That
“generates the interest of a new category of actors which are
more financial investors originally.”  The Wilhelmshaven purchase will be “the cornerstone of
several more investments in the same area of downstream,” he
said. Hestya may consider starting the plant if profits rise.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said in May it would cut its workforce at
the site to 48 from 406 as it sought to use the facility as a
terminal. The U.S.-based refiner said in September last year it
would keep the facility closed following a fire in May. The
plant has the capacity to process 260,000 barrels of crude a
day, according to the company’s  website .  ConocoPhillips said last month it plans to shed its
refining business through a spinoff to free capital for oil
exploration and increase returns for investors.  Preem AB,  Sweden ’s largest refiner, made a loss of 28 cents
a barrel in the six months ended June 30 at its Gothenburg
plant, the Stockholm-based company said in an Aug. 12  statement .
That compares with a profit of $2.37 in the year-earlier period.  Gothenburg is described as a hydroskimmer refinery, with
little upgrading capacity. That means it doesn’t have units able
to produce high-value products.  “We had expected Wilhelmshaven to be turned into a
terminal given its low complexity,” UBS analysts including Jon Rigby said in a report Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  