-- 
Methodology Update Won’t Change Current Ratings, Fitch Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-15T17:08:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/methodology-update-won-t-change-current-ratings-fitch-says.html
An updated methodology report issued
by  Fitch Ratings  won’t have an impact on existing sovereign
credit ratings, the company said.  The Sovereign Rating Methodology published today includes
material such as an update of the company’s approach to
distressed-debt exchanges and an overview of its approach to
investigating factual information supplied to it, Fitch said in
a statement. It also introduces a proprietary Sovereign Rating
Model. There are “no substantive changes,” Fitch said.  “Fitch’s approach to sovereign risk analysis is a
synthesis of quantitative and qualitative judgments that capture
the willingness as well as the capacity to meet its debt
obligations,” the report said.  The London- and New York-based company said its sovereign-
rating analysis goes beyond financial strength and includes
structural features of an economy that make it more or less
vulnerable to shocks; political risk and governance; the
structure and sustainability of public debt; and external
finances.  Fitch and New York-based Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
top credit ratings for the U.S. after President  Barack Obama 
signed compromise legislation Aug. 2 raising the U.S. debt
ceiling to avert a default while threatening automatic cuts to
enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the next
decade.  S&P Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the world’s largest economy on
Aug. 5 by one level, to AA+ from AAA. It cited the government’s
political failure to reduce record deficits and said the cut
“reflects our view that the effectiveness, stability and
predictability of American policymaking and political
institutions have weakened at a time of ongoing fiscal and
economic challenges.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing the
method S&P used to cut the rating and whether the company
properly protected the confidential decision, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter. SEC inspectors are
examining S&P’s policies for conducting such analyses and
whether those procedures were followed, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  U.S. officials said the downgrade was based on a flawed
analysis that overstated the nation’s debt by about $2 trillion.
S&P said the discrepancy doesn’t change projections that the
U.S. debt-to-gross domestic product ratio will probably continue
to rise in the next decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  