-- 
Euro Declines After Sarkozy, Merkel Dismiss Euro Region Bonds; Franc Drops

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-16T21:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/euro-is-near-three-week-high-before-sarkozy-merkel-meet-about-debt-crisis.html
The euro weakened against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts after German and French
leaders rejected the issuance of bonds by the European currency
region to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency briefly pared losses after French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said  France  and Germany are working on
“ambitious” joint proposals to defend it. The Swiss franc
erased gains against the dollar and euro after U.S. industrial
production climbed, curbing the currency’s haven appeal. The
pound rose versus the dollar after U.K. inflation accelerated.  “The initial euphoria around the comments has waned as
it’s become clear that there’s not going to be a euro bond,”
said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “There’s a fair amount of
disappointment around it, and that’s why the euro has taken a
hit.”  The euro declined 0.3 percent to $1.4407 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.4445 yesterday, when it reached $1.4477, the
highest level since July 27. The shared currency fell 0.3
percent to 110.65 yen. The dollar was little changed at 76.80
yen, compared with 76.83 yen yesterday.  Germany  and France share an “absolute determination” to
defend the euro, Sarkozy told reporters in Paris today after
talks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . The two countries
will propose a financial transaction tax in September, he said.  Final Step  While euro-region bonds may be “imaginable one day,” they
can only be the final step in the process of European
integration, Sarkozy said.  “I don’t think  Europe  has used its last resource yet, and
I don’t think we can resolve the problem with a single big-bang
policy,” Merkel told reporters.  The two leaders set out joint proposals to strengthen the
shared currency, including plans for all euro-area states to
demonstrate a “verifiable commitment” to anchoring debt limits
in national law and a “euro council” to be headed by European
Union President Herman van Rompuy.  “It’s an incremental step toward some kind of pan-European
fiscal agency, but what is it going to do?” said Franulovich of
Westpac. “It’s not going to have central taxing power or
central borrowing authority, so it’s kind of an empty shell.”  The euro weakened earlier as the region’s gross domestic
product expanded in the first quarter the least since 2009, 0.2
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast an increase of
0.3 percent.  German Stagnation  German GDP, adjusted for seasonal effects, grew 0.1 percent
from the first quarter, when it jumped a revised 1.3 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office said.  The  European Central Bank  spent a record amount on
 government bonds  last week as it began buying Italian and
Spanish securities to stem the region’s debt crisis. Policy
makers said yesterday they settled purchases worth 22 billion
euros ($32 billion) in the week through Aug. 12.  The ECB earlier this year boosted its key  interest rate  to
1.5 percent to curb inflation.  “Now we are at the point where those debt concerns are
just as strong, and at the same time ECB tightening has been
priced out and now it appears that growth momentum has slowed
significantly,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist
at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “It is removing an important
pillar of support for the euro.”  Swiss Reversal  The Swiss franc weakened 1.5 percent to 79.62 centimes per
dollar, after appreciating as much as 0.9 percent. It fell 1.2
percent to 1.1465 per euro, its fourth straight daily loss,
after earlier climbing 1.5 percent to 1.1165.  Switzerland ’s central bank may introduce a currency peg
with a lower limit of slightly above 1.10 versus the euro before
gradually increasing it, SonntagsZeitung reported Aug. 14,
citing people familiar with the situation. Policy makers are
battling to curb gains that have seen the franc surge 13 percent
this year against a basket of nine developed-market peers,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Sterling rose against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after the U.K.’s  Office for National Statistics 
said consumer-price inflation quickened to an annual 4.4 percent
in July, from 4.2 percent the previous month. That reduced the
likelihood the central bank will inject further monetary
stimulus into the economy. Economists had predicted 4.3 percent.  The pound gained 0.7 percent to 87.55 pence per euro and
rose 0.4 percent to $1.6456.  Aussie, Rand  The Australian dollar and South African rand were the worst
performers against the greenback after the Swiss franc. The
Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0486, and the rand dropped 1.2
percent to 7.1539 per dollar.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced for the first time in three days. It
rose 0.2 percent to 73.976.  U.S. industrial production increased 0.9 percent in July,
after a 0.4 percent gain the prior month, Federal Reserve data
showed today. The median estimate was for a 0.5 percent rise.  Housing starts in the U.S. fell 1.5 percent to a 604,000
annual rate, in line with the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey, Commerce Department figures showed.  Fitch Ratings  affirmed its AAA credit rating for the U.S.
It said the outlook is stable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  