-- 
Evergreen Solar Seeks Bankruptcy With Plans to Sell Itself

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-15T19:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/evergreen-solar-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-with-debt-of-486-5-million.html
Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR) , a maker of
electricity generating solar panels, filed bankruptcy with plans
to sell itself at an auction in order to pay creditors owed
$485.6 million.  Investors who hold more than 70 percent of the company’s
convertible senior secured notes have agreed to act as the so-
called stalking-horse, or initial bidder, in a proposed auction
for Evergreen’s assets, including new technology to make solar
wafers at lower cost, Evergreen Chief Executive Officer Michael El-Hillow said in court papers today.  The company, based in Marlboro,  Massachusetts , blamed the
bankruptcy on increased competition from government-subsidized
solar-panel makers in  China  and the failure of the U.S. to adopt
clean-energy policies.  Prices for solar panels fell in 2010 and 2011 because of
“massive overcapacity” in the industry at a time of lower
subsidies, El-Hillow said in court papers.  Since 2010, Evergreen has been the worst-performing company
on the Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index. Solar-energy
equipment makers are being hurt by excess capacity, the cutback
of subsidies in  Europe  and increased competition from
manufacturers in China, Moody’s Investors Service said in a June
1 report.  The global production capacity of photovoltaic plants
jumped 139 percent to 18.2 gigawatts in 2010, Moody’s said.  Bid for Assets  A trustee for the 13 percent senior notes is authorized to
credit-bid for the assets, which means exchanging debt for
equity at the auction unless a larger cash offer is received.
The company owes about $165 million on the notes, according to
court documents.  Evergreen listed assets of about $424.5 million and as many
as 5,000 creditors in its Chapter 11 petition filed today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . Companies that
file Chapter 11 usually plan to cut debt, reorganize and
continue operating.  Evergreen tried to exchange some notes for new debt and
“ultimately was unable to implement any alternative remedy to
its financial condition,” the company said in court papers.  The company will fire about 65 people in Europe and the
U.S., including at its plant in Midland,  Michigan , which will be
closed. A factory in Wuhan, China, built with a $33 million
investment by the local government, will remain open while the
company negotiates with its Chinese investors.  Evergreen has about 133 employees.  The case is In re Evergreen Solar Inc. 11-12590,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 