-- 
Ex-FrontPoint Fund Manager Skowron Pleads Guilty in Insider-Trading Case

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-15T16:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/ex-frontpoint-manager-skowron-to-plead-guilty-in-insider-case-lawyer-says.html
Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge
fund manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron pleaded guilty in a U.S.
 insider-trading  case.  Skowron, a medical doctor, pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiring to commit  securities fraud  and to obstruct a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation for trading on
inside information about Human Genome Science Inc. and then
lying to investigators.  “I knew my actions were wrong and I deeply regret my
participation in these activities,” Skowron told U.S. District
Judge  Denise Cote  in  Manhattan  today. Skowron faces as much as
five years in prison when he’s sentenced Nov. 18.  The government claimed that Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences. The tips, concerning
hepatitis C drug trials, let Greenwich, Connecticut-based
FrontPoint avoid more than $30 million in losses, the U.S. said.
Benhamou has pleaded guilty.  Benhamou acted as a paid consultant to  hedge funds  while
also working as an adviser to HGSI and serving on its steering
committee for trials of Albuferon, a hepatitis treatment, the
U.S. said. Prosecutors claimed Skowron gave Benhamou more than
$14,600 in cash and paid for hotel rooms and expenses.  Insider-Trading Probe  The guilty plea is the latest in a nationwide federal
investigation into insider trading at hedge funds.  “Dr. Skowron lied to and misled FrontPoint’s internal
compliance team, the external counsel hired to independently
investigate his actions, and the federal government,”
FrontPoint said in a statement today. “FrontPoint was never
accused of any wrongdoing and has fully resolved this matter
with the government.”  FrontPoint oversaw $7 billion at the start of November
before Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of its health-care funds,
was tied to claims that the firm got advance notice on the drug-
trial results. FrontPoint’s assets slipped to $4.5 billion by
January and the firm closed its health-care funds.  The SEC accused Skowron of insider trading in a lawsuit
filed the day of his surrender in April. Skowron and the staff
of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement last week said they had
agreed in principle to terms of a settlement that the division
will recommend that the commission accept and that would “fully
resolve the SEC’s claims against defendant.”  Sentencing Guidelines  In a plea agreement, prosecutors and lawyers for Skowron
agreed that federal sentencing guidelines would call for him to
serve 87 to 108 months in prison. Conspiracy carries a top
sentence of 60 months, or five years.  In addition, Skowron faces the possibility of three years
supervised release and a fine, according to Cote. As part of the
plea agreement he agreed to forfeit $5 million to the
government.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997; the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs. Benhamou,
10-cv-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 