-- 
Texas College Fund Boosts Hedging Citing Concerns on Euro-Debt, Inflation

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-15T20:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/texas-college-fund-boosts-hedging-citing-concerns-on-euro-debt-inflation.html
Texas ’s public university endowment,
the second-largest U.S. college fund, is expanding derivative
use to hedge against a euro-region debt default or a collapse in
the dollar, while raising limits on commodities including gold.  About $50 million a year is used for hedges to protect the
Permanent University Fund from market risks, Bruce Zimmerman,
president of University of Texas Investment Management Co., said
in July. The $20.3 billion fund also has about 5 percent of its
assets in gold, he said.  Overseers of the fund approved changes today to let
endowment managers at UTIMCO, as Zimmerman’s company is known,
spend as much as 0.75 percent of assets on hedging risks, up
from 0.25 percent. Only  Harvard University ’s $27.6 billion
endowment, the largest for a U.S. school, spends proportionately
more on hedging among big collegiate funds, Zimmerman said.  “We are in a very uncertain investment environment,” he
said at the University of Texas System Board of Regents meeting
today. “The lack of clarity of the direction is as opaque as
many of us have ever seen.”  The fund may lose a fifth of its value from a euro-region
default or a crisis in the dollar, according to a study from the
management company. That prompted calls from board members for
more aggressive hedging.  The  European Central Bank  in  Frankfurt  spent a record
amount buying  government bonds  last week, scooping up Italian
and Spanish securities to curb a debt crisis that also has
threatened  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . The ECB was forced to
buy Italian and Spanish bonds on Aug. 8 after national leaders
failed to persuade investors the debt crisis would be contained.  “These derivative investments are of the type intended to
reduce long exposure or hedge against global interest-rate
shocks and risk,” according to documents given to regents.  “I have a lot of confidence in this staff,” said UTIMCO
Chairman Paul Foster, who also is chief executive officer of
Western Refining Inc. in El Paso. “I am supportive of giving
the staff additional authority to make their way through this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  