-- 
Exercising 15 Minutes a Day Adds 3 Years to Life Expectancy, Study Finds

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/exercising-15-minutes-a-day-adds-3-years-to-life-expectancy-study-finds.html
Exercising for 15 minutes a day adds
three years to a person’s  life expectancy , according to the
first  study  to show there’s a health benefit from even low
levels of physical activity.  In a study involving more than 400,000 people, those who
exercised for 90 minutes a week were also 14 percent less likely
to have died after eight years than those who were inactive,
researchers at  Taiwan ’s  National Health Research Institutes 
wrote in The Lancet medical journal today. Every extra 15
minutes of exercise reduced the risk by a further 4 percent.  The  World Health Organization   recommends  adults aged 18 to
64 years exercise for at least 150 minutes a week. While one-
third of American adults meet that goal, less than one-fifth of
the population in East Asian nations such as  China ,  Japan  and
Taiwan do, the authors wrote. The study shows that even a small
amount of exercise can lower an individual’s risk of death and
disease, and a nation’s health costs, they said.  “This advice is very simple and probably easily
achievable,” Anil Nigam and Martin Juneau, researchers at the
Montreal Heart Institute, wrote in an editorial accompanying the
study. “Governments and health professionals both have major
roles to play to spread this good news story and convince people
of the importance of being at least minimally active.”  ‘Inactive’  Researchers led by  Chi Pang Wen  at Taiwan’s Institute of
Population Science studied 416,175 healthy volunteers aged 20
years or older who participated in a medical screening program
in Taipei from 1996 to 2008, with an average follow-up of eight
years. Participants were classed in one of five categories of
exercise, from “inactive” to “very high” activity.  More than half of all participants were classed as
“inactive,” and a further 22 percent as “low volume” active.
Compared with the inactive group, those in the “low volume”
category had a 14 percent reduction in their risk of death over
the course of the study, Wen and colleagues wrote. At age 30,
they also had life expectancy that was 2.6 years longer for men
and 3.1 years longer for women.  Every extra 15 minutes of exercise reduced the risk by an
additional 4 percent up to 100 minutes a day, after which there
was no additional benefit. The reduction was as high as 40
percent for those who exercised most often and most vigorously.  “If the minimum amount of exercise we suggest is adhered
to, mortality from  heart disease , diabetes, and cancer could be
reduced,” Wen and colleagues wrote. “This low volume of
physical activity could play a central part in the global war
against non-communicable diseases, reducing medical costs and
health disaparities.”  The study was funded by Taiwan’s Department of Health, the
Clinical Trial and Research Center of Excellence and the
National Health Research Institutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  