-- 
Lockhart Says Fed Could Purchase Assets

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-15T17:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/fed-s-lockhart-says-central-bank-not-out-of-bullets-can-purchase-assets.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank could purchase
more Treasuries or alter its balance sheet if the  U.S. economy 
were to slow further.  “If additional actions are required, I can assure you the
Federal Reserve is not out of bullets,” Lockhart said today in
a speech in Florence,  Alabama . “Expansion of the balance sheet
or changes in the composition of the Fed’s asset portfolio are
available, in my view. These could be quite effective,
particularly if done in sufficient size, in the event that the
economy retreats back into contractionary territory.”  U.S. central bankers last week for the first time specified
a date for their commitment to low borrowing costs, saying the
benchmark rate will stay in a range of zero to 0.25 percent at
least through mid-2013. They had previously pledged to keep
rates low for an “extended period.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  lowered its economic
assessment, saying it now “expects a somewhat slower pace of
recovery over the coming quarters.” It left the door open for
more action, saying it discussed “the range of policy tools
available to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  “I’m currently cautious about further monetary action,”
Lockhart said in remarks prepared for a speech to the Rotary
Club of Florence. “I still maintain that a resumption of growth
is the most likely case. But if that assessment proves to be
wrong, I believe we do have tools to address whatever
circumstances arise.”  Asset Size, Composition  Lockhart said while the FOMC hasn’t been explicit about how
long it would maintain a balance sheet near record in size, “it
makes sense to me that policies related to the overall size and
composition of assets on the balance sheet should align with
explicit rate policies.”  The Atlanta Fed official also said the  central bank  has
“ample tools” to deal with any liquidity problems that emerge
in financial markets.  The risk of a recession has risen to 30 percent this month
from 14 percent in July, according to the median of the 39
economists who responded to a Bloomberg News survey released
Aug. 12. Growth will average a 2.3 percent annual rate in the
second half of the year, about a percentage point less than
projected last month, the survey found.  Gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation, cooled to a
1.6 percent rate in the second quarter from a year earlier.
About 70 percent of the time when the pace has fallen below 2
percent, a slump has followed within a year, according to data
since World War II used in an April study by Jeremy Nalewaik, a
Fed board staff economist.  Growth Forecast  “At the Atlanta Fed, we have revised down our near and
intermediate gross domestic product growth forecast, but we are
holding to the view that the economy will continue to grow at a
very modest pace,” Lockhart said. “In other words, we do not
expect the onset of outright contraction -- a recession -- but I
have to say the risk of recession is higher than we perceived a
month or two ago.”  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  