-- 
Fed Says Banks Eased Lending Standards in Second Quarter Amid Competition

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-15T19:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/fed-says-banks-ease-lending-standards-in-face-of-aggressive-competition-.html
Banks loosened credit standards on
most types of loans in the second quarter, with commercial and
industrial lenders citing “aggressive competition” as a reason
for the easier terms, according to a Federal Reserve survey.  “Banks continued to ease lending standards and most terms
on all major types of loans other than loans secured by real
estate over the past three months,” the central bank said today
in its quarterly survey of senior loan officers.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making
colleagues pledged on Aug. 9 to hold the main  interest rate  at a
record low near zero at least until mid-2013, saying economic
growth is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  “We’re going to see credit standards stay about the same
in the next few months given the increased volatility in
financial markets and increased uncertainty about where the
economy is heading,” said  Mark Vitner , senior economist at
Wells Fargo Securities in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Most banks expect the pace of mortgage lending to stay
about the same through the rest of this year, according to the
Fed survey. Lackluster demand from creditworthy borrowers and
uncertainties about the outlook for house prices and the overall
economy were the main reasons, according to the central bank.  Even with record monetary easing,  Europe ’s sovereign debt
woes, weak economic growth and an unprecedented downgrade of the
U.S. credit rating have triggered turmoil in financial markets
and pushed down bank stocks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Banks
Index has fallen about 27 percent since its peak for the year on
Feb. 15.  Shifts in Equities  U.S. equity swings last week were unprecedented, according
to data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and
 Howard Silverblatt , a senior index analyst at S&P. The S&P 500
Index fell or rose more than 4.4 percent on each of the first
four days of last week, reversing direction in a back-and-forth
pattern not seen at that magnitude in the history of the
benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks.  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 1.8 percent to 1,200.49 at 3:16 p.m.
in New York trading, while the S&P 500 Banks Index gained 3.3
percent to 116.33.  Bank of America, the nation’s biggest lender, slumped last
week on investor speculation that the bank might have to sell
shares or assets to bolster capital, possibly including parts of
Merrill Lynch.  Brian T. Moynihan , Bank of America’s chief
executive officer, rejected such measures in an Aug. 10
conference call and said the bank will meet its capital targets.
Both Bank of America’s and Citigroup Inc.’s stock dropped more
than 10 percent that day.  Foreign Lenders  The Fed survey of loan officers at 55 domestic banks and 22
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks conducted from July
12 through July 26, the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify
respondents.  Like the previous survey released in early May, the new
survey found that banks continued to ease terms for business
borrowers, including those seeking to take out commercial and
industrial loans. More competition among lenders was the most
commonly cited reason for the loosened standards, although “a
more favorable or less uncertain economic outlook” also
factored into the decisions, the Fed survey found.  Wells Fargo’s Vitner said lenders are “competing very
fiercely for the limited number of creditworthy borrowers out
there.” Commercial projects that are 70 percent to 80 percent
leased, or that have high-quality tenants signed up, are
especially attractive to lenders, he said.  “Those are the type of deals that are getting financed,”
Vitner said.  ‘Modest’ Increase  A “modest” increase in demand for commercial and
industrial loans also was reported over the last three months,
the Fed said.  Commercial and industrial loans totaled $1.28 trillion for
the week ending Aug. 3, according to a separate Fed report. That
was up from $1.27 trillion for the week ending July 27. Loans to
consumers came to $1.09 trillion, little changed from the prior
week.  On the consumer front, banks said standards on home
mortgages were little changed for both prime and non-traditional
loans during the second quarter.  In addition, about three-quarters of banks said they
expected the pace of mortgage lending “to remain at about the
same level through the rest of 2011,” the Fed said.  The banks cited “reduced or unchanged demand from
creditworthy borrowers” as a factor. They also pointed to
“unfavorable or uncertain forecasts for the broad economy and
for  house prices .”  Drag on Growth  The housing market has been a drag on economic growth as
sliding  home prices  cut into  consumer confidence  and wealth.  Sales of existing homes, the largest portion of the housing
market, totaled 4.77 million on an annualized basis in June, a
34 percent drop from their pre-recession peak in September 2005.  Central bankers and finance ministers from the Group of
Seven nations last week pledged to “take all necessary measures
to support financial stability and growth.”  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, less than forecast by economists, a July 29
government report showed. The economy almost stalled in the
prior quarter, growing at a 0.4 percent pace, the weakest three-
month period since the recovery began in June 2009.  U.S.  household debt  declined by 0.4 percent in the second
quarter as mortgage and home equity line balances shrunk,
according to a survey released today by the New York Fed.  Consumer indebtedness fell $50 billion from the end of
March to $11.4 trillion on June 30, according to the quarterly
report on household debt and credit released by the district
bank. Households have cut debt by $1.08 trillion, or 8.6
percent, from its peak in the third quarter of 2008 as the
financial crisis escalated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  