-- 
Fenerbahce, Besiktas Climb on Bets Clubs Will Stay in League

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-15T16:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/fenerbahce-besiktas-climb-on-bets-clubs-will-stay-in-league.html
Fenerbahce Sportif Hizmetleri AS,
the merchandising arm of  Turkey ’s championship soccer club, rose
the most in more than a year as investors bet the team wouldn’t
be removed from the first division league amid a match-fixing
probe involving the team’s chairman. Other listed clubs rallied.  Fenerbahce jumped 20 percent to 54 liras, the most since
April 2010. The stock plunged as much as 49 percent since the
start of July to a 2 1/2-year low on Aug. 10 after the club’s
chairman Aziz Yildirim was arrested along with dozens of others
in the probe of matches in Turkey’s soccer league.  Turkey’s soccer federation said it couldn’t make a decision
on the clubs because the investigation by prosecutors remained
secret, Mehmet Ali Aydinlar, chairman of the federation, told
reporters today in Istanbul after the markets closed. Since the
probe became public on July 3, 31 people have been arrested and
the league kick-off has been postponed by a month to September,
Hurriyet reported Aug. 12. The federation could choose to delay
any penalties until the trials are completed, it said.  It was “pure gambling on the ‘no relegation’ outcome,”
said Ata Doganoglu, a trader at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul.
“All the papers are arguing that those clubs won’t be
relegated.”  The merchandising units of clubs Besiktas and Galatasaray
in Istanbul and a team in the Black Sea city of Trabzon gained.
Besiktas Futbol Yatirimlari Sanayi & Ticaret AS climbed 12
percent to 8.80 liras, and Galatasaray Sportif Sinai & Ticari
Yatirimlar AS advanced 16 percent to 288 liras. Trabzonspor
Sportif Yatirim & Futbol Isletmeciligi AS gained 15 percent to
15.30 liras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  