-- 
Ferguson Defends Manchester United Goalkeeper De Gea: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-15T08:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/ferguson-defends-manchester-united-goalkeeper-de-gea-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  De Gea Defended  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  defended David De
Gea after the Spanish goalkeeper he signed to replace Edwin Van der Sar made his second mistake in as many weeks, the Daily
Mirror  reported .  While Ferguson said De Gea’s failure to gather a 15-yard
shot from West Brom’s Shane Long was “a slack goal to lose,”
the 20-year-old should have received more protection from a
“ridiculous aerial assault” in the second half of yesterday’s
match, which United won 2-1.  “He took a battering in the second half, when he should
have been protected more by the referee but he wasn’t,” the
Mirror cited Ferguson as saying. “He is young and he will come
through. Welcome to English football!”  Going for Goetze  United has turned its attention to Borussia Dortmund’s
Mario Goetze after becoming frustrated in its attempts to sign
Inter Milan’s Wesley Sneijder, the  Daily Express   reported .  United scouts watched Goetze, 19, run the midfield in
 Germany ’s 3-2 win over  Brazil  in Stuttgart last week, the
Express said. Goetze, who is contracted at Dortmund until 2014
and is valued at 20 million pounds ($32.5 million), is rated as
the best young talent in the Bundesliga after helping Borussia
win the title last season, the newspaper added.  Chelsea Interest Cools  Chelsea may end moves to sign Tottenham’s Luka Modric even
though manager Andre Villas-Boas is in the market for a
midfielder, the Sun  reported , citing Blues Chairman Bruce Buck.  “We did make an offer, it was rejected and I don’t know if
it will go any further,” the Sun cited Buck as saying. “We
will have to see.”  Galaxy Quest  Tottenham accepted a 1.8 million-pound offer for  Robbie Keane  from the  Los Angeles Galaxy , which faces a race to sign
the 31-year-old striker before the transfer window closes, the
 Daily Mail   reported .  Los Angeles needs to offload former Aston Villa striker
Juan Pablo Angel if it wants to add Keane to its list of so-
called designation players along with David Beckham and  Landon Donovan , the Mail added.  Shock Swoop  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  is considering a surprise
move for Celtic winger Pat McCourt, who would likely be used as
an impact player off the bench, the Mirror  reported .  Liverpool has been monitoring the 27-year-old and
Dalglish’s interest has been flushed out by the attention the
Northern Ireland international is now receiving from other
clubs, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  