-- 
Boyce Greer, Fidelity’s Institutional Head, Dies in Kayak Accident at 55

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-15T17:51:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/fidelity-s-greer-dies-in-kayaking-accident.html
Boyce Greer, head of  Fidelity
Investments ’ institutional-investments unit, died yesterday in a
kayaking accident in  Idaho . He was 55 years old.  Greer was kayaking on the North Fork of the Payette River
around noon when he was fatally injured, according to a
statement from the Valley County Sheriff’s Office. He was
pronounced dead at the scene, according to the statement, which
said no further information was available.  “The entire Fidelity family is deeply saddened and will
greatly miss him,”  Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman for Boston-
based Fidelity, said today in an interview. “Boyce was more
than just an accomplished business leader. He was an admired and
greatly respected manager, colleague and friend.”  Greer, who lived in Amherst,  New Hampshire , was also an
investor and director of Legacy Paddlesports LLC, a five-year-
old company that sells kayaks and other products related to the
sport. A lifelong kayaker, Greer was the initial investor in the
company, Bill Medlin, chief executive officer of Greensboro,
North Carolina-based Legacy Paddlesports, said in a telephone
interview.  “We paddled together first and became business partners
later,” Medlin said. “It was great to have an owner who
appreciated the sport as deeply. We’re stunned and still trying
to come to terms with the news.”  After joining Fidelity in 1987 as a fixed-income portfolio
manager, Greer worked in various roles before being named head
of institutional investments and vice chairman of the Pyramis
Global Advisors unit in March. Pyramis Global manages more than
$170 billion for clients such as pension funds and endowments.  Greer graduated cum laude from Harvard College in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , in 1978 with an undergraduate degree
in government, according to information posted on Fidelity’s
website. He later earned master’s and doctorate degrees in
public policy from  Harvard University .  Fidelity, the second-largest U.S. mutual-fund company,
manages about $1.6 trillion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  