-- 
Food Prices Near Peak Add to African Humanitarian Crisis, World Bank Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-08-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/food-prices-near-peak-add-to-african-humanitarian-crisis-world-bank-says.html
Global food prices remain close to
the peak of 2008 and are contributing to the humanitarian
emergency in the Horn of Africa, the  World Bank  said.  The bank’s food-price index was 33 percent higher in July
than a year earlier, with maize, sugar and wheat contributing to
the increase, the Washington-based lender said today. While
prospects for  food supply  have improved, low stocks and expected
volatility in some commodity prices, such as oil, may boost
prices in coming months, it added.  “Persistently high food prices and low food stocks
indicate that we’re still in the danger zone, with the most
vulnerable people the least able to cope,” World Bank President
 Robert Zoellick  said in an e-mailed statement. “Vigilance is
vital given the uncertainties and volatility that exists today.
There is no cushion.”  Of the estimated 12.4 million people affected by drought
and needing humanitarian assistance in the Horn of  Africa ,
almost one-quarter are near starvation, according to the  United
Nations . While the famine was sparked by prolonged drought and
political conflicts, food inflation has also played a role,
according to the World Bank report.  In Somalia, prices of locally produced cereals have
exceeded their 2008 peaks, the Food Price Watch report said,
with red sorghum 30 percent to 240 percent higher. Prices of
imported commodities such as rice and sugar are also higher than
a year ago, it said.  Nonetheless, the bank’s average food price index for the
three months through July was about 5 percent below its February
peak, with wheat prices declining after good winter yields in
 Europe  and the U.S. and the end of a Russian export ban, the
bank said.  -- With assistance by Sarah McGregor in Nairobi. Editors: Paul Badertscher,  Carlos Torres   To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  