-- 
German Notes Fall Amid Common European Bond Bets as ECB Reports Purchases

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-08-15T15:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/german-10-year-bunds-decline-amid-euro-bond-speculation-asia-stocks-rise.html
German notes fell for a third day on
speculation policy makers from  Europe ’s biggest economy may
soften their opposition to joint issuance of euro-region
securities, easing demand for the safety of the nation’s debt.  Yields on 10-year bunds reached their highest since Aug. 9
as Welt am Sonntag reported that  Germany  no longer rules out
using euro bonds as a last resort to prevent a breakup of the
currency union. Italian bonds fell after the  European Central
Bank  said it spent a record amount buying  government securities 
last week. French bonds outperformed their German counterparts
as signs of stress in funding markets subsided.  That euro bonds aren’t “being rejected out of hand anymore
is clearly progress,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
London. If there is a greater “appetite for looking for a
stable, long-term solution for the  euro zone , then that would be
a negative for bunds.”  The yield on German two-year notes rose two basis points to
0.72 percent as of 4:29 p.m. in London. The 1.75 percent
securities maturing in June 2013 fell 0.050, or 50 euro cents
per 1,000-euro ($1,428) face amount, to 101.865. The yield on
the 10-year bund was one basis point lower at 2.32 percent after
reaching 2.37 percent.  ECB Purchases  The ECB said today it settled purchases worth 22 billion
euros in the week through Aug. 12, more than the 15-billion-euro
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists and
strategists. The sum also surpassed the 16.5 billion euros the
ECB spent during the first week of its initial foray into Greek
markets in May last year.  “It’s slightly more than I expected,” said Mohit Kumar,
head of euro-region and U.K. interest-rate strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London . “The key question is what happens going
forward. I’m sure the ECB is happy with where things are right
now. The key will be when issuance comes back, that will be the
test of whether people are happy buying Italian bonds at 5
percent or not.”  Spanish 10-year yields were little changed at 4.99 percent,
keeping the additional yield investors demand to hold the
securities at 267 basis points. The Italian-German spread was at
271 basis points, from 268 basis points. The Italian 10-year
yield rose two basis points to 5.03 percent.  Schaeuble Opposition  German  government bonds  handed investors 4.5 percent this
year, compared with 6.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have returned 5.1
percent, while Italian debt earned a 0.1 percent profit.  While Welt am Sonntag’s report cited unidentified people in
the government saying joint bonds can’t be ruled out, Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview with German
magazine  Der Spiegel  that he rejected euro bonds.  Euribor futures fell, pushing up the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December by seven basis points to 1.28
percent, a sign investors were reducing bets on lower borrowing
costs.  “The market has been very quick in pricing in a recession-
type scenario but at this point in time that’s rather
premature,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at
Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Inflation is still above the
ECB’s medium term target and will probably remain high in the
coming months so forecasting rate cuts is premature.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  