-- 
Global Investor Demand for U.S. Securities Weakened in June, Treasury Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-08-15T15:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-weakened-in-june-2-.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets weakened in June from a month earlier
as the White House and Congress wrangled over raising the debt
limit, government figures show.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$3.7 billion during the month compared with net buying of $24.2
billion in May, according to statistics issued by the U.S.
Treasury Department today in Washington. Including short-term
securities such as stock swaps, foreigners sold a net $29.5
billion compared with net selling of $48.8 billion the previous
month.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities is a gauge
of confidence in U.S. economic policy, and today’s report may
reflect concern about the government’s ballooning debt. Earlier
this month, the  Standard & Poor’s  rating company downgraded the
Treasury’s debt rating after the budget stalemate between
Congress and the White House.  “In June, as the U.S. continued to display dysfunction in
Washington ahead of an expiring debt ceiling coupled with the
threat of a U.S. downgrade, foreigners were much less interested
in putting their money in U.S. securities,” said  Adrian Miller ,
fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC
in  New York , in an e-mail.  Investor Doubt  Underscoring investor doubt about government finances,
Republican congressional budget negotiators withdrew June 23
from talks with Vice President  Joe Biden . After further
deadlocks last month, Congress and the White House agreed on a
budget and debt pact signed into law on Aug. 2, granting the
Treasury authority to continue borrowing in financial markets.  China ’s Xinhua News Agency, in a commentary dated Aug. 2,
warned the U.S. still faces a “debt bomb,” and yet over the
past three weeks, Treasury securities rallied as investors fled
equities.  Prior to today’s report, economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected long-term U.S. financial assets would show net
buying of $35 billion in June. Seven economists participated in
the survey and their estimates ranged from $18 billion to $50
billion.  China Top Holder  The data capture international purchases of government
notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt and securities issued by
U.S. agencies such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy home
mortgages.  Private transactions, which exclude foreign central banks,
showed net selling of $23 billion, according to the data.  “Looks like foreigners were clearing the decks,” said
 Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, in an e-mail. “This is likely
to continue in the next couple of months after the extreme
volatility seen in recent weeks.”  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries in June after its holdings rose by $5.7 billion to
$1.166 trillion, according to the Treasury’s statistics.  Japan ,
the second-largest holder, reduced its holdings in June by $1.4
billion to $911 billion.  Hong Kong , counted separately from
China, reduced its holdings by $3.5 billion to $118.4 billion in
June.  “Many official institutions have little choice but to make
their investments into the U.S. reserve currency,” Rupkey said.
“China is still buying in June, but the jury is out whether
they will add as aggressively to their holdings after being
displeased with the U.S. downgrade in August.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  