-- 
Allstate Sues Goldman Sachs Over Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/goldman-sachs-sued-by-allstate-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was sued by
Allstate Insurance Co. over the sale of more than $100 million
worth of residential mortgage-backed securities that the insurer
claims the bank itself called “junk” and “lemons.”  Allstate asked for damages including the lost market value
of the securities, plus principal and interest payments in the
complaint filed today in New York state Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  The insurer, based in Northbrook, Illinois, has filed
similar suits against JPMorgan Chase & Co. over $700 million of
mortgage-backed securities the bank sold the insurer;  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  units for more than $231 million of the
securities; Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit over some
$167 million;  Citigroup Inc. (C) , over more than $200 million; and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , over about $185 million. Allstate said the
banks misrepresented underwriting standards, owner occupancy
data and loan-to-value ratios.  Goldman knew these types of securities were “junk,”
“dogs,” “crap” and “lemons,” according to today’s suit,
which claims the words are Goldman’s own, recently revealed in
governmental investigations, to describe them.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the suit.  Goldman Sachs said in a quarterly filing last week that
Allstate was among entities that “threatened to assert claims
against the firm in connection with various mortgage-related
offerings.”  Allstate purchased more than $123 million of the securities
from April 2006 to March 2007 in reliance on Goldman’s
misrepresentations and omissions, according to the complaint.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs & Co.,
652273/2011, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  