-- 
Gold Futures Rise in New York, Halts Slide, as Weaker Dollar Boosts Demand

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-15T18:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/gold-futures-rise-in-new-york-halts-slide-as-weaker-dollar-boosts-demand.html
Gold futures gained for the first
time in three sessions as the dollar’s decline revived demand
for the metal as an alternative investment.  The greenback headed for the biggest drop in three weeks
against a basket of six currencies. Gold climbed to a record
$1,817.60 an ounce on Aug. 11 as escalating debt woes in the
U.S. and  Europe  drove global stocks markets lower. Credit risk
fell today, and equities climbed.  “The weaker dollar is definitely providing some support”
to gold,  Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview Financial in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The market will likely
remain rangebound as people are returning to equities because of
positive economic numbers.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose $15.40, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $1,758 at 1:39 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . The price fell 2.3 percent in the previous two sessions.
The metal has jumped 45 percent in the past year.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities climbed for
the third straight session after a report showed  Japan ’s economy
shrank less than forecast. U.S. retail sales rose the most in
four months in July, while applications for jobless benefits
were the lowest since April, reports last week showed,  Global equities plunged last week to the lowest since
September after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its  credit rating  for
the U.S. from AAA, stoking concern that the global economic
recovery may be at risk.  Gold ‘Standout’  The “uncertainty in financial markets, whether from the
growth outlook or the ongoing sovereign-debt crisis, is expected
to remain a benefit to perceived safe-haven commodity assets, of
which we believe gold is the standout,” Morgan Stanley
analysts, led by Hussein Allidina in New York, said today in a
report.  Silver futures for September delivery rose 19.3 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $39.307 an ounce on the Comex.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
September delivery fell $1.85, or 0.2 percent, to $746.35 an
ounce. Platinum futures for October delivery climbed 50 cents to
$1,797.20 an ounce.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  