-- 
Google-Motorola Deal Is Said to Include $2.5 Billion Reverse Breakup Fee

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-15T21:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/google-mobility-deal-is-said-to-include-2-5-billion-reverse-breakup-fee.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. $2.5 billion if it fails to close the
purchase of the mobile-phone maker, said a person with knowledge
of the situation, a fee more than six times the typical amount.  Google would pay Motorola Mobility the reverse breakup fee
under certain circumstances, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the detail hasn’t been disclosed. Google
agreed to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion today.  On a percentage basis, the fee is more than triple the $3
billion AT&T Inc. is offering as part of its $39 billion bid for
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA, the largest deal this year.
Both AT&T and Google face increasing scrutiny as regulators
examine whether their acquisitions are stifling competition in
the telecommunications and Internet industries.  “A high reverse breakup fee shows the buyer’s confidence
of getting the deal done,” said Donna Hitscherich, a senior
lecturer in finance at  Columbia Business School , who is also a
former banker and lawyer. “People don’t do deals to get the
breakup fee, they do them to get the deals done.”  Google’s fee is about 26 percent of the transaction’s
enterprise value, or more than six times the 3.8 percent median
in more than 200 deals announced since Jan. 1, 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Enterprise value includes net
debt. AT&T’s breakup fee is 7.7 percent of the transaction’s
size. The Dallas-based phone company made its cash and stock
offer for T-Mobile in March.  Motorola’s Fee  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility,
declined to comment, as did Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for
 Mountain View , California-based Google.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , would
pay a $375 million breakup fee if it decides not to sell to
Google, the person familiar with the matter said.  In most deals, buyers and sellers agree to pay identical
breakup fees, said Elizabeth Nowicki, a mergers and acquisitions
law professor at  Tulane University Law School  in  New Orleans .
Still, an increasing number of sellers began asking for higher
reverse breakup fees beginning in late 2007, when financing
started to become more of an obstacle for some buyers, she said.  “The unusually high reverse breakup fee shows that
Motorola doesn’t want to risk being left alone at the altar,
especially in the current market’s conditions,” Nowicki said.  Google is confronting probes at home and abroad into its
impact on competition. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
expanding a probe into whether the  Internet company  has used its
position as the world’s most popular search engine to hurt
competition, people familiar with the matter said Aug. 12. The
European Union also is conducting its own investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  