-- 
Google Said to Approach Motorola Before Public Push From Activist Icahn

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/google-said-to-approach-motorola-one-week-before-public-nudge-from-icahn.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  approached Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. a week before activist investor Carl Icahn publicly pressed the phone maker to explore strategic
alternatives, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page started takeover
talks with Motorola Mobility CEO Sanjay Jha around mid-July,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions were private. The companies were already negotiating
when Icahn said on July 21 that Motorola Mobility’s patent
portfolio held “significant value” and the company should look
at options for the asset.  Page, the Google co-founder who took over as CEO in April,
saw Motorola Mobility as a way to get his company further into
the mobile-phone business while also protecting its Android
operating system from rivals such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  Google, the biggest maker of smartphone software,
announced yesterday it would buy the Libertyville, Illinois-
based Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, or $40 a share, 63
percent more than the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange on Aug. 12.  Jill Hazelbaker, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to
comment, as did Motorola Mobility spokeswoman Jennifer Erickson.  ‘Enthusiastic Support’  As the talks progressed, David Drummond, Google’s chief
legal officer, and Andy Rubin, Google’s senior vice president of
mobile, took the lead in the negotiations with Motorola
Mobility, one of the people said. Rubin said on a conference
call yesterday that he spoke with the top Android licensees
before the takeover announcement, “and they all showed very
enthusiastic support for the deal.”  The biggest Android handset makers include  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, was interested
in Motorola’s hardware and ability to distribute phones, as well
as its software patents, one person said.  Google hasn’t made a decision on what to do with Motorola’s
unit for television set-top boxes, another person said. It may
find a use for that business with its Google TV product, the
person said.  Motorola Mobility didn’t initiate discussions with any
other potential buyers, said one person. The company did have
talks with Microsoft about patent litigation and other issues
unrelated to a sale, the person said.  Microsoft spokesman Kevin Kutz declined to comment.  After the deal with Motorola Mobility, Google is less
interested in bidding for InterDigital Inc., a designer of
mobile-phone technology that has hired bankers to consider a
sale, said one of the people. Google, Apple and Samsung have
been among companies weighing offers for King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania-based InterDigital, people familiar with the matter
said in recent weeks. InterDigital’s stock dropped 14 percent
yesterday.  Icahn has about an 11 percent stake in Motorola Mobility,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ; 