-- 
Google Undermines Samsung-Led Handset Makers With Motorola: Tech

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-16T18:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/google-undermines-samsung-led-handset-makers-with-deal-for-motorola-tech.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Samsung Electronics Co.
and a host of smaller handset makers are at risk of losing their
cachet after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  buys Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Google said yesterday it will pay $12.5 billion for
Motorola Mobility, purchasing more than 17,000 patents it can
use to defend against allegations of infringement as competition
accelerates in the $206.6 billion mobile-phone market.  The rival handset manufacturers, which have been building
devices with Google’s Android software since 2008, may have a
harder time cranking out bestselling devices because Motorola
Mobility may get earlier access to the newest Android
technology, said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at research firm
Gartner Inc. The acquisition gives Google an incentive to favor
Motorola Mobility, and association with the  Internet company 
will give Motorola handsets a leg up in competing for consumers.  “This is their nightmare scenario,” said Gartenberg,
whose firm is based in Stamford, Connecticut. “Google has gone
from partner to competitor.”  HTC Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said he supports
the deal. Google  also said  the transaction is supported by
Samsung, Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)   “We’ve managed our ecosystem really well, and we’re going
to continue to do that,” Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page said in an interview yesterday. “They know we’re committed
to them and we’re committed to making that whole ecosystem
successful.”  Patent Cover  Android partners are poised to benefit from the patent
protection provided by the deal. HTC and other manufacturers are
defending against suits that claim their phones infringe patents
held by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Google will use the
portfolio as leverage in negotiations over cross-licensing
deals, said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI Group in  New York .  “We welcome the news,” HTC Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou said in an e-mailed statement today. “Google is deeply
committed to defending Android, its partners, and the entire
ecosystem.”  Samsung Electronics also welcomes Google’s acquisition
because it will protect patents for the Android camp, while not
affecting current business,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman
for the company said by telephone. There is no indication the
purchase reflects any change in Google’s Android strategy, LG
Electronics Inc. said in an e-mailed statement.  Samsung gained 6.1 percent to 750,000 won, the biggest jump
in more than 2 1/2 years. Motorola suppliers ELK Corp. and
Interflex Co. surged by the daily limit of 15 percent in Seoul
on speculation their sales to Motorola may rise with the
purchase by Google.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , which also supplies
Motorola, jumped 12.5 percent in Hong Kong trading -- the most
since December 2009. Taiwan’s  Compal Communications Inc. (8078)  climbed
7 percent in Taipei, the biggest advance in more than a month.  Stronger Motorola  Still, a stronger Motorola may make it harder for rivals to
add users, said Lamba, who rates HTC a “buy.” More than 80
percent of the handsets HTC sells boast Android, he said.  “Over the next couple of years it’s going to be tough for
HTC because the market growth will slow and they will be
competing for share,” he said. “In the longer run, this has
created more issues that HTC will have to deal with.”  Backing by Google may help Motorola Mobility grab global
mobile-device market share. It currently ranks No. 8, with just
a 2.4 percent  share , according to Gartner.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  was No. 1,
followed by Samsung, LG and Apple. HTC ranked No. 7.  Motorola Mobility’s smartphone market share may increase by
half, according to Scott Ellison, a  San Mateo , California-based
analyst at IDC. He puts the current share at 4 percent. Google
could put its name on Motorola Mobility devices, he said.  ‘Lot of Opportunity’  “This is a big market,” Page said. “That’s been the
strength of Android. It’s a big market. There’s a lot of
opportunity. There’s a lot of players. There’s a big world out
there.”  Motorola Mobility may benefit in the market for tablet
computers too. Even before the deal, it got preferential
treatment from Google, receiving first access to the Honeycomb
version of Android for its tablet, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Google traditionally has alternated which vendors get
preferential treatment through early access to the latest
version of Android. Motorola will get first crack with future
versions, getting “six-month head-starts on the latest and
greatest operating systems,” said Mike Genovese, a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based analyst at  MKM Partners .  Qualcomm Chips  Google will also be able to help Motorola Mobility
negotiate a reduction in the already low royalty -- at 4 percent
of the phone purchase price -- it pays  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  for chips,
said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC.  Emily Kilpatrick, a spokeswoman for Qualcomm, said the
company doesn’t expect the transaction to have an impact on its
agreement with Motorola.  Samsung and HTC may be more inclined to forge closer ties
to Microsoft or ally with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , said James Faucette, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities Inc. in
Portland. Microsoft can sweeten the deal by offering incentives
to partners, Faucette said. Hewlett-Packard CEO Leo Apotheker
has said he plans to license WebOS software to hardware makers.  “If you are an Android licensee, you’ve got to see what
your alternatives are,” Faucette said. “Microsoft has
demonstrated their willingness to give money to licensees.
That’s got to be the first reaction for an Android licensee.”  ZTE Relationship  ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s second-largest maker of phone equipment,
said it plans to keep working closely with Google and Microsoft
after Google announced its planned purchase. Currently “most”
ZTE smartphones use Android, and only a “very small
percentage” use Windows, Rena Qin, a spokeswoman at ZTE, said
in an e-mail, without providing figures.  “ZTE welcomes all marketing activities beneficial to the
ecosystem of the mobile industry,” Qin said. “We will continue
to promote our smart terminal strategy and work closely with
industry partners including Google and Microsoft.”  Microsoft is already taking steps to convince partners that
Google will treat them as second-class citizens.  Andy Lees,  president  of the company’s mobile business,
yesterday issued a statement saying that “investing in a broad
and truly open mobile ecosystem is important for the industry
and consumers alike, and Windows Phone is now the only platform
that does so with equal opportunity for all partners.”  Hardware Options  To assuage partner concerns and avoid a push into lower-
margin hardware, Google may opt to sell Motorola Mobility’s
device business, said Brian Barish, president of Denver-based
 Cambiar Investors LLC , which holds Motorola Mobility shares and
oversees about $8 billion.  “I would be shocked if they didn’t sell off the tablet and
handset business in short order,” Barish said. “That way they
stay fairly neutral.”  Google pursued Motorola Mobility out of interest in the
target’s hardware and ability to distribute phones, as well as
its software patents, one person familiar with the matter said.
Jill Hazelbaker, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment.  For now, Google and its partners say Motorola Mobility
won’t get preferential treatment.  “They’re all talking like it’s one big happy family,”
said Kumar of Roadman & Renshaw. “The reality will be far
different. If Motorola has most favored nation status -- whether
in perception or reality -- it has an edge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  