-- 
Google’s Motorola Mobility Takeover May Survive U.S. Regulatory Scrutiny

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-08-15T22:15:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/google-s-motorola-mobility-takeover-may-survive-u-s-regulatory-scrutiny.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may need to make
concessions to win  Justice Department  approval of its planned
acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., antitrust
lawyers and analysts said.  The Justice Department may attach conditions to its consent
for the $12.5 billion deal to ensure that Google, maker of
Android mobile phone software, doesn’t use any of Motorola’s
patents to hurt competition in the smartphone market, the
analysts and lawyers said. The government might require Google
to license some of those patents to rivals, they said.  “All the antitrust authorities are interested in Google
nowadays,” said Harry First, a law professor at  New York
University . The planned purchase will probably be approved in
the end after being “closely looked at” by the  Justice
Department , he said.  The deal will spur another avenue of inquiry for the
 Federal Trade Commission  to examine Google’s business as part of
its broad antitrust probe of the company, said Frank Newell, a
former Justice Department trial attorney.  “If the government were concerned about market power in a
certain area, then on the margin, this would increase their
market power,” said Newell, the co-chair of the antitrust
practice group at Cozen O’Connor in Philadelphia.  Competitors’ Applications  The agency is investigating whether Google discouraged
makers of smartphones, which can surf the web and play videos,
from using competitors’ applications with its Android operating
system, said a person familiar with the investigation.  In a Massachusetts state court case, Boston-based Skyhook
Wireless Inc. claims Google pressured Motorola Inc. and other
Skyhook customers not to use the Boston-based company’s software
for pinpointing a cell phone’s location.  Mountain View ,
California-based Google makes a competing application.  Google said Samsung Electronics Co. and Android-phone
manufacturers Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  support the transaction.  As long as Google allows device makers and software
developers to run their products with Android, the company
shouldn’t have antitrust problems, said  David Balto , a
Washington-based antitrust attorney.  ‘Spur Innovation’  The acquisition will “really spur innovation and
competition in the mobile device market,” he said.  David Drummond, Google’s chief legal officer, said on a
conference call with analysts that the acquisition will get the
nod from regulators.  “We believe very strongly this is a pro-competitive
transaction,” he said.  The company expects the review will be completed by early
next year, according to a statement.  Reviews of Google’s purchases of AdMob Inc. and DoubleClick
Inc. took nine to 11 months to close, said  Mark Mahaney , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  San Francisco .  “Given the recent transactions that Google has had, I
think that’s a pretty aggressive timeline,” he said in an
interview on Bloomberg TV.  Under an agreement between the two antitrust agencies, the
Justice Department will handle all reviews of Google
acquisitions while the FTC conducts its broader probe, two
people familiar with the matter said. The Justice Department
also traditionally handles telecommunications mergers.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to discuss whether the agency was reviewing the Motorola
acquisition.  European Unions  The deal also will be examined by European Union
investigators conducting an antitrust investigation of Google,
said Thomas Vinje,  chairman  of the Global Antitrust Practice at
Cifford Chance in Brussels.  “The question of whether Google would be leveraging its
current dominance” as owner of the world’s most popular
Internet search engine to create similar market power on mobile
devices will be on European Union officials’ minds when looking
at the deal, he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 