-- 
Google to Buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 Billion to Gain Wireless Patents

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-15T20:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/google-agrees-to-acquisition-of-motorola-mobility-for-about-12-5-billion.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest maker of
smartphone software, agreed to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. for $12.5 billion in its largest acquisition, gaining
mobile patents and expanding in the hardware business.  Motorola shareholders will get $40 a share in cash, the
companies said in a statement today. That’s 63 percent more than
Motorola Mobility’s closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
on Aug. 12. Both boards have approved the takeover.  Larry Page , the Google co-founder who took over as chief
executive officer in April, is pushing the Web company into
smartphones to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and gain more clout
for its Android software in the wireless business. Motorola
Mobility, under pressure from activist investor  Carl Icahn  to
shift strategy, gives Google more than 17,000 patents it can
leverage in negotiations with competitors such as Apple.  “This is the next step in building their position in the
mobile world so they can distribute Google products and services
through mobile phones and tablets,” said  Clayton Moran , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton , Florida, who recommends
Google shares. “They want a success with the Android platform,
and this will enhance their position in the mobile marketplace,
as well as defend their position through the patent portfolio.”  Apple, which makes its own wireless software and hardware,
briefly became the most valuable company in the world last week,
buoyed by demand for the iPhone and the iPad tablet computer.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville, Illinois, rose
$13.65, or 56 percent, to $38.12 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange. Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell
$6.54, or 1.2 percent, to $557.23 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  ‘Heck of a Premium’  Google is paying a premium of 73 percent compared with
Motorola Mobility’s 20-day trading average price before today.
The average premium of more than 360 deals in the wireless-
equipment industry on that basis was 32 percent in the past five
years, according to Bloomberg data.  “This is a heck of a premium,” said  Lee Simpson , an
analyst at Jefferies International in London. Motorola
Mobility’s patents are “a good counterweight if Apple comes
after Google.”  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) , an owner of about 1,300 mobile-phone
patents that is considering a sale, fell $10.76, or 14 percent,
to $64.96. Apple and Google were among companies considering
possible bids for InterDigital, a person with knowledge of the
situation said last month.  Breakup Agreement  Google agreed to pay Motorola Mobility $2.5 billion if the
deal falls through, a person familiar with the matter said.
Motorola Mobility would pay $375 million if it decided not to
sell to Google, the person said.  Jennifer Erickson , a
spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, declined to comment on the
breakup fee, as did Aaron Zamost, a spokesman at Google.  Google has $39.1 billion in cash and equivalents, according
to a regulatory filing last month.  The acquisition -- the largest wireless-equipment deal in
at least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg --
makes Google a competitor to the other handset makers that make
Android devices. In addition to Motorola Mobility phones, the
software runs handsets made by companies such as  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)   “Google making an acquisition of one distinct player is
going to put Samsung and HTC back on their heels and thinking,
‘Do we need to go forward with this platform?’” Simpson said.
“‘Are there other platforms we can use?’ It might start to put
Microsoft into focus as an alternative platform,” he said,
referring to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone software.  Partner Support  T-Mobile USA Inc. introduced the first phone powered by
Google’s Android software, made by HTC, in October 2008.
Android, which Google offers for free, will remain available to
other manufacturers, the company said. Winston Yung, chief
financial officer of HTC, gave his support to the deal, saying
it will strengthen “the whole Android ecosystem.”  Google said Samsung and Android-phone manufacturers Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   also
support  the transaction.  Microsoft rose 41 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $25.51.  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V) , which plans to start making Windows phones, climbed 9.1
percent to 4.09 euros in Helsinki.  ‘Protect Android’  Android was the best-selling smartphone operating system in
the second quarter as sales rose more than fourfold to 43.3
percent of the market, led by Samsung and HTC, according to
research firm Gartner Inc. Apple had an 18.2 percent share, the
researcher said. While Motorola Mobility’s Droid phones have
found a following in the U.S., globally the company ranks
outside the top players in the smartphone market.  “The combination of the two companies is going to create
tremendous  shareholder value , drive great user experiences and
accelerate innovation,” Page said today on a conference call.
“Motorola also has a strong patent portfolio, which will help
protect Android from anticompetitive threats from Microsoft,
Apple and other companies.”  A group led by Apple and Microsoft won an auction of
patents owned by Nortel Networks Corp. in June after bidding up
the price to $4.5 billion, beating out Google. Apple and
Microsoft have sued Android device makers over the use of
intellectual property, disputes that are wending their way
through the courts.  Patent Contest  In a  blog posting  Aug. 3, Google accused Apple, Microsoft
and Oracle Corp. of using patents to wage a “hostile, organized
campaign” against Android.  “There is an intellectual property arms race between
Apple, Google and Microsoft,” said Kevin Smithen, a
telecommunications analyst at Macquarie Securities Group in New
York.  Google had a total of 754 patents assigned to it as of last
week, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
database, not including patents Google bought last month from
International Business Machines Corp. Apple received 563 new
patents just last year, the agency said.  In addition, the acquisition of Motorola Mobility, which
also makes television set-top boxes, may help Google increase
adoption of its Google TV service and the use of Android and its
Chrome browser on devices that connect televisions to the
Internet, Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners in New York,
wrote in a report today. Sena rates Google shares
“overweight.”  Mobile Pioneer  The deal marks the end of independence for a company that
helped pioneer mobile phones and introduced its first consumer
handset in the early 1980s.  Motorola announced a plan to spin off its mobile-phone
business in March 2008 amid market share losses and pressure
from billionaire Icahn. The company completed the split in
January, after the global recession delayed the deal. Motorola
Inc. became  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , which makes radio equipment
for emergency workers and scanning devices for retailers.  Last month, Icahn urged Motorola Mobility to explore
alternatives for its patent portfolio after Nortel’s patent
sale, the largest-ever patent auction.  “This is a great outcome for all shareholders of Motorola
Mobility, especially in light of today’s markets,” Icahn said
today in a statement. “We applaud management and the board for
acting so responsibly.”  Since the January spinoff, Motorola Mobility  shares  had
lost about a fifth of their value before today as the company
struggled to return to profitability and keep pace with larger
rivals such as Samsung and Apple.  Qatalyst Partners and Centerview Partners LLC advised
Motorola, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP provided legal
help. Lazard Ltd. advised Google, while  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  was the legal counsel.  Regulatory Scrutiny  The Google acquisition is likely to attract the attention
of regulators, said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at Citigroup Global
Markets, who rates Google a “hold.” The company, which owns
the world’s most popular search engine, is already under review
by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over its business
practices.  “Regulatory scrutiny will likely be material,” Mahaney
said in a report today. It’s “very hard to see this deal
closing by year-end,” he wrote.  Still, the scrutiny may be tempered by the fact that Google
doesn’t currently make handsets, and that Apple and Microsoft
have already gained approval for the purchase of Nortel’s
patents, said Macquarie’s Smithen.  “We’re quite confident that this will be approved,” said
 David Drummond , Google’s chief legal officer, on a conference
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  