-- 
Greenland Says Cairn Can Handle 10,000 Barrel-a-Day Oil Spill

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-15T17:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/greenland-says-cairn-can-handle-10-000-barrel-a-day-oil-spill.html
The Greenland government said  Cairn
Energy Plc (CNE)  can handle a 10,000 barrel-a-day oil spill off the
island after publishing the explorer’s contingency plans.  Cairn estimated the “worse case” spill scenario in
Greenland’s waters would be 5,000 barrels a day, said Jorn Skov
Nielsen, a deputy minister at Greenland’s  Bureau of Minerals and
Petroleum , citing the  oil company  environmental impact
assessment.  Greenland decided to publish the spill response plan after
clarifying the action it’s able to take against environmenal
protesters. Authorities will act to protect rigs within a 5
kilometers (3.1 miles) radius, Nielsen said.  “The oil spill plan certainly demonstrates that you can
handle more than double of that,” Nielsen told reporters today
on a conference call. With “cooperation in the global network
you can even handle much larger spills.”  Cairn, the most active explorer off Greenland, still has to
find commercially viable oil resources. Greenpeace activist have
been campaigning against the Edinburgh-based company drilling
operations and calling on it to publish the oil spill response
plan.  “In the unlikely event of a serious incident, we’ve put in
place a robust contingency plan,” David Nisbet, a spokesman at
Cairn, said on the same call. “Exploration in the Arctic and
sub-Arctic is not new and about 2,500 exploration wells have
been drilled there.”  Oil and gas companies have been often criticized for
environmental damage from oil spills. Royal Dutch Shell Plc
today said it may have possibly spilled about 1,300 barrels from
the Gannet Alpha platform in the  North Sea  last week, making it
the U.K.’s largest in more than a decade.  BP Plc’s Macondo well discharged an estimated 4.9 million
barrels of oil last year in the  Gulf of Mexico , making it the
worst U.S. oil spill.  The Greenland government published Cairn’s oil response
plan on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  