-- 
Icahn’s Motorola Patents Push Adds $600 Million to His Stake

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-08-15T21:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/icahn-s-push-on-motorola-patents-adds-600-million-to-value-of-his-stake.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s efforts to
get Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. to review options for its
patents added almost $600 million to the value of his company
stake following  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $12.5 billion buyout.  Icahn and his affiliates hold 33.5 million shares, the
equivalent of an 11.4 percent stake, in the Libertyville,
Illinois-based mobile-phone company. That stake is now valued at
about $1.34 billion under the deal announced today, in which
Google will acquire Motorola Mobility for $40 a share in cash.  The shareholder activist, having invested about $3.05
billion in Motorola Inc. common stock since 2008 and
successfully lobbied the former company to spin off its mobile-
phone business, may be close to breaking even on the overall
bet, according to regulatory filings. Icahn’s holdings in
Motorola Mobility and its sister company, Motorola Systems Inc.,
may be valued at about $2.9 billion as of today, filings show.  “Obviously, in 2008, we purchased the stock at too high of
a price,” Icahn, 75, said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller ,”
adding that his firm later paid as little as $3 a share for
Motorola stock. “We averaged it down and were pleased with the
results.”  Icahn manages his own money through New York-based Icahn
Capital LP. It’s possible his overall gains or losses on
Motorola were affected by financial contracts or securities that
didn’t have to be disclosed under U.S. securities laws. The
above figures don’t include any dividends he received on
Motorola stock.  Meeting With Management  The billionaire disclosed in a regulatory filing last month
that he had met with Motorola Mobility to urge management to
“explore alternatives” for the company’s more than 17,000
patents. On July 20, the first day that Icahn reported having
discussions with Motorola Mobility, company shares closed at
$22.41, giving his stake a market value of about $750.9 million.  Icahn’s initial meeting with Motorola last month followed a
July 1 announcement that a group of six technology companies,
including Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp., would pay
a combined $4.5 billion to acquire more than 6,000 patents from
Nortel Networks Corp.  Motorola Mobility’s “patent portfolio, which is
substantially larger than Nortel Networks’ and includes numerous
patents concerning 4G technologies, has significant value,”
Icahn said in a document filed July 21 with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. “There may be multiple ways to realize
such value given the current heightened market demand for
intellectual property in the mobile telecommunication
industry.”  Separation Push  “Motorola is activism at its best,” Icahn said earlier
today in a news release. “We have been strong proponents of the
company exploring multiple ways to enhance the value of its
patent portfolio.”  Icahn’s press release today didn’t mention whether he
played a role in brokering the deal between Motorola and Google.
Icahn acquired a stake in Yahoo! Inc. in 2008 and unsuccessfully
tried to resuscitate a deal between the company and Microsoft,
which had previously bid more than $40 billion for the Web
portal.  In February 2008, Icahn and his affiliates reported that
they had purchased 114.3 million shares of Motorola Inc. for
$1.78 billion, or about $15.58 a share. He subsequently added to
his stake and pushed the company to separate into Motorola
Mobility and Motorola Solutions Inc. -- a step that was
completed in January.  $3.10 at Bottom  When the stock market collapse reached its nadir in March
2009, Motorola shares traded for as little as $3.10 each,
unadjusted for subsequent splits and spinoffs. Under a reverse
stock split announced in November 2010, Motorola issued one new
share for every seven held by investors.  In addition to his Motorola Mobility stake, Icahn and his
affiliates owned about 38.3 million Motorola Solutions shares as
of March 31, according to Form 13Fs filed with the SEC on May
16. With Motorola Solutions shares trading at $40.58 each at
4:15 p.m. Washington time, Icahn’s Motorola Solutions shares
have a market value of about $1.55 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  