-- 
Michael Page Drops on Saying Banking Profit Growth Slows

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T15:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/michael-page-drops-on-saying-banking-profit-growth-slows-1-.html
Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , the
recruiter that operates across 32 countries, fell the most since
October 2008 after saying gross profit growth from the banking
industry is slowing and that the U.K. market is “challenging.”  Michael Page dropped 8.1 percent to close at 368 pence at
4:30 p.m. in  London , after earlier declining as much as 18
percent. The stock is down 34 percent this year, giving the
London-based company a market value of 1.12 billion pounds ($1.8
billion).  “We have seen an unprecedented amount of change in the
last few weeks,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Ingham said in a
phone interview today. “Banking was growing consistently with
overall growth until it slowed in the last few weeks. Whether
that will impact on the wider economy is difficult to tell.”  Banking accounts for 10 percent of gross profit at  Michael
Page . Job vacancies at London’s financial services companies
tumbled 11 percent last month, with banks including HSBC
Holdings Plc and UBS AG cutting positions to make up for
declining investment-banking profit.  “The move is a very good indication about how skittish the
market is at the moment, it is more about sentiment than a
reaction to numbers,” Panmure Gordon analyst  Paul Jones  said in
a telephone interview. “The main trading news is about the
banking sector but anyone who reads the papers should know about
that. This is just a knee-jerk reaction about how sensitive the
market is as a whole”  Revenue climbed 28 percent to 393.5 million pounds for the
six months ended June 30, Michael Page said in a statement.
Sales in  Asia  Pacific climbed 43 percent to 76.7 million pounds.  U.K. Market  “We expect market conditions in the U.K. to remain
challenging,” Ingham said in the statement. While conditions
remain tough, the company is increasing market share, he said in
the interview.  The outlook for Asia and  Latin America  remains strong,
Ingham said, adding that Michael Page will continue to invest
“significantly” in faster growing markets. Net income fell to
30.5 million pounds from 41.5 million pounds a year earlier. A
tax refund of 28.4 million pounds in 2010 resulted in uneven
comparatives, Ingham said.  “Michael Page did not deliver the profit people thought
they would,” Seymour Pierce analyst Caroline De La Soujeole
said in a telephone interview. “More costs came in than people
were expecting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  