-- 
Time Warner Cable to Buy Carlyle’s Insight for $3 Billion

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-15T20:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/time-warner-cable-to-acquire-carlyle-s-insight-for-3-billion-in-cash.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable-television operator, agreed to buy Carlyle
Group’s Insight Communications Co. for $3 billion in cash to
gain customers in the Midwest.  The deal may generate annual cost savings of $100 million
within two years, Time Warner Cable said in a statement today.  The acquisition is Time Warner Cable’s biggest since its
spinoff from Time Warner Inc. in 2009 and may help the cable
operator compensate for declining pay-TV demand. A wider
footprint lets Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt reach more
customers while eliminating duplications in programming and
corporate costs including staff and infrastructure.  “We like the business we’re in, and we want to buy more at
a price where we can give a good return to our shareholders,”
Britt said in an interview. “We’re still interested in
increasing scale at the right price, although having said that,
we’ll need to digest for a little while here.”  Time Warner Cable intends to maintain its target leverage
ratio, or the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, at 3.25, Britt said. The New
York-based company will begin a review of Insight’s employees to
retain the best performers, he said. Call-center operators and
technicians will likely not be affected because the volume of
work won’t change with the acquisition.  Share Buyback  Time Warner Cable fell 49 cents to $65.02 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 1.5 percent this year and 11 percent since the company
reported second-quarter earnings on July 28.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if investors are initially put
off by the deal because there is such a large part of the
investor base that owns Time Warner Cable simply for the
aggressive share repurchase plan,”  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview.
“But they’re buying this company at a significant discount to
their own valuations on a free-cash-flow basis.”  The company will continue its share buyback program, Britt
said. There’s about $1.5 billion remaining from Time Warner
Cable’s $4 billion authorization in November.  “Keeping up the scale is quite important for the cable
companies because they are able to leverage the scale in terms
of the number of TV subscribers they have when they are making
deals with the content owners,” said Richard Broughton, an
analyst at IHS Screen Digest in  London .  Auction Process  Insight, based in New York, is the ninth-largest U.S. cable
operator, with 679,000 basic video customers in Kentucky,
 Indiana  and  Ohio , according to the statement. Carlyle, a
Washington-based private equity firm, along with co-founder
Sidney Knafel and Michael Willner, took Insight private in 2005.  Two other private-equity firms, Crestview Partners and
MidOcean Partners, bought a stake in Insight from Carlyle and
other shareholders last year.  Insight initially intended to sell itself in an auction, in
which Time Warner Cable didn’t participate, and didn’t receive a
bid that was high enough. The failure of the auction was “not
entirely” surprising, Britt said.  “We had an idea of what we were willing to pay the entire
time,” said Britt. “The multiple we’re paying, including the
synergies and the favorable tax benefit, compares favorably to
the multiple our stock is trading at, even after the last couple
of weeks.”  Time Warner Cable is paying six times EBITDA after
adjusting for taxes and cost savings, according to Moffett.  Customer Losses  Time Warner Cable and rival pay-TV companies are coping
with falling customer numbers as the  U.S. economy  slows and as
competition builds from online rivals such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and
Hulu LLC.  The six largest publicly traded U.S. cable and satellite-TV
providers lost about 580,000 customers combined in the second
quarter, the biggest such drop in history, according to company
and Bloomberg data. Time Warner Cable lost 130,000 residential
video subscribers in the period, more than analysts estimated.  Buying Insight helps Time Warner Cable consolidate its
position in states such as Kentucky and Indiana while boosting
customer ranks by as much as 5 percent. Time Warner Cable has
14.4 million “customer relationships,” according to its
website, compared with 759,400 at Insight. Those figures include
Internet and phone users, in addition to cable-TV customers.  “While the Insight acquisition offers the potential to
return more capital to shareholders a couple years out, the
world is changing fast enough where staying the course and
resisting the temptation to get bigger would have been
preferred,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New
York, who maintained his “buy” rating on shares.  High Fees  Networks will continue to charge increasingly high fees to
broadcast their content each year, a primary motivator for
Insight to roll itself into a larger company, said Moffett, the
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst. History indicates the deal may not
be a catalyst for more consolidation, even with the cost
savings, he said. Moffett rates Time Warner Cable’s shares
“outperform.”  “The industry has been waiting with baited breath for
another round of consolidation for a generation, and each time
you think it’s finally arrived, a deal comes and goes with
nothing else behind it,” said Moffett. “We’ve been down this
road too many times to assume this is the beginning of a big
wave of M&A.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  UBS AG (UBS)  acted as financial
advisers to Insight. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. advised Time
Warner Cable.  Dow Lohnes PLLC gave legal advice to Insight. Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and Edwards Angell Palmer &
Dodge LLP advised Time Warner Cable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  