-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Urges ‘Short-Term’ Support for Growth Even Amid Fiscal Cuts

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-08-15T23:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/imf-s-lagarde-urges-measures-to-boost-economic-growth-while-reducing-debt.html
Christine Lagarde , the International
Monetary Fund’s new managing director, urged policy makers to
include measures to support economic growth in the short term as
they implement fiscal tightening plans under market pressure.  “For the advanced economies, there is an unmistakable need
to restore fiscal sustainability through credible consolidation
plans,” Lagarde wrote in the Financial Times. “At the same
time we know that slamming on the brakes too quickly will hurt
the recovery and worsen job prospects.”  Central bankers are racing to shield their economies from
fiscal tightening and lopsided currency swings that threaten a
new global recession. The European debt crisis has shown no sign
of abating with investors’ concerns rattling  France  last week
and the  European Central Bank  starting to buy Spanish and
Italian debt.  “Fiscal adjustment must resolve the conundrum of being
neither too fast nor too slow,” Lagarde wrote. “What is needed
is a dual focus on medium-term consolidation and short-term
support for growth and jobs.”  While not all countries have enough leeway to implement
policies to support growth, in “many” others, sharp deficit
reduction “would be wrong,” she wrote. Potential measures to
support growth include policies to advance planned
infrastructure or to support  job creation , Lagarde wrote in the
FT. Cutting revenue alone won’t be enough, revenues must
increase too, Lagarde wrote.  Low  interest rates , central banks’ readiness to “dive once
more into unconventional waters” if required, as well as
financial industry repairs, are also required to ensure global
recovery doesn’t falter, she wrote.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  