-- 
Indian Bollywood Icon, Shammi Kapoor, Dies of Renal Failure

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-08-15T08:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/indian-bollywood-icon-shammi-kapoor-dies-of-renal-failure.html
Shammi Kapoor , the Bollywood actor
who carved a niche for himself with his rock ‘n’ roll dancing
style in the 1950s and 60s, died yesterday aged 79.  Kapoor was suffering from chronic renal failure and passed
away at Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai, Geeta Koppikar, medical
director at the hospital, said by phone today.  Hailed as the ‘Elvis Presley of India,’ Kapoor played the
lead role in Hindi movies including ‘Tumsa Nahin Dekha’,
‘Junglee’, ‘Dil Tera Diwana’ and ‘Kashmir Ki Kali’, according to
the  Press Trust of India . Kapoor won the  Filmfare best actor
award  in 1968 and the best actor in supporting role in 1982.  “He delighted Hindi cinema fans with his vivacious
acting,”  India ’s President Pratibha Devisingh Patil said in her
condolence message. “He shall always be remembered by a
generation of film watchers. In his death, the  film industry  has
lost a creative talent.”  Born Shamsher Raj Kapoor in Mumbai on Oct. 21, 1931, Kapoor
was the second son of veteran theater and film actor Prithviraj
Kapoor, the Press Trust reported.  Shammi Kapoor started his career at a time when Bollywood
was dominated by his brother Raj Kapoor, Dev Anand and Dilip
Kumar, said Nikhil Gangavane, a family friend who heads the
Shammi Kapoor Fan Club website. Still, Kapoor was able to carve
a unique rebellious style, particularly with his ‘yahoo’ yell,
that was loved by the younger generation, he said.  “Strong and full of happy will, even as he struggled in
his later years, he would never give the impression how gravely
ill he was,” Amitabh Bachchan, another bollywood superstar,
said on his blog. “He would laugh and joke on his numerous
visits to the hospital for his dialysis, joke with the staff in
the hospital, pull their leg. He would almost make you feel that
he was visiting you in hospital, rather than the other way
round.”  Kapoor, who was married twice, has a son Aditya Kapoor and
daughter Kanchan Desai, according to the Press Trust. His first
wife Geeta Bali died in 1965 and he married Neela Devi Gohil in
1969, Press Trust reported.  His body was cremated at 11 a.m. in  Mumbai  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 keenan5@bloomberg.net  