-- 
Investec Says Signs Five-Year Deal to Sponsor British Women’s Hockey Team

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-15T11:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/investec-says-signs-five-year-deal-to-sponsor-british-women-s-hockey-team.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , a private bank and
wealth manager, signed a five-year sponsorship deal with the
England and Great Britain women’s field hockey teams.  “We began sponsoring the South African women’s team last
year and have expanded our backing of the sport as it symbolizes
commitment, enthusiasm, skill and personal development,”
Raymond van Niekerk, Investec’s global head of marketing, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The agreement, which ranges from grassroots children’s
hockey to national team level, starts at the European
Championships, which will held be Aug. 20-28 in
Moenchengladbach,  Germany . No financial details were disclosed.  Investec, which has operations in  South Africa , the U.K.
and Australia, has been involved in numerous sponsorships,
ranging from horse racing, rugby and motor racing to cultural
events such as concerts. It signed a two-year shirt sponsorship
deal with  Tottenham Hotspur  soccer club last year while it’s
also the main sponsor of the  Epsom Derby , one of the most
important U.K. flat races.  Hockey is among the oldest Olympic sports, having made its
first appearance at the 1908 London Games. Although it’s been
part of the Olympic program since the 1920 Antwerp Games, women
didn’t play on an Olympic level until Moscow in 1980, according
to the website of the  International Olympic Committee .  The British women’s hockey team finished sixth at the
Beijing Olympics in 2008. Last year, the team took bronze in
three major events: the  World Cup , the Commonwealth Games and
the Champions Trophy. Next year London hosts the summer  Olympic
Games .  ‘Inspire’ Generations  Kate Walsh, Great Britain and England team captain, said
the Investec deal “will hopefully inspire future generations
and help to build on the fantastic progress of England and GB
women’s hockey.”  The agreement “will make a tangible difference at
grassroots level as we continue to invest in initiatives
encouraging greater participation within schools and our
clubs,”  England Hockey  Chief Executive Officer Sally Munday
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the  London  sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  