-- 
Iowa Straw Poll Damages Republican Prospects: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T17:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/iowa-straw-poll-damages-republican-prospects-margaret-carlson.html
After this past weekend, perhaps
Republicans will finally end the disastrous Iowa Straw Poll. In
five tries, the circus in Ames has picked a future president
once, which is about the same success rate you’d get by picking
names from a hat.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  won it last time.
If this year’s winner, Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota, goes on to become president, I will come to your
house and mow your lawn (to borrow a marker used by former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  at last week’s Republican
debate).  The straw poll does little for winners. For losers, though,
it can be decisive; it is where presidential dreams go to die.
Ask Pawlenty, who finished third. Before he could take to the
seas with his executive experience as a two-term governor of a
blue state, a gathering of about 16,000 Iowans scuttled his
candidacy before it left port. Pawlenty isn’t the best candidate
in the world, but compared to Bachmann he looks like  George Washington . He dropped out of the race on Sunday.  You wonder why Republicans allow this mix of carnival and
county fair to have such an outsize impact. With country guitars
twanging, ice cream melting,  Randy Travis  singing and food
everywhere, the straw poll is primarily a commercial enterprise
designed to fill the coffers of the Iowa Republican Party. Its
standards of bribery would make a traffic cop in Lagos blush.
Just about every vote is bought and paid for. If a Republican
attends the straw poll without being treated to the $30 ticket,
being driven to the event and stuffing himself to the gills on
free food, he’s a chump.  Bachmann was tailor-made to appeal to the select group of
activists who dominate the event. A vibrant bundle of energy,
she giddily pitched red meat to the extremist wing of her party.
As Pawlenty struggled to throw a punch, balancing his appeal to
the right with awareness of the realities of governing, Bachmann
was all elbows and atmospherics.  Republicans rewarded her while punishing Pawlenty. His loss
among a tiny sample of voters in the middle of Iowa meant he
would be unable to raise the money necessary to continue.
Bachmann, meanwhile, moved to the front rank of Republican
candidates on the strength of 4,823 votes (about 0.00008 of the
total Senator  John McCain  earned in losing the 2008 election).
She may well self-destruct. If she doesn’t, the party will
eventually find a way to stop her. She’ll end up with a speaking
role at the Republican National Convention -- outside prime
time.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  not only spurned the whole
ridiculous exercise in Ames, he overshadowed it. While Bachmann
was maneuvering straw poll voters into her air-conditioned tent,
Perry had the stage all to himself in South Carolina, where he
announced his presidential candidacy on the same day. So small
are the stakes in Ames that Perry won instant credibility with
718 write-in votes -- more than Romney, who was actually on the
ballot.  Perry is supposed to fuse the party’s pragmatic wing, which
has been waiting for a viable alternative to Romney, with its
Tea Party base and Christian hard core. Judging from the
response of the Wall Street Journal editorial board, which is
home base for Republican free-market fundamentalists, Perry has
work to do. The Journal  greeted  his entry in the race by hoping
that “perhaps someone still off the field will step in and
run.” Conservative New York Times columnist Ross Douthat
reinforced that plea,  begging  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
to make a run.  Having nurtured a volatile right-wing insurgency to counter
Obama, Republicans are now living with the results, one of which
is that any candidate who appears mainstream and reasonable is
shunned. The prospects of more moderate candidates like Christie
-- not to mention Pawlenty and former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who fared poorly in Ames -- would be improved if they
didn’t face a pointless gantlet in Iowa months before the first
primaries.  We’ll soon find out whether Perry has staying power or if
he is this year’s version of former Tennessee Senator  Fred Thompson , who was hailed as a Republican savior in 2008 but
faded so fast that he’s now selling reverse mortgages to seniors
on late-night cable TV. Perry is a fundraising savant, having
amassed more than $100 million in three statewide campaigns in
Texas. And he isn’t named Romney -- a huge asset in Republican
politics this year.  If Perry wins the presidency in 2012, his vision of a pre-
New Deal society, in which Social Security and Medicare wither,
education funds are threadbare and health care is a privilege
(one-fourth of Texans lack health insurance), won’t be much fun.
But if he proves that the road to the White House doesn’t have
to pass through Iowa in August, he’ll do his party a favor,
sounding a death knell for a process by which a politician
arrives in Ames a viable national candidate and leaves a broken
has-been. That’s a high price to pay for an air-conditioned tent
and free hot dogs.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 