-- 
Lira Strengthens After Central Bank Says Currency Undervalued

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-15T14:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/lira-gains-2nd-day-on-possible-steps-to-resolve-eu-debt-crisis.html
Turkey ’s lira climbed against the
dollar after central bank Governor Erdem Basci said the currency
was undervalued and a rapid solution to  Europe ’s debt problems
may drive the lira higher.  The lira strengthened as much as 0.9 percent after Basci’s
comments and traded 0.5 percent stronger at 1.7692 per dollar by
5:12 p.m. in Istanbul, gaining for a second day and trimming
this month’s loss to 4.6 percent. The currency headed for its
strongest close in almost a week.  The lira is about 5 percent or 10 percent undervalued
against the equally weighted dollar and euro basket and may
appreciate should there be a rapid solution to the European debt
crisis, Basci said in a televised interview with CNN Turk news
channel today.  The central bank “thinks that demand for the Turkish lira
will increase because of monetary easing abroad and the  Federal
Reserve  will have to resort to that too,” Tufan Comert, a
strategist at Garanti Securities, wrote in a note to clients.
Basci’s comments indicate that the lira should trade between
1.60 and 1.68 per dollar, Comert said. The currency last traded
near this range in July.  The Turkish central bank sold $100 million in an auction
today, equaling the highest amount it has offered since starting
the daily currency sales on Aug. 5 in an effort to curb recent
declines in the lira a day after it cut  interest rates  to a
record low of 5.75 percent. Its dollar sales totaled $490
million since Aug. 5.  Growth Versus Lira  The bank reduced the benchmark one-week repo rate to 5.75
percent from 6.25 percent at an emergency meeting on Aug. 4,
saying the measure was designed to limit the impact of the
European crisis on Turkish growth.  “By pre-emptively cutting the one-week repo rate by 50
basis points, the Turkish central bank made clear that its focus
was growth, not the Turkish lira,” Thomas Costerg, an economist
at Standard Chartered Bank Plc in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments.  The Turkish central bank seems to be “backpedaling” by
increasing its foreign-currency auctions, Costerg said.
“However, it is likely that investors will remain focused on
the ‘original sin’ of the rate cut, which has led to an
irremediable correlation of the lira to the euro-area debt
problems.”  The lira has lost 8.3 percent to the dollar in the second
half to date, making it the worst-performing currency worldwide,
as worries about a record-high current-account deficit weighed
on investor sentiments towards Turkey.  “The issue is that the euro-area problems are unlikely to
dissipate in the short term, and the lira may well remain under
pressure as a result,” said Costerg.  Benchmark two-year bond yields decreased three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.11 percent, according to
a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi local bond index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  