-- 
Israel’s Sewage-Eating Bacteria Lure GE Cash to Curb Energy Costs

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-15T16:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/israel-s-sewage-eating-bacteria-lure-ge-cash-to-cut-energy-costs.html
Israel ’s water industry is
attracting funds from  General Electric Co. (GE)  and ConocoPhillips as
the country develops energy-saving technology to treat sewage,
part of a $5 billion program to clean up water supplies by 2016.  Emefcy Ltd. , building a fuel cell that uses bacteria to
break down waste in water, has raised about $10 million from
investors including GE,  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  and ConocoPhillips, its
Chief Executive Officer Eytan Levy said in a telephone interview.
The process reduces the amount of energy required to treat
sewage and generates electricity.  “We’ve seen a significant increase in interest in resource
recovery from wastewater that wasn’t there just a few years
ago,” Levy said from Caesarea, Israel. The company is targeting
sales in  Europe  and the U.S. and forecasts annual revenue of
more than $100 million by 2017, he said.  The bacteria project is a small part of Israel’s effort to
alleviate a water shortage without straining limited energy
supplies. The country’s dry climate and lack of desalination
capacity put it at the forefront of a global increase in water
scarcity, which the  United Nations  says will extend to 30
countries by 2025, a gain of more than 50 percent from 1990.  Israel has doubled its exports of water technology to $1.5
billion following a state-funded program that began in 2006,
said Dimitra Christakou, head of water insight services at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London. The nation has attracted
global interest as governments and utilities study how it has
invested to cope with the depletion of underground aquifers.  General Electric Funds  In June, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE opened a research
and development center in Haifa, Israel, and invested in Emefcy
through  Energy Technology Ventures , a joint venture with NRG
Energy and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   “It’s important for us to make sure that we’ve got the
right technologies,” Steve Kloos, advanced technologies leader
at  GE Power & Water , said by phone from  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota .
“Energy is a big deal in water treatment,” he said, adding
that Emefcy’s equipment is different because it generates power
while treating the wastewater.  “The more efficient you can be from an energy standpoint,
the better the overall economics are going to be,” he said.  Construction of Emefcy’s $1 million fuel-cell production
plant on the outskirts of Caesarea will be completed by the end
of the year, with first commercial orders ready for shipping by
early 2012, Levy said.  Energy Costs  Power use makes up as much as 40 percent of operating costs
at a typical water-treatment plant, according to the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency . Last year, wastewater treatment
accounted for about 30 percent of the world’s spending on water,
New Energy Finance data show.  In the Mideast alone, spending on treatment will jump to
$17 billion in 2016 from $6.7 billion in 2009, according to
 Global Water Intelligence . Israel plans to invest more than $5
billion on water and wastewater treatment over the period.  “There is a clear opportunity to modernize the wastewater
treatment industry,” said Richard Irving, a founding partner at
Pond Venture Partners Ltd., a  San Jose , California-based fund
that invests in Emefcy. “The driving need is twofold: Water
scarcity and the economics of wastewater treatment and energy.”  Israel produces 500 million cubic meters of sewage a year,
enough to fill 200,000 Olympic-size swimming pools, according to
the environment ministry. Some 75 percent of that is reused for
irrigation, New Energy Finance data show.  The country’s Administration for the Development of Sewage
Infrastructures invests about 450 million shekels ($128 million)
a year on maintenance and upgrades, according to the  Ministry of
National Infrastructures .  Bubble Treatment  Mapal Green Energy Ltd. , based in Nesher, northern Israel,
has come up with its own method of treating water while cutting
costs. The company has developed a floating aeration system that
processes waste by pumping bubbles of air into the water.  Mapal Green has received letters of interest from utilities
in the U.K.,  South Africa  and  Peru , and is in talks with a
Chinese company to form a joint venture, Vice President for
Business Development Zeev Fisher said by phone, declining to
name the company. Mapal Green plans to raise as much as $8
million “to catch the market,” he said.  Unlike fixed aeration equipment, the floating system sits
on the water’s surface, allowing sewage plants to be retrofitted,
according to the company, which says its technology can reduce
operating costs by as much as 70 percent. It already has 23
plants in Israel, one in  Angola  and one in Congo.  By 2025, 1.8 billion people around the world will face
water scarcity, a situation whereby each person has access to
less than 1,000 cubic meters of water a year, according to the
 UN . Almost half the global population will be living in areas of
“high water stress” by 2030, it says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in  London  at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  