-- 
Israel Consumer Prices Fall for First Time in More Than Year

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-15T16:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/israel-consumer-prices-fall-for-first-time-in-more-than-year.html
Israeli monthly consumer prices
declined in July for the first time in more than a year as food
and clothing costs fell amid mass protests against the high cost
of living.  Consumer prices declined 0.3 percent from June, the first
drop since February 2010, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  in
Jerusalem said today. The median estimate in a survey of 14
economists by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.3 percent. The
annual inflation rate was 3.4 percent compared with 4.2 percent
in the previous month.  “The major contributor to the decrease was clothing and
footwear, which decreased over 8 percent mainly due to seasonal
factors, while the price of dairy and other food products went
down by nearly 2 percent,” said Yoel Finkel, deputy director-
general of the bureau. “This shows that the ‘cottage cheese
revolution’ had impact.”  More than 100,000 Israelis joined a Facebook group boycott
of cottage cheese to protest its rising price, prompting dairy
companies including  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS)  to lower the cost and the
government to set up a committee to examine food prices.  Strauss Group Ltd. has declined about 9 percent since the
beginning of July. The country’s largest food retailer,
 Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , has fallen about 11 percent during the same
period.  Export Growth  Israeli export growth slowed in July to 0.6 percent amid
signs that the economic expansion is slowing in the U.S. and the
European Union, its two biggest trading partners. The Bank of
 Israel  on Aug. 2 cut its forecast for economic growth this year
to 4.8 percent in 2011 from 5.2 percent. Exports make up about
40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic product.  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations declined to 2.9
percent from 3 percent a month ago, the central bank reported
July 18, the first time this year that they have dropped below
the upper limit of the target range. DS Securities & Investments
Ltd., which is based in  Tel Aviv , cut its 12-month inflation
forecast to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent on Aug. 7, citing
expectations that the wave of demonstrations will lead to a
moderation of price increases.  The breakeven rate, the average yearly inflation rate
traders bet by 2013, fell to 2.4 today from 2.9 percent on July
28.  Inflation has exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3
percent target range every month this year.  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  has increased the
benchmark  interest rate  four times this year, leaving it at 3.25
percent for the past two months.  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for the benchmark rate, declined to 3.2 percent,
from a high this year of 4.2 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 