-- 
James Murdoch ‘Inaccuracies’ Under Scrutiny as Answers Examined

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/james-murdoch-inaccuracies-under-scrutiny.html
Fresh statements from former  News
Corp. (NWSA)  employees including ex-tabloid editor Rebekah Brooks will
help determine whether  James Murdoch  told the truth to U.K.
lawmakers about what he knew about phone-hacking allegations.  Murdoch told lawmakers last month that he hadn’t realized
until late 2010 that phone hacking was widespread at News
Corp.’s News of the World. That’s been contradicted by Tom Crone
and  Colin Myler , two former executives of the tabloid, who said
they informed him in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested more
reporters had been involved, leading lawmakers to demand new
responses to explain the inconsistency.  The company’s deputy chief operating officer may be
recalled to explain to Parliament what he knew about the scandal
that has taken down senior executives and led to the arrest of
at least 12 people and the closure of the 168-year-old News of
the World tabloid. If Murdoch is found in contempt of
Parliament, his position as chairman of U.K. pay-TV broadcaster
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  might also be in jeopardy,
Damian Collins, one of the lawmakers reviewing the statements
today, said in an interview.  “The question we need to answer is at what point did the
most senior people become aware the phone hacking was not
restricted to a single journalist,” said Collins, a
Conservative Party member of the Culture, Media and Sport
Committee that is investigating the allegations. “It would
raise the question about whether someone can pass the fit-and-
proper person tests required to hold a broadcasting license if
they have been found to be in contempt of Parliament.”  ‘Serious Inaccuracies’  The committee asked Murdoch, Brooks, Crone, Myler, former
News International lawyer Jonathan Chapman and Harbottle & Lewis
LLP, a  law firm  that was tasked by the company with
investigating initial charges of phone hacking in 2007, to
provide responses to explain the inconsistencies, Collins said.
Chapman complained of “serious inaccuracies” in Murdoch’s
first testimony before lawmakers on July 19.  Brooks, 43, the former chief executive officer of News
International, News Corp.’s U.K. publishing arm, has filed a
response to Parliament, her spokesman Dave Wilson said
yesterday. James Murdoch, 38, sent a letter on Friday, News
Corp. said last week, declining to comment on the content. News
Corp. spokeswoman Alice Macandrew yesterday declined to comment
on the potential repercussions for James Murdoch.
Representatives for Harbottle & Lewis, Crone and Myler didn’t
respond to phone messages seeking comment on their submissions.  ‘Dynamite’  The committee will also vote today on whether to make the
letters public, Collins said. On Aug. 12, opposition Labour
Party  Tom Watson , another U.K. lawmaker on the Culture
Committee, said that the documents that had been submitted were
“dynamite” without commenting further on their content.  As a result of the phone-hacking scandal, News Corp.
dropped its 7.8 billion-pound takeover bid for the 61 percent in
BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. After his initial testimony,
James Murdoch was supported by the board of BSkyB, which last
month unanimously backed him to remain as chairman of the
satellite television broadcaster.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  When Murdoch appeared last month with his father Rupert
before lawmakers, he said he hadn’t realized until late 2010
that more than one reporter at the News of the World newspaper
had engaged in phone hacking.  Afterwards, Crone, the News of the World legal manager, and
Myler, its one-time editor, said they told Murdoch in 2008 about
an e-mail that suggested more reporters had been involved. They
said they told him about it when they asked him to approve a
700,000-pound ($1.1 million) settlement to a phone-hacking
victim.  Record Court Award  The circumstances surrounding the 2008 payment to victim
 Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
Association, were the focus of many lawmakers’ questions to
Murdoch last month.  Murdoch said he agreed to the payment -- more than 10 times
the record court award in a privacy case at the time -- on
advice of outside counsel. Crone told the committee in 2009 that
the company decided to settle after Taylor’s lawyer found an e-
mail from a junior reporter to  Glenn Mulcaire , the private
investigator at the center of the phone-hacking allegations. It
was labeled “for Neville.”  The transcript was of 35 voicemail messages left by Taylor
and his legal adviser. The text of the transcript was redacted
by the committee. At the time of the message, the only Neville
working at the tabloid was chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck.
News of the World royal reporter  Clive Goodman  was the only
journalist that has been jailed for phone hacking.  Celebrity Lawsuits  Brooks, who resigned July 15 as News International CEO,
addressed the committee after the Murdochs. She said she didn’t
know how widespread the phone hacking was until actress  Sienna Miller  filed a civil lawsuit last October.  During her testimony, Brooks was asked whether her diary
would confirm she never had a meeting with Mulcaire and how many
times she met U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  Leaders of both Britain’s main parties -- Labour and the
Conservatives -- wooed Murdoch, whose News Corp. still publishes
the Sun, the biggest selling daily tabloid, and the  Times and
Sunday Times. The Sun has backed the winner in every election
since 1979, when it urged voters to support  Margaret Thatcher ’s
 Conservative Party .  News of the World shut down in July following reports that
employees tapped into voicemails of murder and terror victims
and paid police for stories. James Murdoch joined News
International as chairman in 2007, after the alleged hacking
took place. While he was responsible for approving settlements
for hacking lawsuits against the company, Murdoch says that he
relied on lawyers and police reports that indicated the abuse
was isolated.  “We need to understand what happened,” Collins said. “We
need to find out whether this was a case of willful ignorance,
poor management or whether we’ve been misled as a committee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  