-- 
James Hardie 1st-Quarter Profit Falls After Sales Declined

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-15T23:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/james-hardie-1st-quarter-profit-falls-after-sales-declined-1-.html
James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a global
building materials maker, reported a 3 percent decrease in
first-quarter operating profit after sales of fiber cement in
the U.S. and  Europe  fell and pulp and freight costs rose.   Income excluding asbestos compensation payments declined
to $39.4 million in the three months to June 30, from $40.5
million a year earlier, the Dublin-based company said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  “The prior corresponding quarter benefited from the
favorable impact of tax incentives available to U.S.
homebuyers,” Chief Executive Officer Louis Gries said in the
statement. “In the U.S., new housing and repair and remodel
sectors remain weak with high unemployment, low levels of
 consumer confidence , falling house values, excess housing
inventory and limited credit availability, all still inhibiting
growth.”  New home sales  declined to an annualized rate of 312,000 in
June, according to U.S. Commerce Department data. Lender delays
in processing home-loan defaults will push as many as 1 million
U.S. foreclosures from this year into 2012 or beyond, preventing
real estate prices from finding a bottom, RealtyTrac Inc., a
housing data provider, said last month.  Including asbestos-related payments, the Australian-listed
company reported a first-quarter profit that fell to $1 million
from $104.9 million a year earlier.  Net operating profit excluding asbestos payments for the
year ended March 31, 2012, will be between $126 million and $140
million, the range expected by analysts,  James Hardie  said.  The company, which announced it would buy back up to 5
percent of outstanding shares, said the process would start in
the future, depending on market conditions and pricing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  