-- 
Japanese Economy Contracts Less Than Estimated on Post-Tsunami Investment

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-15T06:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/japanese-economy-contracts-less-than-estimated-on-recovery-from-earthquake.html
Japan ’s economy contracted less than
economists estimated in the second quarter as reconstruction
work counters the effects of the record March 11 earthquake and 
a strengthening yen.   Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent
rate in the three months ended June 30, marking three
consecutive quarters of declines, the Cabinet office said today
in  Tokyo . The median forecast of 25 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2.5 percent drop.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today that the world’s
third-biggest economy will probably resume its expansion this
quarter after pledging yesterday to take “bold action” to curb
yen gains if necessary. The nation’s former top currency
official Eisuke Sakakibara said today Japan’s currency may rise
to a postwar record, threatening the profits of exporters from
Toyota Motor Corp. to Sony Corp. just as global growth slows.  “The headline number is better than expected, but it’s not
like this is a strong number,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief
economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The
strengthening yen will start to weigh on exports and capital
spending. We can expect positive growth in the third quarter,
but the yen may damp that momentum.”  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.4 percent
to 9,086.41 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The yen traded at
76.89 per dollar and has gained 5 percent against the U.S.
currency in the past three months. Authorities sold the yen for
the first time since March this month as it approached a high of
76.25.  “The yen may appreciate further, beyond 75” Sakakibara
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “I would
expect the  U.S. economy  to be fairly weak for a long period of
time.”  Mr. Yen  Sakakibara became known as “Mr. Yen” during his 1997-1999
tenure as the  Finance Ministry ’s top currency official because
of his efforts to influence the yen rate through verbal and
actual intervention in foreign-exchange markets.  Capital investment  rose 0.2 percent, compared with a
revised 1.4 percent decline in the first quarter, today’s data
showed. Public investment increased 3 percent, the first advance
in six quarters, reflecting government rebuilding efforts, the
report showed.  Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, expects to begin
making up for lost output from the earthquake in September, one
month earlier than previously announced, it said on Aug. 2. The
company is hiring up to 4,000 temporary workers to help that
effort.  ‘Blown Off’  A 15-yen change in the dollar-yen rate over the past year
has “blown off” 300,000 yen, or $3,900, in profit on a $20,000
car, and a stronger yen has cut Toyota’s fiscal first-quarter
operating profit by 50 billion yen, Takahiko Ijichi, the
carmaker’s senior managing officer, said on Aug. 2.  A stronger currency makes Japanese products less
competitive abroad and erodes overseas profits repatriated into
yen. The yen has been stronger than the 82.59 average rate on
which companies have based their profit forecasts, according to
a quarterly  Bank of Japan  survey of business activity.  “The  exchange rate  is at a level that has an extremely
damaging effect on the Japanese economy,” Osamu Masuko,
president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Motors Corp., said Aug. 4
after authorities intervened in the foreign-exchange market for
the first time since March. “The resulting exchange rate still
isn’t acceptable.”  Slower overseas growth may also weigh on demand for
Japanese products. Tokyo Electron Ltd., the world’s second-
largest maker of semiconductor equipment, cut its net income
forecast for the year ending in March by 49 percent to 34
billion yen ($442 million), citing lower than expected sales.  Global Growth Slows  France ’s GDP stalled in the second quarter while the
economies of both  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  shrank, reports this
month have shown.  “Growth is going to be weak if we have the supply side
constraints from the power side coupled with demand side
problems, from foreign growth and a slow fiscal response,” said
 Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic research at Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  Consumer spending  fell 0.1 percent in the April-June period
from the previous three months, compared with a 0.6 percent drop
in the first quarter, today’s report showed. Net exports, or
shipments less imports, subtracted 0.8 percentage point from GDP,
the biggest drop since the first quarter of 2009.  Reconstruction Budget  Policy makers are beginning to work on a third package for
earthquake relief that Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano says
may include measures to help businesses combat the strong yen.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has passed two budgets totaling 6
trillion yen to clear debris and build temporary homes in the
disaster-hit northeast.  The government downgraded its growth forecast for Japan
last week, saying GDP will increase 0.5 percent in the year
started April, compared with its January forecast for a 1.5
percent expansion. The changes reflect the March earthquake’s
impact on output and consumer spending, the Cabinet Office said.  Most indicators from the quarter started July 1 point to an
economic rebound, with industrial production rising for three
straight months since plunging in March. Companies are also
forecasting they will boost output this month to make up for
lost capacity resulting from the natural disaster, and sentiment
among merchants exceeded pre-temblor levels.  “The monthly data show that supply constraints are
gradually easing and sentiment has bottomed out as well,”
Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told reporters
today in Tokyo. “With the steady recovery of supply chains and
a certain increase in reconstruction demand, we expect
considerably high growth in the second half of this year.”  Machinery orders, a leading indicator for  capital spending ,
also rose more than expected in June, a sign companies will ramp
up outlays as they restore their businesses.  “We’ll see considerably high growth in the third quarter
even though the yen will start to temper that figure,” said
 Tatsushi Shikano , senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  