-- 
Japan’s ‘Mr Yen’ Says Currency May Exceed 75 Per Dollar on U.S. Weakness

-- B y   L i n z i e   J a n i s
-- 
2011-08-15T07:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/japan-s-mr-yen-says-currency-may-exceed-75-per-dollar-on-u-s-weakness.html
Japan ’s currency may strengthen to a
postwar high against the dollar because of the weakness of the
 U.S. economy , said former Finance Ministry official  Eisuke Sakakibara , who’s known as “Mr. Yen.”  “The yen may appreciate further, beyond 75,” Sakakibara
said in an interview from Tokyo on Bloomberg Television today.
“I would expect the U.S. economy to be fairly weak for a long
period of time.”  The yen declined today after Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  warned that he’s ready to intervene again to stem gains
that pose a risk to exports. On Aug. 4, the government sold the
currency to stem gains that threaten exporters’ profits. The yen
has since returned to its pre-intervention level and is
approaching its all-time high of 76.25, underscoring the
difficulty authorities are having in halting its advance.  “Intervention, in order to be effective, needs to be
persistent and continuous and needs to have the understanding”
of other authorities, said Sakakibara, who earned the nickname
because of his efforts when an official to influence the yen
rate through verbal and actual intervention in  currency markets .
“Multilateral intervention does work but I don’t think at the
moment the U.S. is willing to intervene. It will be very
difficult to have a coordinated intervention.”  The currency fell 0.2 percent to 76.89 per dollar as of
3:33 p.m. in Tokyo. It has appreciated 5 percent in the past
three months. The Bank of Japan will need to ease policy
“rather aggressively” to counter dollar weakness that has been
spurred by the  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing policies,
Sakakibara said.  Japan’s economy contracted less than economists estimated
in the second quarter as reconstruction work limits the slump
from the record earthquake and tsunami, shrinking an annualized
1.3 percent rate in the three months ended June 30, the Cabinet
Office said today in  Tokyo . The median forecast of 25 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.5 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linzie Janis in London at 
 ljanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  