-- 
Keegan Bradley’s PGA Win Not Enough to End Tiger Woods’s Grip on U.S. Golf

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-15T04:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/keegan-bradley-s-pga-win-not-enough-to-halt-woods-s-grip-on-u-s-golf.html
U.S. golf fans finally got a
homegrown winner of a major championship. It just wasn’t who
they were expecting.  Keegan Bradley ’s victory at the U.S.  PGA Championship 
yesterday, the first by an American since Phil Mickelson won the
2010  Masters Tournament , drew chants of “U-S-A” from the
galleries around Atlanta Athletic Club. It also had fans
wondering exactly who the winner was.  “The kid’s a golf geek,” Ben Harrison, Bradley’s agent,
said in an interview on the 18th green after his client defeated
 Jason Dufner  in a three-hole playoff. “He’s a grinder.”  A geeky grinder isn’t likely to produce big ratings or make
fans and television networks forget about  Tiger Woods , who
failed to advance to weekend play for first time in PGA
Championship history. And with U.S. PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem in the midst of negotiations on television contracts,
the lack of star power may hinder those discussions.  “Even now, the news of the  PGA Tour  is not who the leader
is, it’s what Tiger Woods is doing,”  Brad Adgate , director of
research at Horizon Media Inc., a New York-based advertising
company, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Until the
news is no longer what is Tiger doing? it’s still not going to
generate the kind of interest.”  Bradley, a 25-year-old rookie, became the first golfer
since Francis Ouimet in 1913 to win in his major-tournament
debut in the U.S.  “It seems like a dream and I’m afraid I’m going to wake up
here in the next five minutes and it’s not going to be real,”
Bradley said in a press conference.  Ratings Hope  With a final-round leaderboard full of unheralded names
like Bradley, Dufner, Brendan Steele and D.A. Points, the best
chance  CBS Corp. (CBS)  had of generating strong ratings was a playoff.  “They need a poor man’s Tiger vs Rocco,” Adgate said,
referring to Woods’s 2008 U.S. Open playoff win over  Rocco Mediate  at Torrey Pines in  California .  What they got was a playoff featuring Bradley, a Vermont
native who was best known for being the nephew of LPGA Hall of
Famer Pat Bradley, and Dufner, whose closest brush with fame
came while working as a caddie for former Miami Dolphins
quarterback  Dan Marino  at Weston Hills Country Club in  Florida .  Bradley becomes the 10th player in the last 11 Grand Slam
events to win a major in his first appearance. Only  Phil Mickelson , who finished tied for 19th yesterday, has won twice
during that stretch.  Bradley Boost  The victory vaults Bradley into numerous marquee events,
including the PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup playoffs, which begin Aug. 25
at the Barclays championship in Plainfield,  New Jersey . It
also puts him on a list with unlikely major winners, including
recent PGA champions Y.E. Yang, Shaun Micheel and Rich Beem.  In an attempt to distance itself from its dependence on
Woods, the tour began this season with a marketing campaign
promoting the  “New Breed vs. The Establishment.”  Bradley
wasn’t featured in any of those commercials or advertisements,
which focused on players such as  Australia ’s Jason Day and
Americans  Rickie Fowler  and  Anthony Kim .  That could change, according to Harrison, Bradley’s agent.  “It’s absolutely life changing,” he said. “It’s huge.
His endorsement income is going to get significantly higher.”  Bradley, who entered the tournament ranked 108th in the
world, has agreements with Cleveland Golf and non-golf companies
including Putnam Investments LLC, the Boston-based money-
management firm, and Oakley Inc. While Harrison declined to
disclose Bradley’s endorsement income, it’s significantly less
than the $70 million Sports Illustrated magazine said Woods
earned in 2010.  Talks Delayed  With the 14-time major winner on the sidelines for most of
this season due to knee and Achilles tendon injuries, Finchem
delayed his contract discussions with  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s NBC
Universal and CBS until recent months. The broadcasting
agreements expire after the 2012 season.  Until Woods is able to defeat lesser-known players like
Bradley again, the networks aren’t likely to pay more than the
current $2.95 billion.  “It would be hard to justify a rate increase,” Adgate
said. “When it comes to golf these days, you don’t know what
you’re getting.”  Bradley said his performance is an example of the wide
variety of players capable of winning on the world’s top golf
circuit. It doesn’t answer the question most golf followers are
still asking, according to Rick Burton, the former chief
marketing officer of the U.S. Olympic Committee.  “If Tiger is done -- and that’s a really difficult
statement to make -- then who are the next stars?” Burton said
in a telephone interview. “They’re still waiting for that one
guy to emerge.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael Buteau in Atlanta
at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  