-- 
Kenya Borrowing Costs to Rise More on Inflation, Issuance, Citigroup Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-15T14:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/kenya-borrowing-costs-to-rise-more-on-inflation-issuance-citigroup-says.html
Kenyan borrowing costs are likely to
rise as inflation quickens in East Africa’s biggest economy and
the government boosts debt sales to fund its fiscal deficit,
Citigroup Inc. said.  “We expect upward pressure on yields to remain intact for
another month or two,” Johannesburg-based analysts  Leon Myburgh 
and Coura Fall wrote in an e-mailed note today. “Domestic debt
issuance so far is lagging the potential requirement. We expect
a sharp increase in the rate of issuance until end September.”  Kenya’s 12-month borrowing costs rose to a record at the
most recent government auction after inflation accelerated to
15.5 percent in July, more than triple the targeted rate of 5
percent. Price increases likely quickened this month as the
effect of lower mobile-telephone costs last August fall out of
the calculation, even as food prices declined, the Citigroup
analysts wrote.  “Inflation pressures are broad-based, and base effects are
likely to push non-food inflation higher,” Myburgh and Fall
wrote. “Non-food inflation seems destined for a further
increase, pushing it into double digits.”  Kenya ’s government will have to boost borrowing in its
fiscal quarter ended Sept. 30 to meet a financing requirement of
about 25 billion shillings ($269 million) and to refinance
existing debt, Myburgh and Fall wrote.  Citigroup estimates that the government will have to raise
91 billion shillings in the quarter, or an average of 9 billion
shillings at each of its weekly auctions of Treasury bills,
compared with an average of 4 billion shillings over the last
eight auctions.  “We therefore expect yields to remain under pressure for
the next few weeks,” Myburgh and Fall wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  