-- 
Keppel May Win Higher Prices for Offshore Units on Rising Oil Exploration

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-16T04:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/keppel-may-win-higher-prices-for-offshore-units-on-record-orders.html
Keppel Corp., the world’s biggest
oil-rig maker, said it may win higher prices because of rising
raw-material costs and increasing investment in exploration that
has helped it post record orders this year.  Prices for offshore units are “moving up a little bit,”
Chief Executive Officer Choo Chiau Beng said in an interview in
 Singapore  yesterday, without elaboration. “When costs go up,
prices have to go up otherwise the service provider cannot
justify their existence.”  The Singapore-based rig-maker has won about S$7.8 billion
($6.5 billion) of orders this year, surpassing the company’s
previous record, set in 2007, as customers including Transocean
Ltd. drill in new areas to offset depleted reserves. About $205
billion may be spent on deepwater projects in 2011 to 2015, 79
percent more than the previous five years, according to  Douglas-
Westwood Ltd. , a U.K.-based energy consultant.  “Looking for new reservoirs will continue even though they
will be more difficult to find,” Choo said. “There will be
demand” for offshore units, he said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil company, plans
to spend $100 billion in four years through 2014 to maintain
output growth, it reiterated in March.  Oil Demand  Global oil demand will increase by 1.2 million barrels a
day, or 1.4 percent, this year to 89.5 million, according to
forecasts by the Paris-based  International Energy Agency . Next
year, it will grow by another 1.6 million barrels to 91.1
million a day, according to the group.  The demand has helped push crude prices up by more than 16
percent in the past year to $87.88 a barrel yesterday.  “ Oil prices  will remain fairly high for a quite long
period of time,” Choo said. “Energy demands are going up very
rapidly.”  Keppel gained as much as 1.9 percent to S$9.63, the highest
intraday price since Aug. 10, and traded at S$9.59 as of 12:32
p.m. in Singapore. The stock has fallen 6.8 percent this year,
compared with a 9.6 percent decline for the Straits Times Index.  Keppel won a $195 million order this month for a jackup rig
from a Transocean unit, following on from a $380 million
contract for two similar rigs in February. It also announced an
order to convert a very large crude carrier into a floating
production, storage and offloading facility for Single Buoy
Moorings Inc.  Sembcorp Marine won an order for two jackup rigs from Noble
Ltd. for $444 million on Aug. 2. By comparison, Sembcorp
received a contract for the same type of equipment from Noble
for $400 million in December.  China  Logistics  Keppel operates shipyards in Singapore as well as in the
U.S., Qatar,  Brazil  and  Indonesia . It is investing in a second
yard in Brazil to tap growing demand there.  The company is also looking at building its logistics
business in China, including possible projects in Jilin and
Nantong, Choo said.  The price of hot-rolled steel in China was $633 per metric
ton on Aug. 8 compared with $527 per metric ton on Aug. 9, 2010,
according to Metal Bulletin data on the Bloomberg terminal.  Keppel, which is also involved in infrastructure projects,
plans to focus on developing more  power plants  and waste-to-
energy plants as demand for alternative sources of energy is
expected to increase after  Japan ’s nuclear accident, Choo said.  Demand for  office space  in Singapore is likely to help push
rentals higher, Choo said, without elaboration. Keppel is
currently building the  Marina Bay Financial Centre  and  Ocean
Financial Centre  in the city area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  