-- 
HKMA Head Chan Rejects Pegging Hong Kong Dollar to Currency Basket or Yuan

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-15T11:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hkma-head-chan-rejects-pegging-hong-kong-dollar-to-currency-basket-or-yuan.html
Hong Kong  Monetary Authority head
 Norman Chan  rejected proposals for the city’s currency to be
pegged to a basket of currencies or the yuan instead of the  U.S.
dollar .  Linking to a group of currencies “won’t give Hong Kong
independence in its interest-rate policy” and would lose the
advantages of “high transparency, simple operation and high
efficiency,” Chan said in a column posted on the de facto
central bank’s website today.  Hong Kong’s accelerating inflation has highlighted limits
on monetary policy in the city, where official  interest rates 
move in sync with those of the U.S. Federal Reserve. A Fed
pledge to keep interest rates at a record low through mid-2013
and to use other policy tools “as appropriate” may fuel price
pressures in Asia by boosting capital inflows and commodity
costs, Asian officials say.  HSBC Holdings Plc chief executive  Stuart Gulliver  and his
counterpart at the Bank of East Asia Ltd., David Li, said this
month that Hong Kong could consider linking to a basket of
currencies if the city decided to shift from the existing peg.  The city can’t peg to the yuan because it’s not fully
convertible, Chan said. He cited Singapore as an example of an
Asian nation with a currency linked to a basket that still needs
macro-prudential measures to curb property speculation.  Inflation in Hong Kong accelerated to 5.6 percent in June,
the fastest pace since 2008, on rising food and rental costs.
The full-year rate will be 5.4 percent, the highest in 14 years,
the government estimates.  Chan’s comment echoed Financial Secretary John Tsang, who
said on his official blog  yesterday  that a peg to a basket of
currencies may lead to volatile  exchange rate  against the U.S.
dollar and add risks for Hong Kong traders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  