-- 
Ball Park Franks Go After Oscar Mayer Wieners in Dogfight Over Ad Claims

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-15T19:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/kraft-oscar-mayer-wieners-vie-with-sara-lee-ball-park-franks-over-top-dog.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , worried that its
Oscar Mayer Wieners were losing their market position as
America’s top hot dog, launched a massive and misleading ad
campaign against the Ball Park franks made by Sara Lee Corp., an
attorney for the rival company told a U.S. judge.  Kraft, the world’s second-biggest food company, was sued by
Sara Lee and accused of deceiving consumers with the claim that
its franks are 100 percent beef and lying about taste-test
results. Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft countersued, claiming
 Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee is falsely advertising
how its product fared in a contest.  Kraft engaged in a “massive and unprecedented” campaign
to mislead consumers, Sara Lee lawyer Richard Leighton told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Morton Denlow today at the start of a non-jury
trial in  Chicago . He said the campaign was driven by Kraft’s
fear that Ball Park sales would eclipse those of Oscar Mayer.  Sara Lee, which also produces desserts, breads, coffees and
luncheon meats, sued Kraft in 2009, alleging it violated
 Illinois  laws prohibiting deceptive trade practices. Sara Lee,
challenging the composition of Oscar Mayer 100 percent jumbo
beef franks, seeks unspecified money damages in the trial.  Kraft, the maker of Nabisco cookies, A-1 steak sauce, Cool
Whip dessert toppings and Velveeta processed cheese, has accused
Sara Lee of violating the state’s deceptive-trade laws by
claiming its Ball Park Angus Beef Franks won prizes they didn’t
win. Kraft also seeks unspecified money damages.  ‘A Better Product’  Oscar Mayer “knew it had a better product,” Kraft
attorney Stephen O’Neil said in his opening statement today.
“It won the taste test convincingly,” over the Ball Park brand
and ConAgra’s Hebrew National, “because it knew it had a better
product.”  Consumers in the U.S. bought more than $1.6 billion worth
of hot dogs last year, eating about 7 billion of them from the
Memorial Day federal holiday in late May to Labor Day at the
beginning of September, according to statistics compiled by the
 National Hot Dog & Sausage Council , a Washington-based meat
industry advocacy group.  Sara Lee’s lawyer, Leighton, spoke for about two hours
today as he challenged Kraft’s claims that its product is pure
beef. Sara Lee’s complaint says that Oscar Mayer Wieners contain
water, salt, corn syrup, paprika, dried garlic, spices and other
ingredients.  ‘Literally False’  Leighton said Kraft’s assertion that its hot dogs had been
chosen as America’s best-tasting in a national test was
“literally false.”  Kraft touted that claim in print, broadcast and Internet
advertisements including one TV add Leighton said had been shown
more than 366 million times.  Denlow interrupted Leighton several times, saying that Sara
Lee’s complaints about the language in Kraft’s marketing
campaign may be too literal.  “I don’t want to leave common sense outside the courthouse
door,” the judge said.  He also questioned Sara Lee’s claim its product was best
because it had won an award conferred by a San Francisco-based
group.  “How would 10 chefs in  San Francisco  know, when they’ve
never been to Chicago or tasted a Chicago hot dog?” Denlow
asked.  The case is  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  v. Kraft Foods Inc.,
09-cv-03039, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  