-- 
Credit Suisse, Nasdaq, Ex-Hypo Alpe CEO, Mechel, Mattel in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-15T12:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/nasdaq-lanco-infratech-ex-hypo-alpe-ceo-mechel-mattel-in-court-news.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the Swiss
bank facing possible U.S. indictment for aiding tax evasion,
will likely settle with prosecutors by admitting wrongdoing and
paying a penalty that may exceed $1 billion, tax lawyers said.  Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank, has too much
to lose by fighting the Justice Department and risking
indictment, said lawyers not involved in the case. Prosecutors
told the bank last month that it’s a target of a probe into its
former cross-border banking services to U.S. customers.  The lawyers expect Credit Suisse to reach an agreement like
that of  UBS AG (UBSN) , which was charged in 2009 with aiding tax
evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780
million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion , and giving the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250 accounts. It
later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts.  “The UBS deferred-prosecution agreement is going to be a
template for what happens with Credit Suisse,” said tax
attorney Bryan Skarlatos of Kostelanetz & Fink LLP in  New York .
“It’s very likely that they’ll reach an agreement with the U.S.
government, pay a fine, and possibly turn over names.”  Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based Credit
Suisse, declined to comment, referring to a bank statement on
July 21. Seven Credit Suisse bankers, including the former head
of North American offshore banking, Markus Walder, were indicted
that day in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, on a charge
of helping U.S. clients evade taxes through secret accounts.  “Credit Suisse is committed to a fully compliant cross-
border business,” the bank said in that statement. “Subject to
our Swiss legal obligations and throughout this process we will
continue to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to
resolve these matters.”  Tax attorney Robert McKenzie said “it’s an absolute
certainty” that Credit Suisse will enter into a deferred-
prosecution deal with the Justice Department.  “The only smart thing you can do when you’re caught is to
take the best deal and pay some money,” said McKenzie, of
Arnstein & Lehr LLP of  Chicago . “If Credit Suisse is indicted,
the government could seek to forfeit the U.S. assets of the
bank. A bank that’s convicted of a felony won’t have a license
to operate in this country.”  Walder and the other Credit Suisse bankers helped U.S.
customers evade income tax through accounts that weren’t
declared to the IRS, according to the indictment.  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Nasdaq Official Gets 3 1/2-Year Term for Insider Trading  Former Nasdaq Stock Market Managing Director Donald Johnson
was sentenced to 3 1/2 years in prison for using information
obtained from his position with the exchange to engage in
insider trading and ordered to pay back $755,066 he made from
illegal trades.  Johnson, 57, who pleaded guilty in May to one count of
securities fraud, was sentenced Aug. 12 in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia. He faced as many as 20 years at
sentencing, though U.S. sentencing guidelines recommend a 37- to
46-month range. The judge said Johnson deserved the 42-month
sentence because he violated his duty to investors.  “The conduct fundamentally compromises the integrity of
the securities market,” U.S. District Judge Anthony Trenga
said, adding that Johnson’s case is “sad and tragic” and
“directly undermined the confidence the investing public has in
the securities exchange.”  Johnson bought and sold shares of five Nasdaq-listed
companies based on inside information from 2006 to 2009, he said
at his plea hearing, and often made the trades from his work
computer at Nasdaq, according to a lawsuit filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in Manhattan federal court.  At his sentencing hearing Aug. 12, Johnson, wearing a dark
suit and yellow tie, expressed remorse to the judge, saying he
wanted to “make amends.”  “If I had to come up with a word for what I did, it is
stupidity,” Johnson said. “There aren’t any answers to explain
my activity.”  Johnson, a former managing director at Nasdaq’s market
intelligence desk in New York, admitted making more than
$640,000 from the illegal trades. Among the shares he traded was
 United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  based on inside information about test
results for the drug Viveta, now called Tyvaso, and about the
approval of the drug, the Justice Department said.  “Insider trading is an insidious crime,” said Justin
Goodyear, a trial attorney with the fraud section of the U.S.
Justice Department’s criminal division at the hearing. “He took
advantage of his position of trust and used information for his
own benefit.”  “The penalties of these actions are nothing short of
crushing,” said Johnson’s defense lawyer Jonathan Simms, who
asked for a jail term of no more than 18 months during the Aug.
12 hearing. “This man has endured a lot.”  The case is U.S. v. Johnson, 11-00254, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria.)  For more, click here.  Lawyer Should Get Up to 46 Months in Insider Case, U.S. Says  Jason Goldfarb, an attorney who pleaded guilty to passing
inside information from two other lawyers to ex-Galleon Group
LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , should spend as long as three years and
10 months in prison, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan said Goldfarb should be sentenced within the range
prescribed by federal sentencing guidelines and forfeit $1.1
million, the amount they claim was gained in the scheme. The
minimum term under the guidelines is three years, one month.  “Goldfarb’s crimes were particularly egregious because of
his status as an attorney,” prosecutors said in court papers
filed Aug. 12. “While working as an attorney obligated to
protect client confidences, Goldfarb engaged in a scheme to
misappropriate information protected by the attorney-client
privilege in order to enrich himself.”  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  is free to disregard
the guidelines when he sentences Goldfarb.  Goffer was convicted of all 14 criminal counts against him
in June, in the second trial of defendants charged in a
nationwide investigation of insider trading at hedge funds.
Goffer’s former boss, Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam ,
was convicted of insider trading in May. Prosecutors are seeking
a sentence of more than 24 years when Rajaratnam is sentenced
Sept. 27.  Harvey Greenberg, a lawyer for Goldfarb, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the government’s
sentencing request.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lanco Infratech Wins Dismissal of Perdaman Bid to Block Loan  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , an Indian power producer, won a
dismissal in  Australia  of a bid by Perdaman Chemicals &
Fertilizers Ltd. to block the use of a supplier’s coal assets as
collateral for an $800 million loan.  Supreme Court  of Western Australia Justice Andrew Beech
dismissed Aug. 11 the request for an injunction to block the use
of Perdaman supplier Perth-based Griffin Coal Mining Co.’s
assets to help finance Lanco’s purchase of the miner, according
to the  ruling  posted on the court’s website.  The injunction was rejected because it would “prevent or
substantially inhibit Griffin from raising additional funds
necessary to develop and expand its mine,” Beech wrote in the
ruling.  Lanco acquired Griffin in February using financing from
ICIC Bank Ltd.’s Singapore branch and Bank of New York Mellon’s
London branch, according to the judgment. Lanco’s Australian
unit, which now owns Griffin, agreed to provide its assets as
collateral to Bank of New York Mellon to a maximum of $2.3
billion, according to the judge.  Perdaman has a 25-year supply agreement with Griffin and
has sued the coal-miner for breach of contract. Perth-based
Perdaman said Griffin’s assets would not be available to fulfill
any judgment in the breach-of-contract.  The case is Perdaman Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. v.
Griffin Coal Mining Co. 2011/WASC189 Supreme Court of Western
Australia (Perth).  Operator of Fake Hedge Fund Sentenced to 63 Months in Prison  Benjamin Koifman, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy for his
role in a scheme to cheat investors with a phony New York-based
hedge fund, was sentenced to five years and three months in
prison.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara claimed Koifman and William Shternfeld ran A.R. Capital
Global Fund LP, an unregistered investment adviser, and ARC
Global Fund, a hedge fund that claimed to invest in equity of
international real estate.  Koifman was sentenced by U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein 
in a hearing in Manhattan Aug. 12.  Prosecutors claimed that, from 2004 to 2006, Shternfeld and
Koifman engaged in a scheme with co-conspirators to get at least
70 investors to invest about $20 million in the ARC Global Fund
by making false statements about it.  Two other men in the case, Igor Levin of Brooklyn, New
York, and Yevgeny Shvartsshteyn of Belle Harbor, New York,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy in December.  The case is U.S. v. Shternfeld, 10-cr-00031, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Ex-Hypo Alpe CEO Kulterer Charged Over Loans for Share Deal  Wolfgang Kulterer, former chief executive officer of Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, was charged by Austrian
prosecutors in a second case over misuse of funds linked to
loans given to buyers of Hypo Alpe shares.  Kulterer and Guenter Striedinger, a former board member,
arranged loans by the bank to companies in Liechtenstein who
used it to buy stakes in Hypo Alpe’s leasing subsidiary,
according to a statement by Gabriele Lutschounig, spokeswoman
for the prosecutors’ office in Klagenfurt, Austria. That was a
misuse of their authority to manage Hypo Alpe’s funds as well as
violating capital rules in Austrian banking law, she said.  Kulterer’s lawyer Ferdinand Lanker declined to comment on
the charge, saying in a telephone interview that he hasn’t yet
received the indictment. Striedinger’s lawyer Norbert Wess said
his client rejected the charges. The prosecutors also charged a
lawyer and a tax consultant for aiding Kulterer and Striedinger.  Austria’s finance ministry installed a task force of
lawyers, police, prosecutors and central bank auditors to find
out who was responsible for the losses that resulted in Hypo
Alpe’s 2009 nationalization. Kulterer and two other managers
were acquitted in a separate criminal case in March, in which an
appeal by prosecutors is pending.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Facebook Documents Can’t Be Kept Confidential, Judge Rules  Paul Ceglia , the western New York man who claims he’s
entitled to part-ownership of Facebook Inc., can’t keep dozens
of documents found on computers he owned confidential, a judge
ruled.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo, New York,
ruled Aug. 12 that Ceglia’s lawyers improperly designated all
120 of the documents, including versions of the contract Ceglia
claims he signed with Facebook co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  in
2003, as confidential.  Foschio removed the confidential designation from 85 of the
documents. He gave Ceglia’s lawyers until Aug. 17 to turn over
four copies of the contract, which they claimed were subject to
attorney-client privilege.  Foschio last month ordered Ceglia to let Facebook run
forensic tests on his computers, hard drives and electronic
storage media, as well as on the contract and the e-mails he
says support his claim. In court papers filed last week, Palo
Alto, California-based Facebook said its inspection, by the
computer forensics firm Stroz Friedberg LLC, turned up “smoking
gun” evidence of fraud.  Ceglia, 38, sued Facebook and Zuckerberg last year,
claiming that a two-page contract Zuckerberg signed in 2003 gave
Ceglia half of the company when the service was started the
following year. Facebook has grown to become the world’s biggest
social-networking site, valued at as much as $69.2 billion,
according to Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for
investments in companies that aren’t publicly traded.  In the order Aug. 12, Foschio left in place confidentiality
designations that Ceglia’s lawyers placed on 27 e-mails between
Ceglia, Zuckerberg and people involved with developing the
website for StreetFax, a company Ceglia was trying to launch at
the time.  Facebook lawyer Orin Snyder had no immediate comment on
Foschio’s ruling. Jeffrey Lake, a lawyer for Ceglia, didn’t
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  BofA Defeats Arizona Bid for Private Ex-Employee Interviews  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which the Arizona Attorney General’s
Office sued for consumer fraud, defeated the state’s attempt to
gather information by interviewing former bank employees in
private.  The state can’t interview former call-center employees, who
dealt with borrowers about their mortgages, outside the presence
of bank attorneys, Superior Court Judge Arthur Anderson in
Phoenix ruled in a decision filed Aug. 12.  The attorney general’s office said the interviews are
necessary to investigate claims against Bank of America and
learn about its operations. The state accuses the bank in a
lawsuit of misleading borrowers who sought loan modifications to
reduce their mortgage payments.  The state said it fears Bank of America will interfere in
the interviews if not conducted privately because the bank
hindered a federal investigation into its foreclosure practices,
according to court papers. Bank of America said it cooperated
with the U.S. inquiry.  Amy Rezzonico, a spokeswoman for Arizona Attorney General
Tom Horne, said in an e-mail that the office is “disappointed”
with the decision.  “We will go forward and conduct interviews or depositions
with former employees in accordance with the decision and hope
that the bank’s lawyers don’t use their presence at the
interviews to impede our ability to gather information,” she
said.  Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank was pleased
with the ruling.  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp.,
CV2010-033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County
(Phoenix).  Blue Cross Must Face Michigan, U.S. Hospital-Pricing Suit  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan lost a bid for dismissal
of a joint U.S.-state lawsuit accusing the state’s biggest
health insurer of driving up competitors’ costs through
preferential-pricing hospital contracts.  U.S. District Judge Denise Page Hood in Detroit denied Aug.
12 the carrier’s request to throw out the lawsuit, filed last
year. The governments are challenging Blue Cross’s so-called
most favored nation, or MFN, contracts requiring hospitals to
charge its competitors at least as much as it pays, if not more,
for services.  “It is plausible that the MFNs entered into by Blue Cross
with various hospitals in Michigan establish anticompetitive
effects as to other health insurers and the cost of health
services,” Hood said in a 23-page opinion that put in writing a
June oral ruling.  The decision means the case will move toward a trial.  Blue Cross of Michigan had revenue of more than $10 billion
in 2009 and insures more than 3 million state residents,
according to Hood’s opinion,  The governments said in the Oct. 18 complaint that the
nonprofit insurer contracted with 70 of the state’s 131 general
acute-care hospitals, comprising more than 40 percent of the
state’s acute-care beds. In some cases, those hospitals charged
rivals 30 percent to 40 percent more than Blue Cross, the U.S.
Justice Department said in a statement when the suit was filed.  Since filing the Michigan case, the U.S. expanded its
investigation into Blue Cross practices in states including
Kansas, Missouri and Ohio.  The company told the court earlier it will appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan,
2:10-cv-14155, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  Mechel Wins Dismissal of Class Action Suit Over Stock Drop  OAO Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of coking coal, won
its bid to have a U.S. judge dismiss a class action suit filed
in 2009 by investor Dean Frederick and four pension funds over
share-price declines.  Judge Richard Sullivan in the District Court of the
Southern District of New York ruled in Mechel’s favor on Aug. 9,
court documents show.  Mechel, controlled by billionaire Igor Zyuzin, was sued by
investors over the drop in its share price after Russian
authorities said in 2008 the company was engaged in anti-
competitive conduct.  Mechel’s American depositary receipts lost half their value
in New York trading in the week after Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said July 24 the company avoided taxes and sold coal to a
Swiss unit at a quarter of the price charged domestically.  Mechel “failed to disclose material adverse facts about
the company’s financial well-being, business relationships and
prospects,” Frederick said in his complaint.  Ekaterina Videman, a spokeswoman for Mechel, declined to
comment on the court decision.  The case is Frederick v. Mechel OAO, 09-cv-3617, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Health-Care Law Moves Toward Supreme Court With Appeals Ruling  President Barack Obama’s health-care law moved closer to
review by the U.S. Supreme Court with a federal appellate ruling
that its requirement for most Americans to have insurance
coverage is unconstitutional.  The 2 to 1 ruling conflicts with an earlier decision by a
federal appeals panel in Cincinnati, which upheld the individual
mandate. The provision exceeds Congress’s power to regulate
commerce, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta ruled Aug. 12,
affirming in part a lower court in a lawsuit filed by 26 states.  “This guarantees that the Supreme Court will rule on the
constitutionality of the individual mandate, and makes it very
likely that the court’s ruling will come by the end of June
2012,” said Kevin Walsh, an assistant professor at the
University of Richmond School of Law in Virginia.  The U.S. Supreme Court often decides to accept cases where
two or more of the federal appeals courts are in disagreement.
Plaintiffs in the Cincinnati case have already asked the high
court to review that ruling. A third federal appeals panel in
Richmond, Virginia, has heard arguments in two cases brought
over the health-care law and has yet to rule.  In the Aug. 12 ruling, the majority wrote that the
“mandate represents a wholly novel and potentially unbounded
assertion of congressional authority.” The law requires
“Americans to purchase an expensive health insurance product
they have elected not to buy, and to make them repurchase that
insurance product every month for their entire lives.”  While throwing out the mandate, the panel overruled the
lower court’s decision in that case to reject the entire health-
care law as a result.  “Excising the individual mandate from the act does not
prevent the remaining provisions from being fully operative as a
law,” Chief U.S. Circuit Judge Joel Dubina, a Republican
appointee, and U.S. Circuit Judge Frank M. Hull, a Democratic
appointee, wrote. Hull is the first judge appointed by a
Democratic president to rule against the law.  Dissenting in part, U.S. Circuit Judge Stanley Marcus, a
Republican lower-court appointee later elevated by President
Bill Clinton, said he would have upheld the act in its entirety.  Stephanie Cutter , a deputy senior adviser to Obama, said in
an Internet posting that “we strongly disagree with this
decision and we are confident it will not stand.”  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, a Republican, said in
an e-mailed statement Aug. 12 that the “ruling by the Eleventh
Circuit Court of Appeals upholds our position that the federal
health care law exceeds Congress’ power.”  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  Mattel to Appeal Award to MGA Entertainment in Bratz Case  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  said in a court filing that it will appeal a
judge’s award of punitive damages and fees to MGA Entertainment
Inc., the maker of Bratz dolls.  Mattel said it will ask the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco to review an Aug. 4 ruling awarding MGA $225 million
in punitive damages, attorney fees and costs. That ruling by
U.S. District Judge David Carter in Santa Ana,  California ,
brought the total award in the trial over the doll’s origins to
$310 million.  A jury in April agreed with closely held MGA that El
Segundo, California-based Mattel stole its trade secrets when
company employees got into MGA’s showrooms at toy fairs using
phony business cards.  The jurors awarded MGA $3.4 million for each of 26
instances in which they found Mattel misappropriated a trade
secret, a total of $88.4 million. In August, Carter lowered the
jury award to $85 million.  The jury rejected a claim that MGA stole Mattel’s trade
secrets in 2000 when it made an agreement with  Carter Bryant , a
toy designer. Mattel said Bryant was working for it when he came
up with the idea for the Bratz dolls and made the first
sketches.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  On the Docket  Boiler-Room ‘Mastermind’ Marsh Must Wait to Learn Jail Term  Kenneth Marsh, the “mastermind” behind the Gryphon
Holdings Inc. boiler-room operation, must wait until next month
to learn how much prison time he will serve after a federal
judge said he was leaning toward imposing five years and then
postponed the decision.  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn, New York,
after deciding all aspects of Marsh’s sentence Aug. 11 except
the prison term, said he would impose sentences for all 18
Gryphon defendants on Sept. 14, after holding individual
hearings.  Weinstein mentioned the five years for Marsh, 44, before
hearing from seven victims and listening to tapes of Marsh
training members of Gryphon’s sales force.  Roger Burlingame, one of the prosecutors, told Weinstein a
five-year term was “preposterous” and said there were
“hundreds of people whose lives were destroyed” by the Gryphon
fraud. Nonbinding federal sentencing guidelines call for 12 to
14 years for Marsh, he said.  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
to a related civil lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. All 18 defendants in the Gryphon scheme, including
members of its sales force, pleaded guilty.  Marsh pleaded guilty in April to one count of securities
fraud, admitting he misled investors into paying for phony stock
tips. Gryphon defrauded almost 5,500 people out of $20 million,
according to the government.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 