-- 
Nevada Joins States Balking at Bank Releases in Foreclosure Practices Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-16T13:49:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/nevada-joins-states-balking-at-bank-releases-in-foreclosure-practices-deal.html
A possible settlement of a 50-state
probe of foreclosure practices drew more state scrutiny as
Nevada’s attorney general joined three other states in voicing
concern about a deal that protects banks from continuing
mortgage investigations.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto, whose
office sued  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and is conducting civil and
criminal foreclosure probes, said she will be “very cautious”
about agreeing to a settlement that hinders those inquiries.  “If it’s impacting my ongoing litigation and any other
future litigation or current investigation, I’m going to be
cautious about whether to sign on or not,” Masto said yesterday
in a phone interview.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers, including  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America and New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , over their servicing and foreclosure practices.  A person familiar with the matter said last month that
banks want liability releases that cover other areas of their
mortgage operations besides servicing, including the bundling of
loans into securities.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Bank of America, said the bank
shares Masto’s goal of helping homeowners.  Bank Statement  “Bank of America has been a cooperative partner with the
Attorney General, and has worked with state leaders to evolve
programs and resources to broaden assistance to distressed
customers,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Tom Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Masto joined New York, Delaware and  Massachusetts  in
resisting broad releases for the banks in any settlement. Those
states are conducting their own investigations into mortgage
practices of banks.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said in a
letter last month that she won’t sign on to an agreement if it
includes “a comprehensive liability release” for mortgage
securitization or conduct related to a mortgage database called
MERS.  State attorneys general and federal agencies including the
 Justice Department  haven’t reached an agreement with the banks
about the releases, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa
Attorney General Tom Miller, who is leading negotiations for the
states in the nationwide probe. Greenwood declined to comment
about how individual state investigations may be affected.  Iowa Attorney General  “We’re working with state attorney generals, our federal
partners and the banks on resolving the liability issue,” he
said.  Masto said her office is conducting inquiries into
“various areas of  mortgage fraud .” She declined to provide
details or say which companies are under investigation. The
office has a civil investigation into mortgage securitization,
she said.  In its lawsuit against Bank of America, the state accused
the bank of misleading homeowners about modifying their  mortgage
loans  to reduce their payments. The case was filed in December
in state court in  Las Vegas  and moved to federal court in Reno,
 Nevada .  Nevada claimed that the bank violated the state’s deceptive
trade practices act by misleading consumers with false
assurances that their homes wouldn’t be foreclosed on while
requests for modifications were pending, inaccurate and
deceptive reasons for denying modifications, and false promises
that modifications would be made permanent if homeowners
successfully completed trial modification periods.  Nevada’s Aim  Masto said she wants to continue to investigate her claims
and pursue the lawsuit.  “At the end of the day, whether we’ll be part of it or not
will be based on what’s in the best interests of the people here
in Nevada,” she said about a nationwide settlement over
foreclosure practices.  Like Masto,  New York  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and
Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden are investigating mortgage
securitization. Biden said in an interview last month that he
has “strong reservations” about a deal that provides releases
beyond servicing because servicing is the focus of the
nationwide settlement talks.  “I hesitate to release those claims and those potential
liabilities mostly because we’re still in the midst of
investigating many of the other related issues,” he said.  Schneiderman’s office said in a statement that he “remains
concerned by any settlement agreement that would preclude state
attorneys general from conducting comprehensive investigations
of the mortgage crisis.”  The case against Bank of America is State of Nevada v. Bank
of America, 11-00135, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada
(Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 