-- 
New York Commercial Property May Beat Las Vegas as Safety Net

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-08-15T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/new-york-commercial-property-may-beat-las-vegas-as-buyers-seek-safer-bets.html
Commercial-property buyers may shift
their focus back to big coastal cities in the U.S. as persistent
economic weakness and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis prompt a
retreat to the safest investments.  Investors have been moving into secondary markets such as
Dallas and Minneapolis amid growing confidence in the recovery
and soaring prices that drove down yields on office buildings,
shopping malls and apartments in prime cities including New
York,  San Francisco  and Washington.  The trend may be cut short. Turmoil in financial markets
over the past three weeks -- triggered by concern that Spain and
 Italy  will struggle to pay off their debts, signs that the U.S.
will remain mired in sluggish growth through next year and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating -- may
send buyers back to prime cities and push prices even higher, as
long as the economy doesn’t deteriorate so much that trophy
properties suffer.  “In this market volatility, it’s no surprise that
investors, commercial real estate investors, are rotating toward
less risky types of investments, which are core properties in
primary markets,” Asieh Mansour, head of Americas research for
property firm  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  in  Los Angeles , said
in a telephone interview. “Investors across all asset classes
do become more risk averse.”  Wild Markets  On each of the first four days of last week, the  S&P 500
Index (SPX) , a benchmark for the biggest U.S. stocks, rose or fell by
more than 4 percent, an unprecedented streak of volatility,
according to data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg
and  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P.  Meanwhile, the U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year notes on
Aug. 9 at a yield of 0.5 percent, the lowest since records began
in May 1981, as investors sought shelter in the relative safety
of government debt. Gold, another haven, gained 5.5 percent last
week as it touched a record $1,817.60 an ounce, before
retreating to close at $1,742.60.  “This volatility in the stock market could be a boon for
commercial real estate as long as the demand doesn’t fall off
too much on the economic side,” said Christopher Macke, senior
real estate strategist for  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a Washington-based
property-data company. “I would not be surprised to see the
pricing in core assets improve.”  Deals Surge  Purchases of commercial properties in secondary markets had
been increasing this year, extending a rebound that started in
the big coastal areas. Transactions rose more than sixfold in
 Las Vegas  in the first half of the year from the same period in
2010, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. Deal volume rose
253 percent in Phoenix, 204 percent in Atlanta and 267 percent
in Pittsburgh over the same period, while sales gained 151
percent in  Manhattan  and 71 percent in Washington, data from the
New York-based property-research firm show.  Premier office buildings in cities such as  Washington  and
San Francisco, regional malls across the nation and apartment
buildings on the coasts may get a boost from investors wanting
stable cash flows from the best properties after the S&P
downgrade, Alexander Goldfarb, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said in a telephone interview. The most
attractive buildings have a high proportion of long-term tenants
with good credit.  Investments in properties with lower occupancy rates in
smaller cities may see demand slump as investors view them as
riskier, CoStar’s Macke said. Building values and rental rates
don’t appreciate as fast in secondary markets compared with
land-constrained coastal markets because it is easier to
construct new buildings.  Big City Risks  “Capital in real estate will continue to seek quality,
quality of location and quality of product,” said Jim Sullivan,
manager of North American real estate investment trust research
at Green Street Advisors Inc. in Newport Beach,  California .
“Whenever everyone piles into the same investment, it drives
prices up, sometimes further than they should.”  The  New York  and San Francisco property markets can be
volatile and aren’t without risk, Sullivan said, pointing to the
plunge in values in Manhattan during the financial crisis and in
San Francisco when the Internet stocks crashed. New York
metropolitan office prices fell 41 percent from the peak in 2008
to the 2009 bottom, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “They sure haven’t proven to be safe havens,” Sullivan
said.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, after a 0.4 percent pace in
the prior period, the worst six months since the recovery began
in June 2009, Commerce Department figures showed July 29. The
 unemployment rate  in July was 9.1 percent, the fourth straight
month it was 9 percent or higher.  Fed Outlook  The  Federal Reserve  said on Aug. 9 that it will maintain
record-low  interest rates  at least through mid-2013 to boost
growth that has been “considerably slower” than it forecast.  If the Fed is successful, prime and secondary commercial
real estate markets should benefit.  “We are in an economic recovery, although subdued in the
near term,” said Mansour of CB Richard Ellis. “There will be
investors who will eventually move up the risk-return spectrum
and will consider the secondary markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  