-- 
New York Gasoline Weakens After Oil Refineries Start in Canada

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-15T17:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/new-york-gasoline-weakens-after-oil-refineries-start-in-canada.html
New York gasoline weakened for the
first time in two weeks after  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  finished work at
the Dartmouth refinery in Nova Scotia and Korea National Oil
Corp. began starting the Come-by-Chance refinery in
Newfoundland.  Conventional gasoline to be blended with ethanol, or CBOB,
in New York Harbor weakened 0.63 cent to a premium of 3.75 cents
over futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 11:41
a.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fuel’s premium rose to 4.38 cents Aug. 11 from a 6.88-
cent discount July 28 on speculation that repairs at the
refineries was curbing exports from  Canada  to the U.S. East
Coast.  Imperial expects to bring its 82,000-barrel-a-day Dartmouth
plant to normal rates by the end of this week,  Jon Harding , a
company spokesman in Calgary, said Aug. 12 in an e-mail. The
refinery had been shut since a July 21 power outage that
prompted the company to move up planned repairs.  Korea National Oil said Friday its 115,000-barrel-a-day
Come-by-Chance refinery was expected to begin producing over the
weekend after completing maintenance.  Irving Oil Corp. started a catalytic cracker at its
298,800-barrel-a-day Saint John refinery in New Brunswick after
a brief upset last week.  Midwest Strengthens  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the Midwest
strengthened 1.25 cents to reach parity with futures. The fuel
traded at a discount to futures since June 1.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s 195,000-barrel-a-day Memphis refinery
remains shut, Bill Day, a company spokesman in  San Antonio , said
in an e-mail. “I don’t have an estimate yet on when production
may resume,” he said.  Conventional gasoline in Chicago fell 3.75 cents after
reaching its highest premium to futures since June 3.  BP Plc returned a crude unit to service at its Whiting
refinery in Indiana after finishing maintenance, a person with
knowledge of the situation told Bloomberg Aug. 11.  “I think it’s just a delayed reaction to that report,”
said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at PFGBest in
Chicago. “We’re starting to see that actual gasoline come onto
the market.”  The discount for conventional gasoline in the  Gulf Coast 
narrowed 0.12 cent to 8.88 cents versus futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  