-- 
New York Area Manufacturing Shrinks for Third Month as Inventories Decline

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-15T15:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/new-york-area-manufacturing-shrinks-for-third-month-as-inventories-decline.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
unexpectedly contracted in August for a third straight month as
orders dropped and managers became less optimistic about the
future, signaling the industry that has led the economic
recovery is at risk of stumbling.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called Empire
State Index fell to minus 7.7 from minus 3.8 in July, a report
showed today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for an index of zero, the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The bank’s six-month outlook gauge dropped to
the third-weakest level on record.  Weaker demand from consumers and businesses, coupled with
slowing growth in emerging economies and  Europe , means factories
are ratcheting down production. The Fed, in its policy meeting
last week, said growth this year had been “considerably
slower” than forecast and announced it would keep its benchmark
lending rate near zero at least though mid-2013 to spur growth.  “There are downside risks ahead for manufacturing
particularly given that U.S. consumer spending is going to be
weaker than a lot of people have been thinking, including the
Fed,” said  James Shugg , a senior economist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in  London .  Stocks rose, following a three-week drop for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, as more than $20 billion in corporate deals
and valuations near the lowest level in two years offset signs
the economy is slowing. The  S&P 500 Index  increased 0.9 percent
to 1,189.19 at 11:26 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  were
little changed.  Confidence Stagnates  Other reports today showed homebuilder confidence was
little changed in August and global demand for U.S. financial
assets weakened in June from a month earlier.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence was 15 for a second month, matching the
median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, data
from the Washington-based group showed today. Readings below 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$3.7 billion during the month compared with net buying of $24.2
billion in May, according to statistics issued by the U.S.
Treasury Department.  The New York Fed’s factory index covers New York, northern
 New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The measure last contracted
for three straight months in the period ended in June 2009, when
the economy was in a recession. Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey of 55 economists ranged from minus 10 to 8.5.  Sentiment Gauge  The headline index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  The Empire State gauge of new orders fell to minus 7.8 from
minus 5.5 last month. A gauge of unfilled orders dropped to
minus 15.2 from minus 12.2. A measure of shipments advanced to 3
from 2.2.  The employment measure rose to 3.3 from 1.1. An index of
prices paid dropped to 28.3 from 43.3 while prices received
decreased to 2.2 from 5.6.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were also
less optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the
outlook six months from now plunged to 8.7, the lowest reading
since February 2009, during the depths of the recession, from
32.2. It was the third-lowest reading since records began in
2001.  Outlook Sinks  The group’s order outlook six months from now fell to the
second-lowest level on record. Only the reading in September
2001 following the terrorist attacks was weaker.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s. U.S. factory payrolls rose by
24,000 workers in July, according to Labor Department data,
while the nation’s unemployment rate fell to 9.1 percent.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia report is due Aug. 18 and the national ISM report
is due Sept. 1.  Cars and light trucks sold at a seasonally adjusted pace of
12.2 million in July, up from 11.4 million in June yet trailing
the 12.5 million average pace through the first half, Autodata
Corp. said last week. Deliveries at Detroit-based General Motors
Corp. climbed 7.6 percent from the same month in 2010 to
214,915.  Losing ‘Momentum’  “Although the economy has clearly lost some momentum, we
do believe that it will continue to recover, but more gradually
than we had originally anticipated as we move through the second
half of the year,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S.
sales, said on an Aug. 2 conference call.  Allentown, Pennsylvania-based  Air Products & Chemicals
Inc. (APD) , a maker of industrial gas and related equipment, on July
22 reported a 15 percent gain in net income from continuing
operations from a year earlier.  “We continued to see strong volume growth across a number
of our businesses,” John McGlade, chairman and chief executive
officer, said on a conference call. “Growth in the Asia
Merchant business and more broadly in the energy and electronics
markets was strong, while both the U.S. and Europe Merchant
businesses were slower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  