-- 
Nigeria Police Kill Man With Car Bomb in Northeastern City of Maiduguri

-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 
2011-08-15T17:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/nigeria-police-kill-man-with-car-bomb-in-northeastern-city-of-maiduguri.html
Nigerian police shot and killed a
man who tried to drive a car laden with explosives into the main
law enforcement compound in the northeastern city of Maiduguri
as recruits were being interviewed, an official said.  “The man forced his way through the gate in his Honda car,
and on seeing that, the police fired, killing him immediately,”
Police Commissioner Simeon Midenda told reporters in the city
today. “Inside the car were cylinders of explosives.”  Nigerian authorities have blamed a militant Islamic group,
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for an upsurge in violent attacks in the mainly Muslim
north in the past two years. The group claimed responsibility
for a blast on June 16 at police headquarters in the capital,
Abuja, which killed at least five people and injured 11.  The incident today “happened as we were selecting about
1,500 recruits,” said Midenda. “If the explosion had occurred,
it would’ve been worse than what happened in Abuja.”  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s most populous nation with more than 140
million people, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north
and a predominantly Christian south. More than 14,000 people
died in ethnic and religious clashes in the West African nation
between 1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  In separate incident, seven people were killed by
unidentified gunmen overnight in the Barkin Ladi district of
central Nigeria, near the city of Jos, said Charles Ekeocha, a
spokesman for the military  task force  in the area. That region
has also been racked by violence between Christian and Muslim
ethnic groups in recent years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi via Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  