-- 
Nokia Jumps as Google-Motorola Deal May Move Handset Makers to Microsoft

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-15T16:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/nokia-jumps-as-google-s-motorola-deal-may-move-phone-makers-to-microsoft.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones by volume, climbed the most in 1 1/2 years in
Helsinki trading after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to acquire Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. for about $12.5 billion.  Google, whose Android software powers handsets made by
Motorola Mobility and manufacturers including Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , will win wireless
patents it needs to compete against Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The
linkup may shift some Android phone manufacturers away from
Google to consider platforms such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Phone, which was adopted by Nokia this year, said  Lee Simpson ,
an analyst at Jefferies International in London.  “It might start to put Microsoft into focus as an
alternative platform now, which could indirectly benefit
Nokia,” Simpson, who has an “underperform” rating on Nokia
shares, said in a telephone interview.  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia surged 34 cents, or 9.1 percent,
to 4.09 euros at the close of trading in Helsinki for its
steepest increase since January 2010. The surge pared the
stock’s decline this year to 47 percent, valuing the company at
15.3 billion euros ($22 billion). Microsoft added 0.9 percent to
$25.32 at 12:37 p.m. in  New York .  Takeover Speculation  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, a former Microsoft
executive who took over in September last year, is retiring
Nokia’s Symbian operating system in favor of Windows Phone as he
seeks to arrest a loss in smartphone market share to iPhones and
Android handsets.  The linkup with Microsoft has fuelled speculation that the
U.S. software company may take over Nokia. Elop said as recently
as on June 1 that the speculation was “baseless.”  Google said today it will pay a premium of 63 percent to
Motorola Mobility’s closing price last week for the
Libertyville, Illinois-based manufacturer. A similar markup
would value Nokia at 6.11 euros per share, or 22.9 billion euros
in total, based on yesterday’s closing price.  “Nokia as another potential takeover candidate obviously
benefits from that hefty premium,” said Sami Sarkamies, a
Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank. With Nokia, “there is
quite a bit more on the table and yet there is little difference
between the valuations of the two companies.”  ‘Massive Catalyst’  Nokia’s portfolio of intellectual property could be valued
at 1.44 euros a share, or 5.4 billion euros, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analysts led by Sandeep Deshpande wrote in a note today
after the Motorola deal. A takeover of Nokia by Microsoft
doesn’t become more likely “because the Android ecosystem was
the one lacking substantial patent on the wireless side and thus
needed ownership of a major patent portfolio,” wrote the
analysts, who have an “underweight” rating on Nokia shares.  James Etheridge, a spokesman for Nokia, said in an e-mail
that the deal “could prove to be “a massive catalyst for the
Windows Phone ecosystem.” Nokia announced its partnership with
Microsoft in February.  Bill Cox, a Microsoft spokesman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  “The main player who can buy Nokia is Microsoft and they
practically already own them,” Jefferies’s Simpson said. “They
practically took out Nokia’s smartphone strategy for nothing at
the start of the year and no one else would be allowed to buy
them underneath Microsoft’s nose.”  Android Backers  Nokia will lose its position as the biggest seller of
smartphones this quarter for the first time as consumers shift
to cheaper handsets running Android, according to analysts at
Gartner Inc. Measured by sales to consumers, Nokia had a share
of 20.9 percent of smartphones globally in the second quarter.
Apple, with an 18.2 percent share, and Samsung, at 15.8 percent,
are nipping at Nokia’s heels, according to Gartner.  Android was the biggest smartphone platform by worldwide
shipments last quarter with a 48 percent market share, according
to researchers at Canalys.  Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC Corp. (2498) , one of the largest
manufacturers of handsets based on Android, said a linkup of
 Mountain View , California-based Google with Motorola will
strengthen “the whole Android ecosystem.”  “This is something that is important for Google to do and
important for the whole Android ecosystem to do,” HTC Chief
Financial Officer Winston Yung said in a phone interview.
“We’re happy that Android is taking steps to strengthen its
patent portfolio. It will be beneficial for the whole group, the
whole camp.”  Representatives at Samsung and LG couldn’t be reached for
comment on a public holiday in  South Korea .  “It’s not a pretty sight that Google now has its own
hardware arm and in a way they will be in competition with their
allies,” Nordea’s Sarkamies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  