-- 
Norway Central Bank Governor Sees Rates Rising

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-15T07:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/norway-central-bank-governor-says-rates-to-rise.html
Norges Bank’s benchmark interest
rate will “eventually” rise from its current level, Governor
Oeystein Olsen wrote in  Dagens Naeringsliv , after unexpectedly
holding rates unchanged last week amid global growth concerns.  “The Norwegian economy is robust. State finances are good,
our banks are solid, we have low unemployment and good economic
growth,” Olsen said in an opinion piece today. “As long as
this picture doesn’t change, there is reason to expect that the
interest rate will eventually increase from today’s low level,”
he said, without specifying a timeframe.  Norway ’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 2.25 percent last week after global market turmoil
forced policy makers to abandon a planned increase. Only three
of the 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected the
decision. Eleven forecast a rise to 2.5 percent.  “When conditions change significantly, as they did in
August, Norges Bank will of course adapt its monetary policy to
the new economic outlook,” Olsen said. The Oslo-based bank last
raised borrowing costs in May, after keeping them unchanged for
a year.  Policy makers are responding to a global equity rout amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis and faltering U.S. growth will
derail a global recovery. At the same time, Norway’s central
bank needs to steer rising consumer demand and credit growth
spurred by  Europe ’s lowest jobless rate. The bank has signaled
it doesn’t want rates in Norway to stray too far from borrowing
costs in the rest of Europe.  “We have an open economy. Norwegian businesses will notice
if market opportunities become worse or financing of activities
becomes harder,” Olsen said.  Norges Bank’s board next meets on Sept. 21 to decide on
 interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  