-- 
Novak Djokovic Sets Masters Title Record in Montreal; Williams Wins Again

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-15T04:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/novak-djokovic-sets-masters-title-record-serena-williams-wins-again.html
Novak Djokovic became the first
player to win five ATP World Tour Masters tennis titles in one
season as  Serena Williams  claimed her second straight tournament
victory eight weeks into her comeback.  Djokovic, the world’s No. 1-ranked player, beat Mardy Fish
of the U.S. 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 in yesterday’s Rogers Cup final in
Montreal to improve to  53-1  this year, a run that has included
nine titles.  Five of those victories have come in Masters 1000 events,
the tier below the Grand Slams in prize money and prestige. In
his previous four Masters appearances this year:  Indian Wells ,
Miami, Rome and Madrid, Djokovic beat  Rafael Nadal  in the final.  “History making, of course it’s special,” Djokovic said
after winning his 10th career Masters title. “It’s an honor and
privilege to be part of the history of the sport that I love and
that I play.”  While it was Djokovic’s first event since winning his first
Wimbledon championship, Fish was playing in his third straight
final on the hard-court swing of tournaments leading up to the
 U.S. Open . The year’s final major starts Aug. 29 in  New York .  Williams, the three-time U.S. Open champion, extended her
record to 11-0 on hard courts in the North American summer by
winning the women’s Rogers Cup event in Toronto.  The 29-year-old Williams, playing her fourth tournament
back from a yearlong layoff because of injury and illness, beat
Australia’s Samantha Stosur 6-4, 6-2 in yesterday’s final for
her 39th career title. She also won in Stanford,  California ,
last week.  Williams moves up 49 places to No. 31 in the new WTA Tour
rankings published today.  “I never expected to do this well,” Williams said in a
televised on-court interview. “I’m just so happy to be playing
again, let alone winning. It’s cool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  