-- 
Obama Says Debt Fight Boosted Uncertainty About Economy, Hurt Job Efforts

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T22:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/obama-says-debt-fight-boosted-uncertainty-about-economy-hurt-job-efforts.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
standoff in Washington over the debt ceiling damaged the economy
by creating more uncertainty about the nation’s direction and
stalling work on measures to boost jobs and growth.  “We have a political culture that doesn’t seem willing to
make the tough choices to move America forward,” Obama said at
a town-hall event in Cannon Falls, Minnesota, the opening leg of
a three-day trip in the Midwest.  The president is seeking to reassure anxious voters that he
has a plan to prop up the ailing economy when his ability to
deliver on the necessary prescriptions is anything but certain.  At the Minnesota stop and a second one in Decorah,  Iowa , he
mostly reiterated a familiar set of prescriptions, including
ratification of free-trade deals and overhauling  patent law .
Obama also has proposed renewal of a 2-percentage-point cut in
the  payroll tax  for workers and extended  unemployment benefits 
that are set to expire Dec. 31 and establishment of an
infrastructure bank to fund public works spending.  “There is no shortage of ideas to put people to work right
now,” Obama said in Cannon Falls. “What is needed is action on
the part of Congress.”  While Obama insisted he wasn’t campaigning, both events
were reminiscent of his 2008 run for office, including the same
music soundtrack. The questions from the crowds were friendly.  Key States  Obama won all three states he’s visiting in the 2008
election and he’s seeking to hold them in 2012. The  unemployment
rate  in Minnesota stands at 6.7 percent and Iowa’s is 6 percent,
both below the national average of 9.1 percent. The jobless rate
in his home state of Illinois is 9.2 percent.  In response to the president’s trip, the  Republican
National Committee  released an ad, “Obama’s Debt-End Bus
Tour,” that lists the jobs lost in Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois
since he took office.  Reince Priebus, chairman of the RNC, said on CNN that the
bus tour is “a campaign event paid for by the taxpayers.”  Before Obama arrived in Decorah, Texas Governor  Rick Perry ,
who announced he’s running for the Republican presidential
nomination, addressed the Democratic president in his campaign
speech.  “He says he’s on a listening tour, so I’m going to talk to
him,” Perry said in  Des Moines . “Mr. President, you need to
free up the employers of this country to create jobs, get rid of
the regulations that are stifling jobs in America.”  Taxes and Spending  Obama repeated his call for a mix of tax increases on the
wealthy along with cuts in  government spending  to cut the
nation’s long-term deficit. He said House Speaker  John Boehner 
walked away from negotiations to curb the nation’s long-term
debt because the Ohio Republican and other members of his party
won’t “ask anything of millionaires and billionaires and
corporations to close our deficit.”  To back up his stance, Obama cited an opinion article by
billionaire  Warren Buffett  that was published today in the  New
York  Times.  “My friends and I have been coddled long enough by a
billionaire-friendly Congress,” the chairman and chief
executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. wrote. “It’s time
for our government to get serious about shared sacrifice.”  Economic Challenges  Obama is hitting the road at one of the most challenging
junctures of his presidency. A worsening economic outlook,
 Standard & Poor’s  first-ever downgrade of the U.S. credit
rating, risks of a spillover effect from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and volatility in global markets are drawing comparisons to the
beginning of the 2008 financial crisis and confronting Obama
with a confluence of forces over which he has little control.  With some Democrats pushing for bolder action to spur
growth and Republicans showing no appetite for additional
stimulus that would add to the deficit, the president’s mission
for now is twofold: encourage consumers to keep spending and
boost business confidence so companies will invest in new jobs.
Success may mean the difference between a slow recovery and a
double-dip recession.  “The economy could go either way, and at these kinds of
turning points, confidence is key,” said  Gus Faucher , director
of macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics. “It’s the
administration’s hope that if the president is out there,
talking up the economy, it will prevent a downturn.”  Focus on Congress  As he did last week in a speech in Michigan, Obama sought
to increase pressure on Congress.  “I’m not here just to enjoy the nice weather, I’m here to
enlist you in the fight,” Obama said in  Minnesota . ‘We are
fighting for the future of the country.”  The unsettled economy was reflected in last week’s record
swings for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a mixed
assortment of economic news. The  S&P 500 , which fell or rose at
least 4.4 percent in the previous four sessions, climbed 0.5
percent to 1,178.8 on Aug. 12 in New York. Today the benchmark
index advanced 2.2 percent to 1,204.49 at 4 p.m. in New York.  Obama said investors remain confident in the country,
citing a three-week rally in  government bonds  that pushed 10-and
two-year note yields to record lows.  “The market said, ‘America is one of our best bets,”
Obama said. “That’s why you have to recognize this is not a
financial crisis -- though it could turn into one if we don’t do
anything about it -- this is a political crisis.”  2012 Issues  The state of the economy and the size of the nation’s long-
term debt will be central issues in the 2012 presidential
campaign, and voters are growing increasingly frustrated with
the government. Obama’s approval rating hit the lowest point of
his presidency, 39 percent, in Gallup Inc.’s tracking poll for
Aug. 11-13. Fifty-four percent of respondents disapproved. His
approval rating rose to 41 percent in Gallup’s Aug. 12-14 survey
released today.  “The country is in an unbelievably angry mood,” said
Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg. “You are dealing with a
turn away from  Washington , from politicians in general.”  An Aug. 9 Washington Post survey found that 71 percent of
Americans said the federal government is mostly focused on the
wrong things and 78 percent said they were dissatisfied with the
way the country’s political system is working. The poll has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  Obama sought to tap into that sentiment.  “There is nothing wrong with America that can’t be
fixed,” he told his audience. “What’s broken is our
politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Decorah, Iowa, at   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  