-- 
Obama Presses Economic Agenda in Midwest

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T16:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/obama-presses-economic-agenda-in-midwest-as-options-are-limited.html
President  Barack Obama  begins a
three-day trip to the Midwest seeking to reassure anxious voters
that he has a plan to prop up the ailing economy when his
ability to deliver on the necessary prescriptions is anything
but certain.  Obama arrived today in Minnesota at one of the most
challenging junctures of his presidency. A worsening economic
outlook,  Standard & Poor’s  first-ever downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating, risks of a spillover effect from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and volatility in global markets are drawing comparisons
to the beginning of the 2008 financial crisis and confronting
Obama with a confluence of forces over which he has little
control.  With some Democrats pushing for bolder action to spur
growth and Republicans showing no appetite for additional
stimulus that would add to the deficit, the president’s mission
for now is twofold: encourage consumers to keep spending and
boost business confidence so companies will invest in new jobs.
Success may mean the difference between a slow recovery and a
double-dip recession.  “The economy could go either way, and at these kinds of
turning points, confidence is key,” said  Gus Faucher , director
of macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics. “It’s the
administration’s hope that if the president is out there,
talking up the economy, it will prevent a downturn.”  Familiar Talking Points  Obama mostly will be reiterating a familiar set of plans:
renewal of a two-percentage-point cut in the payroll tax for
workers and extended  unemployment benefits , both set to expire
Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public
works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and
overhauling patent law.  “We’re obviously looking at other options,” White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters aboard Air Force One
before Obama landed.  The administration is also considering proposals such as
incentives for companies to take on workers, including a cut in
the  payroll tax  for employers, said a person familiar with the
discussions. Last week the administration announced new steps to
address the housing crisis by seeking ideas from investors to
rent, sell or dispose of foreclosed homes controlled by the
government.  “I don’t think he can be in a mode of ‘we’re going to try
to compromise and figure out what Republicans will let us do,’”
said  Jared Bernstein , who was Vice President Joe Biden’s chief
economic adviser until April. “He’s go to come out fighting
hard.”  S&P Swings  The unsettled economy was reflected in last week’s record
swings for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a mixed
assortment of economic news. The  S&P 500 , which fell or rose at
least 4.4 percent in the previous four sessions, climbed 0.5
percent to 1,178.8 Aug. 12 in  New York . Today the benchmark
index advanced 1.6 percent to 1,197.59 at 10:36 a.m. in New
York.  The Commerce Department reported last week that U.S. retail
sales climbed 0.5 percent in July, the most in four months,
showing consumers were holding up at the start of the third
quarter. Still, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment for August slumped to
54.9, the lowest since May 1980, from 63.7 the prior month.  Debt-Limit Battle  Obama’s trip, which also includes stops in  Iowa  and in his
home state of  Illinois , comes as the administration is trying to
pivot away from the months-long fight to raise the federal debt
limit, which concluded on Aug. 2, and regain the political
initiative.  The state of the economy and the size of the nation’s long-
term debt will be central issues in the 2012 presidential
campaign, and voters are growing increasingly frustrated with
the government. Obama sets out with 39 percent of Americans
saying they approve of his job performance in Gallup Inc.’s
tracking poll for Aug. 11-13, the lowest approval rating of his
presidency. Fifty-four percent of respondents disapproved.  “The country is in an unbelievably angry mood,” said
Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg. “You are dealing with a
turn away from  Washington , from politicians in general.”  An Aug. 9 Washington Post survey found that 71 percent of
Americans said the federal government is mostly focused on the
wrong things and 78 percent said they were dissatisfied with the
way the country’s political system is working. The poll has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  ‘Something Wrong’  Obama last week sought to tap into that sentiment.  “There’s nothing wrong with our country,” he said Aug. 11
at a Holland, Michigan, factory of  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the
largest U.S. auto supplier. “There is something wrong with our
politics.”  Urging his audience to pressure their congressional
representatives, he said that some lawmakers “would rather see
their opponents lose than see America win.”  Obama’s options to stimulate the economy are limited given
the firm resistance by Republicans in Congress to new spending.  “There’s very limited maneuvering room,” Faucher said.
“There are lots of things he could push that would help the
economy, but aren’t going to get through Congress.”  In the two swing states Obama is visiting that are
important for his re-election, the  unemployment rate  is below
the national average of 9.1 percent: Minnesota stands at 6.7
percent and Iowa’s is 6 percent. The jobless rate in Illinois is
9.2 percent.  Skeptical Voters  The campaign-style bus tour is Obama’s first since becoming
president. And while Iowa was the launching pad for his run to
the Democratic nomination -- and eventual election as president
-- in 2008, this time he’ll be confronting more skepticism.  “What was a smiling crowd of enthusiastic people who voted
for him and created magic for him is no longer smiling,” said
Steffen Schmidt,’’ a political science professor at Iowa State
University in Ames, who also suggested Obama’s theme song for
the Iowa trip be “Help!” by the Beatles.  Obama will be in the state as the Republicans vying for
their party’s presidential nomination have spent the last week
targeting him and his policies in the run-up to a straw poll in
Ames.  “People in Iowa sent a message loud and clear to President
Obama,” U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
winner of the Aug. 13 contest, said yesterday on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program. “They said, ‘We are done with your
policies. We want something very different.’”  Unemployment Forecast  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The administration’s own forecast, matched by
private economists, is for a jobless rate of more than 8 percent
in the last quarter of next year.  Still, there are almost 15 months until the election and
it’s the economic conditions next spring that matter most for
the incumbent president, pollsters say. Ultimately, voters want
to see a trend of things starting to get better and the election
will be a referendum on Obama’s ability to see that through.  “If nothing else happens, it goes on the negative side of
the referendum,” said Robert Blendon, a professor of health
policy and political analysis at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “If there are positive signs that
come in the next three or four months, then it will have much
less effect.”  “Voters can’t do much,” he said. ‘All they can do is
change who’s in the job.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  