-- 
Metropolitan Police Make Riot Murder Arrest; Stolen Bulgari Is Ring Found

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T09:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/london-police-make-arrest-in-riot-murder-find-stolen-bulgari-ring-in-raid.html
London  police arrested a fourth
person in connection with the shooting death of a father of four
at the hands of alleged looters during last week’s rioting in
the British capital.  A 24-year-old man was arrested Aug. 13 during an armed raid
by officers probing the murder of Trevor Ellis, who was found
five days earlier shot in the head in a car in London’s Croydon
neighborhood while rioters burned nearby shops and apartments,
 Metropolitan Police  said in a statement yesterday. The man is
among more than  1,580 people  who have been detained in London
since the disorder began, they said.  “Trevor Ellis was murdered on a night where Croydon, and
in fact London, saw unprecedented levels of violence and
disorder,” Detective Neil Hutchison said in the statement. “I
believe his killers were actively involved in looting.”  Rioting across the capital started after a peaceful protest
over the police shooting of north London resident Mark Duggan
descended into violence that spread to other U.K. cities. Police
have come under fire from politicians who said their tactics to
counter the rioting didn’t work and London Mayor  Boris Johnson 
called for a review of proposed cuts in police budgets.  Police also released a photograph of a  Bulgari ring  they
uncovered during a raid on a suspected looter’s home near
London’s Notting Hill neighborhood. Diners and customers in the
area were robbed during the riots when gangs of youths raided
establishments, including the Bumpkin restaurant and the Walmer
Castle pub.  Authorities reported in a separate statement that a 33-
year-old man has been charged in connection with a fire at
Reeves Furniture store in Croydon, also on Aug. 8, which burned
out of control and consumed nearby buildings.  Police said a “key witness” to a separate murder during
the riots has come forward. That case, over the killing of
Richard Bowes, has already led to two arrests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  