-- 
Hong Kong Recession Risk Is Global Warning, Most Accurate Forecaster Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-08-15T07:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hong-kong-to-enter-recession-forecaster.html
Hong Kong ’s export-led economy, a
barometer of global growth, is sinking into a recession that is
likely to last for at least a year, said Daiwa Capital Markets
economist Kevin Lai.  Of nine economists in a Bloomberg News survey, Lai came
closest to predicting a 0.5 percent contraction in the city’s
economy in the second quarter. Only two of the analysts expected
gross domestic product to decline from the previous three months.
The government released the data Aug. 12.  “Global demand is really weak and we expect the U.S. and
 Europe  will see a sharp slowdown, or near-zero growth, next
year,” Lai said in a phone interview in the city today. “A
recession is a reality for Hong Kong.”  An 11 percent decline in Hong Kong’s merchandise exports in
the second quarter from the previous three months highlights the
weakness, Lai said. In a note, he described the economy as the
world’s “most externally-driven” and said that a slump has
“grave implications.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 2.9 percent as of 3:12 p.m.
local time today, trimming its decline since Aug. 1 to about
about 11 percent.  The technical definition of a recession is two straight
quarters of contraction.  Lai predicted that Hong Kong’s economy will contract 1
percent over the 12 months ending March 31. That compares with a
decline of 7.9 percent in the year through the first quarter of
2009, when the global financial crisis hobbled trade.  ‘Danger Zone’  The world economy is “entering a new danger zone” and
international policy makers need to take steps to restore
confidence, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said yesterday
in Sydney. A U.S. debt-rating downgrade and a widening European
debt crisis triggered a global rout of equities.  Hong Kong’s government maintained a forecast for economic
growth of 5 percent to 6 percent for 2011 on Aug. 12, citing
public construction works and “resilient” domestic demand. In
addition, trade will be supported by the strength of Asian
economies with disruptions from  Japan ’s March earthquake fading,
the government said. Lai’s estimate is a 4 percent expansion.  Also in contrast with Lai’s view, HSBC Holdings Plc.
economist Donna Kwok welcomed “a healthy dose of moderation”
for a Hong Kong economy that she said had been running hot.  Hong Kong’s economy grew 5.1 percent in April through June
from a year earlier compared with first-quarter growth of 7.5
percent.  “For the rest of this year, we expect the impact of softer
western demand to be countered by continued resilient Asian
domestic demand,” Kwok said in a note.  In Hong Kong, there are also signs that the  property market 
is cooling. Home transactions fell to a 30-month low in July,
while a land auction last week missed surveyors’ forecasts.
Midland Holdings Ltd. and Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the
Chinese city’s two biggest real estate agents, say  home prices 
will decline.  --Sophie Leung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Richard Frost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  