-- 
Topaz Top Management Fired, Jobs Cut as Renaissance Finds Financial Fraud

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-08-15T10:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/topaz-top-management-fired-jobs-cut-as-renaissance-finds-financial-fraud.html
Topaz Group, which in March pulled
an initial share sale in  London , had its top management removed
and jobs cut after parent  Renaissance Services SAOG (RNSS)  uncovered
financial fraud at the company. Renaissance shares plunged.  Topaz Chief Executive Officer Fazel Fazelbhoy stepped down
in May after oil and gas services provider Renaissance
“uncovered some serious issues” at the unit, Renaissance said
in a  statement  to the Muscat, Oman stock market today. Topaz’s
finance director and the chief operating officer of Topaz
Engineering also resigned, and the entire corporate human
resources department has been removed.  “The investigation uncovered evidence of fraud, ethical
misconduct and control weaknesses over a number of years,”
Renaissance said in the statement. “In light of these findings,
the company extended the investigation across all Topaz
businesses. The investigation is at an early stage but some
further similar concerns have arisen.”  Dubai-based Topaz, an engineering and marine business which
operates mainly in the  Caspian Sea  and provides services in
Brazil and  Africa , said in March it would not proceed with an
initial share sale in London, citing market conditions. Topaz
planned to use the proceeds of the IPO to finance the expansion
of its fleet to 165 vessels, Fazelbhoy said March 16.  Renaissance Chief Financial Officer Stephen Thomas has been
appointed interim CEO of the unit, the company said. More than
100 jobs at the Topaz Engineering unit will be cut as part of
the restructuring.  Profit Drops  Renaissance first-half profit dropped to 2.3 million rials
($6 million) from 9.8 million rials a year earlier, the company
said. It made a provision of 1.85 million rials related to a
contract cancellation, while finance charges almost doubled to
8.4 million rials.  The shares slumped 10 percent, the biggest decline since
April 2005, closing at 0.621 rial in Muscat. The stock has lost
44 percent this year compared with a 19 percent drop in the
benchmark Muscat Securities Market Index.  Renaissance said it expects to see improved operating
performance in the second half of the year and that “all agreed
and committed payments will be made on time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  