-- 
Osi Umenyiora Practices With New York Giants After Contract Dispute Ends

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/osi-umenyiora-practices-with-new-york-giants-after-contract-dispute-ends.html
Osi Umenyiora returned to practice
with the  New York Giants  after ending his contract dispute with
the National Football League team.  Umenyiora was on the training camp field at East Rutherford,
 New Jersey , yesterday, where he’d spent most of his time in the
first two weeks on a stationary bicycle rehabilitating an injury.  He told the  Associated Press  in an e-mail yesterday that he
was ready to practice and play with the Giants under the terms
of his contract, which will pay him $7.1 million over the next
two years.  “He jumped right in there and tries to beat the ball like
he normally does,” coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters after
Umenyiora’s first session back. “It was good to see.”  Umenyiora, who had offseason hip surgery, reported to
training camp on July 30. The team gave his agent permission to
seek a trade, provided they got a first-round draft pick in
return, and then withdrew the offer.  The 29-year-old Umenyiora has spent his seven-year NFL
career with the Giants, recording 60 sacks and 219 tackles. Last
season he had 11 1/2 sacks and a career-high 10 forced fumbles.  Fellow Giants defensive end Justin Tuck told reporters
prior to practice yesterday that he could tell Umenyiora was
“ready and itching to get back on the football field.”  “There are still some things in the works as far as him
and his contract, things like that, but for us as players it
hasn’t been a distraction,” Tuck said. “I look at it as he’s
back on the field and we’ll take it one day at a time.”  Second-year defensive end  Jason Pierre-Paul  started in
place of Umenyiora in the Giants’ preseason-opening loss to the
 Carolina Panthers  and recorded two sacks.  “Basically it’s going to be a rotation again and the
coaches already told me that I’m going to be working both
sides,” Pierre-Paul told reporters. “I’ll be playing right end
and left defensive end. That’s how I played last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 