-- 
Motorola Ends 28-Year Run Spawned by Gordon Gekko’s ‘Shoe Phone’

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/motorola-ends-28-year-run-spawned-by-gordon-gekko-s-shoe-phone-.html
Gordon Gekko  barking orders on his
Motorola DynaTAC in “ Wall Street ,”  Zack Morris  plotting his
high-school schemes through the device on television’s “Saved
By the Bell,” and gangster Tommy Vercetti using the same brick-
shaped phone in the  video game  “Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.”  Motorola Inc.’s $3,995, 2 1/2-pound gadget, the first
commercially available wireless phone, was the symbol of 1980s
influence and power. In the years since, as mobile devices
became cheaper and user-friendly enough for the masses, the
industry’s pioneer rarely was able to match that iconic status.  The handset business was splintered from the company’s
radio unit in January. Renamed Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
it agreed yesterday to be bought by Internet-search and software
company  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $12.5 billion, ending more than 28 years
as an independent wireless phone manufacturer.  “It’s a natural tendency, the new eating the old,” Edward J. Zander, Motorola’s chairman and chief executive officer from
2004 to 2008, said in a telephone interview. “The story’s
written every few years in our industry.”  Motorola’s history was a series of “boom and bust”
cycles, Zander said, with hit products every few years -- such
as the fashion-forward Razr in 2004 -- followed by lulls. It
became tougher to survive when the mobile-phone unit separated
and lost its cushion as part of a larger operation, Zander said.  Industry Transformation  Motorola fell victim in this decade to a shift to
smartphones laden with software features from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Mountain View , California-based Google, said Michael Cote, whose
consulting firm Cote Collaborative Inc. has advised Motorola and
other U.S. handset makers and wireless carriers.  “There was a transition in the mobile handset industry
from form factor to software and ecosystem, when the software on
the device became more important than the physical device
itself,” Cote said in a telephone interview from  Chicago .  Greg Brown , the co-CEO of Motorola before the business
split in two this year, said the company missed some
opportunities to keep pace with changes in mobile technology.  “Motorola missed a couple of key transitions,” Brown, who
is now CEO of the two-way radio company called Motorola
Solutions Inc., said in an interview. “Motorola missed 2G to
3G. It missed the transition to applications and services.”  Motorola was founded in Chicago in 1928 as Galvin
Manufacturing Corp. to make battery eliminators for home radios.
The company started producing car radios and expanded further
into communications with public-safety radios. That led to the
two-way walkie-talkie and to carphones. In 1973, the company
began research on a portable phone prototype, using a concept
for a cellular network developed by the former AT&T Corp.  ‘Shoe Phone’  The DynaTAC 8000X phone made its commercial debut on Sept.
21, 1983, after a decade of research that cost more than $100
million, according to Motorola’s  website . Designers called the
device a “shoe phone” because of its bulky shape.  Motorola dominated the mobile-phone industry in the U.S.
until the 1990s, when it was too slow to shift to digital
wireless technology, creating an opening for competitors such as
 Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  Motorola’s share of the U.S. market  fell  to 34
percent in 1998 from 60 percent in 1994, according to a news
report from that time.  The company had some success in the 1990s with the MicroTAC
and StarTAC phones that folded into a more compact  design .
StarTAC weighed 3.1 ounces (88 grams) and was marketed as the
smallest and lightest mobile phone available.  Academy Awards  Introduced in 1996 for a price of $1,000, StarTAC sold
about 60 million units. To promote the device, Motorola gave
special editions to Academy Award recipients in 1996, with the
name of their winning category engraved in the phone.  Those flip-phones paved the way for the Razr V3, which
measured 13.9 millimeters (0.5 inches) thick and gained a
following among celebrities including socialite  Paris Hilton  and
tennis star  Maria Sharapova . Consumers snapped up more than 100
million Razr phones worldwide.  “It was awesome watching  Tom Cruise  or whoever take out
the phones and use them,” said Zander, 64. “Today I watch, and
it’s just amazing to me how many people are using iPhones.”  Apple swept into the market in 2007 with the iPhone, which
combined the features of its iPod music player with those of a
wireless phone. The device has become Apple’s best-selling
product and has made the Cupertino, California-based company the
world’s biggest smartphone maker.  Google followed with phones using its Android operating
system reaching the market in 2008. Android is now the most-used
software for smartphones, with companies including  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Motorola making devices on the
platform. Google ties Android features into its online services,
such as search and e-mail.  While some of Motorola Mobility’s Android-based phones have
found a following in the U.S., globally the Libertyville,
Illinois-based company ranks outside the top players in the
smartphone market.  “It’s a tough business,” Zander said. “It’s like the
music business. You’ve got to produce hit records.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ; 