-- 
Lowe’s Reduces Annual Profit Forecast Following Drop in Same-Store Sales

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-15T20:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/lowe-s-reduces-annual-profit-forecast-after-decline-in-same-store-sales.html
Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, said profit in its fiscal 2011 will
be less than it previously projected as sales drop at stores
open more than a year.  Per-share profit in the year through Feb. 3 will be $1.48
to $1.54, down from a previous forecast of $1.56 to $1.64, the
Mooresville, North Carolina-based company said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 21 analysts was $1.61.  Homeowners buffeted by unemployment, declining stock
portfolios and sagging property values are delaying kitchen,
bathroom and other projects. Second-quarter sales at Lowe’s
stores open for more than a year declined 0.3 percent, compared
with the company’s projection in May for a 2 percent increase.  “We see the potential for additional comp weakness if the
economy continues to decelerate,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York, said today in a note to
clients. The same-store sales projection “suggests little hope
for a second-half rebound,” he said. He rates the shares
“market-perform.”  Lowe’s rose 17 cents to $19.68 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading. The stock has tumbled 22 percent this
year.  Lowe’s said same-store sales this year will decline 1
percent, compared with a May forecast of unchanged to a drop of
1 percent. Total revenue may rise 2 percent, down from an
earlier projection for a 4 percent gain.  Profit Drops  Net income in the quarter ended July 29 fell to $830
million, or 64 cents a share, from $832 million, or 58 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Analysts projected 66 cents, the
average of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Second-quarter
sales rose 1.3 percent to $14.5 billion.  A worsening economic outlook and the  Standard & Poor’s 
first-ever downgrade of the U.S. credit rating “underscore
continued weakness in the  U.S. economy ,” Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Niblock  told analysts today on a conference call.
“The volume of negative news and the unsettling impact on
equity markets is having a significant effect on an already
fragile consumer mindset.”  A report last week showed that consumer sentiment plunged
this month amid stock-market declines and the threat of a
default on the national debt.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for August slumped to 54.9, the
lowest reading since May 1980, from 63.7 the prior month. The
gauge was projected to decline to 62, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in  New York  at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  