-- 
Toys ‘R’ Us Deploys Robots as Retailers Seek to Catch Amazon

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/toys-r-us-deploys-robots-as-retailers-seek-to-catch-amazon.html
U.S. retailers are shoring up their
e-commerce operations, playing catch-up as budget-conscious
shoppers defect to such online merchants as Amazon.com.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and Toys “R” Us Inc. are among the chains
rushing to open distribution centers, revamp websites and
integrate their stores more seamlessly into their online
operations. Amazon, meanwhile, plans to open 15 distribution
centers this year.  “Many brick-and-mortar retailers have had their ‘a-ha’
moment as Amazon continues to grow and the Internet is getting
more viable,” said Mick Mountz, chief executive officer of Kiva
Systems Inc., which has seen orders surge this year for the
warehouse robots it sells to retailers. Last month Toys ‘R’ Us
opened a warehouse near Reno,  Nevada , equipped with the Roomba-
like critters, which shorten order turn-around time.  Some chains were caught off-guard by surging online orders
in the 2010  holiday shopping season , said Mountz, who says one
customer lost “millions of dollars” of Web orders it couldn’t
fulfill because of inadequate online infrastructure.  Now stores are making up for lost time as they prepare for
this year’s holiday shopathon. Last holiday season, online sales
reached a record $32.6 billion, up 12 percent over the previous
year, says market researcher ComScore Inc., which is based in
Reston, Virgina. Many analysts expect Web purchases to be
stronger this year.  “Given the current economic climate, free shipping and the
ability to research product reviews before making a purchase
make online shopping very compelling,” said Betty Chen, an
analyst at San Francisco-based Wedbush Securities.  Weak Confidence  Confidence among consumers, whose spending makes up 70
percent of the  U.S. economy , fell to the lowest level since May
1980 in August, according to a survey from Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan. Confidence fell to 54.9, the
weakest since March 2009.  In the U.S., the  unemployment rate  has held above 9 percent
for four straight months. The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent
in July, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said Aug. 5.  While the companies don’t break out how much they spend on
Web-related operations, capital spending by the 35 retailers in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose by an average of 27 percent
in their most recent fiscal years -- the first such increase in
three years. Toys ‘R’ Us, which is private, boosted  capital
spending  by 41 percent in fiscal 2011.  Von Maur, a department store chain with 26 locations in the
Midwest, has beefed up its online operations following a chaotic
holiday shopping season in 2009, said Chief Operating Officer
Melody Westendorf. At one point, Von Maur was a week behind
fulfilling orders, she said.  ‘Totally Blindsided’  “We were totally blindsided and it was chaos -- people
running around the warehouse with printed order sheets, grabbing
items and sending them out,” Westendorf said in a phone
interview. “We were getting stuff wrong, orders were very late,
and we had a lot of unhappy customers.”  The chain, which is based in Davenport,  Iowa , has since
built a distribution center equipped with Kiva robots and
doubled online sales, she said.  Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. drugstore chain, will spend
a record on its e-tailing operations this year, according to
Sona Chawla, president of e-commerce.  “We’ve had a sense of urgency and are focusing on bringing
in new customers online more than anything else,” she said in a
phone interview.  Mobile Refills  Walgreen is trying to add shoppers with more interactive
services. One lets customers refill prescriptions by sending
photos of their medicine labels from their mobile phones.
Customers also can e-mail or text-message pharmacists with
questions, said Chawla. Two million people have signed up for
the texting service and 25 percent of prescriptions are refilled
via smartphone, she said.  The Deerfield, Illinois-based company bought rival
Drugstore.com Inc. in June for about $429 million to add more
niche items that can be found only on the site, Chawla said. The
drugstore chain also is opening a distribution center equipped
with Kiva robots.  With online sales now accounting for about 10 percent of
revenue, Toys “R” Us also is spending more than ever on e-
commerce, said Chief Executive Officer Jerry Storch, who
declined to provide a specific figure.  The world’s biggest toy retailer is stepping up its online
investments as more customers buy toys online and with their
smart phones, Storch said in a phone interview.  Nowadays “we need to look at the online store and the
brick-and-mortar stores the same,” Storch said.  Same Day  With its new robot-equipped distribution center, the Wayne,
New Jersey-based company aims to ship Toysrus.com and Babies.com
orders the same day they’re received, he said.  Kids can now plan their birthday parties on the Toys ‘R’ Us
website, picking the theme -- Barbie, Bob the Builder -- and
gifts. Once the birthday registry is complete, parents can e-
mail it to relatives and other moms and dads.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  is one of several retailers working to make
their websites more effective sales drivers. The second-largest
U.S. department store chain teamed up with the producers of
“Pretty Little Liars” and “The Vampire Diaries” to produce a
teen-oriented Web series that showcases Macy’s apparel.  Called “Wendy,” the series stars Meaghan Martin, who
appeared in “Mean Girls 2,” as a girl who must choose between
the boy she loves and the boy of her dreams. Viewers can watch
the twice-a-week show on the Macy’s website and click through to
the virtual style lab to buy the featured fashions. “Wendy”
premieres Sept. 15. Macy’s declined to comment.  “Coming out of the recession, retailers realized it’s
going to be a lot more competitive for consumers’ dollars,”
said Al Sambar, a retail strategist at consulting firm Kurt
Salmon in  New York . “You can no longer be that guy still
playing with the wooden tennis racket when everyone else is
picking up metal and graphite.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Raleigh at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 