-- 
Paulson’s Fund Sold Citigroup, Bank of America Shares in Second Quarter

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-08-15T23:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/paulson-s-hedge-fund-sold-citigroup-bofa-shares-last-quarter-amid-decline.html
John Paulson , the billionaire whose
biggest hedge fund has lost 31 percent this year, cut his stake
in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  stock by half and trimmed his  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  position last quarter as financial shares slumped.  Paulson & Co. sold 7.8 million shares of New York-based
Citigroup, leaving the fund with 33.5 million shares as of June
30, according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The fund sold 63.2 million shares of
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, leaving it with
60.4 million, according to the filing.  Paulson, 55, who has been betting on an economic recovery
by the end of 2012, scaled back those wagers after losses this
year and told clients in June that he reduced his stake in Bank
of America, which slumped 18 percent in the second quarter and
29 percent since then. Financial shares, including Citigroup,
were among the fund’s biggest U.S. stock holdings in the first
half of the year and have been a major part of his recovery bet.  Financial companies posted the worst performance among 10
industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the second
quarter, losing 6.3 percent.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson,
declined to comment on the filing. The hedge fund oversees about
$35 billion in assets.  Bank Warrants  Paulson also trimmed its holdings of two types of long-term
warrants tied to Bank of America’s bailout under the U.S.
Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program. The hedge
fund reduced its stake in the bank’s Group A warrants by 2
percent in the second quarter and held 29.4 million of the
securities as of June 30. Paulson cut the number of Group B
warrants by 3.2 percent to 9.68 million.  The hedge fund increased its stake in  Wells Fargo & Co .,
the San Francisco-based lender, to 33.6 million shares from 20.5
million at the end of the first quarter, according to the
filing. Paulson reduced its stake in JPMorgan Chase & Co. to 4.7
million shares as of the end of June.  Paulson’s investment in the bullion-backed SPDR Gold Trust
remained unchanged in the second quarter. The hedge fund held
31.5 million shares as of June 30, according to the filing. The
holdings are used for the hedge fund’s gold-denominated share
classes, which have outperformed the dollar classes this year.  Paulson trimmed his stake in Johannesburg-based AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. by selling 1.1 million American depositary
receipts, holding 39.9 million at the end of the quarter. The
company remained the hedge fund’s biggest investment after the
SPDR Gold Trust. Paulson sold his stake in Canadian miner
Kinross Gold Corp.  Transocean Stake  Paulson also decreased its stake in Transocean Ltd., the
world’s largest offshore driller, according to the filing,
holding 18.8 million shares in the New York-listed company as of
June 30. Paulson owned 24.5 million shares of the Zug,
Switzerland-based company at the end of the first quarter.  The hedge fund trimmed its stake in Hewlett-Packard Co.,
the  Palo Alto , California-based computer maker, to 23.5 million
from 25 million at the end of March, according to the filing.  Paulson bought new stakes in Life Technologies Corp.,
Savvis Inc. and  News Corp ., according to the filing.  The firm left about 45 percent of its holdings unchanged.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  Growth Wager  Paulson told investors at the start of the year that U.S.
economic growth would probably continue in 2011, and that over
the past 20 years, the average length of expansion after each of
the previous two recessions had been 32 quarters. The wager has
hurt him so far this year.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, which tries to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies, lost 11
percent in the first week of August, a person familiar with the
firm, who asked not to be identified because the information is
private, said last week. Paulson would have to return about 45
percent in the remainder of the year to break even in that fund.  -- With assistance from Peter Eichenbaum in  New York . Editors:
Steven Crabill, Larry Edelman, Josh Friedman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  