-- 
Pennsylvania Team Beats Paramus, New Jersey, to Reach Little League Series

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-15T15:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/pennsylvania-team-beats-paramus-new-jersey-to-reach-little-league-series.html
Wyatt Koch hit a three-run home run
to break a scoreless tie in the fourth inning as Clinton County,
 Pennsylvania , beat Paramus,  New Jersey , 5-2 in the conclusion of
the Mid-Atlantic regional final, earning a trip to the  Little
League World Series .  The two teams resumed play today in Bristol,  Connecticut ,
after the game was suspended by rain yesterday heading into the
fourth inning. Paramus pulled within one run in the top of the
fifth before Keystone put the game away with two runs in the
bottom of the inning.  Clinton County is the final team to reach the Little League
World Series, to be played in South Williamsport, Pennsylvania,
from Aug. 18 to Aug. 28. The 16-team tournament, run by Little
League Baseball Inc., involves eight regional U.S. champions and
eight international champions, with players from 11 to 13 years
old.  South Williamsport is 27 miles (44 kilometers) east of Lock
Haven, the home of the Clinton County team. American teams have
won 32 titles since the event began in 1947.  Japan  is the
defending champion, beating a team from  Hawaii  last year.  The game’s delay yesterday meant Paramus pitcher Hirokazu
Mitzutani was unavailable for today’s continuation. Mitzutani,
12, started the game yesterday, allowing no hits and striking
out five in three innings.  He threw 43 pitches before the rain delay, three more than
the maximum that would allow him to pitch again on one day’s
rest. Another Paramus pitcher, Connor Heim, was not allowed to
pitch in the final because he threw a complete game in a
semifinal victory on Aug. 12.  Clinton County, which went 12-1 to win the Pennsylvania
championship, was 6-0 in Mid-Atlantic group play, outscoring
opponents 48-12. They will play the  Great Lakes  champions, La
Grange, Kentucky, in the first round of the tournament Aug. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  