-- 
Perry’s Swagger on Bernanke May Raise Doubts Beyond Texas

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-17T18:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/perry-bachmann-clash-in-iowa-raises-stakes-in-republican-presidential-bid.html
In Texas, Governor  Rick Perry  could
comment about secession from the  United States  and letting
college students pack concealed weapons without attracting much
attention beyond the state’s borders.  As his campaign for the White House gets under way, Perry’s
talk in  Iowa  earlier this week of wanting a chief executive who
loves America and his warning to  Ben S. Bernanke  that things
could get “ugly” for the Federal Reserve chairman in Texas if
he tries additional, “almost treasonous,” monetary stimulus
gained an instant national audience. Today, campaigning in New
Hampshire, Perry dismissed humankind’s effect on climate change
as an unproven theory.  Perry’s comments, especially his attack on Bernanke, have
raised questions about whether his rhetoric will undercut his
political aspirations.  “You just can’t run around shooting your mouth off and
talking about the Federal Reserve and talking about treason and
getting ugly,” said  Cornelius Hurley , a law professor at  Boston
University  and a former assistant general counsel to the Fed’s
Board of Governors. “That’s just not appropriate.”  Hurley, a self-described “disenchanted” supporter of
President  Barack Obama , says while tension has long existed
between politicians and the Fed, Perry took it to new heights.  ‘Ramped Up’ Rhetoric  “I have never heard the rhetoric ramped up the way
Governor Perry did,” he said. “That’s a very troubling
development. We expect more of our president and should expect
more of our presidential candidates.”  Perry’s comment about Bernanke and his remark about the
U.S. needing a president “that’s in love with America” --
implying to some that he was saying Obama isn’t -- and his stand
on global warming may play well with Tea Party activists and
social conservatives central to his bid for the 2012 Republican
nomination. In the general election, though, such comments may
pose a problem for him in swing states like Ohio and  Florida ,
analysts said.  “ Texas  is a big state with rough-and-tumble politics, but
when you get to that national stage, everyone is going to be
looking closely,” said  Tim Hagle , an associate professor of
political science at the University of Iowa. “Sometimes you get
into a bit of a culture clash with these sort of things.”  Perry, during a backyard appearance two days ago in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, cautioned against Bernanke making any move to
increase stimulus spending before the 2012 election.  ‘Treacherous,’ ‘Treasonous’  “If this guy prints more money between now and the
election, I don’t know what you would do with him,” Perry said.
“We would treat him pretty ugly down in Texas. Printing more
money to play politics at this particular time in American
history is almost treacherous -- or treasonous -- in my
opinion.”  This morning, campaigning in Bedford, New Hampshire, Perry
acknowledged that his comment sparked a political firestorm.  “I got in trouble talking about the  Federal Reserve 
yesterday,” he told a group of state business and political
leaders. “I got lectured.”  Still, he said, until greater transparency measures are put
in place, concerns such as his will be raised about the Fed.  “Until they do that, there will continue to be questions
about their activity and what their true goal is for the United
States,” Perry said.  He fired back at the White House, which criticized his
comments yesterday.  Jobs Issue  “The president said I needed to watch what I say,” Perry
said this morning. “I just want to respond back, if I may. Mr.
President, actions speak louder than words. And my actions as
governor are helping create jobs in this country. The
president’s actions are killing jobs in this country.”  He took another jab at Obama later, questioning the
president’s immigration policy while visiting Resonetics LLC, a
micro-manufacturing company in Nashua,  New Hampshire .  “‘Six weeks ago the president went to El Paso and said the
border is safer than it’s ever been,” he told a group of
business leaders. “Maybe he was talking about the Canadian
border.”  Campaign Test  Though Perry, 61, has been known as a disciplined candidate
and has never lost an election during almost three decades in
politics, his readiness for heightened scrutiny of a
presidential campaign is one of the major tests he now faces.  “You never really know how people are going to perform
until you see them out there,”  David Axelrod , Obama’s senior
strategist, said in an interview last week. “This is a guy who
has never done this before. It’s harder than it looks.”  Republicans were among those viewing the Bernanke remark as
a stumble. Karl Rove, a Texan who was former President  George W. Bush ’s longtime political adviser, chided Perry for “a very
unfortunate comment.”  In an interview on  Fox News  yesterday, Rove said Perry “is
going to have to fight the impression that he’s a cowboy from
Texas. This simply added to it.”  Before his Bernanke comment, Perry had raised questions
with remarks at the Iowa State Fair in Des Moines drawing an
apparent comparison between himself and Obama.  ‘Passionate About America’  “A guy like me can stand up on a soapbox at the Iowa State
Fair and talk freely about freedom and liberty and America and
that we are an exceptional country and we’re going to stay an
exceptional country,” Perry said. “We don’t need anybody
apologizing anywhere in this world about America. I get a little
bit passionate about that. That’s OK. I think you want a
president that is passionate about America, that’s in love with
America.”  At the event in Cedar Rapids later, a reporter asked Perry
whether he was suggesting that Obama doesn’t love America.  “You need to ask him,” Perry responded, according to
ABCNews.com. “You’re a good reporter, go ask him.”  In Bedford today, Perry said he doesn’t believe human
activity contributes to  climate change . Climate scientists
haven’t been totally truthful about their research, he said.  “There are a substantial number of scientists who have
manipulated data so that they will have dollars rolling into
their projects,” Perry said. “I think we’re seeing almost
weekly, or even daily, scientists that are coming forward and
questioning the original idea that man-made global warming is
what is causing the climate to change.”  Unproven  He said that, while some want billions of taxpayer dollars
spent to address the matter, he doesn’t want to be engaged in
spending money on a scientific theory that has not been proven.  The Earth’s average surface temperature has increased by
about 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit (0.8 degrees Celsius) over the past
100 years, with about one degree occurring over the past three
decades, according to a May report from the  National Research
Council of the National Academies.   A “preponderance” of scientific evidence shows that the
release of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases is the
“most likely” cause of most warming during the past 50 years,
the report found.  Previous Perry statements include his 2009 suggestion that
Texas might consider secession from the U.S.  The governor was appearing at an April 15 anti-tax rally in
Austin, the Texas capital, where people in the crowd were
yelling, “Secede!” In response, Perry said: “We’ve got a
great union. There’s absolutely no reason to dissolve it. But if
 Washington  continues to thumb their nose at the American people,
you know, who knows what might come out of that.”  Carry Permits  Earlier this year, Perry supported legislation to permit
Texas college students to carry concealed weapons on campus, a
bill that failed to pass.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  criticized Perry’s
Fed remarks yesterday, calling “threatening” Bernanke “not a
good idea.” Carney told reporters traveling with Obama on a
three-day Midwestern bus tour that any candidate for president
should consider the impact of statements about an independent
entity such as the Fed.  “The Fed’s independence is important,” he said.  Mark Miner, a Perry spokesman, didn’t directly respond to a
query for comment on whether his boss was threatening the Fed
chairman. “The governor was expressing his frustration with the
current economic situation and the out-of-control spending that
persists in Washington,” Miner said in a statement. “Most
Americans would agree that spending more money is not the answer
to the economic issues facing the country.”  ‘Completely Inappropriate’  Sandy Leeds , a senior lecturer in finance at the  University
of Texas  in Austin, called Perry’s remark “completely
inappropriate” and argued that the Fed’s recent policy has
helped Texas.  “If anything, quantitative easing pushed money into risky
assets such as oil and this has helped Texas,” he said. “The
idea that the Fed shouldn’t do something when we are 14 or 15
months away from a general election has no standing.”  Perry’s entrance into the race last weekend has reshaped
the Republican field, forcing former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
who won the Aug. 13 Iowa Straw Poll of Republican activists, to
compete against a brash new rival.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in New York at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  