-- 
Peru’s Humala May Curb Gas Exports to Mexico as Growth Boosts Local Demand

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-08-16T18:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/peru-s-humala-may-curb-gas-exports-to-cover-surging-local-demand.html
Peruvian President Ollanta Humala
will consider cutting natural gas exports to  Mexico  as demand
from local  power plants  and petrochemical projects surges,
according to the president of the state oil contracting agency.  The government will begin negotiations this month with a
group that includes Hunt Oil Co. and  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  to persuade
the companies to invest more in exploration, Aurelio Ochoa said.
Peru’s industry has lined up about 400 projects requiring more
than 800 million cubic feet per day of gas, he said.  “We need a more aggressive investment program,” Ochoa
said today in an interview at his office in Lima. The government
will curb exports “if there’s no other alternative,” he said,
declining to give details on what the alternatives might be.  Energy and mining stocks plummeted after former army rebel
Humala won the June 5 election on concern he would enact earlier
pledges to rewrite oil and mining deals and halt gas exports.
The government will seek investment in gas pipelines and
petrochemical plants on the south coast, Humala said July 28.  A separate group including Hunt, Repsol, Argentina’s
Pluspetrol SA and SK Group of  South Korea  began operating the $4
billion, 620 million-cubic-feet-a-day Peru LNG liquefied natural
gas export plant last year.  Booming Demand  Repsol has bought Peru LNG’s entire output for 18 1/2
years, which it is marketing with  Spain ’s Gas Natural SDG SA.
The company is shipping gas to Spain and will supply a
gasification plant that Mitsui & Co., Samsung Heavy Industries
Co. and Korea Gas Corp. are building in Mexico.  Hector Escalante, a spokesman at Mexico’s Energy Ministry,
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Natural gas for September delivery fell 8.2 cents, or 2
percent, to $3.942 per million British thermal units at 1:24
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Gas has declined 11
percent this year.  Hunt Oil spokeswoman Jeanne Phillips and Peru LNG Chief
Executive Officer Igor Salazar didn’t immediately respond to
telephone calls or e-mails seeking comment. Daniel Guerra,
spokesman for Camisea operator Pluspetrol, declined to comment
when contacted by telephone.  Peru’s natural gas output jumped 20-fold to a record 1.1
billion cubic feet per day through the first half of 2011 after
the $2 billion Camisea gas fields project started operating in
2004, according to Perupetro.  Demand for natural gas has boomed as  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,
Israel Corp. and  Endesa SA (ELE)  expand gas-fired power plants and  CF
Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) ,  Orica Ltd. (ORI)  and Sigdo Koppers SA plan
petrochemical plants, part of $10 billion in expected investment
in the country’s energy industry, the Energy Ministry says.  Transportadora de Gas del Peru , a seven-company group whose
partners include Pluspetrol, will finish an $850 million
expansion of its  Camisea  pipeline by the end of 2012, while
Camisea’s plan to increase output by 50 percent to 1.58 billion
cubic feet a day will be ready by mid-2012, Guerra said in a May
18 interview.  Mexico’s Protexa SA de CV and Ashmore Energy International
Ltd. shelved projects for lack of gas, Ochoa said.  “The local market isn’t being attended to,” Ochoa said.
“Dozens of companies pull out of Pluspetrol’s bidding rounds.
That tells you there isn’t enough gas to go around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 