-- 
Peru GDP Rises Slowest in 17 Months on Humala Concerns

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-15T14:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/peru-gdp-rises-slowest-in-17-months-on-humala-concerns-1-.html
Peru ’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in 17 months as companies scaled back spending on
concern that President  Ollanta Humala ’s policies may deter
investment.  Gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent in June from the
same month a year earlier, the Andean country’s National
Statistics Institute said in a report issued today in Lima.
Economists predicted growth of 5.8 percent, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Companies have curtailed spending as they wait for Humala
to detail his plans to manage the $153 billion economy and
impose a windfall mining tax that raises concern businesses may
become less competitive. The deceleration in domestic activity
and the world economy led Peru’s central bank last week to keep
 interest rates  unchanged for a third month.  “Although Humala is saying the right things for now,
uncertainties remain, and that should hurt growth,” said
 Gustavo Rangel , an economist at ING Financial Markets, in a
phone interview from  New York . “The downshift in the global
growth outlook and lower commodity prices in general should add
to the wait-and-see mood for investment. That will keep the
central bank on hold for the foreseeable future.”  Market-Friendly  Humala last month named a market-friendly economic team led
by Finance Minister Miguel Castilla to reassure investors
concerned about his pledges to increase state control of the
economy.  Since Humala was elected June 5 on a pledge to increase
 government spending  using higher tax revenue, he’s said he’ll
respect mining contracts and seek to spur investment in mine
expansions.  The government will announce details of the windfall tax in
a presentation to lawmakers before the end of this month, Humala
said yesterday in an interview with Lima-based Radio Programas.  Mining projects will account for almost half the $47.5
billion of private investment expected in Peru from 2011 to
2013, according to the central bank.  The Peruvian sol was virtually unchanged at 2.7425 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:26 a.m. New York time, from 2.7430 on Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  