-- 
Petrobras Second-Quarter Profit Rises 32% After Surge in Crude Oil Prices

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-08-16T14:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/petrobras-reports-second-quarter-net-income-of-10-9-billion-reais-on-gain.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, posted a better-than-expected 32
percent rise in quarterly profit after oil prices surged and it
accelerated drilling at its largest offshore crude discoveries.  Second-quarter net income gained to 10.9 billion reais
($6.86 billion), or 84 centavos a share, from 8.3 billion reais,
or 95 centavos, a year earlier, Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras
said yesterday. The company was expected to post profit of 83
centavos on an adjusted basis, the average of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Earnings on a per-share basis fell after the
company sold about $70 billion of shares in September.  Petrobras is investing $224.7 billion over five years to
build refineries, develop deepwater fields and ramp up output at
Lula, the largest discovery in  Brazil ’s history. The company
plans to add five drilling rigs this year to its deep-water
fields in the Santos Basin that hold discoveries located miles
under the seabed.  “Petrobras’s story is one of regaining investor
confidence,” Gustavo Gattass, an analyst at Banco BTG Pactual
said in a note today. “Petrobras stands out in our view for its
long-term growth potential, its leverage to oil prices.”  Petrobras fell 33 centavos, or 1.6 percent, to 20.66 reais
at 10:23 a.m. New York time, compared with a 1.4 percent drop on
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index.  Lula Production  Petrobras ramped up Lula production to 54,000 barrels a day
of oil and natural gas in June. The discovery holds Brazil’s
most productive well, which pumped 36,601 barrels a day in June.  “This gives a strong signal that this is a distinguished
area in terms of development opportunities, and it will
represent an accelerated growth curve for the company,” Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said late yesterday at a press
conference in Rio de Janeiro. “We’re going to accelerate the
number of wells drilled this year.”  Crude prices rose above $125 a barrel for the first time in
2 1/2 years in the quarter, helping to fuel a 15 percent gain in
sales to 61.5 billion reais. Output rose 0.4 percent after
offshore platform maintenance slowed its production growth.  “Prices were quite good during the entire quarter,”
Andres Kikuchi, an analyst at Link Investimentos in  Sao Paulo ,
said in a telephone interview before the results were released.  More Debt  Petrobras may issue more bonds this year to help finance
investments, Barbassa said. It’s considering selling debt in
euros or pounds to find new buyers for its debt, he said Aug. 2.  “We don’t foresee any problems raising debt,” Chief
Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli told reporters today in
Sao Paulo. “We don’t need to raise debt, but if the money is
available and cheap, we will.”  The company said July 22 that it will issue as much as $91
billion in debt and sell up to $13.6 billion of assets as part
of its spending plans for 2011 through 2015. The company sold a
record $6 billion in dollar bonds in January.  Petrobras is spending more than any other major  oil company 
to develop fields deep beneath a layer of salt under the ocean
floor. Petrobras plans to invest 84.7 billion reais this year.
Investments may fall short of this target if suppliers don’t
deliver all of its rigs on time, Barbassa said.  Petrobras also posted a financial gain of 2.9 billion
reais, compared with a loss of 630 million reais in the year-
earlier period, after a stronger local currency reduced the
value of the company’s dollar-denominated debt.  The company said it still sees “instability” in global
markets, although the impact on the company is limited because
its operations are concentrated in Brazil.  ‘ Double Dip ’  “If we have a double dip, it will contaminate developing
countries and oil demand,” Barbassa said. “We’re prepared for
a scenario of lower  oil prices .”  Petrobras, worth about 291 billion reais at the end of
trading yesterday, has lost 23 percent this year in Sao Paulo.
Of the 20 analysts who rate the company and tracked by
Bloomberg, 13 recommend buying the stock and seven say “hold.”  Petrobras trails Exxon Mobil Corp., PetroChina Co., Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp. in market value.  The company revised its five-year investment plan this year
to include $12.4 billion for the development of new oil reserves
it bought from the government as part of its $70 billion share
sale, the largest in history. The company acquired the right to
develop about 5 billion barrels of oil.  Lula Development  In addition to developing the Lula field, Petrobras may
take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the government’s Libra
deposit. Lula and Libra are the Americas’ biggest oil
discoveries since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. The fields are in
a deep-water region known as the pre-salt along Brazil’s coast.  “We have some pretty bad news coming from the outside,”
said Lucas Brendler, a  fund manager  at Banco Geracao Futuro de
Investimentos. Brendler said slowing global economic growth may
erode demand for oil. “There’s a growing risk that demand will
fall in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  