-- 
Philippine Peso Gains Most in 3 Weeks as Remittances Increase

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-08-15T09:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/philippine-peso-gains-most-in-3-weeks-as-remittances-increase.html
The Philippine peso rose by the most
in three weeks after growth in remittances, which account for
almost 10 percent of the economy, accelerated in June.  Cash transfers from Filipinos working overseas increased 7
percent to $1.74 billion in June from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in five months, the central bank reported today.
The government plans to ask  Standard & Poor’s  for a fresh
credit-rating review at a meeting next month,  BusinessWorld 
reported today, citing the government’s Investor Relations
Office Executive Director Claro Fernandez.  “The report about S&P reinforces the government’s resolve
to win a higher credit rating, which is going to be positive for
sentiment and for the peso,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . Remittances have remained resilient,
Rao said.  The peso advanced 0.5 percent to 42.42 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close of trading in Manila, the most since July 22,
according to the Bankers Association of the  Philippines . The
yield on the 4.875 percent bonds due July 2015 fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.55 percent, based on
Tradition Financial Services.  The Philippines moved closer to its goal of winning an
investment-grade  credit rating  in June when  Fitch Ratings  raised
its assessment to BB+, the highest junk rating and on a par with
Indonesia. S&P affirmed its BB rating in July, while Moody’s
Investors Service increased its assessment to Ba2 from Ba3 in
June. The two companies rate the Philippines two levels below
investment grade.  The Bureau of Internal Revenue, which accounts for more
than 60 percent of the government’s annual earnings, missed its
collection goals in July and in the first seven months of 2011,
according to an emailed statement today. The 2011 target remains
“well within reach,” Commissioner  Kim Henares  said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  