-- 
Philippine Liquor Tax Is Struck Down by WTO in Win for U.S., EU Distillers

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-08-16T09:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/philippine-liquor-tax-illegal-wto-says-backing-u-s-eu-1-.html
Philippine taxes on imports of
spirits such as whiskey and brandy made by  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A) 
and Pernod Ricard SA are illegal, the  World Trade Organization 
ruled, upholding complaints by the U.S. and the European Union.  Yesterday’s ruling may help European and U.S. companies
boost their share of the Philippines’ $3 billion liquor market.
WTO judges in Geneva rejected the Philippines’ argument that
imported liquor such as Jim Beam whiskey, Brandy de Jerez and
Southern Comfort don’t compete with locally made distilled
spirits and therefore different taxes based on the raw material
used to make the liquor should be legal.  The Philippines applies a lower  tax rate  on sugar and palm-
based drinks produced within the country. Levies on foreign
spirits in some cases may be almost 50 times higher than those
on domestic liquor, according to the EU. The  Philippines  should
revise its tax to meet its WTO obligations, a panel of judges
said in a  ruling  posted on the trade arbiter’s website.  “We urge the Philippine government to comply swiftly with
the panel’s recommendations and rulings, and level the playing
field for our exports immediately,” U.S. Trade Representative
Ron Kirk said yesterday in a statement.  Philippines to Appeal  The Philippines will appeal the ruling, Finance
Undersecretary Gil Beltran said in a phone interview today. The
liquor industry “will file a motion for reconsideration
immediately with the help of the government,” he said.  Members of the Distilled Spirits Association of the
Philippines produced 66 million cases of liquor last year with
gross sales of almost 50 billion pesos ($1.2 billion), according
to the organization. The association said today that WTO judges
failed to “seriously and carefully analyze the Philippines’
basic defenses.”  Ginebra San Miguel Inc. (GSMI) , the Philippines’ biggest distiller
by sales, was unchanged at 28 pesos at the noon close of trading
in  Manila . Ginebra is a unit of  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the country’s
largest listed company by sales.  The 27-nation EU, the world’s biggest liquor exporter with
sales overseas exceeding 7 billion euros ($10 billion) last
year, shipped 16.5 million euros of spirits to the Philippines
in 2010, down from almost 37 million euros in 2004, according to
the European Commission in Brussels.  Trade  between the two
economies was worth 9.1 billion euros last year.  Imports Drop  “The discriminatory taxation system has led to a decline
of overall consumption of imported spirits of 1 percent since
2005, while consumption of local spirits has grown over 8
percent in the same period,” according to the commission.  U.S. distilled-spirits exports worldwide averaged more than
$1 billion a year from 2006 through 2009. Philippine imports of
liquor haven’t exceeded 5 percent of total sales of spirits in
the nation since 2003.  “The panel report is the confirmation of what is a clear
case of tax discrimination which has been and still is an
important obstacle to imports into the Philippines,”  John Clancy , the EU’s trade spokesman, said yesterday in a statement.  The drop in U.S. and European liquor exports “cannot be
attributed to our taxation system, but is due to many factors
such as sluggish economy, low purchasing power and inflation,”
said Olivia Limpe-Aw, president of the Philippines spirits
lobby. Domestic spirits also had lower consumption this year,
she said.  Brown-Forman rose 0.8 percent to $68.58 in New York trading
yesterday while Pernod Ricard lost 1.5 percent to 62 euros at 11
a.m. in Paris today.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  fell 1.9 percent to 58.71
euros and  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie Walker scotch and
Smirnoff vodka, slipped 1.4 percent to 1,173 pence in  London .  The EU lodged its complaint at the WTO in July 2009 and the
U.S. followed six months later. According to industry statistics
cited by the Trade Representative’s Office, U.S. distilled-
spirits companies contributed to more than $113 billion of
economic activity and more than 1.2 million jobs in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  