-- 
Qatar May Cut Interest Rates Further to Expand Infrastructure: Arab Credit

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-16T09:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/qatar-may-cut-rates-more-to-expand-infrastructure-arab-credit.html
Qatar, host of the 2022  World Cup ,
may cut its benchmark  interest rate  by at least another half
percentage point as the emirate seeks to trim the cost of
building nine stadiums, roads and 40,000 hotel rooms, analysts
said.  Qatar’s central bank  this month reduced its overnight
lending rate and repurchase rate to 4.5 percent from 5 percent.
The overnight deposit rate was cut a quarter point to 0.75
percent. The move aims to boost credit for spending on
infrastructure and real-estate projects, the central bank said.  Lower commodity costs and concern that U.S. and European
growth is faltering may keep inflation in check globally,
allowing Qatar to lower borrowing costs even as the government
projects economic growth of 16 percent this year.  “There’s room for rates to come down and I believe they
will come down more in Qatar given that the U.S. rates will
remain low for the next two years,” said  Giyas Gokkent , chief
economist at the National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  PJSC. “The global
inflation outlook has moderated markedly in past week or two.”  The yield on Qatar’s 5.25 percent dollar bond maturing in
January 2020 dropped 28 basis points since Aug. 9 to 3.53
percent at 1:41 p.m. in Qatar today, the lowest on record
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The yield tumbled 99
basis points this year. The average yield on  Middle East 
sovereign bonds fell 48 basis points this year to 4.71 percent
on Aug. 15, according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  Fed Pledge  The interest-rate cut followed U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Aug. 9 pledge to keep interest rates
near zero through at least mid-2013. Qatar’s riyal is pegged to
the dollar at a rate of $0.27.  “There still remains room to reduce the lending rates from
the current 4.5 percent by another 50 basis points, as
inflationary pressure remains muted and credit growth is being
directed toward productive areas and not speculative,”  Monica Malik , economist at EFG-Hermes U.A.E. Ltd., said in an e-mail.  Qatar sold 4 billion riyals in treasury bills Aug. 8 as it
sought to provide lenders with a way to invest cash before
borrowing picks up for the World Cup. The tranche includes 3-
month bills, half of them Shariah compliant, and will be the
fourth issuance this year, central bank Governor Abdullah bin Saud Al Thani said this month. It was the first time such debt
instruments were sold.  Fastest Economic Growth  Unlike the U.S., which had its  credit rating  lowered by
 Standard & Poor’s  to AA+ from AAA Aug. 5 amid rising debt and
sluggish growth, Qatar projects a budget surplus of 22.3 billion
riyals this fiscal year. The International Monetary Fund
projects Qatar, one of the six nations in the Gulf Cooperation
Council, will have the fastest growing economy in the world for
the second straight year in 2011. The nation is rated AA, the
third-highest investment grade, at S&P.  Qatar exported its first cargo of liquefied natural gas in
1996. The country reached its target 77 million tons of annual
liquefied natural gas production early in 2011, making it the
world’s biggest producer.  Qatar’s $81 billion economy will expand 20 percent this
year, the IMF said in December. Non-hydrocarbon gross domestic
product forecast to grow 9.5 percent in 2011, the least in five
years, down from 30.6 percent in 2007,  the IMF said .  Promise to FIFA  Qatar promised FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, to more
than double hotel and apartment rooms to 84,000 and build a $25
billion rail and metro network. Private-sector loans grew 16.3
percent in the first half, Gokkent said.  “If you look at the expected investment ahead of the World
Cup, some of this will be financed by the private sector through
borrowing,” Khatija Haque, a senior economist at  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES) , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “If there is
scope to reduce the cost of this borrowing, then that may be
something the authorities are encouraging.”  Qatar’s default risk has declined 24 basis points to 99.2
since reaching a high for the year on March 17, according to
data provider CMA. It’s the lowest risk in the Middle East and
North Africa after Abu Dhabi’s 99.4, according to prices by CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government or
company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Capital Moves  “The rate cut has more to do with avoiding intra-regional
carry trades,” said Rachel Ziemba, a London-based senior
economist with  Roubini Global Economics . “Interest rates are
still higher than in most other GCC countries, particularly in
real, inflation-adjusted terms and they don’t want to have
short-term capital that could flood in and flood out.”  Banks’ loans-to-deposit ratio in Qatar fell to 90 percent
at the end of June from 96 percent in December as lenders added
a combined 47 billion riyals in deposits, according to data
posted on the central bank website.  The emirate has supported its banks through the financial
crisis with cash injections and the purchase of real-estate
portfolios. Consumer prices rose at an average rate of 1.7
percent in the first half after the country experienced
deflation for most of 2010. Rent, fuel and power prices continue
to decline.  Qatar benchmark stock gauge, the  QE Index (DSM)  has lost 7
percent this year, compared with a 9.6 percent retreat in the
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index and a 12 percent drop in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. The Qatar Exchange Banking Sector Index
is down 4.2 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent slump
in the MSCI Emerging Markets/Financials Index.  “The issue here is not liquidity -- the issue here is
confidence,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer
for CAPM Investment PJSC in Abu Dhabi. “Qatar wants to
encourage investors to put this money into treasuries, bonds and
equities because that’s how you help the markets through a time
of volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 