-- 
Radiation Bankrupts Japanese Cattle Ranch With $5.6 Billion in Liabilities

-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-08-15T09:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/radiation-bankrupts-japan-cattle-ranch-agura-bokujo-with-5-6-billion-debt.html
Agura Bokujo, operator of a cattle
ranch north of  Tokyo , became Japan’s biggest corporate failure
this year after consumer fears over beef contaminated with
radiation damaged sales, Tokyo Shoko Research said.  The closely held company in Tochigi prefecture had 433.1
billion yen ($5.6 billion) in liabilities, Tokyo Shoko said on
its website today, citing Agura’s application for  bankruptcy
protection  on Aug. 9.  In its earnings report for the year ended March 2011, Agura
had liabilities of 62 billion yen, said Kazufumi Masuda, a
spokesman for Tokyo Shoko, which tracks corporate bankruptcy
data.  Radiation from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant has entered Japan’s food chain
in recent months, contaminating products from beef to milk and
fish. Cattle with unsafe levels of radiation have been found in
four Japanese prefectures after they were fed with hay
contaminated with as much as 690,000 becquerels a kilogram,
compared with a government safety standard of 300 becquerels.  The discovery rattled  consumer confidence  after the
government, which had assured shoppers that food sold in the
market was safe, confirmed radiation contaminated beef had been
sold in stores. Companies affected included Aeon Co., Japan’s
biggest supermarket chain.  Sales at Agura Bokujo were damaged by the discovery, Tokyo
Shoko said in a  statement  last week, and followed a drop in
demand since the discovery of foot-and-mouth disease in southern
Miyazaki prefecture last year, the statement said.  Food containing radioactive cesium or iodine that exceeded
the official standards has been found as far as 360 kilometers
(224 miles) from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, which began
leaking radiation after the station was damaged by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Japan ’s government is still trying to put together a
centralized system to check for radiation contamination of food,
leaving local authorities and farmers conducting voluntary
tests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kyung Bok Cho at 
 kcho7@bloomberg.net  