-- 
Transocean Offers Double Market Value for Aker Drilling

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-08-15T20:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/transocean-reports-all-cash-voluntary-offer-to-buy-aker-drilling.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  agreed to buy Aker
Drilling ASA for 7.93 billion kroner ($1.46 billion), its
largest purchase in four years and almost double the Norwegian
company’s market value as rising oil prices boost demand for
drilling rigs.  The 26.50 kroner-a-share offer was unanimously approved by
Aker’s board, Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean said in a
statement today. The bid represents a 98 percent premium to
Aker’s share price on Aug. 12, according to Bloomberg data. More
than 67 percent of Aker’s shareholders have said they will sell
their stock, Transocean Chief Executive Officer Steven Newman
said on a conference call.  The proposed acquisition “allows us to immediately upgrade
our fleet in the increasingly tightening ultra-deepwater market
segment,” Newman said.  Rising oil prices have increased exploration budgets and
added demand for rigs able to operate in harsh and deepwater
environments such as the Arctic and  Brazil . Stricter rules after
Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon rig exploded and sank in the U.S.
Gulf of  Mexico  have also increased demand for more modern rigs
and boosted costs to build new rigs.  Aker Drilling, based in Stavanger and controlled by
Norwegian billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke, went public in February
after a 2008 delisting to avoid a takeover by  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) 
Transocean’s proposed purchase would be the biggest since its
2007 acquisition of GlobalSantaFe Corp. It follows Ensco Plc’s
February bid for Pride International Inc., which was valued at
$8.47 billion including debt, a 23.6 percent premium.  Good Price  “It’s a good price,” Oslo-based Jarle Sjo, a portfolio
manager for Odin Offshore, which holds 1.9 million of Aker
Drilling shares and accepted the bid, said in an interview.
“It’s quite a positive indicator for the whole rig business to
see that the industrial players have a different view on
valuation than the stock market.”  Aker Drilling rose 12.85 kroner, or 96 percent, to 26.2
kroner 5:25 p.m. in Oslo. The stock had plunged to as low as
13.35 kroner this year. Transocean rose $1.65, or 3 percent, to
$57.26 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Aker Drilling owns and operates two of the world’s largest
semi-submersible drilling units, the Aker Barents and the Aker
Spitsbergen. The company also has two ultra-deepwater drillships
being built by Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. Ltd.
in  South Korea .  Transocean will assume Aker Drilling’s $800 million net
debt, CEO Newman said in the call.  Fair Valuation  “This bid values the four ultra-deepwater rigs at $797
million per rig, compared to our replacement estimates of $807
million,” Kim Andre Uggedal, an Oslo-based analyst with Terra
Markets AS who rates Aker a “buy,” said in an interview.
“It’s a fair valuation.”  Transocean used  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Fearnley Fonds AS as
financial advisers and Wikborg Rein & Co. as a legal adviser.
Aker Drilling used  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as its financial
adviser and BA-HR as legal adviser.  Aker Drilling was relisted in Oslo three years after being
taken off the exchange to avoid a takeover by billionaire  John Fredriksen ’s Seadrill. CEO Alf Thorkildsen said this year his
company was still interested in buying Aker Drilling. The two
companies couldn’t agree on terms during talks at the start of
the year, according to  Aker ASA (AKER)  CEO Oeyvind Eriksen.  Thorkildsen wasn’t available for comment when called by
Bloomberg News today. Seadrill is the owner of the world’s
second-largest fleet of deep-water rigs, behind Transocean.  Inviting All Drillers  Eriksen said Aker had invited “all drillers that may have
an interest” in consolidation talks. Transocean first contacted
Aker Drilling to discuss a merger at the beginning of the
summer, Eriksen said today.  “We’ve been in dialogue with several companies, but
Transocean was from the get-go the most concrete and the most
interested one,” Eriksen said by telephone from Oslo.
“Transocean’s offer has been accepted by over 60 percent of the
shareholders, so it’s unlikely that anyone would put in a
competing bid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  