-- 
Rate-Increase Wagers Get Thrown Out on Growth: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-15T21:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/rate-increase-wagers-get-thrown-out-as-traders-wait-on-cuts-mexico-credit.html
Mexican traders are scrapping calls
for  interest-rate  increases and are beginning to bet that the
central bank will lower benchmark borrowing costs to shore up
growth as the global economic slowdown deepens.  The yield on futures contracts for February, known as TIIE,
sank 8 basis points to 4.71 percent today, indicating traders
expect central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will cut the key
lending rate from a record low 4.5 percent that month. As
recently as Aug. 11, they predicted the bank would raise rates.
In  Brazil , traders are also starting to bet policy makers may
reduce their rate from 12.5 percent before December.  Central banks in  Turkey ,  Serbia  and  Switzerland  pushed
interest rates lower in the past month to protect their
economies from a global slowdown. Mexico’s central bank last
week cut its growth forecasts for the next two years as
expansion flags in the U.S., the Latin American country’s
biggest trading partner.  “It’s more likely we get a rate cut next year than we get
a rate hike,”  Neil Shearing , an emerging-markets economist at
 Capital Economics  in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“Given just how weak the fundamentals are in the U.S. economy,
and how important that is for Mexico, it wouldn’t surprise me.
We’d probably need a recession in the U.S. to get there.”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 sank
68 basis points, or 0.68 percentage point, in the past month to
6.41 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. 10-
year treasury yields have fallen 62 basis points over the same
period to 2.26 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 1.8 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 81 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said Aug. 12 that U.S. policy makers do not expect a
double-dip recession.  Inflation Outlook  Mexico ’s central bank said in a report on Aug. 10 that
Latin America’s second-biggest economy will expand as much as
4.8 percent this year, down from a previous forecast of up to 5
percent growth. It said the country’s GDP will increase as much
as 4.5 percent in 2012, down from a previous estimate of up to
4.8 percent.  “The balance of risks for growth in the Mexican economy
has deteriorated,” the bank said in the report.  Policy makers kept their 2011 and 2012 consumer price
forecasts at 3 percent to 4 percent. Mexico’s annual inflation
rose to 3.55 percent in July, the fastest pace since January,
from 3.28 percent a year earlier. It touched a five-year low of
3.04 percent in March.  Alonso Cervera, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Mexico City, said slowing growth in the U.S. prompted him to
lower his forecast for Mexico. The economy will expand 3.9
percent, down from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent, Cervera
said in an Aug. 10 note to clients.  ‘Considerably Slower’  The  U.S. economy , the destination for 80 percent of Mexican
exports, grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent pace in the
second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in the
first three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department said July 29. Federal Reserve
officials said on Aug. 9 they will keep the benchmark interest
rate low through mid-2013 as U.S. growth is “considerably
slower” than anticipated.  “The chance of a reduction in rates increases if growth
slows more and inflation remains low and stable,” Cervera said.
“I had to make this forecast in light of the reduced growth
forecasts in the U.S.”  On Hold  Banco de Mexico  is the only central bank from a major Latin
American country to keep rates unchanged in the past year.
Before pricing in a rate cut, traders delayed bets for an
increase 17 times this year. Mexico’s central bank last cut the
rate on July 17, 2009.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 15 basis points to
170 at 5 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 10 basis points to 140, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 12.2296 per  U.S. dollar . The
currency has strengthened 0.9 percent this year, the fourth most
of the major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Cut Unlikely  The central bank is unlikely to cut interest rates as
inflation will quicken to 3.7 percent this year, said Nader Nazmi, senior  Latin America  economist at BNP Paribas in New
York.  “Unless we move decidedly in the direction of inflation
expectations coming down and see indications that the economy is
going to slow much more than anticipated, I do not expect to see
a rate cut,” Nazmi said in a telephone interview. “At this
stage, we do not believe that’s feasible.”  The U.S. will grow at 2 percent for the next three years,
prompting Mexico to expand lower than emerging-market peers,
Capital Economic’s Shearing said.  “It’s a really dull forecast” for the U.S., Shearing
said. “You’re just bouncing along the bottom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  