-- 
Treasuries Snap Gain on Speculation Growth Will Buoy Yield From Record Low

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T04:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-growth-will-buoy-yield-from-record-low.html
Ten-year Treasury yields were 23
basis points above a record low as Asian stocks gained and
economists said U.S. gross domestic product isn’t slowing enough
to justify the level of long-term rates.  Ten-year notes yield negative 1.34 percentage points after
accounting for inflation. When the rate fell to 2.03 percent on
Aug. 9, the least ever, the figure translated into a so-called
real yield of negative 1.57 percent, a level not seen since 2008.
Yields may rebound 15 basis points to 25 basis points,  Fidelity
Investments , the Boston-based  money manager  that oversees $1.66
trillion, said in a report.  “Treasuries are too expensive,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an
economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets. “The
economy continues to recover even if the data have been
worsening lately.”  Ten-year note yields were little changed at 2.26 percent as
of 1:01 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021 traded at 98
26/32. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The 10-year rate will advance to 2.91 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  Yield Forecast  Shimazu predicts 2.7 percent by year-end. SMBC Nikko
reduced its forecast from 3.8 percent last week when the  Federal
Reserve  said it will keep its benchmark rate at a record low
through the middle of 2013, he said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 1.2 percent,
climbing for the first time in three days.  The best evidence of economic growth was a decline in
initial jobless claims that the government reported last week,
Shimazu said.  Japan’s 10-year yield was little changed at 1.035 percent.
It has risen from 2011’s low of 0.975 percent reached on Aug. 9.  The nation’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized
rate of 1.3 percent in the three months ended June 30, the
Cabinet office said today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.5 percent
decline.  GDP may expand 0.5 percent in the year started April 1, the
government said Aug. 12.  The decline in Treasury yields last week pushed two-year
rates to within three basis points of similar-maturity Japanese
debt, the smallest gap since 1992, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Turning Japanese  “We are beginning to resemble  Japan  from an interest rate
policy standpoint as well as potentially an economic growth
standpoint,”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a telephone
interview Aug. 10. Investors are “fearful of low growth and are
fleeing to high-quality sovereign paper at whatever yield,”
said Gross, who is based on  Newport Beach ,  California .  U.S. consumer prices excluding volatile food and fuel costs
climbed 0.2 percent in July from June, the smallest gain in
three months, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the Labor Department issues the
figure on Aug. 18.  The Commerce Department may report tomorrow that housing
starts dropped 4.6 percent last month, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  The Fed helped fuel last week’s gain by saying the economy
has been slower than policy makers expected. Ten-year yields
have dropped almost 1 percentage point since July 1.  “After a huge rally in Treasuries a 15- to 25-basis-point
backup in yields would not be surprising,” Roger Young, a vice
president in Fidelity’s fixed-income division, wrote in a report
on the company’s  website  Aug. 13. “There could be an uptick in
U.S. bond yields, but I do not think it would be big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 