-- 
Treasuries Drop as Equities Advance After Three-Week Rally in U.S. Debt

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-15T21:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/treasuries-drop-as-equities-advance-after-three-week-rally-in-u-s-debt.html
Treasuries dropped as stocks rose
after a three-week rally in government bonds that pushed 10- and
two-year note yields to record lows.  U.S. debt gained $91.5 billion in value in the week after
Standard & Poor’s lowered America’s credit rating on Aug. 5 from
AAA. Yields tumbled after the Federal Reserve said on Aug. 9
that it would keep its target lending rate at almost zero at
least through mid-2013. The Treasury Department reported today
that foreign investors were net sellers of notes and bonds in
June, reversing a buying trend that started in 2009.  “It’s a risk-on day,” said David Coard, head of fixed-
income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “There are some people
out there who think Treasuries may be just a tad overdone
without more evidence of profound weakness.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.31 percent at 5:27 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
2.125 percent securities maturing in August 2021 dropped 14/32,
or $4.38 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 13/32.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 2.2 percent after
three weeks of declines following the announcement of $21.5
billion in corporate takeover deals.  The 10-year note yields decreased 30 basis points last week
after two previous weeks of drops and touched a record low
2.0346 percent on Aug. 9. Two-year note yields were little
changed today at 0.19 percent after dropping on Aug. 9 to the
all-time low of 0.1568 percent.  Market ‘Calmness’  “There’s a little bit of a calmness to the market,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in New York at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “The market needs a little bit of a breather after
the last eight days of trading.”  Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said the central bank
may purchase more Treasuries or alter its balance sheet if the
U.S. economy were to slow further.  “If additional actions are required, I can assure you the
Federal Reserve is not out of bullets,” Lockhart said today in
a speech in Florence, Alabama. “Expansion of the balance sheet
or changes in the composition of the Fed’s asset portfolio are
available, in my view. These could be quite effective,
particularly if done in sufficient size, in the event that the
economy retreats back into contractionary territory.”  Global Demand  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets weakened in June from a month earlier as the White House
and Congress wrangled over raising the debt limit, while China
increased its purchases of America’s debt.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$3.7 billion during the month, compared with net buying of $24.2
billion in May, the Treasury Department reported today.  “In June, as the U.S. continued to display dysfunction in
Washington ahead of an expiring debt ceiling coupled with the
threat of a U.S. downgrade, foreigners were much less interested
in putting their money in U.S. securities,” said Adrian Miller,
fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC
in New York, via e-mail.  President Barack Obama signed a debt-limit compromise that
prevented a U.S. default on Aug. 2, the day the Treasury had
warned the nation’s borrowing authority would expire.  Foreign investors were net sellers of $4.487 billion of
U.S. notes and bonds in June, after the net buying of $37.954
billion in the previous month. The last time foreign investors
were net sellers was in January 2009, with net selling of
$11.653 billion.  China Holdings  At the same time, China boosted its holdings of U.S.
government debt to $1.166 trillion in June, from $1.160 billion
in the previous month.  China’s notes and bonds rose by $1.655 billion to a record
$1.1614 trillion, while China increased its holdings of bills by
$1.568 billion to $4.546 billion after decreasing them since
February, according to the Treasury Department data. China
bought more even as the Fed completed its $600 billion Treasury
purchase program at the end of June.  Treasuries rose earlier after the New York Fed reported
that its general economic index fell this month to minus 7.7
from minus 3.8 in July. The median forecast of 55 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey called for a reading of zero, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. The so-called
Empire State Index covers New York, northern New Jersey and
southern Connecticut.  The decline in Treasury yields last week pushed two-year
rates to within three basis points of similar-dated Japanese
debt, the smallest gap since 1992, Bloomberg data show.  “We are beginning to resemble Japan from an interest-rate
policy standpoint as well as potentially an economic growth
standpoint,” Bill Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview Aug.
10. Investors are “fearful of low growth and are fleeing to
high-quality sovereign paper at whatever yield,” said Gross,
who is based on Newport Beach, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  