-- 
Renesas Patent Complaint Seeks to Bar U.S. Imports of Vizio TVs

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-15T16:08:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/renesas-patent-complaint-seeks-to-bar-u-s-imports-of-vizio-tvs.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
world’s biggest maker of microcontrollers used in cars and
appliances, filed patent-infringement complaints seeking to
block Vizio Inc. televisions from the U.S.  Renesas accused Vizio of violating rights on two patents in
an Aug. 12  filing  with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in Washington. The Japanese company also sued closely held Vizio
in a federal court in Marshall, Texas.  One patent covers an arrangement of connections on the
surface of the circuit, while the second is for a manufacturing
process that reduces corrosion, according to the ITC complaint.
Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas contends that circuits in Vizio’s
digital televisions are made using these patented inventions.  Vizio, based in Irvine,  California , has its own patent-
infringement case pending against Renesas at the ITC that was
instituted last month. A trial in that case, which also involves
digital TVs, is scheduled for next June, according to
information on the agency’s website.  The ITC is a semi-judicial agency that investigates claims
of unfair trade practices. It typically completes its review
within 15 to 18 months.  Renesas, formed in 2003 from the semiconductor divisions of
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , is owned by those
two companies and NEC Corp., according to the ITC complaint.  The civil case is Renesas Electronics Corp. v. Vizio Inc.,
11cv356, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  Texas 
(Marshall). The ITC case is In the Matter of Digital Televisions
Containing Integrated Circuit Devices, Complaint No. 2840, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  The Vizio case against Renesas is In the Matter of Digital
Televisions and Components Thereof, 337-789, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  