-- 
Rockhopper Falkland Sea Lion Site May Be Larger Than Thought

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-15T16:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/rockhopper-says-falkland-sea-lion-field-larger-than-thought-1-.html
Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , a U.K.
explorer focused on the Falkland Islands, said new seismic data
suggest its Sea Lion prospect may be bigger than estimated.  The field may extend as much as 90 square kilometers (35
square miles) south, with as much as 434 million barrels of
recoverable oil, the company said in a statement today.  The oil explorer, which advanced 8.8 percent in London
trading, has booked the Ocean Guardian rig to drill three
further wells to appraise the prospect. Sea Lion may extend into
a neighboring exploration block to the south in which Rockhopper
holds 7.5 percent, said the company, based in the capital.  “We are highly encouraged by the interpretation of new
seismic data which identifies both significant reservoir
extension and the existence of two additional fan prospects
above and beneath the Sea Lion main complex,” Chief Executive
Officer Sam Moody said in the statement.  Sea Lion is made up of two so-called fan lobes feeding off
a larger channel, Rockhopper said. The data identified two new
fan prospects, Casper and Kermit, and the discovery also appears
to extend to license PL004, operated by  Desire Petroleum Plc. (DES)   Rockhopper rose 19.25 pence to 237 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. It has added four production licenses covering
3,800 square kilometers since listing on London’s Alternative
Investment Market in 2005. Desire advanced 13 percent.  Other Explorers  Explorers seeking oil around the Falkland Islands include
 Argos Resources Ltd. (ARG) ,  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  and
 Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL)   Argentina  claims sovereignty over the
area and is protesting the drilling by forbidding vessels to
load cargo at its ports. The Falkland Islands has said no
Argentine company will be given a license.  Using techniques including water injection and horizontal
wells, Rockhopper said recovery rates at Sea Lion may be between
30 and 40 percent. A 30 percent figure would result in about 325
million barrels of oil being drilled and 40 percent would
deliver as many as 434 million barrels, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  