-- 
Tropical Storm Gert Is Turning to Open Sea as New System Heads for Mexico

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-15T20:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/tropical-storm-gert-is-turning-to-open-sea-as-new-system-heads-for-mexico.html
Tropical Storm Gert turned north-
northeast on a track away from  Bermuda  and the North American
coast, while a new system over the Lesser Antilles is moving
toward Mexico, forecasters said.  Both Gert and a cluster of thunderstorms to the southeast
that lost strength today “are going to be fish storms,” said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Gert, with top winds of 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour,
was 135 miles east-southeast of Bermuda and moving north-
northeast at 14 mph, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
 an advisory  at about 4:30 p.m. East Coast time. The storm had
passed as close to Bermuda as it would get, and was  moving away 
from the island, the center said.  The system over  the Lesser Antilles  has a 20 percent chance
of becoming a tropical depression or tropical storm in the next
48 hours.  Rogers said that disturbance may eventually make its way to
near the Yucatan Peninsula, where warm waters may fuel
development. Currently, the system has a lot of dry air around
it, and Rogers said that will retard its growth.  Once it reaches the western Caribbean, the system has the
potential to grow into a storm, Rogers said.  Low Gulf Risk  “It doesn’t give it a large amount of time to do anything
too threatening, so I would keep it at a low risk,” Rogers
said.  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics
Inc. in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania , agreed the storm would move toward
the Bay of Campeche by the beginning of next week.  “It is basically a low-end threat for the Gulf,” Rouiller
said.  A strong tropical wave -- an area of disturbed weather --is
coming off the African coast and many  computer models  are
predicting that may become a major hurricane and possible menace
to the U.S. coastline, Rogers said. However, he cautioned that
it will be at least two weeks before any such storm would reach
the U.S.  Computer forecasting models project that storm may come
ashore in  North Carolina , while others predict the track will be
more toward the eastern  Gulf of Mexico .  Long Outlook  “These are all low-confidence situations because we’re
talking two or three weeks down the line,” Rogers said by
telephone.  Starting next week and continuing through the first 10 days
of September, the U.S. will be more vulnerable to a strike by a
storm if one should develop, Rouiller said. Wind and pressure
patterns that have deflected earlier storms will shift “to a
pattern much more conducive for allowing tropical storm activity
to threaten the Eastern Seaboard and Eastern Gulf,” he said.  The  2011 Atlantic hurricane season , which began June 1 and
ends Nov. 30, has had seven named storms, none of which became
hurricanes.  A storm is considered a tropical system when its winds
become cyclonic, and becomes a named storm when the winds reach
at least 39 mph. When winds reach 74 mph, a storm is considered
a hurricane.  A tropical depression formed today in the eastern Pacific
about 1,655 miles west-southwest of  Mexico ’s Baja Peninsula, the
center said. It may become a tropical storm tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  