-- 
Roy Neuberger’s Manhattan Apartment Sells for $10.5 Million

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-08-15T22:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/roy-neuberger-s-manhattan-apartment-sells-for-10-5-million.html
A Manhattan co-op apartment owned by
Roy Neuberger, a co-founder of money manager  Neuberger Berman 
who died in December at age 107, was sold for $10.5 million.  The deal for the three-bedroom unit on the 10th floor of
the  Pierre Hotel  near Central Park was completed today,
according to  New York  City property records. It went on the
market in February with an asking price of about $11 million,
according to the property listing by  Judith Lederer , a broker
with Warburg Realty in New York.  “The living room brings you back to the days of Grand
Balls. Elegant living at its best,” according to Lederer’s
listing. “The ceilings are very high and light floods the
apartment from west, north and south exposures.”  The buyer was listed as David Helfand, the former chief
investment officer of  Sam Zell ’s Equity Office Properties Trust,
a real estate investment trust acquired by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
in 2007. Helfand is a principal at  Helix Funds , a property-
investment management firm based in  Chicago .  Helfand didn’t return a telephone message left at his
office seeking comment on the transaction.  The Pierre Hotel, at 61st Street and Fifth Avenue, has 77
cooperative apartments in addition to 189 hotel rooms and
suites, according to a building description on property-listings
website  StreetEasy.com . Co-op owners have access to hotel
amenities such as daily maid service, room service and an on-
call physician.  Neuberger, a collector of about 1,000 works of art over his
lifetime, moved into his Pierre apartment in 1991, decorating it
with works by Alexander Calder, Adolph Gottlieb and Milton
Avery, among others.  He donated works to New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art,
Museum of  Modern Art  and Whitney Museum of American Art, and to
dozens of other U.S. museums. Most of his collection is at the
 Neuberger Museum of Art  in Purchase, New York.  Neuberger started his money-management firm with Robert
Berman in 1939.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  