-- 
San Francisco Rail Agency Shuts Down Website After 2,400 Accounts Hacked

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-08-15T04:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/san-francisco-rail-agency-shuts-down-website-after-2-400-accounts-hacked.html
San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit 
shut down its MyBART site yesterday after a hacker obtained the
contact information of at least 2,400 users, a move that the
Internet group known as Anonymous said it orchestrated.  The information was mostly names, e-mail addresses and
passwords, though the database also included addresses and phone
numbers, BART said yesterday in  a statement . Before it was
closed, the MyBART site carried the Anonymous logo -- a white
Guy Fawkes mask and swords in crossbones style -- and linked to
 Anonymous’s Twitter feed .  The attack followed BART’s move on Aug. 11 to temporarily
 restrict  mobile-phone service on its train platforms in San
Francisco, an effort to ward off a protest. The  Electronic
Frontier Foundation , an Internet civil liberties group, called
the mobile-phone shutdown “a shameful attack on free speech.”
Protesters had been targeting BART since the transit agency’s
police killed a man at one of its stations in July.  BART said on Aug. 12 that it limited phone service because
protest organizers threatened to “use mobile devices to
coordinate their disruptive activities and communicate about the
location and number of BART police. A civil disturbance during
commute times at busy downtown  San Francisco  stations could lead
to platform overcrowding and unsafe conditions for BART
customers, employees and demonstrators.”  No Financial Data  The MyBART website, which provides discounts and event
information to riders, is separate from BART’s main site. MyBART
has 55,000 members in total, the transit agency said in its
message to users. No financial information was stored in the
MyBART database, BART said.  Separately, BART  warned  of another attempted protest later
today. On  a blog linked to Anonymous , the group said it would be
holding a peaceful demonstration at BART’s Civic Center station
in San Francisco at 5 p.m. local time. Protesters were urged to
bring Guy Fawkes masks.  Anonymous, made up of hundreds of members in several
countries, gained renown in December when it targeted  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit, Visa Inc. and other companies deemed hostile
to WikiLeaks, an organization that posts secret documents on the
Web. A spinoff group called Lulz Security later claimed credit
for breaking into websites at Sony Corp., the  U.S. Senate  and
the Central Intelligence Agency  Intruders in Sony’s PlayStation Network stole data on more
than 100 million accounts in April, forcing the company to
shutter the service for more than five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  