-- 
SAT Test Owner Should Delete Data After Time, Congressman Says

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-08-15T16:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/sat-test-owner-should-delete-data-after-time-congressman-says.html
The  College Board , owner of the SAT
entrance exam, and rival  ACT Inc . should consider deleting
student data after a period of time to help protect the privacy
of teenagers, U.S. Representative Ed Markey said.  Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, made the remarks in a
joint statement today with  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, after
reviewing the nonprofit testing companies’ responses to
questions on how they collect and store data from millions of
teens who take their college entrance exams.  The College Board and ACT gather data from high school
students when they register for SAT and ACT tests, then sell the
names and personal information to colleges, which use them in
marketing to potential applicants. Some 1,100 schools use the
College Board’s service, which lets them search on criteria such
as test scores, ethnicity and religion. While students opt in or
out of the service, they aren’t told their information will be
sold and their parents aren’t asked for permission.  “Improvements in data stewardship should be made, including
deletion of student data after a reasonable period of time to
reduce the risk of breach,” Markey said.  Markey and Barton introduced a bill in May to bolster teen
privacy laws.  The New York-based  College Board ’s service is voluntary and
made available to students who “want to explore their options
and introduce themselves to colleges and universities,” College
Board Vice President Laurence Bunin said June 14, responding to
a May 27 letter sent by the congressmen. The letter included 12
groups of questions, such as the security of their data storage,
the sale of information and who is buying the data.  A similar letter was sent to Iowa City, Iowa-based ACT.  More Questions  “While the intentions behind these initiatives are good, I
am left with a few more questions on the exact methods used by
these organizations to protect student data,” Barton said today
in a statement. He didn’t specify what he planned to ask.  Peter Kauffmann, a spokesman for the College Board, had no
immediate comment, and said that the company had yet to receive
a statement from the congressmen. Ed Colby, a spokesman for ACT,
didn’t have an immediate comment.  In their June responses, both companies said they give for-
profit entities limited use of their name-selling services if
they meet eligibility requirements, according to their
responses. The College Board and ACT, which charge colleges  33
cents a name , said they use revenue from their search services
partly to offer test and other fee waivers for low-income
students.  The College Board had $63 million in revenue from its
business that includes name-selling, about 10 percent of total
sales, in the year ended June 2010, according to a tax filing.
In the fiscal year that ended June 30, $53 million was provided
in fee waivers or subsidies to low-income students, the company
said.  ACT took in $7.5 million in revenue from its  Educational
Opportunity Service  in the year ended August 2010, according to
the company. It had revenue of $274 million that year, according
to a tax filing. ACT granted more than $24 million in fee
waivers last year, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  