-- 
Sergio Aguero Scores Twice in Debut as Manchester City Routs Swansea 4-0

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-15T23:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/sergio-aguero-scores-twice-in-debut-as-manchester-city-routs-swansea-4-0.html
Sergio Aguero  scored twice in his
Manchester City debut as the Blues began their bid for a first
English soccer league title in 44 years with a 4-0 rout of
Swansea.  Argentine forward Aguero scored nine minutes after coming
on as a 59th-minute substitute and added a long-range strike in
injury time last night at Manchester’s Etihad Stadium. Edin Dzeko and  David Silva  also scored second-half goals.  City, which won the English league championship in 1937 and
1968, joined crosstown rival Manchester United, Bolton and
Wolverhampton Wanderers as the only teams to have won their
opening match of the 38-game season.  “It was a perfect start,” City manager  Roberto Mancini 
told his club’s website. “What is also important is that the
strikers got amongst the goals. What Sergio Aguero achieved did
not surprise me.”  City finished third in the standings last season, its best
performance since the Premier League’s inception in 1992. Abu
Dhabi’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  has spent more than
$1 billion on the club since buying it in September 2008. The
investment yielded the F.A. Cup in May, City’s first trophy in
35 years.  Swansea, the first Welsh team to play in the Premier League,
last featured in  England ’s top division in 1983. Norwich was the
only one of the three newly promoted teams to avoid an opening-
round defeat, with Queens Park Rangers also losing 4-0 to Bolton
three days ago.  ‘A Little Harsh’  “The result was a little harsh,” said Swansea manager
Brendan Rodgers. “We could have defended better because you are
going to get punished at this level.”  The Swans kept City scoreless until the 57th minute, when
Dzeko pounced from close range after Swansea goalkeeper Michel
Vorm could only parry  Adam Johnson ’s shot.  Aguero, who joined from  Atletico Madrid  last month on a
five-year contract for a fee U.K. media put at a club-record 38
million pounds ($62.3 million), tapped in Micah Richards’s cross
at the far post in the 68th minute.  Aguero set up the next goal three minutes later, hooking
the ball back acrobatically for Silva to score just as it
appeared to be going out of play. Aguero then capped his debut
by beating Vorm with a shot from 25 yards (22 meters).  “He can get better,” Mancini said of Aguero. “I’m sure
of that. He’s not yet 100 percent fit. He only has 10 days
training with us and he will get better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  