-- 
Singapore Retail Sales Rise on Employment

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-08-15T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/singapore-retail-sales-rise-on-employment.html
Singapore’s retail sales growth
accelerated in June as an expanding job market encouraged
purchases of  luxury goods , telephones and computers.  The retail sales index rose 10.9 percent from a year
earlier after climbing a revised 9.6 percent in May, the
Statistics Department said in a statement today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists was for
an 11 percent gain.  Tourists are visiting the city in record numbers, drawn by
Genting Singapore Plc and Las Vegas Sands Corp.’s casino
complexes on the island, which include shopping malls, hotels
and restaurants. Employers have expanded payrolls to meet demand
for goods and services after a record pace of economic growth in
2010, boosting wages and increasing consumer spending.  “A high number of tourist arrivals in June meant that
arrivals averaged above the one million mark for the year,
continuing the strong trend in retail sales thus far this
year,” Chester Liaw, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore ,
said before the report. “Apart from the integrated resorts and
casinos, tourists were likely drawn in by the Great Singapore
Sale. The June school holidays is also expected to contribute to
the absolute amount spent on recreation.”  Average wages before adjusting for inflation rose 8.5
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the  Ministry
of Manpower  said in June. The economy added an estimated 22,800
jobs last quarter, after the creation of 28,300 in the first
three months of 2011.  Adjusted for seasonal factors, overall retail sales rose
1.6 percent in June from May, when they fell a revised 0.8
percent, today’s report showed.  The index measuring purchases excluding automobiles rose
10.4 percent from a year earlier after climbing a revised 7.8
percent in May.  Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling limited permits for each automobile category, and the
quotas may distort sales figures because motor vehicles are the
biggest component of the retail index, accounting for about a
quarter of the gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  