-- 
Sino-Forest Probe Won’t Finish Until Year End

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 
2011-08-16T02:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/sino-forest-probe-to-take-longer-than-expected.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry
operator accused by short-seller Carson Block of overstating its
timberland holdings, said it will take until the end of the year
to complete an independent probe into the allegations.  The delay, announced after Sino-Forest received an interim
report from the investigators, sent shares in the Hong Kong-and
Mississauga, Ontario-based company down 8.4 percent in Toronto
yesterday. Sino-Forest, which has denied the claims, said June
14 that the review by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP would take two
to three months.  “The statement made people wonder whether the company does
need time to finish the probe or is it just simply an excuse,”
said  Lucinda Chan , division director and head of Asian business
at Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney. “My impression is they
want to buy some time, but nobody really knows the real
intention.”  Sino-Forest has tumbled 67 percent in Toronto since Block’s
 Muddy Waters  LLC made its allegations in a June 2  report . Hedge
fund Paulson & Co., which had been Sino-Forest’s largest
shareholder, sold its entire 12.5 percent stake in June, telling
clients it had lost C$462 million ($472 million) since May 31 on
the investment. Billionaire Richard Chandler, now the biggest
single investor in Sino-Forest, said Aug. 4 he increased his
stake to 18 percent.  “This is a large, overly complicated and deliberately
opaque company,” Block said via e-mail. “Doing a diligent job
requires more time than two to three months.”  Phone calls to Sino-Forest’s Hong Kong-based PR managers
Siobhan Xiaohui Zheng and Joseph Lo Chi-Lun were not answered.  Bond Repayment  Sino-Forest dropped 56 cents to C$6.09 as of 4 p.m.
yesterday in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  “The independent committee has faced challenges due among
other issues to the decentralization of data necessary for the
completion of its review,” Sino-Forest said in the statement.
“This has lengthened the period of time required for gathering
and commencing analysis of vast amounts of electronic data and
thousands of documents from all the subsidiaries of the
company.”  The company also said yesterday it will repay $87.7 million
of debt maturing this week. Payment of the 9.125 percent notes
maturing on Aug. 17 will include accrued interest, the company
said.  Sino-Forest’s second-quarter net income more than doubled
to $447.1 million, or $1.64 a share, from $199 million, or 77
cents, a year earlier, the company said in the statement. The
profit included a $469.5 million gain from the fair value of
Sino-Forest’s convertible notes under International Financial
Reporting Standards. Sales rose 6.3 percent to $317.4 million.  “Our company has been significantly impacted by the
allegations made by Muddy Waters and the second quarter of 2011
was further impacted by management’s focus on dealing with the
allegations,” Sino-Forest Chief Executive Officer Allen Chan
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 