-- 
Skin Cancer Risk Rises as Levels of Vitamin D Climb, Researchers Suggest

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-08-15T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/skin-cancer-risk-rises-as-levels-of-vitamin-d-climb-researchers-suggest.html
Vitamin D , which some studies have
found may protect against diabetes,  heart disease  and cancer,
appears to raise the risk of non-melanoma malignancies,
researchers said.  An analysis of data on 3,223 patients found those with the
highest amounts of vitamin D from sun exposure had a 60 percent
greater risk of developing the most common form of skin cancer
than those with lowest levels. The study, published today in
 Archives of Dermatology , is the largest to look at a tie between
vitamin D and skin cancer risk, lead author  Melody Eide  said.  While research has established a link between the sun’s
radiation and skin cancer, the association between vitamin D
levels and skin cancer has been inconsistent. More studies are
needed to understand whether the vitamin D made by the body
after exposure to the sun’s ultraviolet rays or sun exposure
itself raises the risk, she said. Patients should wear sunscreen
and take a supplement if they need more vitamin D, Eide said.  “The relationship between ultraviolet light and skin
cancer needs to be remembered when thinking about safe ways to
obtain your vitamin D,” said Eide, a staff physician and
dermatologist at Henry Ford Hospital in  Detroit , in an Aug. 12
telephone interview. “While we know vitamin D is very important
for bone health, what is really important is making sure you are
using your sunscreen.”  Two Million Cases  Non-melanoma  skin cancer is the most common cancer in the
U.S., with more cases diagnosed each year than prostate, lung,
colon, ovarian and breast cancers combined, the authors wrote.
More than 2 million cases of non-melanoma skin cancer are
diagnosed in the U.S. each year, according to the  American
Cancer Society . Non-melanoma skin cancers, including basal cell
and squamous cell, are curable if detected and treated early.  Researchers in the study looked at the health plan records
of 3,223 patients who sought advice for osteoporosis or low bone
density from 1997 to 2001. The patients had their vitamin D
levels measured and were followed for an average of 10 years.
The HMO claims database was used to find cases of people who
developed non-melanoma skin cancer.  The researchers divided the patients into four groups of
vitamin D levels. More than 2,200 of the patients in the study
were vitamin D deficient, while 966 had sufficient levels of
vitamin D, including those in the highest of the four groups.  The study found that cases of skin cancer rose along with
levels of vitamin D. Overall, 240 patients developed non-
melanoma skin cancer. Of those, 76 had the highest levels of
vitamin D, while 46 had the lowest levels, the study showed.  This analysis “really exemplifies why it’s so hard to
study vitamin D risk with skin cancer,” said Eide. “Ideally
the next step would be a much more sophisticated study where you
had from the get-go a way of trying to estimate someone’s UV
exposure. It will really only be by having very good estimates
of actual UV exposure that you can sort out this very
complicated relationship between vitamin D, non-melanoma skin
cancer and ultraviolet light.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  