-- 
Slim Near Victory as Mexico’s Record $1 Billion Antitrust Case Loses Steam

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/slim-near-victory-as-mexico-s-record-1-billion-antitrust-case-loses-steam.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Mexican
wireless carrier is close to prevailing in the country’s biggest
antitrust case, a victory over a government seeking to crack
down on monopolistic behavior.  Only a reversal by one of the nation’s five antitrust
commissioners, an unprecedented last-minute political maneuver
or a judge’s intervention can salvage the government’s record $1
billion fine against  America Movil  SAB. Otherwise, the fine
under review by the antitrust commission will be overturned or
cut when the decision comes around at the end of September.  The antitrust agency issued the fine in April, saying
America Movil had committed anticompetitive practices in the
market for fees charged to rivals to connect calls. America
Movil asked the agency to review the fine, the first step in the
appeals process for antitrust cases, and won a victory in June
when the commission recused its own chairman from the case.  “The competition commission has been trying to call Slim
and his companies to account for years, and they have maneuvered
around every adverse ruling,” said Eleanor Fox, a New York
University law professor who specializes in antitrust regulation
around the world. “At last it looked like a judgment that would
stick, and it would be unfortunate if it does not.”  President Felipe Calderon has said big companies such as
Slim’s phone carriers were the target of antitrust legislation
he signed in May to increase fines and equip the antitrust
agency with more tools for investigations. Calderon has led an
antitrust crackdown since taking office in 2006 in a bid to make
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy more competitive.  Calderon’s Campaign  “I really respect Carlos Slim, or any other Mexican
enterprise,” Calderon told Bloomberg Television in May. “But
at the same time, I am the authority and I need to regulate the
market in order to avoid monopolistic practices.”  Slim has used the profit from his dominance of Mexico’s
phone industry to invest in telecommunications throughout Latin
America, making him the world’s richest person, as ranked by
Forbes magazine. Mexico’s antitrust agency has said call rates
should be lower, and the Federal Telecommunications Commission
has taken actions to reduce consumer prices. America Movil says
Mexico’s prices compare favorably to those in other countries.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, has said the agency
erred in its ruling this year, mistakenly applying a rule
intended to punish repeat offenders with larger fines. The
company hadn’t been found to commit the same type of violation
as it had in earlier cases, the mobile-phone carrier said.  ‘A Message’  The  Federal Competition Commission , as the antitrust agency
is known, approved the fine with a 2-2 tie vote. One of the five
commissioners, Agustin Navarro Gergely, recused himself in that
vote because of family ties in the phone industry. The agency’s
president, Eduardo Perez Motta, voted in favor of the fine, and
his vote counts twice in case of a tie.  The agency may have overstepped in trying to assess such a
large fine, said Jorge Fernando Negrete, director of
Mediatelecom Consulting, a Mexico City firm whose clients
include most carriers in the industry with the exception of
America Movil’s Mexico unit.  “From the beginning this decision was thought of as a
media ploy,” Negrete said in a phone interview. “ Perez Motta 
was trying to send a message from the executive branch.”  No Foregone Conclusions  In its motion for a review of the case, America Movil
argued that Perez Motta had made comments to news media that
showed he had a bias in the case. The two commissioners who had
voted against the fine, Luis Alberto Ibarra Pardo and  Miguel
Flores Bernes , agreed, voting to recuse Perez Motta from future
proceedings in the case.  Perez Motta wasn’t allowed to vote on his own recusal and
Navarro Gergely remained recused because of his family ties, so
the fifth commissioner, Rodrigo Morales Elcoro, cast the only
vote against removing Perez Motta from the process.  The recusal vote leaves only three of the five
commissioners eligible to vote on America Movil’s appeal of the
fine, and two of them originally voted against the fine. If
Ibarra Pardo and Flores Bernes don’t change their minds, the $1
billion fine will be altered or revoked.  While both Ibarra Pardo and Flores Bernes said in
interviews in June that they’ll review the case on its merits
and have no foregone conclusions, analysts such as Gregorio Tomassi of Banco Santander SA have said the recusal of Perez
Motta makes a reversal more likely.  Legal Battle?  “Things are leaning toward a vote against the fine,” said
Alejandro Calvillo, president of Consumer Power, a not-for-
profit advocacy group in  Mexico  City. “If things keep going
this direction, an awful precedent is going to be set.”  America Movil General Counsel Alejandro Cantu said Perez
Motta’s recusal guarantees the company a “neutral and unbiased
forum.” The company disagrees with any views suggesting that
his recusal hurts Mexico’s pro-competition efforts, Cantu said.  “The recusal is in the law and we were entitled to request
it, and we did it after we saw with concern that there was
sufficient evidence that Mr. Perez Motta’s participation in the
process would not guarantee a neutral resolution,” said Cantu.
“We respect Mr. Perez Motta both personally and professionally,
but strongly disagree with his views on this case.”  Regardless of the outcome of the vote, Perez Motta’s
recusal is likely to become the subject of lawsuits that could
drag on for years and would ultimately require a Supreme Court
decision to be settled, said Calvillo of the advocacy group.  Already, a Mexican administrative court has granted an
injunction against the antitrust commission’s vote on America
Movil’s appeal while it reviews Perez Motta’s recusal, the
Notimex news agency reported this week.  ’Not Over Yet’  There is another twist that could change the outcome of the
case. The term of Navarro Gergely, who has been recused from the
case all along, expires in mid-September, potentially giving
Calderon a chance to appoint a new commissioner before the vote
on the America Movil case.  Even in that case, with the absence of Perez Motta, the
four remaining members would have to decide which one of them
would have the power to cast the tiebreaking vote, a situation
that’s never happened before.  “It’s possible somebody can change his mind on the vote,”
said Fox of NYU. “It’s not over yet.”  A loss in the America Movil case would be the antitrust
agency’s second defeat in a decision to assess a record fine.
The agency fined Grupo Mexico SAB and Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB
about $27 million in 2009 for violating antitrust laws when they
attempted to merge railroad companies despite the agency’s
objections. A federal court upheld the 2005 takeover last year.  Overruled Decisions  Slim has repeatedly and successfully taken to the courts to
battle resolutions by the antitrust agency that his phone
companies dominate the industry. The agency ruled in 1997 and
again in 2004 that Slim’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB had
substantial power in the market, only to see the decisions
overruled in court.  Telmex and America Movil are both currently battling
antitrust rulings issued in 2009 and 2010 declaring them
dominant in their industries. Telmex has about 78 percent of
Mexico’s fixed phone lines, and America Movil has 70 percent of
the wireless market.  ‘Very Good Record’  A setback on the America Movil fine would hurt the ability
of the Federal Competition Commission, created in 1993, to
present cases that courts can consider on their merits and not
on legal technicalities, said  Daniel Sokol , an associate
professor of law at the University of  Florida  in Gainesville who
has studied Latin American antitrust regulation.  “Every agency goes through a period of adjustment within
the legal structure of its given country when it is relatively
new,” Sokol said in an e-mail. He said the Mexican antitrust
agency’s record compares “favorably to that of the U.S. record
of antitrust in its first 20 years.”  As president of the commission, Perez Motta has made
strides in rulings against cartels, said Fox of NYU. The agency
fined six drugmakers, including Eli Lilly & Co. and Baxter
International Inc., $1.67 million apiece in 2010 after finding
they colluded between 2003 and 2006 to keep prices high in sales
to the country’s social security agency.  “He has a very good record,” Fox said of the America
Movil case. “This won’t wipe out all of the good record. To me
it means that very powerful, well-connected monopolies can
outmaneuver the competition laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  