-- 
SNB May Need to Take More Steps to Curb Franc Gains: Analysts’ Comments

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-15T11:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/snb-may-need-to-take-more-steps-to-curb-franc-gains-analysts-comments.html
Analysts discuss the outlook for the
Swiss franc and possible additional measures from the
authorities to cap its gains. The comments were collected from
telephone interviews and notes sent to clients.  The franc has tumbled more than 10 percent against the euro
over the past three days, the biggest drop since the 17-nation
currency was introduced in 1999. SonntagsZeitung newspaper
reported the government and the central bank are in “intense”
talks over setting a target for their currency.  Gareth Fielding, chief investment officer at Quantum Global
 Wealth Management  in Zug, Switzerland:  “A 10 percent move in just a couple of days helps
concentrate the mind very sharply. In the past, the phrase which
always followed currency intervention was ‘unsuccessful.’ What
we saw here wasn’t unsuccessful. At the end of last week people
were still in shell shock given the volatility of the previous
four days. We didn’t have anyone willing to take on the SNB.  “The intervention we saw wasn’t just simply selling the
Swiss franc -- we saw this combination of policies whereby an
array of measures may be used, including zero  interest rates ,
and the possible introduction of  capital controls . It was a
pretty aggressive statement.  “Normally you see a market disagree with currency
intervention. Now there was an acceptance that the franc had
moved too far, too fast. Levels were unsustainable, valuations
were getting overdone.  “The move we saw in August was really quite spectacular.
It couldn’t continue. We don’t see any reason why safe-haven
status will be eroded any time soon, but there’s a point where
the appreciation simply has to stop.  “We’ll see what the SNB does now but I don’t think they
will do too much. A soft peg possibly to the euro would be a
sensible solution if the SNB were convinced of the euro’s long-
term viability. But pegging a currency to something likely to be
both volatile and possibly in danger in the medium term is not a
very Swiss thing to do, and I would be surprised if they were to
do that. Maybe capital controls would be a next step for the
government.”  Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London:  “The franc overvaluation is reaching such extreme levels
that it certainly makes these unconventional policy options a
more realistic prospect. If they were to do it they would have
to be very committed to purchasing foreign currency on almost a
daily basis to maintain that peg, and obviously if they did that
they would lose control of their  money supply  to some degree.  “The market is rightly nervous about what’s likely to come
from the Swiss authorities as they have a track record of going
down more unconventional policy steps as they have in the past.
With this sort of speculation, you have to take it seriously.  “Whether the steps will be enough to reverse the Swiss
franc’s strengthening trend remains to be seen, but at these
levels of overvaluation, which are very extreme, the risk reward
is more favorable in their way.”  Peter Rosenstreich, the chief currency analyst at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva:  “We suspect that this Swiss franc peg is merely a ruse, a
form of guerrilla verbal intervention and the market is
overpricing the probability of a tangible forex target. We are
highly doubtful of a full-fledged euro-franc peg, but will
concede that a vaguely worded commitment to regulating the
relationship (not locking them into specific levels) is a
possibility.  “A peg would eliminate policy flexibility and the
independent decision-making ability that the Swiss pride
themselves on.  “This is not to mention that the euro looks shaky at best
and would be the equivalent of chaining  Switzerland  to a sinking
ship. A peg at these levels would still be considered
‘overvalued’ so the SNB would have to move the level up
significantly, which would be a very costly endeavor.”  Sebastien Galy, a senior currency strategist at Societe Generale
SA in London:  “The peg is a real possibility. I think the chance is 60
percent, but the market is priced for 100 percent. There’s more
and more pressure in the Swiss government over a peg.  “The strength of the franc is primarily a function of the
fact that the market is extremely unstable, and the talk of a
peg has added some confidence. The market wants what the SNB
wants. The market doesn’t want the uncertainty.  “We’ll have to wait a few weeks. If things go wrong, that
could change, but at the moment we have a positive response from
 Italy  in terms of fiscal tightening, good things coming through
in  France .  “A peg would mean a massive expansion of credit in
Switzerland. Real estate is a great place to be in Switzerland
in the next few months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 