-- 
Somalia’s Government Shares Blame With al-Shabaab for Conflict, Group Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-08-15T15:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/somalia-s-government-must-end-violence-on-civilians-group-says.html
Donor countries and the  United
Nations  should consider cutting military aid to Somalia’s
transitional federal government unless it and allied militias
stop violence against civilians,  Human Rights Watch  said.  Somali residents face arbitrary arrest, restricted freedom
of expression and indiscriminate attacks by forces loyal to the
government of President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, the New
York-based advocacy group said in a report today.  Al-Shabaab, an Islamic insurgency that pledges allegiance
to al-Qaeda, has been battling for four years to topple the
Western-backed government in Somalia and impose Shariah law. The
militant group pulled back its fighters from the capital,
Mogadishu, on Aug. 6 following a series of military defeats.  Government troops in the city are supported by a 9,000-
strong  African Union  peacekeeping force of mainly Ugandans and
Burundian soldiers.  Somalia  hasn’t had a functioning government
since 1991, when ruler Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted.  Ground fighting between rebels and the joint government and
AU forces often crosses into residential areas, injuring or
killing civilians, Neela Ghoshal, a researcher with HRW, told
reporters in Nairobi, the capital of neighboring Kenya, today.
“Civilians don’t know where to go for protection,” Ghoshal
said.  Government Denial  Somalia’s government denies it’s involved in human-rights
abuses, spokesman Abdirahman Omar Osman said in an e-mailed
statement today. It is careful to ensure civilians are safe
“under extremely difficult circumstances” during operations,
he said.  “Al-Shabaab is responsible for most of the human rights
violations that happen in Somalia,” Osman said.  The UN, the European Union and the U.S. must go beyond
condemning crimes and should cut assistance if authorities fail
to improve their human-rights record,  Human Rights Watch  said.  They should “condition future financial and military
support” to the transitional government on “clear benchmarks
for the respect of international humanitarian and human-rights
law and accountability for serious abuses,” it said. “Support
and policies that fail to achieve these basic objectives should
be reconsidered.”  The UN Security Council should also establish a commission
of inquiry into Somalia, Human Rights Watch said.  Child Soldiers  Al-Shabaab maintains control over most of southern and
central Somalia, where the worst drought in six decades has put
3.6 million people, or about half the country’s population, at
risk of starvation, according to the UN.  While al-Shabaab is accused of recruiting child soldiers
and beheading enemies, Somalia’s government is also allegedly
responsible for violations of international law and has failed
to keep citizens safe, HRW said. Since the end of last year,
more than 1,000 civilians may have died in the fighting and
87,000 have fled across the border into  Kenya  due to war and
drought, it said.  The report was based on dozens of interviews with Somali
refugees in Kenya between November and April, as well as Kenyan
police officers, diplomats, activists and Somali officials, HRW
said. It focuses on two government-led offensives that took
place in September and February in Mogadishu when gunmen trained
in Kenya and  Ethiopia  joined the fight in the country’s south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  