-- 
South Africa to Delay Interest-Rate Increase to 2012, Standard Bank Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-15T15:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/south-africa-to-delay-interest-rate-increase-to-2012-standard-bank-says.html
South Africa’s central bank will
probably delay raising interest rates until the third quarter of
next year as the global recovery weakens, curbing growth
prospects in the country,  Standard Bank  Group Ltd. said.  The Johannesburg-based lender had previously estimated a
rate increase in the first quarter, analysts led by  Michael Keenan  wrote in an e-mailed report today. The central bank will
probably raise the rate by 2 percentage points from 5.5 percent
through 2013, the report said.  “The Reserve Bank will be able to live with a slightly
higher inflation rate and will only want to pull the  interest
rate  hiking trigger once growth is more established across the
board,” Keenan said in a telephone interview today.  The debt crisis in  Europe  and a downgrade of the U.S.’s
credit rating on Aug. 5 sparked a slump in equity prices amid
concern the outlook for global growth will weaken. That
threatens to undermine demand for South African exports, leading
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South Africa’s fourth-largest bank and Rand
Merchant Bank, a unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , to push out the likely
date for a rate increase.  Standard Bank, Africa’s biggest lender, has cut its growth
forecast for 2012 to 3.4 percent from 4.2 percent, while leaving
this year’s estimate unchanged at 3.8 percent, Keenan said.  Central Bank Mandate  Forward-rate agreements starting in August 2012, which
investors use to lock in borrowing costs, dropped six basis
points today to 5.77 percent as traders pared bets on a rate
increase within the next year. The rate has declined from a 2011
high of 7.145 percent reached on March 7, which at the time
indicated expectations of a 1.5 percentage-point rate increase
over the next 12 months.  While the central bank’s mandate requires it to keep
inflation within a range of 3 percent to 6 percent, it also
needs to consider the impact of interest rates on growth and
employment. The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark rate
unchanged this year, after lowering it three times in 2010, even
as inflation climbed to a 15-month high of 5 percent in July.  Rand Merchant Bank said on Aug. 10 that the rate will
probably be left steady until at least May next year, compared
with a previous forecast of a rate increase in November.  Nedbank  “There is a significant probability that the hiking cycle
will be delayed into 2013,” Johannesburg-based RMB said last
week.  Nedbank said on Aug. 11 the central bank is forecast to
raise borrowing costs in May next year, four months later than
the Johannesburg-based lender had previously predicted.  South Africa ’s economy expanded an annualized 4.8 percent
in the first quarter, the fastest pace in a year, from 4.5
percent in the final three months of last year, the government
statistics agency said on May 31.  Since then most economic data has pointed to a slowdown,
with the joblessness rate rising to 25.7 percent in the second
quarter, from 25 percent in the previous three months, and
manufacturing growth slowing to 0.9 percent in June, from a
revised 1 percent the month before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  