-- 
South Korea’s Lee Urges Speedy Ratification of U.S. Trade Pact

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-15T03:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/south-korea-s-lee-urges-speedy-ratification-of-u-s-trade-pact.html
South  Korea ’s free trade agreement
with the U.S. is a key to maintaining growth amid unprecedented
economic uncertainty and needs to be ratified soon, President
 Lee Myung Bak  said.  "The only way we can survive is to march toward the world,"
he said in a televised address to celebrate the Korean
peninsula’s liberation from Japan in 1945. "FTAs are a key
strategy for this. If the FTA with the U.S. is ratified, Korea
will officially become a hub for FTAs. If we lose time, we could
let our competitors get ahead of us. For the future of Korea,
the Korea-U.S. FTA must be ratified soon.’’  Lee’s comments follow  Standard & Poor’s  first-ever
downgrading of the U.S.’s AAA credit rating on Aug. 5, which
triggered a 7.7 percent drop in  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi
stock index and led its central bank to keep  interest rates 
unchanged last week. The trade deal will with the U.S., if
cleared by lawmakers in both countries, will build on accords
signed with the European Union and Chile.  The FTA will boost South Korea’s gross domestic product by
5.7 percent while creating 350,000 jobs, Lee said today, citing
research commissioned by the government. The accord, reached
under President  George W. Bush , has been on hold as South Korea
awaits ratification by the  U.S. Congress  before its own
lawmakers approve the deal.  South Korea is “very close” to finalizing the agreement
with the U.S., which will benefit domestic chemical, petroleum
products and electronics manufacturers including  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and Samsung Electronics Co., Trade Minister Kim Jong Hoon
said on Aug. 13.  Impasse  U.S. Senate leaders ended an impasse over stalled free-
trade agreements with countries including South Korea this
month, agreeing to vote after the August recess on benefits for
workers who lose their jobs because of overseas competition, and
then to take up the trade deals.  Lee, who declared “war” on inflation in January, said on
Aug. 8 that the slump in markets around the world is turning
into a “survival game” that has made international cooperation
vital in seeking solutions to the global crisis.  The nation’s economy expanded 0.8 percent in the second
quarter from the previous quarter, when it advanced 1.3 percent
as a stronger won and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis weighed on exports.
The economy grew 3.4 percent from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since the third quarter of 2009.  While the government won’t cut spending to improve the
welfare of its people, it will aim to balance budgets not to
repeat the fiscal mistakes made by other countries, Lee said.  S&P cut the U.S.’s credit rating on Aug. 5, criticizing
lawmakers for failing to reduce spending or raise revenue enough
to narrow record budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 