-- 
Tottenham Striker Robbie Keane to Join David Beckham at Los Angeles Galaxy

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-15T23:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/striker-robbie-keane-to-join-david-beckham-at-los-angeles-galaxy.html
Robbie Keane  will join  Landon Donovan  in the  Los Angeles Galaxy  strike force as the team
chases a place in Major League Soccer’s postseason.  The Galaxy agreed to sign Ireland international captain
Keane from English Premier League team Tottenham for an
undisclosed sum. U.K. press reports said the transfer fee is
about 3.5 million pounds ($5.7 million), while Sky Sports said
Keane is joining on a two-year contract.  Keane, who has scored a national-record 51 goals in 108
appearances for Ireland, joins former England captain  David Beckham , who’s in the final season of a five-year contract with
the California club.  “When David Beckham came and trained at Spurs recently he
couldn’t speak highly enough about the Galaxy, their fans and
the league in general, so I can’t wait to get over and get
started,” Keane said in a  statement  on the Galaxy’s website.  Los Angeles  is first in the nine-team Western Conference
with 15 regular-season games remaining. The Galaxy have 48
points from 25 games, five points more than second-place Dallas,
which beat Los Angeles in the second round of the 2010 playoffs.  Keane will be added to the club’s roster once his visa
comes through, the Galaxy said. He’ll play alongside the 29-
year-old Donovan, the record scorer for the U.S. national team,
who has 11 goals this season and 114 in his 11-year MLS career.  Keane, 31, joined Tottenham from Leeds in 2002 and was part
of the 2008 League Cup-winning side. He was at Liverpool in
2008-09 before returning to Spurs and had loan spells at
Scottish team Celtic and West Ham. He also played for Wolves,
Coventry and  Inter Milan  earlier in his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  