-- 
Sugar Prices Seen Staying High as China, Indonesia Replenish Inventories

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-08-15T08:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/sugar-prices-seen-sustained-as-buying-by-china-indonesia-to-drain-surplus.html
World sugar prices may range between
23 cents and 28 cents a pound as  China , the second-biggest user,
and Indonesia increase imports, draining a global surplus of 4
million metric tons, the  International Sugar Organization  said.  The market may have a “a technical blip” to 30 cents,
Executive Director  Peter Baron  said in an interview in the
 Philippines . The raw variety averaged 12.78 cents in  New York 
over the past 10 years and ended at 27.84 cents on Aug. 12.  High prices may bring little relief for central bankers and
policy makers struggling to cool global inflation. Sugar, corn
and cooking oils helped push the United Nations World Food Price
Index to a record in February, while in June the gauge stayed
near an all-time high, potentially worsening the lives of the
1.1 billion the  World Bank  says live on less than $1 per day.  “Even this surplus is probably not enough to be taken by
importers to replenish their stocks, without increasing prices
considerably,” Baron said in Cebu yesterday.  Indonesia may purchase 2.6 million tons, overtaking  Russia 
as the third-largest buyer after the U.S. and the European Union,
he said. China may purchase 2.5 million tons in the year from
October, exceeding its usual import quota of 1.9 million tons.  “We already have corn and sugar with the best
fundamentals,” Paul Deane, an agribusiness economist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said from  Melbourne 
on Aug. 12. They “will keep global food prices close to their
highs,” he said in an interview.  Indonesian Demand  Indonesia ’s purchases may be bigger than Baron’s forecast.
The nation is forecast to buy 2.841 million tons, from 2.482
million tons a year ago, Faruk Bakrie, chairman of the
Indonesian Sugar Association, said at a conference in Cebu today.  The raw variety has climbed 36 percent from this year’s low
in May on concern that production in Brazil, which represents
about half of global exports, will decline more than forecast.  The crop in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s largest
producing region, will total 31.6 million tons from a July 13
estimate of 32.4 million tons, Sao Paulo-based Unica, a sugar-
cane industry association, said Aug. 11.  The ISO’s 4 million-ton surplus included a drop in  Brazil ’s
total output to 38.5 million tons from about 40 million tons,
and increases in harvests in  Thailand  and India, which may help
meet rising import demand of countries seeking to rebuild their
stockpiles, Baron said.  Thai Output  Thailand’s output may slip from a record 9.64 million tons
to 9.5 million tons in the year from November after flooding and
excessive rains in some parts of the country, and drier-than-
normal weather in other parts, cut cane yields, Rangsit Hiangrat,
director at the Office of the Cane and Sugar Board, said today.  The estimate of Thai exports will be formalized as cane
harvesting progresses, he said. Still, the nation will remain a
major supplier even with the dip in output, he said.  India , the world’s second-largest producer, may boost
output to 26 million tons in the 2011-2012 season, from 24.2
million tons a year earlier, Abinash Verma, director-general of
the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said at the conference.  The nation may have a 4 million-ton surplus and “large
quantities” may be exported as producers seek higher returns
after local prices fell below international rates, Verma said.
India has the world’s second-lowest sugar price, he said.  The group is surveying cane acreage through satellite
mapping and, if the result confirms their output forecast of 26
million tons, it will submit the finding to the government and
ask officials to set an export target by December, Verma said.  Global Inventories  Global sugar inventories may take two years to be rebuilt
after demand outpaced supplies in the past two seasons,  Sergey Gudoshnikov , senior economist at the ISO, said July 26. Smaller
crops in 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 left a deficit of 15 million
tons, Gudoshnikov estimated.  The ISO forecast for the 2011-2012 surplus, which Baron
said is the organization’s first based on supply and demand from
more than 150 countries, compares with predictions of 9.8
million tons from Rabobank International, 5 million tons from
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and 10.3 million tons from Czarnikow
Sugar Futures Ltd.  Kingsman SA, the Lausanne, Switzerland-based brokerage,
said July 25 the surplus in 2011-2012 may be 2 million tons
smaller than its May estimate of 10.575 million tons, as the
crop in Brazil will be less than initially estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  