-- 
Supertanker Prices Fall 30 Percent as Low Rental Rates Reduce Ship Values

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-15T11:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/supertanker-prices-fall-30-percent-as-low-hire-costs-cut-values.html
A supertanker sold for around 30
percent less than the last comparable deal in April, as hire
rates fall to a nine-year low.  The 2-million barrel tanker Tenzan, built in 2000, was sold
for $36 million to a Greek buyer, according to reports from four
shipbrokers. That compares with the $51 million to $52.5 million
sale four months ago of a tanker the same age and size, based on
shipbrokers’ reports. That vessel, the 2000-built Yohteisan, has
been renamed Ruby IV.  “With the crude markets continuing to wallow in the
doldrums it was only a matter of time until values adjusted to
reflect this,” said London-based Galbraith’s Holdings Ltd., in
a report distributed Aug. 12.  Tenzan is listed as being owned by Nippon Yusen KK,
according to data from IHS Fairplay on Bloomberg. The shipowner
does not comment on individual transactions, spokesman Jun
Katayama said by phone from  Tokyo .  Values are forecast to fall as owners contend with the
biggest glut of supertankers in 29 years while the fleet expands
twice as fast as demand, driving earnings to the lowest since
2002.  Average time charter rates have failed to cover operating
and fuel expenses and yielded negative dollar-per-day rates
since June 30, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange,
which provides freight rates on more than 50 routes.  Weekly rates to ship crude on very large crude carriers
from the Middle East Gulf to  Japan  were $7,281 a day for the
week ending Aug. 12, the lowest since Sept. 13, 2002, according
to Clarkson Research Services, a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker.  ’Sharp Decline’  Tanker values were “heading south and fast”, said Oslo-
based investment bank Arctic Securities ASA in an e-mailed
report today. “Even when adjusting for size and vessel
particulars, this is clearly a sharp decline in prices,” wrote
analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth about the Tenzan sale.  More very large crude carriers were on the market at lower
prices, with lower values of new and more modern vessels
expected, Stavseth said.  “The pressure on charter rates within the crude sector has
led to an increase of new sales candidates entering the markets,
and we expect more similar sales to the Tenzan to follow over
the coming months,” said Clarkson Research Services in a weekly
note to clients, published Aug. 12.  A five-year-old supertanker was worth $79.94 million,
according to the  Baltic Exchange . That’s 4.6 percent down this
year, and 51 percent lower than the peak of $162.04 million on
July 28, 2008, data show.  Shipbrokers and banks that reported Tenzan sale details
included Clarkson, Galbraith’s and HSBC Shipping Services Ltd,
all based in  London . US-based Compass Maritime and Piraeus-based
Golden Destiny SA also reported it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  