-- 
Swedish June Industrial Production Falls

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-08-15T09:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/swedish-june-industrial-production-falls-more-than-expected.html
Swedish industrial production fell
more than expected in June as exporters in the largest Nordic
economy face sliding demand, adding to pressure on the central
bank to scrap plans for more interest rate increases.  Industrial production fell 3.3 percent on the month, after
growing a revised 2.1 percent in May, Stockholm-based  Statistics
Sweden  said today. Production was expected to fall 0.9 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of nine
economists. Output rose an annual 6.4 percent, the agency said.  “Industrial production was clearly on the low side,” Knut Hallberg, a Swedbank AB analyst, said in a note. “This points
to a risk for downward revision for the Swedish second quarter
gross domestic product. Furthermore, weaker development for new
orders as well as other manufacturing confidence data, like PMI,
indicate further weakness in third quarter production.”  Sweden , which relies on exports for half its economic
output, will cut growth forecasts as market turmoil threatens to
derail a global recovery, Finance Minister Anders Borg said last
week. Swedish manufacturing confidence deteriorated last quarter
to the lowest since the start of 2010 as  Europe ’s debt crisis
deepened and the prospects of a U.S. recovery faded. The
purchasing managers’ index, or PMI, fell last month to 50.1, as
the sub-index for export orders indicated a contraction.  Sweden’s two-year government note yield was little changed
at 1.49 percent today, after slumping half a percentage point
this month. The krona was little changed at 9.2770 per euro as
of 11:51 a.m. in Stockholm.  Nordea Rethink  Nordea Bank AB, the largest Nordic lender, today revised
its outlook for the Swedish central bank, predicting that policy
makers will hold their benchmark rate unchanged “at least”
through the end of the year. Sweden’s Riksbank in July raised
rates for a seventh time in the past year, reaching 2 percent,
and signaled two more increases are needed this year to keep
inflation in check.  Export orders fell a monthly 2.1 percent in June and total
orders fell 1 percent, the statistics office said. Annual order
growth slowed to 5.5 percent from a revised 8.7 percent the
previous month, it said.  Sweden’s economy expanded an annual 5.3 percent in the
second quarter and 1 percent from the previous three-month
period. The government forecast in April that output will expand
4.6 percent this year and 3.8 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  