-- 
Swiss Ponder Unthinkable as World Turns Economy Upside Down

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-16T12:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/swiss-ponder-unthinkable-as-world-s-chaos-turns-franc-economy-upside-down.html
Switzerland , the nation that hasn’t
gone to war with a foreign power since Napoleon, is reluctantly
debating a generational taboo: ceding monetary independence to
win a battle over its runaway currency.  Swiss National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said the
central bank is assessing “a whole range of options” to
prevent the franc, which reached a record against the euro this
month, from making Swiss goods prohibitively expensive. Even a
cup of coffee at Cafe St. Gotthard in Zurich costs $8.30, with
one Swiss franc buying $1.2816 at today’s exchange rate.  Billionaire entrepreneur  Christoph Blocher , one of the
politicians who called on SNB President Philipp Hildebrand to
resign after the bank lost $21 billion last year in a vain
attempt to restrain the currency, now supports a franc target.  “The franc is catastrophically overvalued,” said  Blocher ,
a former justice minister for the  People’s Party , Switzerland’s
largest. “It’s almost like economic warfare -- to wage a war,
you must use all measures at your disposal, and you must win.”  Switzerland’s currency is 39 percent overvalued against the
euro, based on purchasing power parity as calculated by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That’s
“a headache,” according to  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power-transmission gear, which responded by buying more parts
from euro-region suppliers to feed its Swiss factories. Workers
at  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , a Basel-based chemicals maker, are working
longer hours without extra pay, while VonRoll Infratec AG, a
maker of piping systems, is paying some salaries in euros.  ‘Drastic Decisions’  “If the franc can’t be weakened, many machinery makers
will have to take drastic decisions this fall,” Economiesuisse,
the country’s biggest business lobby group, said. The Swiss
currency appreciated as much as 1.3 percent today, trading at
1.1181 at 1:48 p.m. in Zurich, up from 1.1329 yesterday. Versus
the dollar, it was at 77.86 centimes.  The franc, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has
appreciated 11 percent versus the euro this year, reaching a
record 1.0075 on Aug. 9. Against the dollar, it appreciated to
an all-time high of 70.71 centimes earlier this month. A visitor
to a Swiss branch of McDonald’s Corp. pays 128 percent more for
a Big Mac than a U.S. diner, up from a 72 percent premium a year
ago, according to a Bloomberg index that measures burger prices
in dollars, based on data collected by “The Economist.”  Zurich is already the world’s second-most expensive city
after Oslo, a study conducted by  UBS AG (UBSN)  showed today. Zurich
residents also had the highest wages and purchasing power, it
said. Geneva ranked third in terms of prices.  ‘Generalized Fear’  The Swiss government and the central bank held “intense”
talks over a possible franc target and measures are ready to be
adopted this week, SonntagsZeitung reported on Aug. 14, citing
people familiar with the situation. The SNB may introduce a
lower limit of slightly above 1.10 against the euro before
gradually increasing it, according to the newspaper.  “We have to find ways to further improve efficiency and
hope that the franc will return to normal, which it will do
eventually,” said Mehdi Barkhordar, managing director at
Produits Artistiques Metaux Precieux, a Geneva-based precious
metals refiner and trader known as PAMP. “Everyone in the world
is panicked. It’s the fashion today because of the climate of
generalized fear.”  Daniel Kalt, an economist at UBS in Zurich, sees an
exchange-rate target versus the euro along with purchases of
foreign currencies as a way to stop investors from piling into
the franc. The Zurich-based central bank was last forced to
commit itself to an exchange-rate target in 1978, when it
strapped its exchange rate to  Germany ’s deutsche mark.  October Elections  Lawmakers, facing general elections in October, have joined
executives in signaling increasing concern about the franc’s
ascent.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chairman Urs Rohner attended a meeting
with Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann on Aug. 2 in
Bern, according to Neue Zuercher Zeitung. The participants all
pledged to back the SNB, the report said.  Schneider-Ammann said after the meetings that the central
bank “wants to feel that it’s being supported on significant
decisions.” The franc’s strength will be on the agenda when the
seven  government members  meet on Aug. 17.  “Corrections will only be sustainable if the SNB swiftly
follows rumors with actions, or else it will be regarded as
toothless tiger,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency
strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Pride in Franc  With exports contributing about half of gross domestic
product, Swiss companies including  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s
biggest food company, and UBS, the country’s biggest bank, are
under increasing pressure to cut costs to maintain margins.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. earlier this month cut its Swiss
growth forecasts for this year to 1.9 percent from 2.1 percent,
and for next year to 0.6 percent from 2 percent. The “chances
of the real economy emerging unscathed are remote,” economists
 Dirk Schumacher  and Adrian Paul said.  “I’m proud of the Swiss franc, but something needs to be
done,” said Peter Seid, 70, a retired teacher from Winterthur,
Switzerland. “Otherwise, people will face pay cuts, or if the
situation persists, they might even start losing their jobs.”  The SNB has been reluctant to purchase foreign currencies
after attempts to weaken the franc in the 15 months through mid-
June 2010 caused a record loss last year. Social Democratic
lawmaker Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer said as recently as last
month if Hildebrand “isn’t in the position to get the  exchange
rate  under control,” he should step down.  Right Timing?  While it has shed about 3.5 percent against the euro since
the SNB’s surprise rate cut on Aug. 3, the franc has
strengthened 7.2 percent over the past two months as European
leaders struggled to contain the debt crisis. That will make it
hard for the SNB to prevail, said to  Alexander Krueger , chief
economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf.  “As long as people are concerned, the franc will continue
to appreciate, probably beyond parity” with the euro, he said.
“Currency interventions wouldn’t be enough to counter this
extreme  risk aversion . The SNB is rather powerless.”  Policy makers are ready to “act as soon as we’re convinced
that it’s the right time,” Jordan at the SNB told Tages-
Anzeiger in an interview published on Aug. 11. He also said that
“any temporary measures” to weaken the franc are possible,
when asked about a currency peg to the euro.  Ashraf Laidi , CEO of Intermarket Strategy Ltd. in  London ,
sees a currency peg as “far from practical,” while  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in
London, said a currency target would be hard to impose while the
franc remains strong.  No Panacea  “If the franc is as over-valued as the Swiss authorities
currently believe, then this would have to be rectified somehow
before a peg could be instigated,” Smith said. “The final
issue is that, with sovereign risk factors being such a powerful
force on currencies, it’s quite difficult to see how the Swiss
could stand side-by-side with the euro in the coming years.”  With all four main government coalition parties now willing
to support renewed currency purchases, the SNB may find it
easier to accelerate its efforts, said Adrian Vatter, a
professor of political science at the University of Bern.  “Swiss parties are eventually uniting behind the
government and the central bank,” Vatter said. “This will
strengthen the SNB’s credibility and give it the backing needed
for setting an exchange-rate target.”  Swiss Battle  Swiss soldiers were last engaged in battle on Swiss soil in
1798/99 to fight the advancing army of Napoleon Bonaparte. The
Swiss defeat led to the collapse of the old Swiss Federation.  Christophe Darbellay, head of the Christian Democratic
Party, told Bloomberg News in a telephone interview that “we
need to do everything we can to fight the franc’s ascent given
this difficult situation,” saying there is no “taboo.”  The central bank may have to spend between 200 billion
($251 billion) and 300 billion francs to defend any target, said
Kalt at UBS. “The SNB would have to keep intervening and
defending its lower target for as long as it takes,” and “it
would be a high-risk game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  