-- 
U.K. Takes U.S. Coal Castoffs as EU Use of the Fuel Set to Rise

-- B y   Y i n g   D i a o
-- 
2011-08-15T11:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u-k-takes-u-s-coal-castoffs-as-eu-use-of-the-fuel-set-to-rise.html
U.K. purchases of thermal coal from
the U.S. jumped in the first quarter as demand for the dirtier-
burning fuel advanced and exporters took advantage of Britain’s
ability to scrub sulfur dioxide from emissions.  Coal imports from the U.S.  advanced by more than four times
partly because the fuel was discounted compared with better-
quality shipments from traditional markets such as Russia and
 Colombia , according to Nigel Yaxley, head of the Association of
U.K. Coal Importers, a lobby group whose members include the
British units of EDF SA and EON AG.  “The import increase is price-driven, because U.K. power
stations are buying high-sulfur coal at discounted prices,”
said Yaxley by phone Aug. 12. U.S. coal is “essentially of
inferior quality,” he said. Some U.K. power stations use a
technology called desulfurization, which cleans emissions, while
fewer U.S. power companies do that, Yaxley said.  Lower European Union carbon-permit prices and a shift away
from nuclear power in  Germany  will probably boost EU demand for
coal, according to analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 London . Sulfur dioxide regulations may also be prompting more
coal trade, Yaxley said. Global coal consumption advanced 7.6
percent last year, a faster pace than crude oil, natural gas and
nuclear, according to statistics published by BP Plc in June.  The U.K. bought 850,000 metric tons of thermal coal from
the U.S. in the first quarter this year, compared with 160,000
tons in the same period last year, according to a report on the
website of the U.S. Energy Information Administration. U.S.
exports to Germany and the Netherlands also surged.  Sulfur Policy  “A big push” to encourage natural-gas burning in the U.S.
may drive up coal exports to  Europe ,  China  and  India , Hayden Atkins, an analyst in London at Macquarie Group Ltd.’s
commodities unit, said on Aug. 10. U.S. coal exports are at
their highest level since 1992, the EIA said.  The sharp imports increase is “obviously influenced by
U.S. policy on sulfur,” Yaxley said. Switching to natural gas
from coal in U.S. power generation will accelerate in 2012
because of new Environmental Protection Agency rules to cut
emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said July 19. The U.S. is regulating other
emissions even as lawmakers reject proposals to limit  greenhouse
gases . Coal produces about twice as much carbon dioxide compared
with natural gas for each unit of power generated.  The Cross-State Air Pollution Rule requires 27 states in
the eastern U.S. to cut sulfur dioxide emissions by 73 percent
and nitrous oxides by 54 percent by 2014 compared with 2005
levels, Merrill analysts including Sabine Schels in London said.
Generators that exceed caps must cut emissions by twice the
amount exceeded as a penalty, they said.  Coal supplies from  Australia , the world’s biggest exporter,
may rise next year after floods cut production this year,  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in  Melbourne , said today by phone. “We will start to
see a price response when that supply comes on line,” he said.  Westmore forecasts northwest Europe coal may fall to $112 a
ton next year, compared with current prices in the forward
market of $127 a ton, according to prices from brokers compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diao Ying in London at 
 dying6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  