-- 
U.S. Military Disables Iraqi Insurgent Websites, Book ‘Counterstrike’ Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-08-15T18:55:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u-s-hacks-jams-insurgent-channels-book.html
The U.S. military has hacked and
temporarily disabled Iraqi insurgent and terrorist-based
websites, a little-known tactic that’s part of a government
“counterstrike” capability, according to a new book.  At least two sites were “knocked off the web” prior to
Iraq’s March 2010 national election after “the largest
interagency meetings held since” the September 11, 2001
terrorist attacks, write New York Times reporters Eric Schmitt
and Thom Shanker in “Counterstrike: The Untold Story of
America’s Secret Campaign Against Al-Qaeda.” The book is
scheduled for publication tomorrow.  The sites, including one sponsored by a “shadowy
organization” called the  JRTN  “were posting specific
operational information that was considered a clear and emerging
threat to the security of the vote,” they wrote.  At least one site, hosted by a U.S.-based  Internet service
provider , was shut down after a visit from U.S. lawyers
“presenting snapshots of virulent, extremist and violent web
pages carried on their server,” they wrote. The U.S. provider
was not identified.  The book, in chapters called “Terror 2.0” and “The New
Network Warfare,” sheds light on offensive U.S. cyber
operations almost never discussed by U.S. officials. The book’s
cites tactics such as “overloading,” without details.  Cyber Deterrence  The book’s disclosures contrast with the Pentagon’s public
description of its strategy for blunting cyber-attacks, which
focuses on improving defenses instead of deterring intrusions or
threatening retaliation.  Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn July 14 released the
Pentagon’s “Strategy for Operating In Cyberspace,” which
outlines five “strategic initiatives.” One is to partner with
other U.S. agencies and private industry to craft a “whole-of-
government” approach.  Left unsaid was that the approach includes a capability to
review and approve selective U.S. attacks under a forum known as
the “Strategic Operational Planning Interagency Group for
Terrorist Use of The Internet,” the authors write.  Proposals for attacks are reviewed by what Schmitt and
Shanker call a “powerful board of governors assigned to oversee
counterstrikes on the Internet,” under a “three-way
agreement” among the Pentagon, intelligence agencies and the
 Justice Department  “for considering timely attacks on terrorist
web sites, with the president making the final decision on
whether to proceed.”  Then-President  George W. Bush , in a secret authorization,
in effect “declared Iraq an official battle space for America’s
cyberwarriors,” as it became “a real-world laboratory for
computer network warfare,” they write.  Postings, Jamming, Scanning  To sow distrust and confusion among jihadists, the U.S.
also uses a technique of “webspoofing” called “false band
replacement” where U.S. intelligence infiltrate networks and
post their own materials.  The agencies have forged al-Qaeda “web watermarks” that
in effect “makes messages posted on these sites official,”
Schmitt and Shanker wrote.  One official told them “we have learned to mimic their
watermarks.”  The U.S. military also “had the ability to hack into their
phones and we would text message guys” telling them “another
guy is cheating you out of money,” one “senior official” told
the reporters.  Radio Jamming  Pentagon and State officials in Kabul devised an “over-
broadcast” technique to jam insurgent pirate radio networks
using a strong signal over to block the adversaries’ message and
send “counterprogram” coalition messages on adjacent channels.  “The goal is fuzzing out the militants’ radio broadcasts
so everybody has to turn to another station -- and that station
is yours,” said a U.S. official. The commercial technology to
track, locate and “overbroadcast a signal” costs about $10,000
the official said.  Perhaps the U.S. greatest technological advance in the war
on terror is the eavesdropping National Security Agency’s
supercomputers that can “collect, analyze, sort and store data
from a range of communications, in particular cell phone
conversations, emails and web sites, billions of times faster
than humans can.”  The NSA computers scan and store the call history of cell
phones turned over by thousands of temporary and permanent
detainees that pass through U.S. camps in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan 
or voluntary applicants for government jobs, they write.  “Each of these cell phones can be copied or cloned in
seconds” and scanned for any matches to terrorist group
members. “It opens the door to a whole command and control
network,” he told the authors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net 
and Brendan McGarry in Washington 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  