-- 
U.S. Regulators Lack Key Tool to Unwind ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ Banks

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u-s-regulators-lack-key-tool-to-unwind-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
U.S. regulators given new powers to
dismantle “too-big-to-fail” financial firms are still working
to draw up so-called living wills -- a central component of the
toolkit needed to prevent future bailouts.  While the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. gained the
authority in the Dodd-Frank Act to seize and unwind systemically
important firms, the agency is still pushing to finalize the
living wills that outline how to dismantle the firms if they
fail.  In the interim, the agency has been developing contingency
plans in coordination with the Federal Reserve that would allow
them to take over a systemically important firm even if a living
will was not in place, according to an agency official who was
not authorized to speak publicly about the activities.  Implementing the agency’s new powers “in a credible way is
really the major new challenge for the agency,” Martin J. Gruenberg, the FDIC’s acting chairman, said at a July 27 Senate
Banking Committee hearing. “In fact, in some sense, it’s a
major new challenge for any financial regulator around the
world.”  As global markets churn and investors speculate about the
health of large banks like  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , some investors and credit-rating firm Standard & Poor’s
say they are concerned that regulators still lack the means to
wind down systemically important financial institutions, or
SIFIs, and may have to resort to bailouts.  ‘Trouble’  “From our perspective, the most recent financial crisis is
not completely over,” S&P analyst Rodrigo Quintanilla wrote in
a July 12 report. “Therefore a SIFI without a workable living
will could get into trouble in the near term.”  The resolution authority was drafted by U.S. lawmakers in
the wake of the 2008 financial crisis that led to the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and a series of ad-hoc bank
mergers and bailouts. The new resolution structure, signed into
law by President  Barack Obama  in July 2010, was designed to
prevent future bailouts by giving the FDIC authority to
liquidate even the biggest insolvent firms.  Former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , who left office in July,
stated repeatedly that after Dodd-Frank, there would be no
bailouts even for institutions as large and sprawling as Bank of
America or Citigroup.  The FDIC’s new authority “strictly prohibits bailouts,”
Bair said in June 30 testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.
“It is a powerful tool that greatly enhances our ability to
provide continuity and minimize losses in financial institution
failures while imposing any losses on shareholders and unsecured
creditors.”  New Procedures  The agency over the past year has conducted a whirlwind of
hiring, rule-writing and interagency negotiations in its effort
to implement its new powers. It has already laid out the
procedure it will use to wind down a firm, including the order
in which creditors would be paid.  The most important missing piece are the living wills,
regulators have said. Even though the law gives the FDIC and the
 Federal Reserve , the primary regulator for bank-holding
companies, until Jan. 21, 2012 to complete the rule, officials
are pushing to finalize it by the end of August.  A draft  proposal  released in April outlined what the
resolution plans must contain, including details of the
ownership structure, assets, liabilities, contractual
obligations and nonbank subsidiaries. Firms would be required to
file plans six months after the joint rule is finalized, and to
update and resubmit them each year. Regulators could force firms
who filed inadequate plans to divest lines of business.  Testing Scenarios  In the meantime, the agency has focused on building its new
 Office of Complex Financial Institutions,  which includes a group
responsible for monitoring the health of the largest banks and
how hard they would be to resolve. The office, established in
August 2010, has dual responsibilities: planning and working
with institutions on their living wills, while also preparing
and testing scenarios that would require the agency to deploy
its authority in the near future, according to the agency
official.  The resolution structure has support from the financial
institutions it may one day be used to dissolve. Still, the
draft rule on the living wills has been subject to heavy
lobbying from financial firms.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the San
Francisco-based lender, filed a comment letter in June listing
concerns about disclosure requirements and timelines. The bank
also objected to the possibility that some healthy firms would
be required to restructure.  Streamlining  “We are also very concerned about the position of some
regulators that banking organizations should be simplified for
the sole purpose of permitting quicker and simpler resolution
following failure,” James F. Powers, senior company counsel,
wrote in the  June 10 letter  to the Fed and FDIC.  Representatives from New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , London-based
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Barclays PLC (BARC) , Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and Spanish lender  Banco Santander SA (STD)  have all
met with agency representatives on the new rules, according to
 disclosures  on the FDIC website.  The agency also continues to grapple with how to resolve
institutions that have extensive overseas operations. The FDIC
is building a division inside the complex institutions office
charged with solving what Gruenberg said is the most difficult
part of dismantling any global bank -- effective coordination
across borders.  ‘Top Priority’  “From an operational side, it’s our top priority,”
Gruenberg, who was nominated to serve as the agency’s chairman,
said at his July confirmation hearing. He added that he expected
the international group to be up and running by the end of the
year.  The Financial Stability Board, which has been conducting
“war game” failure scenarios for more than two years, released
a 74-page  document  in July outlining recommendations and
timelines for international agreements on systemic institutions.
 Michael Krimminger , the FDIC’s general counsel, serves on the
FSB’s Resolution Steering Committee. A final FSB proposal will
be presented in November at the Group of 20 finance ministers
meeting in Cannes,  France .  The FDIC, in  public statements  and in private meetings, has
been working to convince investors and analysts that its new
resolution powers will prevent a repeat of the 2008 bailouts and
mergers.  Wall Street  Meeting  Bair and Jason Cave, deputy director of the FDIC’s complex
institutions division, met with 18 fixed-income asset managers
in  New York  on March 3 to discuss the “impact on credit
markets” of the agency’s new power, according to a disclosure
posted on the FDIC website. Participants included  Peter Weinberg , founder of Perella Weinberg Partners LP; Seth Bernstein, the head of global fixed income for JPMorgan
Investment Management; Ken Leech, the head of the global
investment strategy committee for Western Asset Management Co.;
 Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s bond unit; and Kent Wosepka, managing director
and global head of corporate credit at Goldman Sachs’s private
wealth management division.  S&P, the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.,
said it believes significant government support still exists for
the largest banks. The new powers “will not by themselves
prevent future government support for a handful of
institutions,” the company said in its July report.  That standoff may persist for a while, said Donald Lamson,
counsel at New York-based Shearman & Sterling LLP, a former
assistant director at the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency who helped draft the Dodd-Frank law. He said there may
be only one thing that will convince the market that the FDIC’s
authority is sufficient.  “Until they actually do it, I doubt that anybody is going
to believe it really can be done,” Lamson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  