-- 
U.S. August Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-08-15T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u-s-august-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The August Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for New York manufacturers continued to worsen. The
general business conditions index fell four points to -7.7, its
third consecutive negative reading. The new orders index also
remained below zero, at -7.8, while the shipments index was
positive at 3.0. The unfilled orders and inventories indexes
dropped further into negative territory. Price indexes continued
to retreat, with the prices paid index falling fifteen points to
28.3 and the prices received index falling three points to 2.2.
The index for number of employees was slightly positive, while
the average workweek index was slightly negative. Future indexes
weakened significantly. The future general business conditions
index plummeted twenty-four points to 8.7, its lowest level
since February 2009, and the future new orders and shipments
indexes, while positive, fell to near-record lows, exceeded only
by their September 2001 readings. The capital expenditures index
was also down sharply.  In a series of supplementary questions, respondents were
queried about difficulties in finding workers proficient in
certain types of skills; they were also asked to estimate
training costs to bring new hires up to speed.  Manufacturers’
responses to the August survey were not substantially different
from those recorded in March 2007, when these questions were
last asked. The workers seen as most difficult to find were
those with advanced computer skills, followed by those who were
punctual and reliable. Training costs to bring a typical new
hire up to speed were estimated at 6 1/2 percent of annual
compensation, on average.  Firms also reported that the wage or
salary of a typical worker was expected to rise by about 2 1/2
percent, on average, over the next twelve months.  Business Conditions Continue to Deteriorate  Business conditions weakened for New York State
manufacturers for a third consecutive month in August. The
general business conditions index fell four points to -7.7. The
new orders index also fell, inching down to -7.8; the negative
reading--the third in a row--indicated that orders had declined.
The shipments index held steady at 3.0, a sign that shipments
were slightly higher over the month. The unfilled orders index
continued to drift down, falling three points to -15.2. The
delivery time index was little changed at 0.0. The inventories
index dropped two points to -7.6, suggesting that inventory
levels were down slightly.  Price Increases Moderate Further  The prices paid index continued its marked decline in
August, dropping fifteen points to 28.3 -- an indication that
the pace of input price increases slowed over the month. This
index has now fallen a cumulative forty-two points since May.
The prices received index retreated three points to 2.2,
suggesting that selling prices were little changed. Employment
indexes hovered close to zero. The index for number of employees
was little changed at 3.3, indicating a small increase in
employment levels. Although the average workweek index rose
after a sharp decline in July, it remained below zero at -2.2,
indicating a slight drop in the length of the average workweek.  Future Indexes Fall Sharply  Although most of the future indexes remained positive, they
were down sharply, suggesting that the level of optimism about
the six-month outlook deteriorated significantly in August. The
future general business conditions index fell twenty-four points
to 8.7, its lowest level since February 2009. The future new
orders and shipments indexes dropped to their lowest levels
since September 2001, and the future unfilled orders index fell
below zero. Future price indexes declined but remained above
zero, suggesting that both input prices and selling prices are
expected to increase in the months ahead, but at a slower pace
than was expected last month. The index for future number of
employees fell eleven points to 6.5, while the future average
workweek index dipped below zero. The capital expenditures index
dropped fourteen points to 8.7, its lowest level in more than
two years, and the technology spending index fell ten points to
2.2. 