-- 
Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Unchanged

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-15T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-unchanged-in-august-as-housing-stays-depressed.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
was little changed in August, indicating the outlook for housing
remains depressed.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence was 15 for a second month, matching the
median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
data from the Washington-based group showed today. Readings
below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Sales have failed to rebound at builders like D.R Horton
Inc. as unemployment at 9.1 percent and concern about the
faltering economy keep away buyers. The industry also is
struggling with foreclosures, which boost supply and hurt
property prices.  “Builder confidence doesn’t look like it’ll improve
much,” Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New
York , said before the report. “Everything seems to be bumping
along the bottom. Demand remains very weak.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 12 to 17. The
gauge, which was first published in January 1985, reached a
record low of 8 in January 2009 and averaged 54 in the five
years before the recession began in December 2007.  Other reports today showed manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly contracted for a third straight month in
August and global demand for U.S. financial assets weakened in
June from a month earlier.  Factory Slump  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to minus 7.7 from minus 3.8 in July, a report showed.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for an index of
zero, the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The
so-called Empire State Index covers New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$3.7 billion during the month compared with net buying of $24.2
billion in May, according to statistics issued by the U.S.
Treasury Department.  The builders group’s measure of sales expectations for
single-family homes in the next six months fell to 19 from 21.  An index of current sales rose to 16 this month from 15 in
July, the report showed. The gauge of buyer traffic increased to
13 from 12.  “The uncertain economic climate and concerns about  job
security  are discouraging many potential buyers from exploring a
home purchase,” NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe  said in a
statement today.  Survey Methodology  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Confidence among builders in the Northeast had the biggest
gain, with the index climbing four points to 19. The Northeast
has the smallest survey sample and is therefore subject to
greater month-to-month volatility, NAHB has said. It rose one
point to 15 in the West and was unchanged at 17 in the South.
Builder confidence in the Midwest fell two points to 10.  Combined sales of new and previously owned homes dropped in
June to the lowest level of the year, according to reports from
the Commerce Department and the National Association of
Realtors.  D.R. Horton , the second-largest homebuilder by revenue,
last month reported third-quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates as cost cuts helped the  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company to cushion a decline in revenue.  “Nothing’s really strong out there, and I would reiterate
that most of our markets continue to still be soft, softer, and
softest,” Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a
conference call with investors on July 28.  The median price of a single-family home declined in 109
metropolitan areas out of 150 measured in the second quarter as
foreclosures that sell at cut-rate prices devalued real estate,
the National Association of Realtors said in an Aug. 10 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 