-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Rice Set to Advance on Thai Curbs

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-15T11:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-rice-set-to-advance-on-thai-curbs.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Nestle’s Biggest Takeover in  China  Creates 23% Return: Real M&A  Nestle SA’s biggest acquisition in China is giving traders
a chance to reap a 23 percent profit without the risk of losing
any money on the deal.  Rice Set to Climb as Thailand Plans Curbs, U.S. Crop Drops (2)  The smallest increase in rice stockpiles in five years
means global grain inventories will extend a decline that
already drove food costs to a record.  Hedge Fund Oil Bets Tumble to Eight-Month Low: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil to the lowest level in
more than eight months as concern that world economic growth
will falter sent crude tumbling.  Russia Feed Maker Sodrugestvo Expands Into  Brazil , U.S., Europe  Sodrugestvo Group, a Russian animal feed producer, is
acquiring assets in the U.S., Brazil and northern Europe and may
sell debut Eurobonds to help finance the expansion, Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Frappat said.  Sugar to Stay High as China, Indonesia Buy More, ISO Says (3)  World sugar prices may range between 23 cents and 28 cents
a pound as China, the second-biggest user, and Indonesia
increase imports, draining a global surplus of 4 million metric
tons, the  International Sugar Organization  said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Rise on Better-Than-Estimated Japanese Economic Data  Copper may rise in  London , rebounding from a second weekly
drop, as better-than-estimated Japanese economic figures help to
improve confidence in the global outlook.  MINING:  De Beers   Namibia  Workers to Strike Over Housing Allowances (1)  Namdeb, a diamond-mining venture between De Beers and the
government of Namibia, said workers plan to start a strike
tomorrow over housing allowances.  Harmony Gold Posts Quarterly Loss After Writing Down Assets (1)  Harmony Gold Mining Ltd.,  Africa ’s third-largest gold
producer, posted a fiscal fourth-quarter loss after writing down
the value of mining assets.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Fall a Third Day in London on Reduced Investor Demand  Gold may decline for a third day in London as gains in
equity markets tempered concerns that economic growth is
slowing, reducing demand for the metal as a protection of
wealth.  Gold May Extend Record Rally, Barclays Says:  Technical Analysis   Gold may rally to a record $1,830 an ounce within the next
three months, surpassing the previous peak of $1,814.95 that was
reached on Aug. 11, according to a technical analysis from
 Barclays Capital .  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Advances for Fourth Day on Optimism Demand May Grow  Palm oil gained for a fourth day, tracking rallies in
equities and commodities after U.S. retail sales increased by
the most in four months, boosting optimism that demand for the
tropical oil will expand.  Wheat Rises as  Saudi Arabia  Purchases U.S. Grain, Shuns Russia  Wheat rose in  Chicago , extending a third weekly climb,
after Saudi Arabia purchased grain from the U.S. and  Europe ,
shunning Russia supplies.  Sugar Declines as  India  May Boost Exports; Coffee, Cocoa Advance  Sugar fell for a second day in London on speculation excess
supplies will lead to more exports from India, the second-
biggest producer of the sweetener. Coffee and cocoa gained.  Rubber in Tokyo Rebounds as Japanese, U.S. Data Improve Appeal  Rubber climbed after U.S. retail sales increased by the
most in four months and  Japan ’s second- quarter gross domestic
product beat economist estimates, increasing optimism that
demand will increase.  Indonesia’s Sugar Imports May Rise to 2.841 Million Tons in 2011  Indonesia’s raw sugar imports may rise to 2.841 million
metric tons in 2011, from 2.482 million tons a year ago, Faruk
Bakrie, chairman of Asosiasi Gula  Indonesia  said in a conference
in Cebu, central  Philippines  today.  SHIPPING:  U.S. Atlantic Coast Oil Product Exports May Rise 40%, Poten Says  Oil product exports from U.S. Atlantic Coast refineries may
advance as much as 40 percent this year, said Poten & Partners
Inc., a New York-based shipbroker and consulting firm.  ECONOMIES:  London House Prices Plunge as Financial Turmoil Takes Its Toll  London home sellers lowered asking prices by the most in a
year in August as demand in Britain’s most expensive  property
market  was hit by turmoil in financial markets, Rightmove Plc
said.  Hong Kong  to Enter Recession, Most Accurate Forecaster Says (2)  Hong Kong’s export-led economy, a barometer of global
growth, is sinking into a recession that is likely to last for
at least a year, said Daiwa Capital Markets economist Kevin Lai.  Japan’s Economy Shrinks Less Than Expected on Quake Rebuilding  Japan’s economy contracted less than economists estimated
in the second quarter as reconstruction work counters the
effects of the record March 11 earthquake and  a strengthening
yen.  OTHER MARKETS:  Swiss Franc, Credit Risk Decline as S&P 500 Futures Pare Gains  The Swiss franc and yen weakened against most of their
major counterparts amid speculation policy makers will take more
steps to curb gains in their currencies. Credit risk fell, while
U.S. index futures pared their advance.  Swiss Franc Slides Amid Speculation of Target-Setting; Yen Falls  The Swiss franc and yen weakened against most of their
major counterparts amid speculation policy makers in Switzerland
and Japan will take further action to stem gains in their
currencies.  Sterling No Refuge as King Eyes Stimulus While Yields Fall (2)  Britain’s allure as a haven is crumbling as global
investors desert sterling amid the lowest inflation-adjusted
bond yields on record and a faltering economy.  Crude Oil  Falls Before Data on U.S. Housing, European Economy  Oil fell, reversing earlier gains, before reports this week
from the U.S. and Europe forecast to indicate that the global
recovery is losing momentum.  ConAgra Says Ralcorp Took Less Than a Day to Reject Revised Bid  ConAgra Foods Inc., the maker of Chef Boyardee pasta, said
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. took less than 24 hours to reject its
$5.18 billion takeover offer and did so without discussion
between the two firms.  SPORTS:  Ferguson Defends Manchester Utd. Goalie De Gea: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Bradley’s PGA Win Not Enough to Halt Woods’s Grip on U.S. Golf  U.S. golf fans finally got a homegrown winner of a major
championship. It just wasn’t who they were expecting.  Djokovic Sets Masters Title Record; Serena Williams Wins Again  Novak Djokovic became the first player to win five ATP
World Tour Masters tennis titles in one season as Serena
Williams claimed her second straight tournament victory eight
weeks into her comeback.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  