-- 
U2 Invests in Irish Music Schooling as Government Cuts Education Spending

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-08-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/u2-invests-in-irish-music-schooling-as-government-cuts-education-spending.html
U2, the rock band that headlined
Glastonbury’s music festival this year, is investing its own
money to fund music schooling for Irish children as the state
cuts spending on education.  The band, which started out in Dublin, is funding musical
equipment and the hiring of teachers to tutor thousands of
children across the country, supporting a series of projects.  While lead singer Bono is well known for his activist work
in raising awareness of  issues in Africa , the property market
crash in Ireland has left the one-time  Celtic Tiger  with
problems of its own. In a country renowned for its musical
heritage and for producing contemporary acts such as Westlife
and  the Corrs , only about 1 percent of secondary pupils receive
music tuition.  “While we have a very rich musical culture and heritage,
access to music tuition is like a geographic lottery, it depends
on where you live and it depends if your parents can afford
it,” said Rosaleen Molloy, director of  Music Generation , which
is funded by U2 and international charitable network The Ireland
Funds. “There is an assumption that music is being provided for
in mainstream schools, while in the reality it is not.”  With Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government needing
to make 6 billion euros ($8.6 billion) in savings this year to
meet the terms of the country’s bailout, finding funding to
expand education initiatives is difficult. Education Minister
Ruairi Quinn said after taking office in March he was “very
grateful to U2” at a time when the state isn’t “in a
position” to provide more investment in education.  Music Program  U2 is providing 5 million euros through 2015 on a phased
basis for the music program, together with an additional 2
million-euro commitment from  the Ireland Funds , which is
supported by people of Irish ancestry across the world. The aim
is for the government to later take over that funding.  The government has cut comparable expenditure on education
by about 3 percent between 2008 and 2011, according to figures
from the Education Ministry. Quinn told teachers in April
“further difficult measures” can’t be avoided even as student
numbers are expected to rise by about 100,000, or 10 percent, in
the next seven years.  “U2 had been looking for some time for a way to invest and
support access to music education in Ireland,” said Molloy.
“U2 wanted to give something back.”  ‘Tax Efficient’  The donation came after the band drew criticism for moving
their music publishing company to the Netherlands in 2006, to
save tax. The  Labour Party ’s  Joan Burton , now welfare minister,
said at the time that move “seemed odd.”  Lead guitarist  David
Evans , known as The Edge, said the band was trying to be “tax-
efficient. Who doesn’t want to be tax-efficient?”  The members of the band have a combined fortune of 455
million pounds ($741 million), according to this year’s Sunday
Times Rich List.  A Dublin-based spokeswoman for the band said nobody was
available to comment on this story.  In 2001, the government commissioned a report into the
feasibility for a publicly supported music education program,
which failed to get beyond two pilot programs, one in Dublin and
the other in Donegal, in the northwest of the country.  U2 is adopting the model to provide 50 percent financing
for projects developed by local educational groups. Music
Generation selected three Irish counties -- Sligo, Mayo and
Louth -- for funding in May after receiving proposals, according
to Music Generation’s Molloy.  ‘Many Westlifes’  “It wouldn’t be happening without the funds” from U2,
said Shaun Purcell, head of Sligo’s Vocational Educational
Authority, which is partnering with Music Generation in the
county. The funding will be used to provide music tuition to
16,000 children through classes after regular school hours.  Purcell said he hopes the funding will help produce “many
Westlifes” -- the  Irish pop band , which has had 14 No. 1 hits
in the U.K. and some of whose members came from Sligo -- as well
as providing children with better social skills.  While U2 have received plaudits for their work on the music
project, some warn about relying on a famous rock band to
support education initiatives.  “What is so special about education is that it is the way
through the mess, it’s the way out of the recession,” said Pat
King, general secretary of Ireland’s largest second-level
schooling union, ASTI, which is calling on the government not to
implement a 350 million-euro round of cuts on education.  “What U2 are doing is symbolically very important, but we
should never come to depend on the benevolence of private
individuals,” he said. “It’s the state’s responsibility to
invest in education and to ensure there is equity and equal
access to all children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  