-- 
Mubarak Trial Adjourned to September

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-15T11:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/mubarak-trial-adjourned-to-september.html
The trial of  Egypt ’s former
President  Hosni Mubarak  on charges of conspiring to kill some of
the protesters who swept him from power has been adjourned until
Sept. 5, Judge Ahmed Refaat said today.  The former ruler, who has pleaded not guilty, is standing
trial alongside his two sons, Alaa and Gamal, who joined him
today. Former Interior Minister Habib el-Adli also faces
charges. Mubarak’s trial opened after pressure from
demonstrators, who have demanded his swift and public
prosecution. He returned to the court today for a second time on
a hospital bed.  Refaat ruled today that the cases of Mubarak and Adli be
joined. He also ordered that the prosecution summon several
witnesses during the court session on Sept. 5 and that the live
broadcast of the trial be suspended until a verdict is reached.  Until Mubarak first appeared in court on Aug. 3, many
Egyptians were skeptical they would see the man who ruled them
for three decades appear in the caged enclosure. Many activists
said they had expected the military council, which took interim
authority when Mubarak stepped down on Feb. 11, to spare him
that fate. The opening session was the first sighting by
Egyptians of their former president since he was forced to quit.  “The trial has won the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces
some popularity,” Mustapha K. al-Sayyid, a professor of
political science at Cairo University, said in a telephone
interview. “It provided proof that the military council is not
giving Mubarak special treatment and that it is determined that
he be subjected to the law.”  Corruption Charges  Mubarak arrived by helicopter today and was ferried in an
ambulance to the building in Cairo where the trial is being
held. Wearing a blue top, he answered the judge who called out
his name with “I’m here.” For much of the time in the dock he
had his eyes closed and hands over his chest. His sons stood
beside him.  Mubarak, a key ally of the U.S. and  Israel  while in power,
was also charged with abusing his office to acquire property for
himself and his sons and selling natural gas to Israel at below-
market prices. His sons were charged with corruption.  The trial comes as authorities struggle to repair the
economy and grapple with demands for a transition to democracy.
It may send ripples across the region, where opposition
movements are fighting to emulate the success of the uprisings
in Egypt and  Tunisia , and to get rid of autocratic rulers.  Shown live on state television, the trial is taking place
in a makeshift courtroom in a police academy that once bore
Mubarak’s name. The former ruler had previously been in custody
in a hospital in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheik.  Uprising Deaths  “I want to see Mubarak in court with my own eyes. It’s our
right,” said Mohammed Gomaa, 42, who said his brother was
killed in the uprising. What’s more important, he said, is to
make sure that the case against the former president is solid.
“We want to know that this is a serious trial.”  At least 846 people were killed during the revolt, sparked
by poor  living conditions , political repression and complaints
about corruption and police abuses.  The turmoil that accompanied the uprising hurt Egypt’s
economy, which shrank an annual 4.2 percent in the quarter that
ended in March as tourists stayed away and factory output was
cut by strikes. This has opened rifts among Egyptians who united
to drive Mubarak out.  The ruling military council says it will hand over power
after parliamentary elections, expected later this year, and a
subsequent presidential vote. The timing of elections and the
process of writing a new constitution have pitted some secular
groups against Islamist ones, such as the Muslim Brotherhood.  Young Activists  Many young activists have also found themselves at odds
with the military council, which they accuse of being too slow
in allowing post-Mubarak reforms. Some now fear the trial may be
used to block further changes.  “This is the military council of Mubarak, they use the
same system of suppression,” said Ragy Muhammad, 25, one of the
protesters who staged a sit-in in central Cairo last month to
demand justice for those killed in the uprising. “They may say:
‘You saw him in a cage. What more do you want?’ and try to let
the people forget about other demands,” such as an end to
military trials for civilians, he said.  Mubarak’s lawyer, Farid elDib, has asked that Field Marshal
Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the former president’s longtime defense
minister who now heads the military council, testify in the
case.  It is one of the few occasions in which an Arab nation has
tried a former leader for past crimes. Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who fled to  Saudi Arabia  a month before Mubarak’s
ouster, has been convicted of multiple offenses in absentia.
 Saddam Hussein , who was executed in 2006, was tried in a court
set up by occupying U.S. forces.  Setting an Example  While Mubarak’s case may embolden protesters in other Arab
countries, his courtroom spectacle may prompt some Arab leaders
to further cling on to power, some analysts say.  Syrian demonstrators took to the streets in mid-March, and
President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces have since killed
more than 2,400 people. The conflict in  Libya  between Muammar al-Qaddafi and rebels against his rule began a month earlier,
and Bahrain’s rulers ordered a crackdown in which more than 30
people were killed and hundreds detained.  “Mubarak’s trial will lead some Arab rulers to exert their
utmost efforts to avoid the same fate,” al-Sayyid said. “They
will resort to more force and suppression no matter how high the
price their people are paying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 