-- 
Ugandan President Orders Disputed Land to Be Allocated to Sugar Companies

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-08-15T12:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/ugandan-president-orders-disputed-land-to-be-allocated-to-sugar-companies.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
ordered that Madhvani Group, owner of the country’s biggest
sugar producer, be allocated a piece of disputed land on which
it plans to build a second factory to produce the sweetener.  Madhvani plans to spend as much as $70 million buying
40,000 hectares (98,842 acres) of land in the northern district
of Amuru and building the plant. Politicians in the region want
the deal blocked because the company didn’t negotiate directly
with the local community, according to Simon Oyet, one of the
lawmakers who opposed the purchase.  The dispute over the allocation must be resolved within
three months, Museveni said in an e-mailed statement from his
office in Kampala, the capital, yesterday.  Uganda  is seeking to boost sugar output after prices for
the sweetener more than doubled last month amid reduced cane
supplies, forcing the government to abolish an import tax on the
commodity to cover the shortfall. Madhvani unveiled plans for a
second sugar plant in the country three years ago, prompting the
rift with lawmakers in the region, which is recovering from a
two-decade war with the Lord’s Resistance Army rebels.  Museveni also ordered that part of Mabira Forest Reserve, a
rainforest about 55 kilometers (34 miles) east of Kampala, be
given to Sugar Corp. of Uganda Ltd., the nation’s third-largest
producer. The initial allocation of part of the forest to the
company in 2007 led to protests in Kampala in which at least six
people were killed, according to the Daily Monitor newspaper.  Monkeys, Birds  Sugar Corp. is jointly owned by the Mumbai-based Mehta
Group and the Ugandan government. Environmental groups including
Nature Uganda oppose the allocation of the land because the
forest is home to endangered monkey species and 300 types of
birds, as well as being a catchment area for Lake Victoria.  Kinyara Sugar Works Ltd., the second-biggest producer
should get part of the land belonging to a government prison in
the western region for cane growing, Museveni said.  Demand for sugar from neighboring countries including South
Sudan and  Rwanda  has contributed to the shortage in Uganda,
according to the government. Uganda consumed 346,000 tons of the
sweetener last year and imported 130,000 metric tons, of which
67,000 tons was re-exported, according to the Uganda Sugar Cane
Technologists Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 