-- 
UN Envoy Seeks Cease-Fire to Break Impasse in Libya With Tunisia Meetings

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-15T20:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/un-envoy-seeks-cease-fire-to-break-impasse-in-libya-with-tunisia-meetings.html
At a secret location in  Tunisia , a
 United Nations  special envoy will attempt to secure what five
months of NATO air strikes have sought to achieve: a cease-fire
in  Libya .  Abdel-Elah al-Khatib arrived in Tunisia today to meet with
the prime minister and foreign minister. The former Jordanian
foreign minister’s visit coincides with the presence in Tunisia
of representatives of both the Libya rebels and regime leader
 Muammar Qaddafi .  The Jordanian diplomat’s trip marks a change after weeks of
inconclusive shuttling between Tripoli, held by forces loyal to
Qaddafi, and Benghazi, the headquarters of the rebels seeking to
end his four-decade rule.  On the sidelines, Khatib “might meet with Libyan
personalities residing in Tunisia,” UN spokesman Farhan Haq
told reporters in  New York .  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who picked Khatib in
March to lead political talks with both parties, said last week
he was “troubled” by the lack of progress in negotiations.
 Russia  has cited the “Libya effect” for its block of a
potential UN resolution condemning a deadly clampdown in  Syria .  “Things are coming to a close and Qaddafi may be getting
serious, finally, about negotiating a way out for himself,”
said Karim Mezran, a Libyan exile and a political science
professor at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced
International Studies in Bologna,  Italy .  Libyan rebels and Qaddafi representatives met last night on
the Tunisian island of Djerba, Al Arabiya television reported.
Khatib “is not participating in such talks as has been reported
by some news agencies,” Haq wrote in an e-mail.  Civilian Casualties  Even as rebel fighters claim advances on the battlefield,
Ban has expressed dismay at “reports of the unacceptably large
number of civilian casualties” due to the NATO-led bombing
campaign. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies are
seeking to wrap up a mission that  France  promised at its March
19 outset would “be counted in days and in weeks, not in
months.”  The U.S., the U.K., Italy and France indicated last month
they were willing to accept an outcome that may allowQaddafi to
stay in Libya, avoiding an exile abroad or a trial on war crimes
charges.  Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich North African
nation in a military coup in 1969, still controls the capital,
Tripoli. He has told his followers to keep fighting even as the
leader appears to be losing ground.  ‘Prepare for Battle’  “Prepare for battle, prepare to march,” Qaddafi said,
according to the state’s Jamahiriya news agency, JANA, citing an
address delivered yesterday in Tripoli.  Rebel fighters have said they had taken Zawiya, a town west
of Tripoli, and cut the coastal highway to Tunisia from the
capital. They also said they took Tawarga, near the rebel-held
western city of Misrata.  In a further blow to Qaddafi, Al Arabiya television
reported his interior minister arrived in  Egypt  with his family.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  