-- 
Hungary Stocks Jump Most in Year as Forint Soars on Weaker Franc

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-15T15:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hungarian-stocks-head-for-biggest-gain-in-2-months-on-franc-drop.html
Hungarian shares rallied the most in
more than a year as the weaker Swiss franc eased concern of a
potential jump in client defaults on foreign-currency mortgages.  The benchmark BUX index gained 4.5 percent, the biggest
advance on a closing basis since July 8, 2010, to 18,840.19, by
the 5 p.m. close in Budapest. The forint strengthened 1.4
percent to 269.8 per euro. The currency appreciated 3.1 percent
against the Swiss franc to 239.5, extending its three-day gain
to 11 percent, the most on record. OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s
biggest lender, rose 6 percent to 4,450 forint.  The Swiss franc retreated from record highs against the
euro and dollar after the  Swiss National Bank  said a temporary
peg to the euro was possible to stem the franc’s gains. The
Swiss government and the central bank are in “intense” talks
about a possible franc target to curb the currency’s strength,
SonntagsZeitung newspaper reported, citing unidentified people
close to the situation.  “The Swiss franc has moved strongly, that is also having
an impact on stock markets,” Balazs Sore, a trader at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt., said by telephone today. “We are still very far
compared with where the panic started.”  Today’s rally helped the BUX pare this month’s drop to 13
percent, which would be the biggest monthly decline since
October 2008.  Hungary’s OTP is among central European banks most at risk
from the forint’s and zloty’s weakness versus the Swiss
currency, according to ING Groep NV. A doubling of non-
performing loans denominated in the franc could cut OTP’s profit
by about 20 percent and Erste’s by about 24 percent, the Dutch
bank wrote in a report on Aug. 9.  Swaps Spread  The forint is looking “expensive” against the zloty given
the higher price of insuring against a default on  Hungary ’s
government bonds, according to analysts at BNP Paribas SA led by
Bartosz Pawlowski in  London .  Hungary’s five-year credit-default swaps fell to 402.9
basis points from 411.5 at the close on Aug. 12. The spread
relative to  Poland  was 203 basis points, or 2.03 percentage
points, six basis points short of the seven-month high reached
on Aug. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The forint
firmed 0.8 percent against the zloty to 65.2, heading for the
strongest close since November 2009.  Investors should buy the zloty against the forint,
“targeting a return back above 67,” BNP said.  “We caution that the recovery in risk could prove to be
short-lived should the speculation on the peg be quashed in the
coming days, providing renewed support to the Swiss franc,” the
BNP analysts added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  