-- 
United Natons Calls for Probe Into Possible War Crimes in Sudanese State

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-15T20:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/united-natons-calls-for-probe-into-possible-war-crimes-in-sudanese-state.html
The United Nations human rights
office today called for an investigation into possible crimes
against humanity and  war crimes  that allegedly took place in
June in Sudan’s Southern Kordofan state.  The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said
violations may have been committed by the Sudanese army and the
insurgents aligned with South Sudan during clashes in Kadugli,
the state capital, and the surrounding Nuba Mountains from June
5 to June 30, according to a  report  published on the agency’s
website today.  The report said the Sudanese army and militia loyal to it
may have carried out “extrajudicial killings, arbitrary arrests
and illegal detention, enforced disappearances, attacks against
civilians, including children, looting of civilian homes and
destruction of property,” according to the report.  Fighting broke out a month before the July 9 independence
ceremony that concluded South  Sudan ’s break from Sudan, a move
that capped the 2005 peace agreement that ended the civil war
between north and south Sudan. Southern Kordofan is Sudan’s only
oil-producing state, accounting for 115,000 barrels a day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Navi Pillay, the UN’s commissioner for human rights,
“expressed concern about the continuing violence” that is
being reported after the period examined by the OHCHR’s report,
according to the statement.  Denied Violations  The Sudanese government rejected the report, which it
described as a “baseless” repetition of accusations by
organizations that support South Sudan and rebel movements
against the government, the state-run SUNA news agency  reported ,
citing foreign ministry spokesman Al-Obaid Murawih. Instead,
Murawih urged the international community to support its peace
efforts in the region, the Khartoum-based agency said.  Clashes and airstrikes by the Sudanese army in Southern
Kordofan have forced more than 73,000 people to flee their homes
since June 5, according to the UN.  Both the Sudanese army and the rebels from the northern
branch of South Sudan’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement were reported to have laid anti-personnel mines in
Kadugli. The army conducted airstrikes at landing strips used by
humanitarian organizations and locations close to the UN
mission’s positions, the OHCHR said in the statement.  The mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission, which monitored
the 2005 peace agreement that ended Sudan’s north-south civil
war, ended on July 10, a day after the south was declared
independent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 