-- 
Turkey Says ‘Time for Words Over’ Unless Syria Attacks End

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T19:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/turkey-says-time-for-words-over-unless-syria-attacks-end-1-.html
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said the “time for words will be over” unless Syria
ends military operations against its people.  The Syrian government must cease the armed attacks on
civilians immediately, Davutoglu told reporters in televised
comments from Ankara today.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke yesterday
with Davutoglu to discuss policy options on Syria, State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said at a press briefing
in  Washington  today.  “It’s not surprising to us that Turkish patience is
wearing thin” with the Syrian government, Nuland said.  More than 2,400 people have been killed since the uprising
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad began in March,
according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights. More than 30,000 people have been detained by the
Assad regime, some in cages, Nuland said last week.  “We have the same goals,” Nuland said of U.S. and Turkish
opposition to the crackdown. “We are working to consolidate our
tactics, both political and military.”  The U.S. wants to make sure “the message from the
international community has teeth,” Nuland said. Asked what
further measures the U.S. might take against  Syria , she said,
“We are working on more sanction measures and we will continue
to do so.”  Naval Blockade  Syria’s navy maintained a blockade of the port city of
Latakia following an assault there during anti-government
protests that left at least 42 civilians dead over the past day,
according to activists such as Merhi.  “The people in Latakia got a real shock yesterday,” Merhi
said in a telephone interview from Damascus. “Now the city is
surrounded by the army and navy and most of the people have no
electricity and the telephone network was blocked for a while so
it was difficult to reach people.”  Nuland said she couldn’t confirm reports that Syrian naval
warships began firing on civilians in Latakia.  “There is armor in the city and there is firing in the
city again,” she said. “We have not been able to confirm this
reported use of naval assets.”  The U.S. ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , has been meeting
with Syria’s opposition movement, Nuland said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Istanbul at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  