-- 
Turkish Lira Undervalued by 5% to 10%, Central Bank Governor Basci Says

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-15T11:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/turkish-lira-undervalued-by-5-to-10-central-bank-governor-basci-says.html
Turkey ’s lira is about 5 percent or
10 percent undervalued against a basket comprising the dollar
and the euro, central bank Governor Erdem Basci said.  The currency gained after Basci made the comments in an
interview in Ankara today with CNN Turk television and was
trading at 2.1525 to the basket at 1:40 p.m., from about 2.1580
before the interview.  “The central bank’s view means that the fair level of the
dollar-lira rate is 1.65 compared to the current 1.77,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist for BGC Partners in Istanbul, wrote in a
note to investors.  Basci’s comments were his latest aimed at slowing a decline
in the currency, which has lost about 13 percent against the
dollar this year and accelerated its falls after he cut the
benchmark  interest rate  on Aug. 4.  The central bank’s policy will be determined by the speed
and success of efforts in  Europe  to resolve the sovereign debt
crisis, Basci said today. The lira may appreciate if there’s a
rapid solution to the crisis, and the central bank is prepared
to provide liquidity when needed, he said.  The bank cut the benchmark one-week repo rate to 5.75
percent from 6.25 percent at an emergency meeting on Aug. 4,
saying the measure was designed to limit the impact of the
European crisis on Turkish growth. The situation in Europe now
looks better than it did on that day, Basci said.  Still, figures showing that seasonally adjusted
unemployment rose to 10.3 percent in May from 10.1 percent in
April support the bank’s forecasts that gross domestic product
may be flat in the second quarter compared with the first, Basci
said. There’s likely to be a small GDP increase in the third
quarter, he said.  The economy grew 1.4 percent in the first quarter of the
year, compared with the previous three months. Second-quarter
figures will be announced on Sept. 12.  Inflation will end this year closer to the bank’s 5.5
percent goal than its forecast of 6.9 percent, made last month,
he said. The rate was 6.3 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 