-- 
Muslim Designer Wins 9/11 Memorial Contest, Chaos Ensues: Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/muslim-architect-wins-9-11-memorial-contest-public-goes-ballistic-books.html
The set-up: September 11th is still
a fresh, raw memory, and a jury of art experts, public officials
and one prominent family member is judging the competition to
design a memorial to the victims. Submissions are anonymous.
Only when the jury settles on its choice, a walled garden with a
raised pavilion, does it learn the name of the architect --
Mohammad Khan. A Muslim-American.  That’s how Amy Waldman’s novel “ The Submission ” begins.
You can guess what happens next: A lot of people go ballistic.
Driven by a wolfish reporter-columnist at the New York Post and
pundits at  Fox News , and aided, rather appallingly, by the New
York Times and the  New Yorker , a big segment of the public
unites against Khan.  It isn’t Fox News but the Times that ties Khan’s design to
the faith of the terrorists (“A Lovely Garden --and an Islamic
One?”). Once the idea is broached, though, the right-wing press
runs with it (“a martyrs’ paradise,” “an assault on America’s
Judeo-Christian heritage”). Khan, meanwhile, is too proud, or
too arrogant, to utter the I’m-not-a-terrorist disclaimer that
his liberal supporters want to hear.  Waldman, a former South Asia bureau co-chief for the Times,
has antennae well tuned to the media circus. Perhaps it’s her
reporter’s skill that makes her so nimble at sketching in
characters; she’s a penetrating psychologist, especially for a
first novelist. She weaves together a half-dozen stories, from
the top to the bottom of  New York ’s social strata, and keeps
them moving briskly forward; you never want to stop reading.  Right and Wrong  Her stumbling block is the premise itself. Like any good
writer of fiction, Waldman wants to create a morally complex
story, but the situation she’s come up with isn’t rich with
moral ambiguity. I don’t really think it has any. Once Khan has
won the competition, the line between right and wrong, justice
and injustice, is clear.  I don’t know to what extent Waldman was inspired -- if
that’s the word -- by last year’s squabble over the Muslim
community center and mosque being planned for Lower  Manhattan .
But it’s all too believable that an angry public might react to
a Muslim architect in an ugly way, that the press would pile on,
and that conniving politicians would use the controversy to
advance their careers.  Victims’ Families  It’s also clear that the project’s sponsors would feel the
need to handle objections coming from the families of 9/11
victims with silver tongs.  But the upper-crust character who argues, “A Muslim
country would never let a Jew build its memorial” has lost
sight not just of the Constitution but of the very conception of
the U.S. as a land of equality. Americans live in a secular
nation where being a Muslim doesn’t (theoretically, anyway)
demote you to second-class citizenship.  So instead of individuals caught in a fog of confusing
choices, Waldman has given us a group of Muslim haters who
differ less on the moral scale than on the economic one: The
rich bigots express their prejudice more delicately than their
working-class counterparts.  It might have worked if she had allowed her story to turn
into the black comedy it verges on being all along. “The
Submission” is, at heart, a book about the machinations of a
group of opportunists -- Khan, the ambitious architect, not
least among them. But it would have taken a gutsier novelist
than this one to mine its grim humor. Waldman is earnest and
nonjudgmental. She needed to be funny and damning.  “The Submission” is published by Farrar, Straus and
Giroux (299 pages, $26). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 