-- 
Wells Fargo Hires Citadel’s Maier, 24 Others as Founder Griffin Retreats

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-15T13:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/wells-fargo-hires-citadel-s-maier-24-bankers-as-founder-griffin-retreats.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , taking advantage
of a decision by Citadel LLC’s billionaire founder  Ken Griffin 
to disband his securities business, hired former investment-
banking co-chief Brian Maier and about two dozen others.  Maier, 52, whose experience includes stints at Merrill
Lynch & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., will become vice
chairman in client coverage, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
said in a statement. The deal also includes the uninterrupted
transfer of Citadel’s “related  investment-banking  business” to
Wells Fargo, according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, is bolstering the
investment-banking unit acquired as part of Wells Fargo’s 2008
takeover of Wachovia Corp. For Citadel, an $11 billion hedge
fund based in  Chicago , the agreement ends a three-year effort to
build a business that Griffin had said in 2009 would rival
Goldman Sachs. Griffin, 42, shut the equity-research group last
week, said two people briefed on the move.  The Citadel hires are “consistent with our strategy to
grow our business in a focused, disciplined and profitable
manner that provides excellent service and capabilities to our
clients,” Jonathan Weiss, investment-banking co-head at Wells
Fargo, said in the statement.  Deutsche Bank Hires  Wells Fargo hired Citadel’s Paul Pepe to lead a newly
formed corporate finance team, reporting to Weiss and
investment-banking co-head Rob Engel; Stavros Tsibiridis to lead
parts of the mergers-and-acquisitions practice, including the
corporate-defense advisory practice; Stephen Gerson, for
financial technologies banking; and Aviv Laurence in gaming and
leisure, according to the statement. All the managing directors
are based in  New York .  The expansion is part of an effort to put Wells Fargo’s
investment bank “in the top five within the next few years,”
as former Chairman Richard Kovacevich said in a November 2009
speech at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.  Within the past year, Wells Fargo hired Deutsche Bank AG’s
Kevin McQuilkin, to oversee mergers and acquisitions for
industrial companies, and John Fowler as a vice chairman of
health-care investment banking.  Wells Fargo was the 17th-biggest adviser on U.S. mergers
and acquisitions in the first half of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was the 13th-biggest underwriter of
U.S. bonds and No. 10 in U.S. equities, the data show.  Electronic Trading  Griffin has been seeking buyers to hire Citadel’s
investment bankers and take over obligations to its employees,
people familiar with the matter said last week. Citadel also
talked with Paris-based Societe Generale SA about taking on a
team of fixed-income salesmen and traders, the people said.  Griffin started Citadel Securities, based in New York, in
late 2008 to offer underwriting, securities trading, and advice
on mergers, acquisitions and restructurings. The unit, whose
efforts were hampered by executive turnover, will now focus on
providing electronic trading to institutions and on its market-
making business, which started in 2002, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  