-- 
Westpac’s Quarterly Cash Earnings Slip on Lending Slump, Shares Decline

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-16T07:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/westpac-third-quarter-cash-earnings-rise-11-on-improved-lending-margins.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s
second-biggest lender, said fiscal third-quarter profit slipped
as demand for lending fell, sending its shares lower in Sydney.  Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended June 30
were about A$1.55 billion ($1.63 billion), Westpac said in a
statement today. That’s down 2 percent from the average of the
prior two quarters, and up 11 percent from a year earlier.  “This trading update reflects the tough operating
environment for domestic banks,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus
Asset Management Ltd. “With near zero revenue growth, profits
will have to be supported via cost control which appears to be
an area of renewed emphasis for Westpac.”  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly is among  Australia ’s top
four banking chiefs trying to retain profitability as demand for
mortgages slumps to the weakest in more than three decades and
turmoil on global markets saps confidence at home. Kelly said
today that the “environment has clearly softened” in the
economy and that staff numbers will drop this year.  Shares of Sydney-based Westpac fell 4.4 percent, the most
since November, to A$20.25 in Sydney, taking this year’s decline
to 8.8 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.8 percent
today and has lost 10 percent this year.  Last quarter “saw the operating environment become more
subdued with consumers increasingly cautious and larger
businesses continuing to de-leverage,” Kelly said in today’s
statement. “This was reflected in slowing system credit growth
in the quarter, and weaker markets.”  Trimming Jobs  While some parts of the business are expanding, overall “I
would say staff will cut down somewhat over this year that we’re
in and it’ll come down somewhat again next year,” Kelly told
analysts on a call today. The company had 37,889 full-time
equivalent employees at March 31.  Westpac’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability
from lending, rose 4 basis points to 2.12 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from the previous six months, the bank said.
The impairment charge for bad debts in the three months to June
was A$300 million, little changed from the past two quarters,
the bank said.  Westpac raised A$10 billion in term funding in the quarter,
taking the fiscal year total to just over A$22 billion, it said.
Its tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of the bank’s ability to
absorb losses, climbed to 9.65 percent, from 9.53 percent at
March 31.  Mortgage Demand  Demand for mortgages and business loans slowed this year
after the central bank’s seven interest-rate increases from
October 2009 to November 2010. Credit to home buyers in June
increased at the slowest annual pace since 1977, when central
bank data began, while  home prices  slid in the second quarter by
1.9 percent from a year earlier.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  last week said net income in
the six months ended June 30 jumped to A$3.34 billion as the
bank increased business and household lending.  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s third-quarter profit rose 27 percent as it
extended its share of the mortgage market, the Melbourne-based
bank said Aug. 9. Australia & New Zealand Banking Corp. is due
to publish fiscal third-quarter earnings on Aug. 18.  The RBA decided to extend a pause on  interest rates  because
of concern that turmoil on financial markets could slow global
growth, minutes published today of its Aug. 2 meeting showed.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  left the overnight cash rate target
unchanged at 4.75 percent.  “It’s a subtrend revenue growth environment,” James Ellis,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said ahead of today’s
report. Westpac’s unaudited cash earnings of A$1.55 billion
missed his forecast for A$1.63 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  