-- 
Hypermarcas Cuts Ebitda Forecast as Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-08-15T21:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-15/hypermarcas-cuts-ebitda-forecast-as-profit-misses-estimates-3-.html
Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , the Brazilian
consumer-products company that made 12 acquisitions since the
start of 2010, cut its forecast for 2011 earnings after posting
a second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose 19 percent to 53.3 million reais in the
period from 44.6 million reais a year earlier, Sao Paulo-based
Hypermarcas said in a regulatory filing late yesterday. The
average estimate for profit excluding some items was 92.8
million reais in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. Net sales
increased 25 percent to 936.6 million reais.  Hypermarcas cut its forecast for full-year earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 900 million
reais from 1 billion reais, citing a worsening macroeconomic
outlook in  Brazil  and a longer period of time than it expected
to make changes in its sales force and adjust inventory levels.
The company also announced a plan to buy back as many as 35
million, or 9.5 percent, of its shares by August 2012.  “An environment of high inflation and rising interest
rates that the company described as negatively affecting their
results in the first quarter was still present in the second
quarter,” said Autumn Graham, a New York-based debt analyst
with Barclays Capital Inc., in a phone interview Aug. 11.  Brazil’s central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  at
all five of its policy meetings this year, to 12.5 percent, to
try to cool the economy. Inflation, which quickened to 6.87
percent in July, breached the upper limit of the government’s
2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range in April.  Splitting Units  Hypermarcas also said yesterday it split its pharmaceutical
and consumer businesses into two units, appointing Chief
Executive Officer Claudio Bergamo as temporary head of
pharmaceuticals. Nelson Mello, current commercial president,
will become head of the consumer unit, while Carlos Scorsi will
be chief operating officer and Martim Mattos will continue as
chief finance officer, Hypermarcas said.  The changes, effective this month, will allow “better
business coordination, with an improvement in the execution of
our strategic plans,” Hypermarcas said. The pharmaceutical unit
will include all drugs, while the consumer unit encompasses
cosmetics, diapers, home care and food.  Hypermarcas rose 3.6 percent to 11.68 reais in the  Sao
Paulo  trading. The company has plunged 48 percent since the
beginning of the year, the third-worst performer in the Bovespa
benchmark index, which has fallen 21 percent this year and
entered a  bear market  on July 27.  Market Conditions  The producer of  consumer goods  from diapers to condoms and
cleaning products doesn’t expect a reduction in its inventories
in the short-term, Mattos said on a conference call with
analysts today after the earnings were released.  Bergamo sees the risk of a “big wave” of deceleration in
the Brazilian economy in the second half, which may hit several
industries like a “tsunami,” he said on the call.  “We are in a very delicate moment,” Bergamo said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo after the conference call.
“Depending on how the government reacts, they can dissipate or
intensify” the deceleration, he added.  Market conditions have deteriorated in the second quarter
and the lack of visibility in the country’s monetary policy is
creating  risk aversion , he said on the conference call.
“Considering the scenario, the more caution, the better,”
Bergamo said. “Defense is the best attack right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  