-- T-Mobile USA to Cut 1,900 Call-Center Jobs, Close 7 Offices
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-03-22T21:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/t-mobile-usa-to-cut-1-900-call-center-jobs-close-7-facilities.html
T-Mobile USA  Inc., the nation’s
fourth-largest wireless service provider, will eliminate 1,900
jobs as it reduces the number of call centers to 17 from 24.  T-Mobile has 3,300 employees at the seven call centers
scheduled to be closed. The Bellevue, Washington-based company
will invite employees from those locations to transfer to some
of the 17 other offices, where 1,400 positions are being added,
according to a statement. The company has 36,000 U.S. employees.  T-Mobile USA, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , was a target
of a takeover bid by  AT&T Inc. (T)  that failed to win regulatory
approval. T-Mobile USA is now paring costs while increasing
spending on network expansion to compete with larger rivals such
as its former suitor and  Verizon Wireless . The company will also
“restructure and optimize” other parts of the business,
according to the statement.  “These are not easy steps to take, but they are necessary
to realize efficiency in order to invest for growth,” Chief
Executive Officer  Philipp Humm  said in the statement.  By the end of June, the carrier will close centers in
Allentown, Pennsylvania; Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Frisco and
Brownsville, Texas; Lenexa, Kansas; Thornton, Colorado; and
Redmond, Oregon.  The job cuts won’t affect sales staff at company-owned
stores or reduce any technician or engineering jobs, David
Henderson, a T-Mobile spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  In a similar move, Verizon Wireless this month said it will
close three  call centers  in Southfield, Michigan; Bellevue,
Washington; and Houston, and relocate employees to make better
use of existing facilities.  In February, T-Mobile USA said it planned to spend a total
of $4 billion in the two years through 2013 on network upgrades
funded out of the unit’s cash flow. The move, which still leaves
T-Mobile two years behind larger rivals Verizon and AT&T in so-
called long-term-evolution, will let the carrier offer higher-
speed service as demand for smartphones and tablets increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  