-- ‘New Middle East’ Seen Lifting U.S. Oil Stocks: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/-new-middle-east-seen-lifting-u-s-oil-stocks-chart-of-the-day.html
Dozens of U.S. companies will
benefit as North America becomes “the new  Middle East ” for
energy production during this decade, according to Citigroup
Inc.’s analysts.  The CHART OF THE DAY depicts the gap between U.S. exports
and imports of oil products, as compiled monthly by the Energy
Department since 1973. Commodity analysts at Citigroup cited net
exports in a report two days ago to support their view about the
continent’s prospects.  Shipments of gasoline, diesel fuel and other products
surpassed imports by an average of 439,000 barrels a day in
2011, according to the department. Last year was the first time
since 1949 that the U.S. was a net exporter. Crude-oil output
exceeded 2 billion barrels for the first time since 2003.  “The U.S. has become the fastest-growing oil and natural-
gas producing area of the world,” Edward L. Morse, Citigroup’s
New York-based head of global commodities research, and half a
dozen colleagues wrote in the report. Greater output from Canada
and a rebound in Mexico point to bigger increases in North
American production “than all of OPEC can sustain.”  Citigroup’s U.S. equity analysts, in a separate report,
named 63 energy producers, oilfield-service providers, pipeline
owners, oil refiners and other companies poised to profit from
the growth. They narrowed the list down to 10 top picks.  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) ,  Helmerich & Payne Inc. (HP)  and  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  were included along with two energy partnerships,
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  MarkWest Energy Partners LP. (MWE) 
 Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and its  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  affiliate were
counted as one pick. Calpine Corp.,  KBR Inc. (KBR) ,  LyondellBasell
Industries NV (LYB)  and  Roper Industries Inc. (ROP)  completed the lineup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  