-- THL’s Sperling Says New U.S. Regulations Weighing on Wall Street
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-22T18:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/thl-s-sperling-says-new-u-s-regulations-weighing-on-wall-street.html
Scott Sperling, co-president of
private-equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, said new
financial regulations are hurting the  U.S. economy  and
increasing costs at  Wall Street  banks and asset managers.  Sperling, who leads the Boston-based firm with Anthony DiNovi, said that while the regulations do well by reducing
leverage in the financial system, there are some unintended
consequences. By restricting banks from proprietary trading, the
proposed Volcker rule would limit lenders’ ability to provide
liquidity to financial markets, he said.  “There are significant challenges from the Volcker rule
and Dodd-Frank that actually cause them to do things that
increase the risk of what they’re doing,” Sperling said today
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Cristina Alesci.
“Therefore they have to pull back from some of the activities
that can be very helpful to the markets.”  A longtime Democrat, Sperling, 54, said he supports
Republican  Mitt Romney  against  Barack Obama  in the U.S.
presidential contest. Romney, a co-founder and former chief
executive officer of Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, has
attracted negative attention for the private-equity industry
from opponents who say buyout managers enrich themselves at the
cost of companies and workers and benefit from preferential tax
treatment.  Obama and other Democrats have backed proposals to raise
taxes on investment performance fees, known as carried interest,
that private-equity managers receive. During the campaign,
Romney has yet to say definitively whether he favors treating
the earnings as  capital gains , as they are now, or as higher-
taxed income.  Washington’s ‘Punching Bag’  “The political environment is not going to get better
through November, it’s going to get worse,” Sperling said.
“Yet I think Mitt has an incredible skill set for the
challenges that we have in front of us.”  The March 14 New York Times op-ed piece by  Greg Smith , the
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  derivatives salesman, is another
“flashpoint of criticism” that may affect morale at Wall
Street banks, Sperling said. In the piece, Smith blamed CEO
 Lloyd Blankfein  and President  Gary Cohn  for fostering a “toxic
and destructive” environment.  “In an environment where they’re getting punished in the
press almost daily and have become the punching bag for many
folks in  Washington , it makes it a less enjoyable environment to
be in,” Sperling said.  Goldman Sachs lost $2.15 billion of its market value the
day  the op-ed  was published.  Paul Volcker , the formal Federal
Reserve chairman who originally proposed the Volcker rule,
called Smith’s article “a radical, strong” piece.  U.S. Retail Growth  THL has made investments valued at more than $150 billion
in aggregate since its founding in 1974. The firm, which manages
$14 billion in assets, has stakes in companies including  Dunkin’
Brands Inc. (DNKN) , Clear Channel Communications Inc. and  Nielsen
Holdings NV (NLSN) .  As private-equity managers are hitting the road this year
to raise new capital, Sperling said he expects fund sizes to
shrink. Fundraising slowed in the third quarter last year to the
weakest pace since before the global financial crisis and stayed
near that level in the final three months of the year, according
to London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd .  “I think that we have to be prepared for smaller fund
sizes,” Sperling said. “The fund size should be smaller
because the nature of the deals that are being done will be
smaller.”  Sperling said he expects more deals in the U.S. retail
industry, attracting private-equity investors. As the economy
improves, so will consumer markets including retail and health
care, he said.  “Macroeconomic uncertainty is becoming less of an issue,”
Sperling said. “People are getting comfortable that the
consumer is going to be there, and going to be growing in the
U.S. market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  