-- ‘Spider-Man’ Court Battle Reveals Taymor’s Treatment
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-03-22T18:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/-spider-man-court-battle-reveals-taymor-s-treatment.html
In their court battle against
director  Julie Taymor , producers of ““Spider-Man: Turn off the
Dark” filed an outline, dated July 1, 2004, representing her
densely plotted concept of “Spiderman/Caught.”  “The Dream: a city devastated, a huge battle is raging --
we see glimpses of Spiderman flying from one burning skyscraper
to another,” the treatment begins.  The two-and-a-half page, single-spaced synopsis is among
dozens of comic book excerpts, scripts and financial agreements
filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. The treatment is
to support the producers’ claim that Taymor isn’t owed author
royalties, because there’s little similarity between the
original book she helped write and the new one created after she
was fired a year ago.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the $75 million musical after
critics lambasted it during an extended preview period. She sued
producers in federal court in  Manhattan  on Nov. 8, saying they
violated her intellectual property rights by making changes
without her permission and didn’t pay royalties.  Her team filed a letter with the court yesterday suggesting
that producers were concerned that she would make a scene at the
show’s much-delayed opening, on June 14, 2011.  No Disparaging  “As we had anticipated, the sky did not fall in,”
Taymor’s lawyer, Seth Gelblum, wrote to the producers’ lawyer,
 Dale Cendali , on June 17, 2011. “So much for the producers’
fears of disparagement, disruption and undermining.”  A spokesman for Taymor didn’t return an e-mail. A spokesman
for the lead producers,  Michael Cohl  and Jeremiah Harris,
declined to comment on the letter.  Taymor behaved with “grace and forbearance” at the
opening and throughout the “ordeal” of putting on the show,
Gelblum wrote in the letter. He said she alone isn’t responsible
for its problems.  “Nevertheless, it is Ms. Taymor who has suffered by far
the most in the press, and it is her career that has been
damaged,” the letter said.  In her treatment, the Green Goblin is defeated at the end
of act one and then mysteriously returns in act two as part of a
clique of villains.  “Why? Because he can,” Taymor explains. “Because he is
woven out of the imagination and now can return in nightmares
and daydreams. But who created these super villains? At first we
don’t know or care.”  Arachne  The treatment, like her version of the show in previews, is
centered on a love-hate relationship between Spider-Man and the
mythic spider-woman, Arachne.  “She is the weaver of the World’s Wide Web and her
ultimate goal is to come out from the shadows to shine once
more,” Taymor wrote in the treatment, which she registered with
the U.S. Copyright Office, according to court filings.  In a countersuit, the producers said Taymor made Arachne
the focus of the musical and failed to make changes they
requested. Arachne’s role was later minimized when a new
director and writer created a more conventional story that hewed
more closely to the source material.  The treatment has an ending that never made it to the
stage. Just as Peter Parker, Spider-Man’s alter ego, is about to
kiss Arachne “in a full, sexual human embrace,” he flips
upside down, and, while suspended by a thread, kisses his
girlfriend. Mary Jane,  Furious, Arachne attacks him and Peter
bites Mary Jane on the neck.  Peter falls into the recesses of the web and Mary Jane,
with new spider powers, climbs up and attacks Arachne.  “The story unravels Are we left dangling by a thread?”  And so the treatment ends.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-cv-
08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  