-- Madoff Trustee Appeals $59 Billion Ruling in UniCredit Suit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-22T16:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/madoff-trustee-appeals-59-billion-ruling-in-unicredit-suit-1-.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm appealed a court ruling that tossed most of his
$59 billion in claims against  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Sonja Kohn and
other defendants, following earlier appeals seeking to recover
about $30 billion in damages from banks.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard ’s notice of appeal and
document record were transmitted today to U.S. District Court in
Manhattan by a U.S. appeals court, according to filings. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff on Feb. 21 dismissed Picard’s claims
under the racketeering statute, which allows for triple damages,
saying he hadn’t proved his allegations.  Picard now has $90 billion in claims before the appeals
court, out of about $100 billion he had demanded in more than
1,000 suits to gather money for customers with Madoff Ponzi
scheme losses. Rakoff and another district judge, Colleen
McMahon, dismissed the $90 billion in claims in Picard’s suits
against banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc,
UBS AG and UniCredit.  In his written opinion on the UniCredit racketeering case,
Rakoff said Picard made a “casual assertion” that the
defendants “fed, perpetuated and profited from” Madoff’s  Ponzi
scheme , and failed to show a direct relationship between the
alleged criminal acts and resulting injuries to the con man’s
customers.  Common-Law Claims  Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims including unjust
enrichment and conversion. He directed that the remaining claims
be returned to  bankruptcy court .  UniCredit, based in Milan, and other defendants are trying
to move the cases back to district court again, saying the
trustee’s claims go beyond normal bankruptcy law and need to be
reviewed in a higher court.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina for running a Ponzi scheme that
defrauded investors of an estimated $20 billion in principal.
Picard and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged
about $273 million for their work on the Madoff estate so far.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-CV-1181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  