-- ADS Securities Applies for License to Trade Stocks in Abu Dhabi
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-03-22T12:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ads-securities-applies-for-license-to-trade-stocks-in-abu-dhabi.html
ADS Securities , an Abu Dhabi-based
foreign exchange and commodities brokerage, is applying for a
stock-trading license as markets in the United Arab Emirates
rebound from a plunge that forced some brokerages to close.  “We are in the process of getting a license and it may
take about six months,” Managing director Philippe Ghanem said
in an interview in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday. “We need to serve the
demand. We need to become a fully-fledged brokerage.”  Declining stocks markets in the U.A.E. in 2011 hurt the
Persian Gulf nation’s brokerages, with the number of companies
slumping to 48 from 98 at the end of 2008. Trading volumes in
Dubai sank to a six-year low last year and the benchmark stock
gauge fell 17 percent as regional uprisings and  Europe ’s debt
crisis spurred concern economic growth would slow. Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark fell 12 percent in the period.  Shares have since recovered, with Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  gaining 6.9 percent this year and Dubai’s advancing 23
percent. The volume of shares traded in the U.A.E. capital has
also improved this year with about 227 million shares changing
hands on Feb. 20, compared with a 12-month daily average of 70
million shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ADS Securities began its operations a year and a half ago
with a capital of $400 million, Ghanem said. The brokerage seeks
to take advantage of the U.A.E. timezone to provide foreign
exchange and commodities trading between the closing of markets
in Europe and the opening of markets in  Asia , he said.  “If you were a client before, you were trading with UBS,
with Citi or with Saxobank,” Ghanem said. “Now the volume is
passing through here. The volume here is staying in Abu Dhabi.”  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, has three
bourses -- Nasdaq Dubai,  Dubai Financial Market (DFMGI)  and Abu Dhabi
Securities Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  