-- Afghan Farmer Recounts Being Told Americans Killed Family
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-03-23T13:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/afghan-farmer-tells-when-he-was-informed-americans-killed-family.html
Muhammad Wazir was drinking morning
tea at his brother’s home in southern  Afghanistan  when, he said,
a panicked neighbor called his cell phone.  “‘The Americans have attacked your house and killed your
entire family!’ he shouted to me,” said Wazir, 35.  That news of the nighttime rampage by what the U.S. Army
says was a single soldier launched Wazir, a farmer, on a
frenzied, four-hour drive with his youngest son from the town of
Spin Boldak to his own mud-walled village compound.  “When we got to my home, more than 1,000 people were
standing with sticks and hunting guns, saying they wanted to
attack the American base,” Wazir said yesterday. The killings
that took his family have escalated tension between the U.S. and
Afghanistan and added to election-year pressure on President
 Barack Obama  for a quick American exit from the 10-year-old war.  “I went inside and found the dead bodies of my two sons,
four daughters, my mother, brother and my wife,” Wazir said in
an interview in Kandahar. “Also my brother’s wife and his
nephew, who had come from Spin Boldak and was our guest. All
their bodies had been brought into one room and burned.”  “There was blood in the beds of my family, where they were
killed. The bodies were all in my mother’s room, piled together
and burned black. The Americans had put blankets and pillows and
wood pieces they ripped from the window frames and set it all on
fire.”  Charges Expected  Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales will be charged with 17
counts of murder in the killings, according to two U.S.
officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. The charges are
expected to be released today and presented to Bales where he is
being held in the military prison at Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas ,
one of the officials said.  Sitting in a mostly bare office, Wazir, a bearded man in
traditional tunic and turban, gazed at the floor. He looked up
at times as he spoke softly, his voice tense with anger, in
Pashto and Dari, Afghanistan’s main languages. He had driven to
the interview about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from Balandi, the
village where his family has farmed wheat and pomegranates for
four generations.  Eleven of at least 16 people killed around the U.S.-run
Camp Belambay in the early hours of March 11 were Wazir’s
relatives, he said. In Afghanistan, the story and images of
their deaths have redoubled what Kabul-based political analyst
Waheed Mujda calls America’s overwhelming problem now in the
country: a deeper-than-ever loss of trust with ordinary Afghans,
especially in the ethnic Pashtun south.  ‘Shock and Sadness’  While Obama called Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  “to
express his shock and sadness” and pledged “to hold fully
accountable anyone responsible,” Karzai said the shootings show
“great oppression and cruelty” toward the people of
Afghanistan, according to a statement from his office. Karzai on
March 16 told victims’ relatives he doubted whether only one
soldier conducted the attacks.  With the Army preparing to prosecute Bales, Wazir said he
knows of only one eyewitness to the attack on his house: a woman
named Palwasha from a neighboring home.  “Most of the neighbors heard the attack but they stayed
hidden in their homes because they were afraid,” Wazir said.  “Palwasha told me that the gunfire woke her about 2:30 in
the night, and she came out and saw the light flashes from guns
-- not one gun, but different guns -- at my house,” Wazir said.
“It was too dark to see the soldiers’ uniforms, she told us.”  Palwasha ran to hide, and “when the firing ended, she came
and saw a fire burning in my house,” Wazir said. “When the sun
rose, she went in and saw that our people were dead.” He said
his neighbor’s family has told him they are willing to make
Palwasha available to testify at a U.S. trial.  Lone Soldier Question  Wazir’s account of Palwasha’s description, like those of
other Afghans since the attack, disputed the U.S. statement that
the killings were by a lone, rogue soldier.  “While not getting into details of an ongoing
investigation, we continue to have no indication at all that
anyone other than the suspect perpetrated these attacks,” said
Navy Captain John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, in an e-mail
yesterday.  Amid repeated battles around his village between U.S.-led
forces and the Taliban since 2006, residents have struggled to
survive, Wazir said. His farm’s fruit and wheat harvests, sold
in area bazaars, last year earned the family the equivalent of
$6,100, he said.  Though details of Bales’s life, family and finances have
become public knowledge in the U.S., little has been reported
even in Afghanistan about those who died that night. Wazir
mourned his relatives today by name: his mother, Shakarina; his
wife, Zahra; and their four daughters: Nabiya, Farida, Massoumeh
and Palwasha.  Surviving Son  In the tradition of Afghanistan’s ethnic Pashtun tribes men
especially prize their sons, and Wazir spoke of his two who
died. Faizullah, about 9, was a bit of an imp, he said. “He
would find any chance to get someone’s cell phone in his hands
and find the games on it to play.”  “My oldest son, Esmatullah, was 16. He was becoming a man,
helping me with the farming, bringing me my lunch in the fields.
Now I have no helper and I feel I have no life.”  The sole survivor of the American’s attack was Wazir’s
youngest boy, Habib Shah, a four-year-old whom Wazir had taken
with him on the visit to relatives.  “Habib Shah doesn’t know that his mother and brothers and
sisters are dead,” Wazir said. “I have told him they are
living in a different place, because I cannot upset him by
telling him the truth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  