-- AgriBank Profit Unexpectedly Declines on Lending Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-23T03:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/agribank-quarterly-profit-unexpectedly-drops-after-economy-slows.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) 
posted its first drop in quarterly profit since listing two
years ago after credit growth slowed and bad-loan costs climbed.
The  shares (1288)  fell to the lowest in more than two months.  Net income  declined 14 percent to 21.2 billion yuan ($3.4
billion) for the fourth quarter, from 24.7 billion yuan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on full-year
figures reported by the Beijing-based lender yesterday. That
fell short of the 28.84 billion-yuan average estimate of 20
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Shares of Agricultural Bank dropped the most in six weeks
on concern that defaults may climb. China’s economic growth
cooled last year as the central bank tightened lending
restrictions and the government extended property curbs
including higher  mortgage rates . The slowdown has continued,
with factory output in the first two months rising the least
since 2009.  “The provision charge for bad loans was more than what’s
needed,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at
 Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  who had a “neutral” rating on
China’s banking sector. “That raises the red flag of potential
asset-quality deterioration.”  Bad Loans  Agricultural Bank, which had the highest bad-loan ratio
among the nation’s five biggest lenders at the end of the third
quarter, set aside 22.8 billion yuan of provisions for soured
debt in the fourth quarter, more than double the year-earlier
figure. Non-performing loans fell to 87.4 billion yuan as of
Dec. 31 from 87.9 billion yuan at the end of the third quarter.  “This was a prudent measure as it was driven by collective
charges as they take advantage of robust profits now to expand
buffers for later,” Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. analysts
led by Warren Blight wrote in a note today. They maintained the
outperform rating on the stock while cutting 2012 to 2013 profit
forecasts on the lender by 1 percent and 5 percent respectively.  Shares of Agricultural Bank fell 3.1 percent in  Hong Kong 
to HK$3.41 as of 11:34 a.m., trimming this year’s gain to 2.1
percent and making it the second-worst performer among the nine
mainland banks listed in the city.  The People’s Bank of China this week moved to expand rural
credit by cutting  reserve requirements  for 379 branches of the
bank, expanding an earlier trial and freeing up a total of 23
billion yuan for lending.  The bank had 5.63 trillion yuan of loans outstanding at the
end of December, an increase of 14 percent from the beginning of
the year. Loan growth was the slowest in three years after
policy makers boosted borrowing rates, raised  capital
requirements  and imposed restrictions on credit to home buyers,
property developers and local-government financing vehicles.  Economic ‘Trough’  “The first quarter will be the trough for the economy and
banks face a real test on their risk-management capability,”
said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based analyst at  Capital Securities
Corp. (6005)  “Agricultural Bank, given its relatively weaker
fundamentals compared with its bigger rivals, still has a lot to
learn and improve.”  Song Xianping, chief risk officer at Agricultural Bank,
told reporters in Beijing yesterday that risks at some borrowers
may rise this year as liquidity tightens.  Loans to local government financing vehicles accounted for
7.1 percent of total advances, Vice President Pan Gongsheng said
at a press conference in Hong Kong yesterday. The bad-debt ratio
on such credit stood at 1.45 percent, he said.  Core Capital  Agricultural Bank’s capital adequacy ratio widened to 11.94
percent as of Dec. 31 while its core ratio stood at 9.5 percent,
meeting the minimum under new rules. The  China  Banking
Regulatory Commission said in August it would require the most
important lenders to have a minimum capital adequacy ratio of
11.5 percent by the end of 2013.  Smaller rival  Bank of Communications Co.  said last week it
plans to raise 56.6 billion yuan in the world’s biggest share
sale since May to boost capital. Agricultural Bank’s core
capital ratio would be the lowest among the nation’s five
biggest banks after Bank of Communications’ planned offering.  The lender has no plans for equity raising this year,
President Zhang Yun told reporters in Beijing yesterday.  Fourth-quarter profit at Agricultural Bank was derived by
subtracting nine-month profit from 2011 earnings reported
yesterday. The company posted a 29 percent increase in full-year
net income to 121.9 billion yuan, according to the statement.  Agricultural Bank’s net interest income rose 27 percent to
307.2 billion yuan in 2011 after the net interest margin widened
to 2.85 percent. Fee income from services including credit
cards, trade finance and custodial services rose 49 percent to
68.8 billion yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  