-- AIG’s Wintrob Sees No Curbs on Bidding for Hartford Units
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-03-22T21:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/aig-s-wintrob-sees-no-curbs-on-bidding-for-hartford-units.html
Jay Wintrob, the head of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s life insurance business, said the
bailed-out firm could consider bidding on units that Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. is seeking to divest.  “In terms of ability, there’s no limits on us,” Wintrob
said today at the UBS Asset Gathering Conference in  Boston .
While AIG doesn’t rely on acquisitions for growth, “we’ve been
acquisitive in the past and we’ll continue to look,” he said.  Hartford, named after the Connecticut city where it’s
based, said yesterday it will stop selling individual annuities
and seek buyers for its individual life, retirement-plan and
Woodbury Financial Services units. New York-based AIG has sold
more than $50 billion in assets to repay a 2008 U.S. bailout.  Wintrob said growth at his SunAmerica subsidiary will still
come “the good, old-fashioned way -- product sales, net flows,
broad distribution and disciplined pricing, and I think that
will continue to be the major focus.”  Mark Herr, an AIG spokesman, and  Hartford (HIG) ’s  Shannon Lapierre  declined to comment.  Hartford’s planned divestments were announced after a
strategic evaluation led by Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee ,
who was hired to revive the firm after losses on equity-linked
variable annuities led to a 2009 taxpayer bailout. Billionaire
 John Paulson , whose hedge fund is Hartford’s biggest
shareholder, has pressed McGee to boost the shares by splitting
up the insurer entirely, a premise that McGee rejected.  Cutting Costs  AIG “could certainly take some costs out” if it bought
businesses from Hartford, said Josh Stirling, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Still, an acquisition could distract
management from its main goal of winding down the government’s
investment, Stirling said. He rates the insurer  market perform ,
which means the stock will probably trade within 15 percent of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the next year.  AIG declined 1.8 percent to $27.98 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, while Hartford fell 3.3 percent to $21.30.  “What AIG has to be very concerned about is making a
bulletproof case that each acquisition or divestment serves a
strategic interest,” Phillip Phan, a professor at the Johns
Hopkins Carey Business School in Baltimore, said in a phone
interview. The U.S. Treasury Department, the insurer’s majority
shareholder, will support deals only if they build value, rather
than entrepreneurial ventures into new fields, he said.  Matt Anderson , a spokesman for the Treasury, declined to
comment on potential acquisitions.  What Works  SunAmerica has enough scale and diversity of products, so
it doesn’t need another company’s platform, Wintrob said. The
insurer will be focused on acquisitions that can be “additive
and achieve higher returns,” he said.  AIG sold non-U.S. life insurers, a consumer lender and
other businesses to pay back its rescue, which swelled to
$182.3 billion as the U.S. extended more credit and lowered the
interest charged. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67,
has been focusing on global property-casualty coverage and U.S.
life operations as he seeks to wind down the Treasury’s stake.  The insurer bought the shares of  Japan ’s Fuji Fire and
Marine Insurance Co. that it didn’t already own last year to
expand non-U.S. operations at the Chartis property-casualty
unit. In August, AIG’s plane-leasing subsidiary, which wrote
down part of its aging fleet last year, agreed to acquire a
business from AerCap Holdings NV that buys used aircraft and
disassembles them to sell parts, particularly engine components.  AIG repaid the balance on a Federal Reserve credit line
last year and the Treasury Department converted its preferred
stake into 92 percent of the company’s common stock. That
holding has been cut to  70 percent  in two share sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  