-- Thailand’s Kittiratt Gives Baht Target, Urges Lower Rates
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-23T02:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/thailand-s-kittiratt-gives-baht-target-while-urging-lower-rates.html
Thailand ’s Finance Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong gave a target for where the baht should
trade at and urged the central bank to cut the benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point to help exporters,
pushing the currency to a one-month low.  Thai-based companies faced difficulties shipping goods when
the baht approached a level of 30 per dollar, he said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday in Hong Kong.
Exports fell more than expected in January as factories
struggled to resume production after the worst flooding in
almost 70 years and as global demand weakened.  “Those companies have been adjusting themselves and
improved their efficiency in order to barely survive,”
Kittiratt said at the Credit Suisse Asian Investment Conference.
“So the range of 32 to 34 would be very good.”  The minister is renewing his push for policy easing after
the Bank of Thailand this week joined central banks from
 Australia  to  South Korea  in keeping  interest rates  unchanged,
refraining from adding to two previous reductions as higher
energy costs boosted inflation risks. Kittiratt had urged the
Bank of Thailand to lower borrowing costs and help businesses
cope with the country’s worst flooding since 1942 before the
monetary authority started cutting in November.  “Thailand is similar to other countries suffering from
cost-push inflation because of higher energy costs that come out
of the tension in the  Middle East ,” he said. “If the central
bank would agree to let the interest rate down a little bit
further, that would be good.”  Half-Point Cut  Kittiratt later told reporters he’d like to see the
benchmark one-day bond repurchase rate fall by “at least” 50
basis points from its current level of  3 percent . The government
plans to borrow 1 trillion baht ($32 billion) over the next two
years to finance fiscal deficits and infrastructure projects,
including those aimed at protecting against floods, he said.  The baht advanced 0.1 percent to 30.78 per dollar as of
9:34 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It has strengthened about 2.5 percent this year, making it the
third-biggest gainer in Southeast Asia behind the Malaysian
ringgit and  Singapore dollar .  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  declined 1.4 percent yesterday, the
most in four months, erasing gains after Kittiratt’s comments.
Thai Airways International Pcl fell 4.6 percent, and  Minor
International Pcl (MINT) , Thailand’s biggest hotel operator, fell 5.7
percent.  Inflation Focus  “I don’t think the BOT will yield to government
pressure,”  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong, said by phone, referring to the Bank of Thailand.
“They have their own mandates and I don’t think the BOT will
just target any level for the baht. As you can see from the
BOT’s tone, they are primarily focusing on inflation and
economic activity.”  The Thai central bank this week increased its forecast for
economic growth this year to 5.7 percent from 4.9 percent, and
boosted its estimate for average  core inflation  in 2012 to 2.4
percent from 2.2 percent. It raised the headline inflation
forecast to 3.4 percent from 3.2 percent.  Crude prices, which have risen about 30 percent in the past
six months, and a minimum-wage increase that takes effect on
April 1 may stoke inflation in the second half of 2012, Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said this
week. He warned that policy makers may “underestimate” the
impact of the wage increase.  Kittiratt told reporters later in  Hong Kong  that the
government would maintain subsidies on liquefied petroleum gas
so the wage increase isn’t blamed for faster inflation.  Improving Productivity  “When employers have to pay their workers a little bit
higher, they’ll be the ones who help improve the productivity,”
he said in the interview. Another $3 per day for workers “won’t
go into speculation of property,” he said. “It will go into a
second bowl of noodles.”  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in Southeast Asia after
 Indonesia , contracted 9 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the steepest decline since 1998, and expanded 0.1
percent in 2011. Exports shrank 6 percent in January, as
factories struggled to resume production and global demand
weakened.  “The  exports  came down the past few months because of
problems on the supply side, not because of the problem on the
demand side,” Kittiratt said. “I know that major economies in
the west are not that strong as they were in the past, but they
are looking for value-for-money items.  Southeast Asia ,  East
Asia , are producing those items.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  