-- Talanx Profit Doubles as German Insurer Prepares for IPO
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-03-22T12:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/talanx-2011-profit-doubles-as-german-insurer-prepares-for-ipo.html
Talanx AG,  Germany ’s third-biggest
insurer that may seek an initial public offering as early as the
second quarter of this year, said profit more than doubled in
2011, helped by reserve releases and lower taxes.  Net income rose to 520 million euros ($683 million) from
216 million euros in 2010, the Hanover-based company said in an
e-mailed  statement  today. Talanx expects the restructuring
completed last year to further boost earnings in 2012.  Talanx, led by Chief Executive Officer Herbert Haas, has
retained Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. as managers as well as Rothschild as an adviser for its IPO,
which could raise about 750 million euros, people with knowledge
of the plans said earlier this week. The size and timing of the
sale will depend on market conditions, the people said.  “Compared with a year ago, conditions have improved for
 capital markets  as well as for insurance markets,” Haas told
reporters in Hanover. “The prospects are good, but we’ll still
keep all our options open regarding an IPO.”  Haas declined to comment further because of legal
obligations relating to the IPO preparations.  The insurer earlier this year bought  Poland ’s  Towarzystwo
Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA  from KBC Group NV for 770
million euros, beating rivals in a bid to expand in eastern
 Europe ’s largest insurance market. When the purchase is
completed in the second half of 2012, Talanx’s Japanese partner
 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. (0017)  will take over 30 percent of
Warta, Poland’s second-largest insurer.  Bond Conversion  In 2010, Talanx  sold   Meiji Yasuda (0017) ,  Japan ’s third-largest
life insurer, a 300 million-euro bond, which will be converted
into shares in the event of an IPO. The German insurer has been
considering the share sale for more than a decade to fund
international expansion.  Warta is the second Polish takeover announced by Talanx
within two months, after the company said in December that it
will pay 912 million zloty ($291 million) for a controlling
stake in the insurer Europa SA. Meiji Yasuda will buy a stake in
Europa from minority shareholders in a public offer.  “Following the acquisitions in Poland, our further growth
in central and Eastern Europe will most likely be organic, while
I could still imagine that we’ll spend money on acquisitions in
 South America ,” Haas said. “Acquisitions in the industrial
insurance segment are also an option.”  Restructuring Charges  Talanx, which owns a 50.2 percent stake in reinsurer
 Hannover Re (HNR1) , is fully owned by German mutual insurer HDI
Haftpflichtverband der Deutschen Industrie VaG.  The insurer booked 106 million euros in restructuring
charges last year on its German property and casualty units,
down from about 290 million euros in 2010, when the charges
mostly consisted of reorganization costs at its German life-
insurance units.  Last year’s result was boosted by about 64 million euros
from the release of provisions set aside for “legal disputes
relating to the legitimacy of double taxation of foreign
investment income as well as to antitrust proceedings,” Talanx
said. The firm’s tax bill declined to 187 million euros from 231
million euros a year ago.  “Last year’s result hasn’t been steered in any way,” Haas
said. “Even if we hadn’t been planning an IPO, we would have
reported exactly the same result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  