-- Malaysia Sees Slower 2012 Growth on Persistent Global Risks
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-03-22T02:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/malaysia-sees-slower-2012-growth-on-persistent-global-risks-1-.html
Malaysia ’s gross domestic product
will expand at a slower pace this year as financial and economic
restructuring in developed nations curb global growth, the
central bank predicts.  The economy  may expand 4 percent to 5 percent in 2012,  Bank
Negara Malaysia (BN)  said in its annual report released in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday. That is less than the  Finance Ministry ’s 5
percent-to-6 percent forecast in October, and a 5.1 percent pace
in 2011.  Inflation (MACPIYOY)  may slow to a range of 2.5 percent to 3
percent this year from 3.2 percent in 2011, it said.  “The Malaysian economy entered 2012 with increasing
downside risks to growth amid softening inflationary pressures
domestically,” the central bank said. “Monetary policy will
continue to facilitate economic growth while managing risks to
inflation and the build-up of financial imbalances.”  Malaysia has refrained from joining neighbors including
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines  in cutting  interest rates  in
recent months even as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt Asian exports
and economic growth. Some regional policy makers have held
borrowing costs unchanged to assess the extent of a growth
slowdown in  China  and rising oil prices as signs emerge of
stabilization in the U.S. and Europe.  “At this stage 3 percent is already very accommodative,”
Bank Negara Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday, referring to the benchmark rate. “We’ll have
to assess the situation. Having interest rates that are too low
for too long will also result in other risks to the financial
system and the economy.”  Ringgit Gains  Thailand  kept its key rate on hold yesterday after two
reductions, judging that the economic outlook has improved.
 India  may start cutting interest rates from April to bolster
growth following a moderation in inflation, R. Gopalan,
secretary of economic affairs, told Bloomberg UTV this week.  Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.2 percent to 3.0713 per dollar at
10:10 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The currency has climbed about
3 percent this year, the best performer after India’s rupee
among 11 major Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Global investment fund flows may lead to increased short-
term swings in the ringgit, the central bank said. The currency
fell 3.5 percent last year after jumping 11.8 percent in 2010 as
global funds were lured by the ringgit’s interest yield
advantage amid a slowing global economy.  Malaysia’s central bank left interest rates unchanged at 3
percent for a fifth straight meeting earlier this month.  It is important not just to rely on interest rates to
promote sustainable growth, and there are other “wide-ranging
measures,” Zeti said. The current degree of accommodation in
 monetary policy  is “sufficient,” she said.  Monetary policy this year will continue to operate in a
“complex global environment” amid slower economic expansion,
more volatile financial and commodity markets, with high
liquidity in the international monetary system, according to the
central bank.  Inclined to Hold  “The central bank is not comfortable with providing any
kind of accommodation further on from here because domestic
growth prospects are looking quite alright and there are still
inflation risks,” said  Rahul Bajoria , an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore . “I don’t see any strong need for them to
hike or cut this year but if we do continue to see the global
backdrop improving, the bias of the central bank would be moving
toward a more hawkish tone.”  Growth in the Malaysian economy this year will be supported
by domestic demand, particularly the financial assistance
offered by the government to help the poor and an increment in
public sector wages, the central bank said.  In contrast, “the international financial reforms and the
required structural adjustments in several major economies will
not only contribute towards increased uncertainty in the
international financial markets but are likely to have negative
near-term implications on overall global economic growth,” it
said in the report.  Recent Improvements  While there are recent improvements in the global outlook,
including progress in addressing the European debt crisis and
alleviating the risks of a disorderly default in  Greece , the
structural reforms that will take place in these countries are
expected to result in near-term economic dislocation, Zeti said.  Inflation is expected to slow this year, reflecting the
moderation in global commodity prices and a weaker growth
outlook, the central bank said, even as it said there are
“upside risks.” Domestic inflation would remain contained in
the absence of significant adjustments to administered prices,
it said.  While monetary conditions remain supportive of economic
activity, “should the global economy enter a new phase of even
weaker growth during the course of 2012 and adversely affect the
outlook for the Malaysian economy, the Monetary Policy Committee
at  Bank Negara  Malaysia has the flexibility to respond to adjust
the degree of monetary accommodation,” the central bank said.  The central bank also said Malaysia is widening the use of
yuan as a settlement currency as China has become the country’s
biggest trading partner. With immediate effect, the yuan can be
used to settle real-time interbank funds transfer and securities
services, Bank Negara said in a statement yesterday.  The central bank plans to introduce dollar liberalization
next as part of broader initiative to develop the Southeast
Asian nation’s payments infrastructure for multinational
settlements, Zeti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  