-- Mali Army Officers Say Toure Government Has Been Overthrown
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-03-22T15:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/malian-army-says-constitution-suspended-elections-planned-1-.html
Gunfire continued in  Mali ’s
capital, Bamako, after army officers said they toppled President
Amadou Toure’s government and suspended the constitution amid a
dispute over the handling of a Touareg insurgency in the north.  The National Committee for the Recovery of Democracy and
the Restoration of the State will organize elections in  Africa ’s
third-biggest gold producer and power will be restored to a
democratically elected leader, spokesman Lieutenant Amadou
Konare, surrounded by about two dozen soldiers with some holding
machine guns, said in a broadcast on state television today.
Elections were previously planned for next month.  “Facing our duty to safeguard the constitution, we decided
to take our responsibilities in ending the incompetent regime”
of President Toure, Konare said. “Our mission in no way
constitutes a usurpation of power and we are committed to
restoring power to a democratically elected president.”  Soldiers in the West African cotton producer have
complained about their lack of preparation and resources in a
campaign to quash a two-month uprising by the Azawad National
Liberation Movement, which seeks autonomous rule in northern
Mali. Hundreds of soldiers’ wives last month marched on the
presidential palace to protest the danger their husbands are
being exposed to in the military campaign.  Gold Companies  Mali vies with Tanzania to be Africa’s biggest gold
producer after  South Africa  and Mali. Companies including
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer of
the metal, and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) , have operations in the
country. Mali produced about 44 metric tons of gold in 2011.  Randgold’s shares dropped the most in more than three
years, slipping as much as 16.6 percent and were trading 12
percent lower at 5,810 pence at 3:45 p.m. in  London . AngloGold
declined 1.9 percent to close at 297.37 rand in Johannesburg.
Gold for immediate delivery was down 0.6 percent at $1,639.80 an
ounce.  Troops blocked roads around the presidential palace in
Bamako yesterday. The shooting erupted before a meeting between
Malian fighters and the country’s defense minister to discuss
Azawad’s ethnic Touareg rebellion. Gunfire continued throughout
the night and sporadically this morning.  Soldiers manned key crossroads near closed shops as they
sought to enforce a curfew, even as some residents looked on
from the streets. “We firmly condemn all acts of looting or
vandalism,” Captain Amadou Sanogo, one of the coup leaders,
said in the television address.  ‘Deep Divisions’  “I saw two civilians running and a military soldier
following them with guns shooting in the air,” said Jens
Schwarz, who witnessed the commotion from inside a bank near the
TV station yesterday. “At the crossroads there was a wounded
solider continuing to shoot in the air from the ground. I heard
shooting all around,” he said in an interview today.  “It’s not simply a small mutiny,” David Zounmenou, a
researcher in the African conflict prevention program at the
 Pretoria , South Africa-based Institute for  Security Studies ,
said in a phone interview today. “There are very deep divisions
about how to deal with the insurgency in the north and we could
see some instability while this plays out.”  President Toure is himself a former soldier who in 1991 led
a military coup, before organizing civilian elections. He came
to power in 2002 after winning elections and was due to step
down after next month’s vote, having served two terms in office.  Condemnation  The U.S. said it stands by the legitimately elected
government of Toure and denied reports that the leader had
sought refuge at its embassy in Bamako, according to an e-mailed
statement. Earlier, the Lettre du Continent reported the leader
was there, without saying where it got the information. Toure is
safe at a military camp, the  Associated Press  reported, citing a
ministerial adviser.  African Union Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  said he
“strongly condemns this act of rebellion, which seriously
undermines constitutional legality and constitutes a significant
setback for Mali and for the ongoing democratic processes on the
continent,” according to an e-mailed statement.  The  Economic Community of West African States Commission 
said it “strongly condemns” the mutiny, calling it
“reprehensible,” according to a statement on its website
yesterday.  The clashes between the army and the Touareg rebels forced
tens of thousands of civilians to flee, according to the
International Committee of the Red Cross.  Weapons  The “precarious security situation” in the Sahel desert
in northwest Africa has been “exacerbated” by the return of
fighters who had supported Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
following his death in October, according to a report by United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon to the  Security Council  on
Jan. 18.  Weapons and ammunition from Libyan stockpiles, including
anti-aircraft artillery and explosives, were smuggled into Mali,
Niger and  Burkina Faso , Ban said. Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan last month said arms from  Libya  have also reached his
country’s north and are being used by anti-government militias
there.  Mali is “heavily dependent” on foreign aid and has close
ties with its former colonial power,  France , increasing the
likelihood of international intervention in support of Toure’s
government,  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone from Lagos,  Nigeria .  ‘Threat of Retaliation’  “There is a threat of retaliation coming from abroad as I
don’t think France, the U.S. would like to see the military take
power in Mali,” Gadio said.  Kenyan Foreign Minister Moses Wetangula, who is currently
in Bamako to attend an AU meeting on peace and security, said on
his Facebook page that gunfire could be heard from his hotel in
the city.  Randgold Chief Executive Officer  Mark Bristow  said from
Mali today the company’s mines are unaffected and he expects
future governments to follow “due process.”  AngloGold’s operations “are some distance from Bamako”
and haven’t been affected, company spokesman  Alan Fine  said in
an e-mailed response to questions today.  Illovo Sugar Ltd. (ILV)  said
its presence in Mali isn’t affected by the military action,
according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  