-- Allen Stanford’s Twitter Complaint Fails to Win Retrial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-22T22:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/allen-stanford-s-twitter-complaint-fails-to-win-retrial.html
R. Allen Stanford, found guilty of
running a $7 billion  Ponzi scheme , lost a retrial bid in which
his lawyers argued that Twitter comments by courtroom news
reporters may have influenced the jury that convicted him.  “The defendant’s motion for a new trial is denied,” U.S.
District Judge David Hittner in Houston ruled today without
elaboration in a single-sentence decision.  Stanford, 61, was found guilty on 13 of 14 criminal counts
after a six-week trial in which prosecutors convinced jurors
that he misled investors about what was being done with proceeds
of the certificates of deposit they bought from Stanford
International Bank Ltd. in Antigua.  Stanford is scheduled to be sentenced June 14. The four
wire-fraud charges and five mail-fraud charges he was convicted
of each carry a maximum punishment of 20 years in prison.  Defense lawyers, in a March 20 filing, said journalists’
real-time coverage of the trial on Twitter improperly influenced
the jurors, who had been warned to avoid other forms of media
coverage.  “This court failed to sequester the jury and permitted the
news media to occupy the courtroom during trial and permitted
the media to ‘tweet’ throughout the trial,” attorneys Ali Fazel
and Robert Scardino argued in their filing. They also said they
weren’t given enough time or money to prepare for the trial.  Frozen Assets  Stanford’s assets were frozen in February 2009 after the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued him and the bank. A
federal judge in  Dallas  appointed a receiver to liquidate the
financier’s holdings to repay investors.  Scardino and Fazel were appointed by the court and paid
with public funds.  “We file motions for new trials for many reasons,
including wanting to preserve the record for appellate court,”
Fazel said today in an e-mail. “The next step is sentencing.”  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on today’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  