-- Lanxess Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Brazil, China Demand
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-22T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/lanxess-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-brazil-china-demand.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical
maker spun off from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  in 2005, reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates on higher demand for
synthetic rubber from markets such as Brazil and  China .  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items gained 1.2 percent to 174 million euros ($230
million) in the quarter from a year earlier, the Leverkusen-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted 164.8 million euros.  Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann is expanding capacity
in  Latin America  and  Asia  to maximize growth and is interested
in acquiring small- to medium-sized companies valued at as much
as 1 billion euros, he said in January. The company forecast
first-quarter operating profit to rise to as much as 350 million
euros, it said today.  Fourth-quarter sales gained 16 percent to 2.12 billion
euros and net income dropped 81 percent to 5 million euros,
Lanxess said. Analysts had estimated revenue of 2.08 billion
euros and net income of 24.3 million euros, a Bloomberg survey
showed.  The maker of specialized plastics and tire rubber will
increase its annual dividend payment to 85 cents a share, it
said today. Profit fell in the fourth quarter as the company
wrote down 35 million euros on the value of its inventories
after raw-material prices decreased, especially for butadiene.  The supplier of materials to tiremakers including Pirelli &
C. SpA typically targets markets where it can hold a leading
position. The company spent about 420 million euros on
acquisitions last year. It’s biggest purchases to date are
Petroflex, a Brazilian maker of synthetic rubber for tires,
tubing and plastics bought for $413 million, and DSM Elastomers
BV, acquired for 310 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  