-- Aquarius, Impala Slide as Zimbabwe Accepts Control of Mimosa
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-03-22T17:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/aquarius-impala-slide-as-zimbabwe-accepts-control-of-mimosa-2-.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  dropped the
most in a month in  London  and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  fell
in Johannesburg as Zimbabwe accepted a proposal to hand control
of their Mimosa mine to the state, locals and workers.  Aquarius slid 6.7 percent to 149 pence by the close in
London, the biggest drop since Feb. 24, and Impala sank 0.4
percent. “They have submitted a compliant 51 percent plan,”
Indigenization Minister Saviour Kasukuwere said. “It has since
been submitted to the ministry which has been accepted.”  Zimbabwe, with the largest platinum reserves after  South
Africa , last month gave the two deadlines to comply with a law,
published in a government gazette two years ago, demanding they
cede 51 percent of Mimosa as well as Impala’s Zimplats unit.
This month Impala agreed in principle to sell 51 percent of
Zimplats at a price that hasn’t yet been decided.  Under the Mimosa proposals, 10 percent will go to the local
community, 10 percent to employees, 6 percent to the  Public
Service Commission  and the rest to the National Indigenization
Economic and Empowerment Board, Kasukuwere said.  Mimosa is on the Zimbabwean Great Dyke east of Bulawayo and
in the year through June 30, 2010, produced 101,200 ounces of
platinum in concentrate. The mine is owned by Mimosa Investments
Ltd., a Mauritius-based company held by Impala and Aquarius.  Aquarius will make an announcement when it gets a formal
response from the government, Gavin Mackay, the miner’s business
development director, said by mobile phone from London today.  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman for Impala, didn’t immediately
respond to messages left on his office phone by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  