-- Argentine Senate Passes Bill to Change Central Bank Charter
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-22T04:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/argentine-senate-passes-bill-to-change-central-bank-charter-1-.html
Argentina ’s  Senate  approved changes
to the central bank charter that allows the government unlimited
use of the bank’s  reserves  to pay debt, a move that economists
say could stoke inflation already running above 20 percent.  The 71-member upper house passed the bill proposed March 1
by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  after a five-hour
session. The lower house approved the proposal last week.  The charter changes eliminate the requirement that  reserves 
must equal or exceed the monetary base, which had been part of
the so-called Convertibility law that pegged the peso at a one-
to-one rate to the dollar from 1991 to 2002. The bank will also
be able to boost lending to the Treasury to help the government
finance its budget gap, said opposition Senator Laura Montero in
an interview before the vote.  “There will be a clear mandate from the Treasury on the
central bank to finance the country’s deficit,” Montero, a
member of the Senate’s Economy Committee, said in a telephone
interview. “The bank will respond by printing more money amidst
a strong inflationary process that the bank doesn’t even
acknowledge.”  The change to the charter that allows increased lending
means the government can take loans of about 55 billion pesos in
2012, Montero said, as the bank will be permitted to lend the
federal government as much as 20 percent of the cash resources
it had in the previous 12 months from 10 percent previously.  While consumer prices rose 23 percent in February from a
year earlier, according to an average estimate of private
economists released by opposition lawmakers, the country’s
statistics agency reported that prices rose 9.7 percent.  Budget, Debt  South America ’s second-biggest economy posted a 2.7
billion-peso  budget deficit  in January and February, a record in
data going back to 2000, after spending jumped 34 percent last
month from a year earlier while revenue increased 30 percent.  The budget gap will rise to about 3 percent of  gross
domestic product  this year from an estimated 1.8 percent last
year, according to Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  The government has used $16.2 billion of reserves since
2010 to pay the country’s debt as Argentina has been blocked
from international credit markets since its 2001 default on $95
billion in bonds. Fernandez plans to use $5.7 billion this year
to pay debt.  Central bank reserves stood at $47.3 billion yesterday,
down from as high as $52.6 billion in January 2011. Bank
President Mercedes Marco del Pont said that the use of reserves
to pay debt is “convenient” for the country.  ‘Logic’  “We seek to break a logic that no longer exists in
Argentina, which is the convertibility logic,” Marco del Pont
said on March 7 in an almost five-hour presentation to
committees of deputies in  Buenos Aires . “There’s no reason that
the proper reserves level should be related to the monetary base.
The level of reserves should be related to what happens in the
external sector that guarantees the administration of the
 exchange rate .”  The changes also include a requirement that policy makers
take into consideration financial stability and economic
development in addition to maintaining the value of the currency.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 4.3665 per dollar from
4.3638 yesterday and has depreciated 1.5 percent in 2012, the
only decline among seven major Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  