-- Hartford Fails to Satisfy Paulson With Plan to Shrink
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/hartford-fails-to-satisfy-paulson-with-plan-to-shrink.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , facing investor
pressure to break up the insurer, failed to satisfy billionaire
shareholder  John Paulson  with his plan to shrink the company.  McGee didn’t address Hartford’s “main problem” with his
announcement yesterday of a strategy to shut or sell parts of
the 201-year-old insurer, Paulson’s hedge fund Paulson & Co.
said in a statement. McGee’s plan, which Hartford said concluded
its strategic review, was only a “first step,” Paulson said.  McGee is working to revive his company after losses on
equity-linked variable annuities led to a taxpayer bailout in
2009. Paulson is pushing McGee to attract investors to
Hartford’s business that sells home and property policies by
separating it from operations that are hampered by wrong-way
bets on stock markets in Japan and the U.S.  “There’s a little bit of cat and mouse here,” said Dan Theriault, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC with an
“outperform” rating on Hartford shares. McGee “threw Paulson
a bone and kind of bought Hartford some time.”  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
 surged  more than 7 percent to $23.29 before retreating after
McGee outlined the plan in a conference call with analysts. It
ended yesterday with an advance of more than 1.4 percent.
Hartford dropped 39 percent last year and trades at the lowest
price relative to net assets among U.S. insurers with a market
value greater than $5 billion.  Seeking Buyers  Hartford said it will stop selling individual annuities and
seek buyers for its individual-life, Woodbury Financial Services
and retirement-plan operations. McGee, whose strategic planning
was criticized by Paulson during a conference call last month,
will maintain property and casualty, group benefits and mutual
funds as well as liabilities tied to annuities.  Hartford may get about $1.5 billion from the sale of the
individual-life, Woodbury and 401-K businesses, according to
estimates published yesterday by  Meyer Shields  of Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. That values the life business at about $1
billion, with a price-to-earnings ratio of 7, Shields wrote.  “Implied in management discussion is that the company will
pursue other avenues, including separation, if their attempt to
eliminate the drag from the variable-annuity runoff isn’t
successful,” said Jon Bosse, chief investment officer at NWQ
Investment Management Co., which owns more than 5 percent of
Hartford. “The company would have made a much more powerful
statement if they had explicitly made that commitment.”  Hartford Undervalued  “We do not believe today’s actions will materially
increase P&C investor interest,” said Paulson & Co., which owns
about 8.5 percent of the insurer. “While we appreciate the
extensive work of The Hartford’s board and management, we do not
believe the positive actions announced today address the main
problem with The Hartford’s undervaluation.”  Shannon Lapierre , a spokeswoman for Hartford, declined to
comment on Paulson’s statement.  Paulson started buying Hartford shares in the third quarter
of 2009 as investment declines and annuity slumps were pushing
the company to its fifth consecutive net loss. McGee, a former
Bank of America Corp. executive, was hired to start as CEO the
next quarter. He returned the insurer to profit and issued stock
and debt in 2010 to repay a $3.4 billion U.S. bailout that had
been accepted by his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer .  Paulson, who had his worst year on record in 2011 after
making billions of dollars from anticipating the collapse of the
U.S. subprime market, needs Hartford to reach about $24.71 a
share to recoup his investment, filings to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg showed
last month.  Target Prices  The highest target price among analysts tracked by
Bloomberg was $30 a share by Alan Devlin of Atlantic Equities
LLP. The lowest was from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
at $22.  “We believe we have the right plan that we announced this
morning to deliver enhanced  shareholder value ,” McGee said in
response to a question from analyst  Jay Gelb  of Barclays Plc on
whether the strategy may lead to the spinoff that Paulson
advocates. Proceeds from any transactions may be used to
decrease debt, reduce risk tied to annuities previously sold and
to invest in the business, McGee said.  While selling the units may benefit Hartford in the short
term, the company risks getting low prices for its undervalued
assets amid the early stages of an economic recovery, according
to Eric Berg, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  “We question whether it will make sense to exit these
businesses when valuations are depressed and when the economy
seems to be gaining,” Berg wrote yesterday in a note to
clients. “We cannot help but wonder: Would Hartford have made
the same moves if Mr. Paulson was not on the scene?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  