-- Massachusetts Pension Fund Moves Toward Bidding BNY Contract
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-03-22T20:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/massachusetts-pension-fund-moves-toward-bidding-bny-contract.html
Massachusetts , which has accused
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  of overcharging its public pension
fund on foreign-exchange transactions, moved toward putting the
contract out to bid.  The pension fund’s audit committee today recommended that
the state seek new bids on the $2.7 million a year contract held
by BNY Mellon even though the current agreement doesn’t expire
until June 2014. The $50 billion fund’s full board could take up
the matter as early as April, Massachusetts Treasurer Stephen Grossman said in a telephone interview.  “It’s been quite a while since we tested the market,”
Grossman said. Asked if there was a link between the decision to
seek new bids and the state’s dispute with  BNY Mellon , Grossman
said, “I will let people draw their own conclusions.”  Secretary of the Commonwealth  William Galvin  in October
said the New York-based bank used “a hidden scheme” to
maximize profits in foreign-exchange transactions at the cost of
pensioners. Grossman said in June that the bank overcharged the
state’s public pension system by $30.5 million since 2000.  BNY Mellon has been sued by states including  New York  and
Virginia over the same issue. The bank, the world’s largest
custodian, has denied the charges, saying it provided customers
with competitive prices on foreign-exchange services.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Ohio Pensions  Ohio Treasurer Josh Mandel this week said BNY Mellon and
Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)  are being replaced as custodians
of international investments for four state pension funds.  BNY Mellon was sued March 12 by Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine for allegedly overcharging on foreign-exchange
transactions. State Street, the third-biggest custody bank, is
being sued by states including California and Arkansas for its
foreign-exchange practices.  Massachusetts last year picked Russell Implementation
Services to handle some small foreign-exchange transactions for
its pension fund after Russell offered to do the job for a lower
price than either BNY Mellon or State Street. Russell is a unit
of Seattle-based Russell Investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  