-- AT&T Accused of Billing U.S. for Nigerian Fraud Calls
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-22T19:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/at-t-accused-of-improperly-billing-u-s-program-for-deaf-1-.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  got more than $16 million
from the U.S. government to offer a calling service for the deaf
that the company knew was being used by Nigerian fraudsters to
steal from American merchants, the  Justice Department  said.  The U.S., which intervened yesterday in a whistle-blower
lawsuit in federal court in Pittsburgh, alleges AT&T allowed an
Internet-based phone system to be overrun by criminals and then
improperly billed the U.S. to reimburse the calls in violation
of the  False Claims Act .  As many as 95 percent of the calls in AT&T’s hearing-
impaired program were made by people outside the U.S. attempting
to defraud merchants through the use of stolen credit cards,
counterfeit checks and money orders, according to the complaint.  “Federal funding for Telecommunications Relay Services is
intended to help the hearing- and speech-impaired in the  United
States ,” Stuart Delery, acting assistant attorney general for
the Justice Department’s civil division, said today in a
statement. “We will pursue those who seek to gain by knowingly
allowing others to abuse this program.”  The government is seeking triple damages.  Marty Richter, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, said in a
statement that the company followed rules set by the Federal
Communications Commission for providing Internet Protocol Relay
services and for seeking reimbursement for those services.  Complete All Calls  “As the FCC is aware, it is always possible for an
individual to misuse IP Relay services, just as someone can
misuse the postal system or an e-mail account, but FCC rules
require that we complete all calls by customers who identify
themselves as disabled,” Richter said.  Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, said IP Relay
practices are a “serious problem” that the commission is
continuing to investigate.  The case stems from services mandated under the Americans
with Disabilities Act that require carriers to provide voice
telephone services for hearing or speech-impaired callers.
Carriers, like AT&T, employ intermediaries who relay real-time
conversations between the hearing and hearing-impaired callers.  So-called IP Relay, is a text-based form of the service
that allows the hearing-impaired person to type  text messages 
that the operator reads to the call’s recipient.  Government Reimbursement  The service is free to hearing-impaired callers and
carriers can seek reimbursement for calls originating in the
U.S. at $1.30 a minute through a fund administered by the FCC.  Since its inception in 2002, the anonymity provided by the
IP Relay program has been abused by criminals outside the U.S.,
according to the lawsuit. AT&T in 2004, after getting complaints
from merchants, determined the Internet Protocol addresses of 10
of the top 12 users of the service were abroad, primarily in
Lagos,  Nigeria , the government said.  In late 2008, the FCC required that providers certify that
callers are eligible for the program by verifying the user’s
name and mailing address before issuing a 10-digit telephone
number, according to the lawsuit.  AT&T implemented a plan that mailed postcards to the
addresses of users. Those who returned the card received a 10-
digit number. Between April 2009 and September 2009, AT&T had
registered just 20 percent of its existing users.  Company Projections  AT&T managers were concerned they would fall short of
company projections for program minutes and related revenue,
according to the lawsuit.  “We are expecting a serious decline in [internet relay]
traffic because fraud will go to zero (at least temporarily) and
we haven’t registered nearly enough customers to pick up the
slack,” Burt Bossi, a manager of AT&T’s technical team, said to
other managers on Sept. 22, 2009, according to the complaint.  The following month, AT&T changed its registration system
from a postcard one to an Internet one where users’ addresses
are compared to those on a database called DASH to determine
whether the address provided exists. Registrations immediately
increased to 40 to 100 a day, the government alleges.  By the end of October 2009, AT&T managers were aware that
credit card scams were being conducted by new users, the lawsuit
alleges.  “This is a consequence of easing registration
restrictions,” Dave Claus, a technical manager, said in an e-
mail to colleagues cited in the complaint.  At the beginning of 2011, AT&T noted that for 2010 the
company had the highest call volume ever in the program,
according to the complaint.  The case is Lyttle v. AT&T Communications of  Pennsylvania ,
10-01376, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 