-- Internet Providers Urged to Add Cybersecurity on Home PCs
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-03-22T17:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/at-t-urged-by-u-s-to-step-up-cybersecurity-on-home-pcs.html
Internet-service providers led by
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  are being urged by U.S. regulators
to help users fend off malicious software that can turn home
computers into stealthy weapons for criminal enterprises.  “Cyber attacks pose a very real threat” and companies are
acting to fight them,  Julius Genachowski , chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission, said as he endorsed
recommendations in a voluntary code of conduct formed by an
advisory committee to the agency.  Companies need to detect the malicious software, known as
botnets, and help educate and notify consumers, according to a
conduct code adopted today by the advisory group called the
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability
Council.  Participants  include largest U.S. telephone company
AT&T and No. 2  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , leading cable
provider Comcast, and Walt Disney Co.’s ABC television network.  The council urged that companies adopt practices to thwart
the hijacking of Internet traffic to unintended destinations,
and to prevent posting of fake Web pages that lure consumers to
counterfeit sites that seem authentic, the council said.  Company Response  “AT&T is already fulfilling the recommendations in the
reports,” Bob Quinn, senior vice president of federal
regulatory and chief privacy officer, said in a  blog posting .
Security solutions require participation from companies “across
the entire Internet ecosystem” including software vendors,
operating system developers and providers of content, Quinn
said.  Today’s recommendations “represent best practices that
recognize the importance of companies having the freedom and
flexibility to respond decisively” against atttacks, Stuart Elby, Verizon vice president of corporate technology, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Comcast Chief Network Officer John Schanz said in an e-
mailed statement that one of the best aspects of today’s
recommendations is “emphasis on timely, industry-led,
consensus-based solutions, rather than government mandates.”  Provider Opposition  The push for comprehensive cybersecurity legislation has
intensified following attacks last year on companies including
New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, and Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense company.  Internet-service providers including AT&T and Comcast
opposed new regulations protecting computer networks from hacker
attacks at a House hearing this month. The companies said they
prefer voluntary sharing of information about cyber threats.  The Obama administration is backing a Senate bill
introduced Feb. 14 by Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut
Independent, that directs the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security  to set rules for companies deemed critical to U.S.
economic and national security to improve their computer
defenses.  A competing bill from eight Republicans including Senators
 John McCain  of Arizona and Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  would
avoid new regulations while promoting information-sharing
through incentives such as protection from lawsuits.  Increased Spending  Cable and telephone companies, which operate networks that
form the backbone of the Internet, would need to boost average
annual spending on security almost six-fold to raise their
attack-prevention rate to an ideal level of 95 percent from the
current 76 percent, according to a Bloomberg Government study.  The figures mean increasing average annual security
expenditures per company to $398 million from the current $67
million, according to the study. The Bloomberg study was based
on a survey of technology managers at seven telecommunications
companies conducted by the Ponemon Institute LLC, a Traverse
City, Michigan-based research firm.  The Senate bill is S. 2105. The Lieberman bill is S. 2105
and the McCain bill is S. 2151.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  