-- Audit Rotation, M.D. Sass Probe, MF Global: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-22T12:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/audit-rotation-m-d-sass-probe-mf-global-subpoena-compliance.html
Senior executives of Ernst & Young
LLP, KPMG LLP and other large accounting firms said regulators
should back away from a proposal that public companies be
required to rotate their auditors.  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board , the
nonprofit that regulates auditors of U.S.-listed companies, is
weighing mandatory  term limits  to combat auditor bias toward
longtime clients. Chief executives and other leading officials
at the so-called Big Four firms criticized the rotation proposal
yesterday at a meeting in Washington, arguing it would hurt the
quality of audits.  Stephen R. Howe, managing partner of Ernst & Young in the
U.S., in remarks submitted to the board pointed out that most of
the 630 comment letters to the PCAOB were against rotation. He
said the change would cause higher costs and disruptions.  Auditor rotation is one of several ideas under debate at
the PCAOB -- a watchdog overseen by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission after being established by the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act in the wake of the collapse of  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ)   PCAOB Chairman James R. Doty has repeatedly pointed to the
dangers of auditing firms getting too comfortable with clients
they’ve retained for decades.  The accounting firms -- including Deloitte LLP,  KPMG  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP -- contend the rotation proposal is
burdensome and unnecessary.  Compliance Policy  Bill Easing Capital Laws Advances Over Opposition in U.S. Senate  The U.S. Senate will vote today on a measure to ease
securities laws for closely-held firms as well as amendments to
strengthen protections in the bill for investors.  A day after postponing a final vote on legislation due to
objections from Democrats, lawmakers voted 76-22 yesterday in
favor of a procedural motion setting up today’s votes. The
amendments, should they be adopted, would be the first changes
to the bill since it passed by a wide majority in the House
earlier this month.  Even with the support of President  Barack Obama  and more
than 150 Democrats in the House, the measure unexpectedly slowed
as Senate Democrats pushed to add amendments forcing major
changes to the bill. Proponents say the legislation would allow
closely held firms to more easily raise capital and present more
opportunities for startup companies to go public.  Senators debated the House measure this week amid
opposition from Securities and Exchange Commission Chairwoman
Mary L. Schapiro, consumer and investor advocates, and pension
funds. The measure would undo a ban on closely held firms
soliciting investments, increase the number of investors they
can have, and exempt newly public companies with less than $1
billion in revenue from some reporting requirements of the Dodd-
Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley laws.  Lawmakers also will consider changes to the so-called
crowdfunding exemption created by the bill, or the exemption
from SEC rules for startups that use the Internet or social
media platforms to solicit and pool small dollar investments in
their companies.  For more, click here.  FDIC Extends Comment Period on Portion of Dodd Frank to April 30  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has extended the
comment period on implementing part of the Dodd-Frank Act to
April 30, according to a statement.  The portion of the measure in question would require non-
member banks and savings associations with more than $10 billion
in consolidated assets to conduct annual stress tests, the
agency said. The deadline had been set to expire tomorrow,
according to a notice in the Federal Register yesterday
announcing the extension.  Separately, the FDIC, responding to requests from industry
groups, proposed changing the way banks evaluate assets for the
purpose of calculating payments to the regulator’s insurance
fund.  FDIC board members voted unanimously at a meeting in
 Washington  March 20 to seek comment on an update to a rule that
shifts the burden for protecting depositors against bank
failures to larger lenders. The rule, which took effect last
year, bases fees on liabilities rather than domestic deposits.  Banks said the 2011 rule made it difficult to report
liabilities because it sought data they weren’t collecting. The
proposal released March 20 would let banks report liabilities
using available data, and change the way subprime and leveraged
loans are defined. It would also raise the risk-assessment
threshold for some loans to $5 million from $1 million and
exclude some loans secured by liquid collateral.  The revisions could change the amount individual banks pay,
though the overall amount collected by the FDIC wouldn’t be
affected, according to staff members. The changes, which are
subject to a final vote, would take effect Oct. 1.  MSRB to Show Inter-Dealer Yield Data on EMMA Website  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board said it received
regulatory approval to begin displaying inter-dealer yield data
on the Electronic Municipal Market Access website.  Inter-dealer yields will be displayed on the website
beginning April 30, the MSRB said yesterday in a statement. The
board said it was granted approval from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission March 20.  Compliance Action  Chevron, Transocean Managers Face Brazil Criminal Charges  Seventeen  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  executives were
charged with environmental crimes for an oil leak off Rio de
Janeiro’s coast.  The companies took risks when drilling at Chevron’s
offshore Frade field, used faulty equipment and failed to avoid
or counter spills, the federal prosecutor’s office said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The field will keep leaking oil and
shouldn’t be used again for safety reasons, Eduardo Santos, the
Federal prosecutor investigating the case, said at a press
conference in Rio yesterday.  George Buck, head of Chevron in  Brazil , and other
executives were charged with obstructing a probe. Prosecutors
are seeking prison sentences of as much as 31 years for the
executives.  “Chevron will vigorously defend the company and its
employees,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, adding that the charges are “outrageous.”  The 3,000-barrel slick at Chevron’s $3.6 billion Frade
project in November occurred at a time Brazil is increasing
scrutiny of deep-water drilling following the 2010 Macondo spill
in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico . Both Chevron and Transocean said the
charges are “without merit.”  “We strongly disagree with the indictment,” Transocean
Corporate Communications Director  Guy Cantwell  said in an e-mail
today. “We will vigorously defend our company, our people, our
reputation and our quality of services.”  Chevron, the second-biggest U.S. oil company by market
value, suspended production in Brazil last week after
identifying a second leak at the Frade area.  For more, click here.  Japan Regulator Seeks Court Approval to Raid AIJ, Officials Say  Japan ’s securities watchdog is seeking approval from a
 Tokyo  court to search  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. ’s premises to
deepen a two-month probe, two government officials with
knowledge of the matter said.  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission personnel
may raid AIJ offices as early as tomorrow as investigators seek
evidence showing the extent of the involvement of brokerage  ITM
Securities Co. (ITEMSCZ) , the officials said, declining to be identified
since the matter is private. The regulator will also disclose
some details about how AIJ invested the funds, one of the
officials said.  AIJ, based in Tokyo, was suspended for a month ending
tomorrow after it couldn’t account for most of the 185.3 billion
yen ($2.2 billion) it managed for clients as of March 2011. The
SESC is probing whether AIJ President Kazuhiko Asakawa hid
assets in secret bank accounts, one of the officials said. The
watchdog will tomorrow report the latest figures for AIJ’s cash
holdings, deposits and assets held in Cayman Island-registered
investment funds, the official said, without providing specific
details of the results of the investigation.  Two phone calls to AIJ’s office in Tokyo were directed to
an automated recording that didn’t take messages. Toshiharu
Mashita, a spokesman for the FSA, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  M.D. Sass Participated in Tax Lien Sale Being Probed by U.S.  M.D. Sass Investors Services Inc., a closely held manager
of more than $5 billion, participated in an auction of  New
Jersey  tax liens that has come under the scrutiny of U.S.
antitrust investigators probing rigged sales.  A representative of M.D. Sass, whose tax-lien funds have as
much as $110 million in assets, was among seven bidders vying
for liens in the New Jersey borough of Newfield, according to
records of a March 5, 2007, auction. Three people associated
with the seven bidders pleaded guilty to antitrust charges and
are cooperating with prosecutors. The  Justice Department 
subpoenaed records of the auction on Feb. 15. M.D. Sass hasn’t
been accused of wrongdoing.  The U.S. records request comes amid a widening probe into
rigged liens sales in New Jersey. Since August, five men have
pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges. The guilty pleas were to
an overall conspiracy and not to the particular auction in
Newfield, 35 miles south of Philadelphia.  Units of Royal Bank America, which operates branches in
 Pennsylvania  and New Jersey, co-owned lien-buying firms with one
of the men admitting guilt. The units are subjects of the probe,
regulatory filings show. Royal Bank America is a unit of  Royal
Bancshares of Pennsylvania Inc.   “M.D. Sass companies have no comment on any activity or
investigation that may be under way at the Department of
Justice,” Mark Rotert, a lawyer for the New York-based firm,
said in an e-mail.  The firm says on its website that it is “committed” to
complying with antitrust laws.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the U.S. investigation.  For more, click here.  Nomura Said to Be Involved in Insider-Trading Case Tied to Inpex  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest brokerage, was
involved in an insider-trading case connected to  Inpex Corp. (1605) ’s
2010 share sale, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co. (MATNBZ)  obtained non-public
information from an employee of one of the lead underwriters on
Inpex’s offering, Japan’s  Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission  said in a statement March 20.  “Nomura expresses its regret, and will continue to
cooperate fully in the investigation,” the Tokyo-based
securities firm said in a  statement  on its website, without
explicitly confirming its role in the case. Nomura was a global
coordinator on the 507 billion yen ($6 billion) sale.  Japanese regulators have been studying trading surrounding
equity offerings, responding to criticism from investors who
allege leaks on financing plans are eroding confidence in the
stock market. The case follows the Financial Services Agency’s
suspension of AIJ Investment Advisors Co. after more than $2
billion in its pension-fund assets was found to be missing.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Hearings  Gensler Wants 50 Percent More CFTC Money for Dodd-Frank Work  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, regulator of
the $708 trillion global swaps market, needs a 50 percent budget
increase to $308 million to meet its duties under the Dodd-Frank
Act, said CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler .  Gensler said in remarks prepared for a Senate
appropriations subcommittee hearing yesterday that the agency
needs the funds because it is being asked to oversee the swaps
markets, “which is eight times the size of the futures markets.
And we need more referees to protect the players.”  Gensler, who wants to spend about a third of the requested
budget -- $96.2 million -- on technology, said budget
constraints have meant his agency has been able to meet only 57
percent of its performance targets, examining fewer derivatives
clearing organizations than planned and creating a backlog of
contract reviews.  The CFTC’s budget has been the focus of a debate between
Democrats seeking additional resources and Republicans trying to
reduce the agency’s spending as part of a broader effort to rein
in deficits.  MF Global’s O’Brien Subpoenaed by Lawmakers for House Hearing  A U.S. House panel voted to subpoena  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ)  executive Edith O’Brien to testify at a March 28 hearing on
the collapse of the New York-based futures brokerage and a $1.6-
billion shortfall in customer funds.  The House Financial Services  oversight and investigations 
subcommittee moved by voice vote yesterday at a meeting in
Washington to compel testimony from O’Brien, who was identified
by former MF Global Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine as
someone with knowledge of a transfer of funds from customer
accounts before the company sought bankruptcy protection on Oct.
31.  In addition to O’Brien, two other MF Global executives --
North America chief financial officer Christine Serwinski and
general counsel Laurie Ferber -- are also scheduled to appear,
according to a person briefed on the matter who declined to be
identified because the schedule isn’t public. Henri Steenkamp,
the firm’s chief financial officer, is also scheduled to
testify, the person said.  Cosgrove Says Uncertainty Remains About Health-Care Law  Delos Cosgrove, chief executive officer of  Cleveland Clinic
Health Systems , talked with Bloomberg’s Megan Hughes about
President Barack Obama’s health-care law and its impact on the
clinic.  The U.S. Supreme Court will hold three days of arguments
next week to determine the fate of the Affordable Care Act,
which would extend insurance to about 32 million people.  For the video, click here.  Tarullo Says Regulators Need to Weigh Volcker Rule Objections  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said U.S.
regulators must weigh objections raised by banks and governments
to restrictions on proprietary trading under the Dodd Frank Act
overhauling financial supervision.  “U.S. regulators will need to carefully consider the
concerns that have been raised and the broader international
implications of the Volcker rule as we work to finalize our
implementing rules,” Tarullo said  in testimony  he plans to
deliver to the Senate Banking Committee today. The central bank
released his comments yesterday.  The regulation, named for its original champion, former Fed
Chairman Paul Volcker, is one of the most contentious provisions
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  Officials from  Canada , Japan, the U.K. and the European
Banking Federation have said in letters to U.S. regulators that
the measure would impede global liquidity and harm international
cooperation.  Dodd-Frank requires that the ban on proprietary trading
take effect by July 21, even if rule-making is still in
progress.  Comings and Goings  Henneberry Leaves Orrick For Bingham, Law Firm Says  Edward (Ted) Henneberry has left  Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP  and joined  Bingham McCutchen LLP  as a partner,
according to a statement by Bingham yesterday.  Henneberry is a partner of the firm, Lauren M. Nyren, a
spokesperson for the firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  Henneberry joins the firm’s Antitrust and Trade Regulation
Practice Group and will work from the Washington and London
offices of the firm, according to the statement. His practice
focuses on antitrust and international competition law,
“particularly on cross-border mergers,” the firm said in the
statement.  Previously, Henneberry was a member of the  Irish
Competition Authority  from 2003 to 2006, and was a Director of
Mergers and Cartel Enforcement divisions, Bingham said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 