-- Mauritius Futures Exchange’s Trade Sales Increase 38% in Year
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-03-22T07:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/mauritius-futures-exchange-s-trade-sales-increase-38-in-year.html
Global Board of Trade Ltd. , a
Mauritian-based foreign-currency and commodity-futures exchange
platform, said volumes grew 38 percent in the past year as it
attracts interest from countries including  South Africa  and
Cyprus.  Average daily sales on the exchange increased to $30.8
million last month from $22.3 million a year earlier, the Ebene,
Mauritius-based company said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. Potential investors in Kenya and Dubai have
also expressed an interest in trading on the exchange,  Managing
Director Joseph Bosco said in an interview.  “The high demand of trading on an exchange in comparison
to over the counter has made the GBOT traded commodities and
currencies highly attractive to the international trading
community,” he said on March 15.  GBOT, as the company is known, is owned by the  Financial
Technologies  ( India ) Ltd. It began operations in October 2010,
trading gold and silver contracts, together with rupee-dollar,
euro, rand, pound sterling and yen futures against the U.S.
currency. The platform, which required an initial investment of
$50 million, currently has about 20 international and domestic
companies as members.  “We have customized our contracts to smaller lot sizes in
order to equip the smaller retail participant to benefit from
the futures market along with the large institutional
participants,” Bosco said. “The most popular contract on GBOT
are gold and euro/dollar other commodities and currency pairs
progressively gaining momentum”.  Contract sizes for euro-dollar begin at 12,500 euros. Gold
dealings start at 32 ounces and 1,000 ounces for silver.  International organizations are attracted by Mauritius’s
“investor friendly environment” that includes a double-tax-
avoidance agreement with most of the world’s “leading”
emerging economies, Bosco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  