-- Tax Panel Chairmen Show Sign of Deal Making Amid Gridlock
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/tax-panel-chairmen-show-sign-of-deal-making-amid-gridlock.html
In a Congress obstructed by
political divides, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  and Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  are
starting to develop a record of deals both parties can support.  Camp, a  Michigan (BEESMI)  Republican, took over the House tax-
writing panel in January 2011 and has maneuvered around fiscal
battles to reach agreements with Baucus of  Montana , his Senate
Democratic counterpart. Aided by their work, Congress extended a
payroll tax cut last month, sent three long-stalled trade deals
to Obama in October and repealed a tax requirement in the
health-care overhaul last April.  Those are minor accomplishments compared with the work that
awaits them at the end of the year. On Dec. 31, the 2001 and
2003 income-tax cuts and the payroll tax reduction will expire.  In the lame-duck session that Congress will convene after
the November election, lawmakers also must decide the fate of
the estate tax, other expired tax breaks and whether to shield
millions of Americans from the spread of the alternative minimum
tax. Meanwhile, the U.S. will again approach the $16.4 trillion
debt ceiling late in the year.  Lawmakers in both chambers said they are starting to have
some optimism that the tax-panel chairmen’s emerging
relationship will lead to other fiscal-policy accords.  “As difficult as the payroll discussion was, the end of
the year will be much tougher so we’ll need all the help we can
get,” Senator  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania Democrat on the House-
Senate panel that resolved the payroll impasse, said in an
interview. “That relationship will help in December.”  160 Million Workers  Camp was chairman of the payroll conference committee. The
deal with Baucus to extend the tax cut for 160 million U.S.
workers through 2012 may help regain some trust in Congress,
said Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat.  A Gallup poll last month found that the public approval
rating for Congress fell to 10 percent, a record low. Gallup
released a March 8-11 poll yesterday that showed Congress’s
approval rating at 12 percent.  “If you start getting some confidence, as we did on the
conference committee, that shows a working relationship and that
we’re listening to each other, that is how the process is
supposed to work,” Cardin, also a member of the House-Senate
panel, said in an interview.  Camp, 58, and Baucus, 70, still have plenty of
disagreements, especially on issues that reflect their parties’
ideological divide over taxes and spending. They were members of
the congressional supercommittee that in November couldn’t come
to an accord on a  deficit -reduction strategy. Unless Congress
acts, that will result in $1.2 trillion in cuts to defense and
other spending in January.  Deadlock in December  Last month’s debate over the payroll  tax cut  would have
been unnecessary if congressional leaders had resolved the issue
before the tax break almost expired at the end of 2011. That
deadlock resulted in a two-month extension that kicked the issue
into February.  Camp and Baucus were members of the president’s 2010 fiscal
commission and both opposed the panel leaders’ proposal. Camp
said he rejected it because it called for tax increases. He is
among 236 House Republicans who have signed anti-tax advocate
Grover Norquist’s pledge not to raise taxes.  Baucus voted against the plan because he said it would hurt
rural residents by raising taxes on gasoline and cutting some
farm programs.  Representatives for Baucus and Camp declined to comment for
this story.  Tea Party  Striking more accords will require Camp to help assemble
measures that can survive in the Democratic-controlled Senate
without alienating Tea Party-backed Republicans in his chamber.  Camp so far has struggled to unite his conference, said
 Clint Stretch , managing principal of  tax policy  at Deloitte Tax
LLP. Still, he said in an interview, “When the conference knows
where it wants to go, the leadership of Ways and Means is very
good at knowing how to get them there.”  Camp is aided by a close relationship with House Speaker
 John Boehner  of  Ohio , who has placed Camp at the center of tax
and budget battles and has publicly backed his efforts.  “Chairman Camp has done a terrific job taking the lead on
some of the toughest challenges Congress has faced over the past
year and the speaker certainly appreciates it,”  Michael Steel ,
a Boehner spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Camp often seeks to build support for a deal by reminding
fellow Republicans of his effort to maintain party principles.
Some Republicans were reluctant to back the payroll tax cut
extension because it will add $89.3 billion to the deficit over
10 years, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Unemployment Benefits  Camp reminded them that the measure also gradually reduces
the number of weeks the  unemployed  can claim government
benefits, said Representative Patrick Tiberi, an Ohio Republican
on the Ways and Means panel.  “He said: ‘Hey, we have to deal with  Harry Reid  and
Senator Baucus and a president who has different views,’”
Tiberi said of Camp’s comments to  House Republicans , referring
to the Senate majority leader. “He said: ‘We’re going to get
the best deal we can but we have to get 218 votes in the House,
enough votes in the Senate and a president who will sign it.’ I
think he’s done a good job negotiating on our behalf.”  Camp grew up in Midland, Michigan, near Lake Huron and
about 120 miles northwest of  Detroit . The district, which he won
with 66.2 percent of the vote in 2010, stretches through rural
areas to Traverse City, a resort town near  Lake Michigan . He was
first elected to the House in 1990, the same year as Boehner.  Campaigning for Romney  After Camp secured the payroll tax cut deal in February, he
returned to  Michigan  to campaign for Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , who needed a win in the state to bolster
his bid for the party’s nomination.  Camp and Romney have similar visions for a revised  tax
code . Both would lower the top corporate rate to 25 percent from
35 percent. Romney would reduce the maximum individual rate to
28 percent from 35 percent while Camp would cut it to 25
percent. Camp and Romney haven’t specified which tax breaks they
would eliminate to cover the cost of lowering rates.  Romney won the Michigan primary on Feb. 28 and carried
Camp’s home county of Midland.  Camp’s support of Romney and the similarities in their tax
proposals has led some to say that Camp might become part of a
Romney administration if he wins the presidential election, said
 Bill Ballenger , the publisher of Lansing-based Inside Michigan
Politics, a nonpartisan publication. He said Camp might achieve
more by pursuing his proposed tax overhaul from his Ways and
Means perch.  “He’s at the apogee of his influence and prestige,”
Ballenger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  