-- Philippine Stocks: Bank of Philippine Islands, Lepanto, Metro
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-03-22T07:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ayala-land-bpi-sm-investments-philippine-stocks-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual  moves in  Philippine (PASHR)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in  Manila .  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 0.1 percent to
5,043.52, its first gain in four days.  Bank of the Philippine Islands  (BPI PM), the nation’s
biggest bank by market value, increased 2.7 percent to 75.45
pesos, the steepest advance since March 13. The bank’s lending
grew 16 percent in the first two months of the year, compared
with a 12 percent forecast in the near term, a stock exchange
filing showed in response to a Philippine Daily Inquirer report.  Lepanto Consolidated Mining Co.’s Class B shares  (LCB PM),
which have no ownership restrictions, jumped 6.5 percent to 1.63
pesos, the most since Nov. 22.  Its Class A shares  (LC PM), which
are reserved for Filipinos, gained 5.6 percent to 1.52 pesos.  Gold Fields Ltd. said it completed the purchase of a 40
percent stake in the company’s Far Southeast project. Gold
Fields also plans to buy an additional 20 percent in the project
from Lepanto and expects to complete this purchase in the second
half of the year, it said in a statement.  Metro Pacific Investments Corp. (MPI)   rose 4.2 percent
to 4.18 pesos, the largest increase since March 15. A toll-road
project that the government plans to open for bidding may
receive funding from investors of a casino complex being built
in Manila, ABS-CBN News reported, citing Public Works Secretary
Rogelio Singson. The toll road is one of the state projects that
Metro Pacific plans to bid for, the company said in January.
Metro Pacific President Jose Lim couldn’t be reached in his
office for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  