-- Mayor Bloomberg Donates $220 Million to Fight Smoking Abroad
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/mayor-bloomberg-donates-220-million-to-fight-smoking-overseas.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
who fought for anti-smoking legislation in the city, said he
would donate $220 million to help reduce tobacco use in  China ,
 India  and elsewhere in the developing world.  Bloomberg has already pledged money to target the  low- and
middle-income countries  where, according to the World Health
Organization, three-quarters of the 1 billion smokers worldwide
live. Today’s pledge brings his total to more than $600 million.  Since 2007, 60 countries have passed at least one policy to
limit tobacco, including bans on smoking in any workplace,
graphic warnings about the harms of cigarette use displayed on
packs, prohibitions on advertising as well as taxes and anti-
tobacco advertising. About 6 million people a year die from
smoking, including more than 600,000 nonsmokers who were exposed
to second-hand smoke, according to the WHO.  “It is a scourge, all over the world,” Bloomberg said in
a press conference. “Smoking kills the user, but it also can
kill the people who are innocent and just happen to be in the
neighborhood, if you will.”  More than 80 countries have received support from the
 Bloomberg Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use  and since 2007, 30
countries have passed at least one of the  protection policies 
the WHO defines as a  high-level  effort.  Bloomberg Initiative  “There’s a long way to go on the policy side,” said Kelly Henning, director of Public Health Programs at Bloomberg
Philanthropies, in a telephone interview.  A significant concern is the marketing efforts of the
tobacco industry, targeting young children with advertising and
sweetened cigarettes, she said.  The Bloomberg initiative supports the efforts of
governments to implement new laws, and works with non-
governmental organizations to lobby, Henning said. In addition,
the group sponsors anti-tobacco-advertising. The mayor is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  During his first year in office, in 2002, Bloomberg
persuaded the New York state legislature to increase the city’s
cigarette tax to $1.50 from 8 cents per pack and the city
council to ban smoking in workplaces, including bars and
restaurants. As of December 2010, 25 states and the  District of
Columbia  had enacted similar no-smoking laws, along with Uruguay,
the U.K.,  France ,  Italy , Ireland,  Australia  and  New Zealand .  “If you go around and see the success that we’ve had in
reducing smoking, particularly in  New York City , one of the
reasons we’ve been able to be successful is that if you smoke,
it hurts me,” Bloomberg said. “There’s a big block of people,
namely 80 percent of people who don’t smoke, who wish that the
other 20 percent did not smoke.”  Anti-Tobacco Awards  About one-third of the world’s smokers live in China, and
10 percent live in India, Henning said. In China, the state owns
the largest tobacco company,  China National Tobacco Corp. (TOBACZ) , “and
that makes it a very challenging environment,” she said. Even
so, cities like Shanghai and Beijing have enacted smoking bans.  Bloomberg Philanthropies recognized six organizations today
during the 15th World Conference on Tobacco or Health for their
efforts in fighting tobacco use in low- and middle-income
countries. The Bloomberg Awards for Global Tobacco Control are
being presented during a ceremony in  Singapore .  The winners include  Health Justice  of the  Philippines , for
monitoring industry efforts to influence tobacco control
measures, and the Turkish National Coalition on Tobacco or
Health, a grouping of more than 40 organizations, for advocating
for a strong tobacco control law and monitoring its
implementation.  Biggest Warnings  Uruguay’s Ministry of Health won an award for implementing
the largest cigarette pack warnings in the world, taking up 80
percent of both the front and back of the package, and defending
the move in a lawsuit brought by a major tobacco company.  A joint award went to Corporate Accountability
International Colombia and  Fundacion para la Educasion y el
Desarrollo Social  for strengthening the implementation of
 Colombia ’s tobacco advertising and sponsorship ban.  An award also went to  Egypt ’s Ministry of Finance, for
implementing a 100 percent tax on shisha tobacco, which is
smoked in water pipes, and cigarette taxes that now represent 70
percent of the pack price for the most popular cigarette brand
in the country, generating more than $2.2 billion in government
revenue annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  