-- Baht Falls to Near 1-Month Low as Importers Boost Dollar Buying
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-22T08:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/baht-falls-to-near-1-month-low-as-importers-boost-dollar-buying.html
Thailand ’s baht dropped toward a
one-month low on speculation importers stepped up dollar demand
to source machinery for factories swamped by floods last year.  A government report will show next week that imports
increased 6.1 percent in February after falling 4.2 percent the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The baht has gained 2.5 percent this year
as global investors poured $2.4 billion into local equities and
$10 billion into government debt, stock exchange and the Thai
Bond Market Association data show.  “There seems to be some demand for the dollar to import
machines to rebuild factories, offsetting the impact from fund
inflows,” said Satoshi Ushijima, vice president of the treasury
division in Bangkok at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “The baht is
quite directionless this week and has been stuck near the
current area.”  The baht declined 0.1 percent to 30.79 per dollar as of
3:21 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It reached 30.87 on March 15, the weakest level since Feb. 17.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 6.525 percent.  The baht extended losses after HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics reported that an index showed  China ’s manufacturing
will shrink for a fifth straight month in March. That data
weighed on sentiment toward the baht, said  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  Thailand’s government would like to see lower  interest
rates  and a weaker currency to help exporters cope with higher
energy costs, Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today.
The range between 32 per dollar and 34 per dollar would “be
very good,” he told Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong.  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2017 declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.64
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 