-- Bales Said to Face 17 Counts of Murder in Afghan Killings
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bales-said-to-face-17-counts-of-murder-in-afghan-killings.html
U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales will be charged with 17 counts of murder for killing
Afghan civilians, according to two U.S. officials.  Charges will be released this afternoon Washington time
after they are presented to Bales and his attorney at the
military prison at Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas , according to one of
the officials. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the
charges haven’t been announced.  Bales, 38, is accused of gunning down civilians, including
women and children, in two villages in southern Afghanistan on
March 11. His attorney, John Henry Browne, has questioned how
much evidence the military has in the case. Browne also has said
his client suffered a traumatic brain injury during one of three
tours in  Iraq  and didn’t want to go to Afghanistan, where he was
deployed in December.  The 17 murder counts indicate one more victim died than
previously reported. Bales also will face six counts of assault,
NBC News reported.  Bales, a qualified sniper with the 2nd Battalion, 3rd
Regiment of the 3rd Stryker Brigade Combat team was in
 Afghanistan  in support of U.S. Special Operations forces,
defense officials have said. His unit was based at Joint Base
Lewis-McChord in Washington state.  The killings exacerbated tensions between the U.S. and
Afghanistan, already at a high level after the burning of Korans
last month in a trash dump at the largest U.S. base in
Afghanistan. Protests followed across Afghanistan, and six U.S.
military personnel were killed by Afghans.  ‘Fully Accountable’  President  Barack Obama  called Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
after the shootings for which Bales is accused, pledging “to
hold fully accountable anyone responsible.”  Under military law, governed by the Uniform Code of
Military Justice, the “preferral” of charges is the first move
in prosecuting a felony case. The next public action would be a
preliminary investigation known as an Article 32 hearing. It’s
the equivalent of a grand jury in a civilian case, except that
the defense can participate and it’s held in the open.  When the Article 32 investigation is complete, the
presiding officer makes a recommendation on whether the case
goes to a court martial, after which a military judge sets a
hearing schedule.  A trial may not begin for at least a year, according to
Colby Vokey, a retired Marine Corps officer who tried or
supervised hundreds of military cases as chief prosecutor and
later chief defense counsel at Camp Pendleton,  California .  Mental Health  Questioning the evidence in the case, Browne, the Seattle
attorney representing Bales, told reporters this week, “If I
was the prosecutor, I’d be concerned about how we prove
anything.”  Browne also has indicated he may seek a “diminished
capacity” defense for his client. He said on March 19 that
Bales is “confused” and doesn’t recall some details of the
alleged assault.  A mental-health defense may be difficult to win before
military jurors, known as court members, according to
Christopher Swift, a fellow at the  University of Virginia  Law
School’s Center for National Security Law.  He said that strategy may help avert a death sentence if
the military seeks it in the case.  “I see this as a defense that’s aimed at mitigating the
ultimate penalty,” Swift said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  