-- Baltic Exodus Tests Austerity Champion Tag After Cuts
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e ,   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-03-23T11:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/baltic-exodus-tests-austerity-champion-tag-after-cuts.html
When a Vilnius car dealer offered
Eugenijus $1.86 an hour to sell high-end vehicles, he decided it
was time to get out of  Lithuania . The wage was a third what he’d
made before the Baltic region’s worst recession in two decades.  “It was the last straw,” said the 27-year-old, who
declined to give his last name because emigration can be viewed
negatively in Lithuania.  He headed for the U.K., where the 6.25 pounds ($9.91) per
hour he now makes washing dishes covers living expenses for his
music studies at Derby University.  Estonia,  Latvia  and Lithuania are being hailed by European
Union leaders as examples of how austerity can lead to surging
growth because they all cut budget deficits in the aftermath of
the 2008 financial crisis.  The reality is that workers are pouring out of all three
countries, seeking to regain purchasing power that even the EU’s
fastest growth rates haven’t restored. The Baltic nations have
the EU’s fastest emigration rates, while people are still
flowing into  Greece .  ‘Negative Demographic Tendencies’  A continued exodus could make it harder to find workers to
manufacture goods whose foreign sales have driven expansion.
Lithuania, for instance, needs to increase productivity to
counter “negative demographic tendencies,” Swedbank AB said in
a March 2 research report.  At present,  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  makes wireless-network equipment in
Estonia and  Mexico ’s  Cemex SAB (CX)  produces cement in Latvia. State
finances are also at risk from lower  tax revenue , adding to
strains on the public purse as pensioners grow as a share of the
region’s 6.6 million population to the highest levels in the EU.  “What we can see now is hardly a successful outcome” for
the Baltics, Liza Ermolenko, an economist with  Capital Economics 
in  London , said by e-mail. “Given their aging populations, the
loss of young educated people clouds the economic outlook
further down the road.”  The Baltics’ stock markets are shrinking as well. In the
past 12 months, the Estonian and  Lithuanian (VILSE)  benchmark indexes
have fallen about 20 percent and Latvia’s OMX Riga Index is down
9 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 is down 3.2 percent.  Highest Emigration Rate  At 23.7 people per 1,000, Lithuania’s emigration rate is
the EU’s highest, according to Eurostat. About 80,000 Latvians
departed in 2009 and 2010, according to estimates by Mihails
Hazans, an economist at the  University of Latvia . More than
14,350 Estonians sought new lives abroad from 2008 to 2010,
statistics office data show. Greece and  Spain , by contrast,
enjoyed net immigration, according to Eurostat.  About 53,900 Lithuanians emigrated in 2011, while 15,700
returned, the statistics office in Vilnius said today in a
 statement . Eighty-two percent of the emigrants were unemployed
for a year or more before leaving, it said.  Lithuanians and Latvians have moved to countries such as
the U.K. and Ireland, while Estonians prefer neighboring
 Finland , according to the three countries’ statistics offices.
About half the region’s emigrants, who are permitted to work
anywhere in the EU, are from 20 to 34 years old.  Facebook Plea  Estonian (TALSE)  President Toomas Ilves has attempted to stem the
flow via his Facebook Inc.  page , by asking people to list the
reasons that make living in the country worthwhile. Among the
more than 1,000 responses: “We have a mild nature” and “The
wit, actions and perseverance of a person count more here than
their age, origin or hierarchies.”  Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite was more downbeat,
saying in a Feb. 3 statement: “Every third young person doesn’t
have a job. The situation is only worse in Greece and Spain.”
Youth unemployment “is one of the key reasons for emigration.”  Lithuania will lose almost 8 percent of its workforce by
2016 as emigration outpaces immigration, birth rates remain low
and the population grows older, Swedbank estimates. That will
contribute to “downward pressure” on economic growth, while a
smaller proportion of workers will have to  finance the budget ,
putting strain on government benefits and other functions, it
said. No specific estimate was given.  “The key downside of emigration is that the economies are
losing their working-age populations,” Swedbank economist Vaiva
Seckute said March 7 by phone. “A shrinking labor force will
become a big challenge for future economic-growth potential and
may pressure the government to continue raising taxes to
maintain a stable social-security system.”  More Retirees  Compounding matters, the proportion of Baltic retirees is
poised to grow. By 2060, fewer than two working-age Latvians
will remain for each person aged 65 or more, down from four to
one at present, according to Eurostat.  That equates to an old-age dependency ratio of 68 percent,
which would be the EU’s highest. Lithuania’s ratio will reach 57
percent from 23 percent now, while Estonia’s will jump to 56
percent from 25 percent,  Eurostat  predicts. Both would be higher
than the projected EU average of 53 percent.  The Baltic nations suffered more than anywhere else in the
27-member EU as the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
triggered the end of a debt-fueled property bubble, shut off
inflows of credit and closed export markets. Governments reduced
spending and raised taxes by as much as 15 percent of economic
output in 2009-2010 in response, compared with Greek plans that
amount to about 16 percent.  Economies Rebound  The three countries opted not to devalue their currencies,
maintaining pegs to the euro, which Estonia began using in
January 2011. Lithuania and Latvia plan to adopt the currency as
early as 2014.  The EU’s fastest growth followed as the three economies
rose an average 6.3 percent last year. Still, after shrinking by
a fifth from 2008 to 2010, output remains below its pre-crisis
level and unemployment hasn’t fully retreated.  While Lithuania’s jobless rate dropped to 13.9 percent in
the fourth quarter from a peak of 18.3 percent in the first
three months of 2010, it’s still more than three times the pace
recorded at the end of 2007. Latvian unemployment was 14.3
percent compared with 5.3 percent pre-crisis.  Latvia’s pain, and the subsequent gain, has been billed by
the European Commission as an example of successful austerity.  “We desperately need good stories and not only the
difficult ones that dominate the news right now,” said  Marco Buti , head of the commission’s economics department, at a
Brussels conference on Latvia’s international loan program on
March 16. The program was a “success.”  His praise holds little appeal for Tiia Vaeinola, 55, who
moved to Finland from  Estonia  16 months ago to join her husband.
She earns money as a waitress in the Vuokatti Sports Institute
in central Finland after “barely making ends meet” in her 15
years as a dressmaker back home.  “In Finland, the social safety net really doesn’t let
anyone fall hard when they lose their job,” she said March 14
by phone. “A person isn’t left on their own. The government in
Estonia doesn’t care about workers’ wellbeing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  