-- Bank of America’s Orcel Said to Move to UBS, Moulds to Quit
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-03-22T12:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bank-of-america-s-orcel-said-to-move-to-ubs-moulds-to-quit-2-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s  Andrea Orcel  and Jonathan Moulds are stepping down, depriving the firm
of two of its most senior executives in Europe.  Orcel, chairman of global banking and markets, is leaving
to join  UBS AG (UBSN) , where he will be co-head of the investment bank
alongside Carsten Kengeter, said people with knowledge of the
matter who declined to be identified before an announcement.
Orcel left rather than take up Moulds’s post as president of the
firm in Europe, one of the people said.  The departures leave Bank of America without two of its
most senior leaders in London as global banking and markets
chief Tom Montag tries to revive the unit after it posted two
consecutive quarterly losses last year. Montag told staff in
January to prepare for a “new game” and named Christian Meissner sole head of global  investment banking . The unit has
been hit by an exodus of bankers since the takeover of Merrill
Lynch & Co. in 2009.  “Effectively you have two cultures that didn’t mix,” said
Jason Kennedy, chief executive officer of the Kennedy Group, a
London-based recruitment firm. “It’s like an oil tanker in the
sea now, with no port to go to.”  An announcement on the moves may be made as soon as today,
the people said. Moulds may be replaced by Rupert Hume-Kendall,
one of the people said. Hume-Kendall, chairman of global capital
markets, didn’t return a call to his office today. John McIvor,
a spokesman for Bank of America, declined to comment on the
departures, as did a spokesman for UBS.  $33.8 Million Compensation  Orcel, 48, a top Merrill Lynch dealmaker, became chairman
of global banking and markets after Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America completed the Merrill takeover. The bank
expanded his role in 2010, making him president of  emerging
markets  including  Asia .  He joined Merrill in 1992 as part of its team advising
companies in the financial-services industry. He has worked on
some of Europe’s biggest banking takeovers, including  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  ’s acquisition of Britain’s Abbey National Plc in
2004, UniCredit SpA’s 7.5 billion-euro ($9.9 billion) rights
offering this year, as well as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
on its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV.  Orcel received a reported $33.8 million in compensation for
2008, the year when Merrill Lynch had net losses of $27 billion,
prompting criticism from investors as well as former Federal
Reserve chairman Paul Volcker.  Moulds, 46, a British citizen, moved back to London in 2005
from Chicago to oversee debt and equity sales and trading in
Europe and Asia for Bank of America. He helped build the bank’s
over-the-counter derivatives trading business and held positions
including global head of rate derivatives trading, head of
global derivatives and head of global rates and commodities.  Rankings Decline  Bank of America’s position in the rankings for stock
underwriting and mergers advisory has been slipping, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm was placed eighth for
stock offerings in  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa this year,
down from fifth in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
bank is 10th in mergers involving companies in western Europe,
down from ninth last year and fourth in 2007, the record year,
the data show.  UBS CEO  Sergio Ermotti  is seeking to focus the Zurich-based
investment bank after it was rocked by a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading last year that forced the departure of
 Oswald Gruebel . The lender said last year it plans to shrink its
fixed-income trading business, which will be less profitable
under stricter capital rules, leaving it more reliant on its
equity and investment-banking businesses for income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 