-- Bankers Join Hippies as Allman Bandwagon Keeps Rolling
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-03-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bankers-join-hippies-as-allman-bandwagon-keeps-rolling-review.html
It’s 11:45 p.m. at the  Beacon
Theatre  in  New York  and members of the Allman Brothers Band are
winding up a luxury-length version of “Whipping Post.”  Twenty minutes earlier, the audience of 2,800 went wild as
Gregg Allman opened his group’s most-requested song -- it’s not
played every night -- with the doomy words “I’ve been run down,
I’ve been lied to.” He’s in laid-back mode at the keyboards,
letting guitarist  Warren Haynes  build the tune via crazed solos
before the sign-off, “good lord, I feel like I’m dyin’.”  Allman manages to look convincingly pained at this sad tale
of love gone bad. Despite -- or perhaps because of the fact --
that he has performed it thousands of times. Many in the
audience have heard it almost as often after decades of watching
the group through hippiedom to stardom. Some look happily spaced
out as a haze of smoke hangs over their heads.  “The crowd’s as special as the musicians,” says Arnold
Kelms, a retired professor from  Florida . “Like a big family, we
get together each year for this March madness.” Kelms, 72, his
gray hair in a ponytail, swigs from a  Bud Light  and proudly
shows off his faded Allman Miami T-shirt from 1982. “This is
almost as antique as I am, man.”  Beacon Residency  The group has been doing extended residencies in New York
almost every year since 1989, usually at the Beacon, where it
has staged more than 200 sellout shows. Fans mutter about
tickets being snapped up and sold on the Internet for as much as
$1,000. Official prices start at $59.99.  Yet the spending never ends. Commercials are crammed onto a
video screen during the concert intermission. There are instant
CDs of each performance, DVDs, magazines, books and a vacation
visit to the Allman  museum  in Macon,  Georgia : I soon lose count
of how many hundreds of dollars of merchandise.  Kevin Umberger, a 43-year-old TV cameraman from Knoxville,
 Tennessee , went to 75 Grateful Dead shows before turning to the
Allmans. He has attended more than 70 of their concerts.  “The level of musicianship on stage every night can be
kinda insane,” he says.  It’s hard to disagree. The blissed-out guitar duels are
played against a video backdrop that aptly shows magic mushrooms
growing and psychedelic images swirling.  Miracle Band  After the show, I ask for comments via  Twitter  and the
Allman Brothers  website . I get deluged with replies: bankers,
doctors, lawyers, many in their fifties, a few as young as 25.  Some remark that it’s a miracle the band still exists.  The death of slide-guitar ace Duane Allman in 1971 could
have finished them. Gregg, 64 (whose memoir “ My Cross to Bear ”
is out in May) was distracted by drink and drug addictions; a
succession of romances, including a brief marriage to Cher.
After suffering hepatitis C and cirrhosis, he needed a life-
saving  liver transplant . It adds to the irony of the “feel like
I’m dyin’” sign-off to “Whipping Post,” as well as the cover
attempted this year of  Neil Young ’s substance-abuse anthem “The
Needle and the Damage Done.”  They also do a version of Van Morrison’s “Into the
Mystic.” It sits nicely alongside material off the album “Eat
a Peach.” That recording, as long-term fans note, was released
a mere 40 years ago.  Rating: ****.  The Allman Brothers Band “ March Madness ” shows continue
through March 25 at the Beacon Theatre, 2124 Broadway (between
West 74th and 75th Streets), New York.  Information:  http://www.allmanbrothersband.com/ ,
 http://www.beacontheatre.com/ ,  http://www.greggallman.com/  or
+1-212-465-6500.  The Allmans headline the eighth annual Wanee Festival in
Live Oak, Florida, on April 19-21. Information:
 http://www.waneefestival.com/   The band also headlines the Peach Music Festival on August
10-12 at Montage Mountain in Scranton,  Pennsylvania .
Information:  http://thepeachmusicfestival.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in New York at  mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 