-- Barclays Joins Goldman Sachs in Shunning Credit for Equities
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-22T22:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/barclays-joins-goldman-sachs-in-shunning-credit-for-equities.html
Global corporate bonds won’t match
the record-setting returns of the first two months of the year
for the rest of 2012, Barclays Plc analysts said, joining
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in predicting equities would outperform
fixed income.  Increased volatility and reduced liquidity will prevent the
extra yield investors demand to hold corporates instead of
 government bonds  from returning to historical lows, Barclays
credit strategists led by Jeffrey Meli wrote in a report today.
High dollar prices, in addition to low  interest rates , make it
difficult for spreads to compress further, according to the
analysts.  “We see limited additional yield compression from this
point on,” Sherif Hamid, one of the Barclays analysts who wrote
the report, said in a telephone interview from  London . “We view
equities as representing a more attractive risk-reward
opportunity than credit, particularly investment-grade credit.”  Corporate bond spreads in the U.S., which have declined by
74 basis points since the start of the year to 269 basis points
yesterday, are still above the 130 basis points reached in
February 2007, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  ‘Long Good Buy’  “We think it’s time to say a ‘long good bye’ to bonds, and
embrace the ‘long good buy’ for equities as we expect them to
embark on an upward trend over the next few years,” Goldman
Sachs’s  Peter Oppenheimer  and Mattheiu Walterspiler wrote in a
research note yesterday.  Global corporate debt returned 3.8 percent in January and
February, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. It
has lost 0.3 percent this month.  Low interest rates could dissuade total-return investors,
the Barclays analysts wrote. The  Federal Reserve  has taken
extraordinary measures since the September 2008 failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to lower borrowing costs, which
helped push the 10-year Treasury yield to 1.72 percent Sept. 22,
2011, the lowest since at least 1962.  The Barclays analysts calculate that investment-grade
credit in the U.S. and in  Europe  can only absorb small increases
in benchmark yields before total returns turn negative. Yields
on investment-grade bonds in the U.S. reached a record low of
3.4 percent on March 2 from as high as 4.16 percent in October,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Bond dealers reduced holdings of corporate debt securities
to $50.6 billion on March 14 from $129.1 billion in September
2008. “Investors are going to demand a higher spread for the
decreased liquidity,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS
Investments who oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds, said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 Snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  