-- Bats IPO Makes Exchange Built by Wall Street Public
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bats-ipo-makes-exchange-built-by-wall-street-public.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , founded
by a high-frequency trader and nurtured by the world’s top
securities firms into the third-largest U.S. stock exchange
operator, will seek more than $100 million for its owners today.  Bats plans to sell 6.3 million shares between $16 and $18
apiece after the close of trading, according to a filing
yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and
Citigroup Inc. are pricing the shares at about 16.9 times
estimated 2013 earnings, according to  Diego Perfumo , an analyst
at hedge fund adviser Equity Research Desk.  Started in 2005 with 13 employees, Bats was steered to
prominence by brokers and traders trying to hold down fees as
the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market bought their
biggest electronic rivals. Now, with its venues accounting for
11 percent of U.S. share volume, the Lenexa, Kansas-based
company is seeking a valuation that is higher than its biggest
competitors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Naysayers would have said these guys were just a
disruptive influence and Bats was created to beat up on the
traditional exchanges,”  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of
research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The IPO makes the case that Bats is a
legitimate exchange just like NYSE and  Nasdaq .”  Early Investors  Tradebot Systems Inc. and early investors Getco LLC and
Wedbush Inc., firms whose profits are tied to high-frequency
trading and market-making strategies that use the Bats platform,
will see proceeds via a dividend tied to the sale, scheduled for
today after the close of trading. Citigroup, Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Credit Suisse are among its largest owners.  Net income at Bats totaled $23.5 million last year while
net revenue was $128 million after deducting fees such as
payments to traders and routing costs, giving the company a net
margin of 18.4 percent. On the same basis, NYSE Euronext and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  each had 2011 net margins of 23 percent on
net revenue of $2.67 billion and $1.69 billion, respectively.  Perfumo, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , estimates Bats
will trade for 16.9 times his forecast of 2013 earnings,
assuming the company sells stock today at the midpoint of its
targeted range. That compares with price-earnings ratios of 9.8
for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , 8.7 for Nasdaq OMX and 11.3 for London Stock
Exchange Group Plc, according to average analyst estimates for
2013 profit in a Bloomberg survey. CBOE Holdings Inc. trades at
a multiple of 15.2, the data show.  Lehman, Morgan Stanley  Almost half of the 6.3 million Class A shares being offered
will come from the estate of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) , with
another 1.1 million from Getco, according to the Bats filing
with the SEC. Lehman is selling 3.03 million of its 3.98 million
Class A shares.  Getco’s Class A and Class B shares give it a 13.9 percent
voting interest in the company, more than any other owner. Bats
is paying a $100 million dividend to shareholders including its
10 main financial company investors, prior to the IPO’s closing.  The exchange operator is seeking to raise money less than
two years after a crash erased $862 billion in less than 20
minutes from U.S. share values, a plunge that some critics
linked to the fragmented electronic market structure that helped
Bats thrive. While federal regulators imposed brakes to prevent
a recurrence of the so-called flash crash on May 6, 2010, future
regulation is hard to predict, said  Kevin Shacknofsky , a  money
manager  at Alpine  Mutual Funds .  ‘Big Overhang’  “The combination of weak volumes, more competition and
increased regulation is a big overhang for exchanges,”
Shacknofsky, who helps oversee about $5 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Bats is a classic example of the
increased competition. They’re pressuring the other markets
because they’re offering an alternative.”  The IPO comes after the biggest wave of global takeover
offers ever foundered on antitrust concern and populist outcry.
Regulators blocked Deutsche Boerse AG’s acquisition of NYSE
Euronext, Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s attempt to buy Australia’s
ASX Ltd. failed, and London Stock Exchange was thwarted in its
bid for Toronto Exchange operator TMX Group Inc.  Executives embraced consolidation after the number of U.S.
and European trading venues increased by about 50 in the past
decade, driving down profitability. NYSE Euronext revenue per
European equity trade has dropped 61 percent since 2007 to 64
cents, and in the U.S., the amount per 100 shares is projected
to fall 9.8 percent in 2012, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.
At the same time, volume on American equity exchanges reached
the lowest point since at least 2008 this month.  SEC Request  Bats said Feb. 23 that the SEC enforcement division asked
for information on the types of orders customers use on its
venues. The request sought information about how order types
have evolved at the exchange.  The company said regulators asked for documents “related
to the development, modification and use of  order types , and our
communications with certain market participants,” including
some of Bats’ owners. The regulator also asked for information
about technology systems and trading strategies, Bats said.  Randy Williams , a spokesman for Bats, declined to comment
on the SEC query.  Bats executed  10.9 percent  of U.S. equities volume last
month, compared with 10.7 a year earlier, the company said. Its
U.S. options market share was less than 3 percent and its two
European platforms had a combined share of 25.3 percent of value
traded, Bats said.  Fully Electronic  Bats was initially built to service high-frequency firms
like Tradebot and brokers. Automated trading company Getco in
Chicago and Wedbush, owner of a Los Angeles-based investment
bank whose clients include high-frequency firms, bought equity
stakes in 2005.  Bats was  formed  in June 2005, two months after the NYSE
said it would go public by combining with rival Archipelago
Holdings Inc. and Nasdaq Stock Market announced its purchase of
Inet ECN. Archipelago and Inet were then the largest electronic
communication networks, or ECNs, which match buy and sell orders
and compete with exchanges.  The company is the first fully electronic U.S. market
operator to go public since the  International Securities
Exchange  in March 2005. Eurex, partly owned by Deutsche Boerse
AG, bought ISE for $2.8 billion in December 2007.  Cummings, Ratterman  Dave Cummings, founder of Tradebot, said in 2005 he created
Bats with 12 employees to counter the emerging NYSE and Nasdaq
duopoly. Executives at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup,
Merrill Lynch & Co. and other banks said at the time that the
lack of competition after the purchases would hurt users by
limiting their choice about how and where to execute orders and
enabling exchanges to raise transaction fees.  “We were concerned with NYSE and Nasdaq having their hands
on those properties and weren’t sure whether they’d continue to
push the positive market-structure evolution we saw from 2000 to
2005,” Stephen Schuler, co-founder of Getco, said in a phone
interview. Investing in Bats was a “great opportunity” to back a 
company that could boost “efficiency in markets from both a cost
perspective and technology and speed perspective,” he said.  CEO and President Joe Ratterman was one of the employees
Cummings hired at Tradebot. He took  over  Bats in July 2007 when
Cummings returned to their old employer in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri . Before joining Tradebot in 2004 to focus on business
development, Ratterman oversaw 650 people as chief technology
officer at Bridge Information Systems Inc.  Unmet Need  “Cummings saw a need that was unmet in the industry,
created that and got it on its way,” Tabb said. “Ratterman is
a tremendous executive. He’s kept the vision, built out the
technology infrastructure and done an excellent job implementing
those early plans.”  Bats got SEC approval to operate as an exchange in 2008 and
introduced a second trading platform in 2010. New York-based
NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX each own three  stock exchanges ,
while  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC has
two. Exchanges employ different rules and trading fees to cater
to different users.  Bats plans to enter at least two new markets by the end of
2014, according to an  SEC filing . Bats is considering an
expansion into Treasuries, foreign exchange and U.S. futures,
and may enter Canada and  Brazil . The company previously said
it’s exploring the possibility of creating a Brazilian exchange
with a Sao Paulo-based asset manager.  Keith Ross, chief executive officer of PDQ Enterprises LLC,
a Glenview, Illinois-based firm that operates a private network
to match stock orders without publishing quotes, said in a phone
interview that Bats’ success hinges on giving users what they
want. Ross, a former CEO of Getco who left the company in early
2005, said the exchange has attracted volume through its
technology, speed and ability to cater to the needs of clients.  “Brokers’ execution business will go to the market where
they think they’re getting the best execution and lowest cost
for their customers,” Ross said. “If they’re not getting the
fills they need, they’ll migrate to another exchange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  