-- Baum Foreclosure Firm Settles With New York for $4 Million
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-22T16:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/baum-foreclosure-firm-settles-with-new-york-for-4-million-1-.html
Steven J. Baum PC, the largest
foreclosure law firm in  New York  until it shut down last year,
reached a $4 million settlement with the state over abuses in
its legal work.  Part of the money paid by the firm, Pillar Processing LLC,
Steven Baum himself and managing partner Brian Kumiega will be
used to help homeowners facing foreclosure or victims of
predatory lending, New York State Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said today in a statement. Baum formed Pillar in
2007 to process foreclosure documents.  “The Baum firm cut corners in order to maximize the number
of its foreclosure filings and its profits,” Schneiderman said
in the statement. Baum and Kumiega have also agreed not to
represent lenders or servicers in new foreclosure cases for two
years, Schneiderman said.  The firm said in a statement that it didn’t admit
wrongdoing as part of the settlement.  In October, the firm, based in Amherst, New York, just
north of Buffalo, reached a $2 million agreement related to its
foreclosure practices with Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. After that settlement was announced,  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance companies under U.S.
conservatorship, dropped Baum from their lists of law firms
eligible to handle foreclosures. The firm then said it would
close.  ‘Exhaustive’ Investigation  “After an exhaustive 10-month investigation, the attorney
general’s office did not identify a single instance where a
foreclosure proceeding was brought by the Baum firm where the
homeowner wasn’t actually in default,”  Elkan Abramowitz , a
lawyer for the settling parties, said in a phone interview.  The Baum firm handled more than 100,000 foreclosures from
2007 to 2010, representing some of the biggest U.S. mortgage
servicers, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to
Schneiderman.  The firm “routinely” brought foreclosure actions without
verifying the accuracy of the allegations or the right of the
lender or servicer to foreclose, the attorney general said.  “Complaints were prepared in an assembly-line fashion by
non-attorney Pillar employees with inadequate attorney
supervision,” according to the attorney general. “Baum firm
attorneys also improperly verified and notarized these
complaints.”  Incomplete Law  Schneiderman’s description in a settlement document of the
relevant New York law was incomplete and in some cases
incorrect, Abramowitz said.  “It is unfair to criticize the firm for relying on the
representations of its clients because a century of legal
precedent states that an attorney is entitled to do just that,”
he said.  Last month, Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo,
Citigroup and Ally Financial Inc. negotiated a $25 billion
settlement with federal agencies and 49 states to end probes
into abusive foreclosure practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  