-- Bernanke Says Low Interest Rate Didn’t Make Housing Bubble
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-22T18:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bernanke-tells-students-fed-not-responsible-for-housing-bubble.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s interest rate policies last
decade weren’t responsible for the housing price bubble that led
to the recession.  “Some have argued that the Fed’s low interest rate
monetary policy in the early 2000s contributed to the housing
bubble, which in turn was a trigger of the crisis,” Bernanke
said today in the second of four lectures on the history of the
Fed that he plans to deliver at George Washington University.  “Most evidence suggests otherwise,” Bernanke said,
focusing on history and not on current monetary policy or the
economic outlook. In defense of the Fed, Bernanke cited house
price booms in foreign countries and said the size of the asset
bubble was too large to be explained by changes in  mortgage
rates . Also,  home prices  began to rise in the late 1990s, before
the Fed lowered rates, he said.  Bernanke, a former economics professor at  Princeton
University , is returning to the classroom this week and next to
explain the central bank’s actions during the financial crisis
and the longest recession since the Great Depression. His lesson
today is titled “The Federal Reserve after World War II.”  Following a recession in 2001, the central bank lowered
interest rates to 1 percent in 2003 and 2004 even as home price
gains accelerated. Bernanke’s defense of the Fed actions drew on
a  January 2010 speech  he gave in Atlanta, he said.  ‘Made Mistakes’  Though its  interest rate  policies were appropriate,
Bernanke said, the Fed “made mistakes in supervision and
regulation.”  “In our supervision of bank and bank-holding companies we
didn’t push hard enough on this issue of measuring your risks,”
Bernanke said. “Another area where the Fed performed poorly was
I think in consumer protection.”  Bernanke, 58, also said government policies to increase
homeownership were not principally to blame for the housing
bubble.  “I think to put it all on the government is probably
wrong,” Bernanke said in response to student questions. “Most
of the worst loans were made by private sector lenders and then
sold through private-sector securitizations.  They didn’t touch
Fannie or Freddie,” he said, referring to government-sponsored
entities Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  While his lecture focused on historical topics, Bernanke
noted that today’s policy benefits from the low-inflation
brought about as the result of former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker ’s battle against price increases.  ‘More Leeway’  “After a long period of low inflation most people are
pretty comfortable that inflation will stay reasonably low,”
Bernanke said. “And that helps a lot” since “with inflation
staying low the Fed has more leeway.”  In response to a question about Fed transparency, Bernanke
said “most of the time transparency can make monetary policy
work better” and promote accountability of the central bank.  Bernanke plans to speak on March 27 and March 29 about the
Fed’s response to the financial crisis and the ensuing
recession. The lecture series will be streamed live on the  Fed’s
website  and on ustream.tv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  