-- Big Spending at Fannie, Freddie Should End, Watchdog Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/big-spending-at-fannie-freddie-should-end-auditor-tells-fhfa.html
The days of big spending on
conferences and charity are over at Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
and the companies’ regulator should make sure it stays that way,
the auditor of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said in two
reports released today.  The FHFA  Inspector General  opened an investigation into
travel spending at the government-owned mortgage companies last
year after U.S. lawmakers complained that Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac spent over $600,000 to send more than 90 employees to a
Mortgage Bankers Association conference in October.  About half those expenditures -- which went toward
sponsoring the convention and hosting dinners and other meals --
was “of questionable value,” according to a report written by
George Grob, deputy inspector general for evaluations.  “There is no indication that any business conducted by the
Enterprises with their clientele at the convention could not
have been conducted as well without this largesse,” the audit
said.  After the conference, the FHFA instituted new restrictions
on travel spending at  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac and barred
conference sponsorships without prior approval. The Inspector
General is satisfied with those measures, the report said.  The companies, which own or guarantee most U.S. mortgages,
have faced spending restrictions since they were seized by the
government in 2008 after investments in risky loans pushed them
to the brink of insolvency. Together, they have drawn almost
$190 billion in taxpayer aid so far.  Charitable Spending  Among those restrictions is a wind-down of the companies’
charitable spending. A separate audit released today noted that
the enterprises spent $147 million on charitable contributions
while on taxpayer aid from 2009 to 2011.  Corporate donations are scheduled to end in 2013 and
payouts from the Freddie Mac Foundation will end in 2015.  A third audit released today said the FHFA should
strengthen its oversight of underwriting standards at Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac.  The two companies set underwriting standards for the loans
they purchase, but will sometimes issue variances for loans that
don’t meet those standards. The number of variances issued by
Fannie Mae has dropped from 11,000 in 2005 to 600 in the first
nine months of 2011, the report said, indicating a tightening of
standards.  FHFA needs to set up a formal process for reviewing
underwriting, the report said. FHFA officials, in a written
response, said the agency believes its current approach “has
been effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  