-- BlackBerry Loses Top Spot to Apple at Home: Corporate Canada
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-22T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/blackberry-loses-top-spot-to-apple-at-home-corporate-canada.html
Canada’s love affair with the
BlackBerry is waning.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  has been ousted from the top spot
for smartphone shipments in its home market for the first time,
trailing  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhone.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, shipped 2.08 million
BlackBerrys last year in Canada, compared with 2.85 million
units for Apple, data compiled by IDC and Bloomberg show. In
2010, the BlackBerry topped the iPhone by half a million, and in
2008, the year after the iPhone’s debut, RIM outsold Apple by
almost five to one.  BlackBerry, one of the biggest consumer brands to emerge
from Canada, had enjoyed more loyalty among locals who embraced
its made-in-Canada roots. BlackBerry’s loss of domestic
preeminence shows the iPhone’s user-friendly features and wealth
of apps trump other considerations, said  Paul Taylor , a  fund
manager  at BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto.  “For RIM, in its home market, to lose that No. 1 position
to iPhone is strategically important,” said Taylor, who manages
about $15 billion in assets, including RIM and Apple shares.
“It does identify, even with a home-country bias, how consumers
are responding to the greater functionality of the iPhone.”  To halt a sales slump that’s spreading north from the U.S.,
Thorsten Heins, RIM’s new chief executive officer, has vowed to
do something “dramatically different.” The BlackBerry 7 phones
introduced last year have better Web browsers and touch-screen
navigation than older models and the BlackBerry 10 devices due
out this year will represent further improvement, Heins said.  Losing the Way  Sales in  Canada , which account for about 7 percent of RIM’s
 revenue , fell 23 percent in the fiscal third quarter from a year
earlier as U.S. sales tumbled 45 percent. That dragged worldwide
revenue down 5.9 percent, offsetting rising emerging-market
sales.  While RIM was once a hotbed of innovation, it didn’t invest
enough in promoting its devices once the iPhone arrived, said
 Alfred DuPuy  of Interbrand, a research firm.  “They got so good at innovation they just expected the
product to sell itself,” said DuPuy, head of the firm’s Toronto
office. “From a brand perspective, they just lost their way.”  BlackBerry slipped two spots to 54th in Interbrand’s
October 2011 ranking of the world’s top 100 brands as Apple
climbed nine spots to eighth.  “The challenge for Mr. Heins is to take that iconic brand
and products that are reasonably competitive and ensure that
they do get appropriate attention from the average consumer,”
BMO Harris’s Taylor said. “That’s the challenge: to reverse the
negative sentiment that has developed.”  Betting on Decline  Market-share losses, a series of marketing missteps and
product delays sent the  stock  down 75 percent last year and RIM
today closed down 91 percent from its mid-2008 record. That
hasn’t stopped investors from betting on further declines.  Short
interest (RIMM)  in RIM reached an eight-year high this month.  RIM will probably say fourth-quarter profit fell by more
than half to 82 cents a share when it reports results March 29,
according to a  Bloomberg survey  of analysts. Sales probably
dropped 18 percent to $4.53 billion, analysts predict. RIM said
in December sales would be $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.  By contrast, Apple’s fourth-quarter profit more than
doubled to $13.1 billion -- almost triple RIM’s sales -- as
revenue surged 73 percent to $46.3 billion.  RIM declined 1.9 percent to $13.78 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
and Apple fell 0.5 percent to $599.34. Apple has gained 48
percent this year and soared almost six-fold since 2009.  Heidi Davidson, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment,
citing a quiet period ahead of earnings.  Loyal Customers  Still, many of Canada’s banks and the federal government
remain loyal to RIM devices.  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest bank, only issues BlackBerrys, said Katherine Gay, a
spokeswoman for the Toronto-based bank.  Bank of Nova Scotia  and
 Bank of Montreal  do the same.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , which
issues BlackBerrys to its staff, is assessing the policy and
allows employees to use personal Apple and Android devices for
corporate e-mail, said Dave Codack, head of employee technology.  BlackBerry still has an edge over the iPhone in some
 emerging markets . In the  Middle East  and  Africa , RIM shipped 8.3
million handsets to Apple’s 2.5 million iPhones last year. In
 Saudi Arabia , teenagers have embraced RIM because they can flirt
using its free BlackBerry Messenger instant messaging, avoiding
local religious police who restrict interaction between
unmarried men and women.  In  Latin America , RIM outsells Apple by an even larger
margin, with 10.6 million BlackBerrys shipped versus 2.1 million
iPhones in 2011, according to IDC. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  has dubbed his BlackBerry and Twitter account his
“secret weapon.”  More Affordable  For Venezuelans, a no-frills BlackBerry Curve is more
affordable than the iPhone because Latin American carriers don’t
typically subsidize the cost of devices in exchange for
multiyear contracts the way North American operators do. That
price advantage has helped RIM expand its base of 75 million
subscribers worldwide.  Local concerns about Canada’s technology sector grew after
 Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) , once  North America ’s largest phone-
equipment maker, filed for bankruptcy in 2009. Nortel, which
helped incubate dozens of startups in its heyday, was broken up
and its businesses and patents sold to rivals including Ericsson
AB and Apple.  That collapse put more pressure on RIM, which had already
overtaken Nortel to become Canada’s biggest technology company,
to lead the industry’s expansion in the country.  Pitched to Carriers  RIM’s early growth was due in part to the way former co-CEO
 Jim Balsillie  persuasively pitched the BlackBerry to wireless
carriers, said Shaw Wu, an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
As consumers increasingly choose smartphones for their range of
apps, and more companies allow employees to bring their own
devices to work and fewer issue BlackBerrys, RIM risks being
left behind by the iPhone, Wu said.  “RIM in the past did really well as carriers pushed the
product and that’s what sold,” said Wu, who is based in  San
Francisco  and  rates  RIM the equivalent of a hold. “Now you get
the opposite, it’s not what the carriers push but what customers
want and customers are choosing iPhones -- even in Canada.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  