-- Bovespa Futures Fall on Global Growth Concern, Commodities Drop
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-22T12:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bovespa-futures-fall-on-global-growth-concern-commodities-drop.html
Bovespa futures fell, a sign the
stock gauge may extend a two-day drop, after reports that showed
manufacturing contracted in China and  Europe  fueled global
growth concern and dimmed the outlook for Brazilian exports.  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp producer, may
be active after saying it plans to sell as many as 91.2 million
new voting shares. Beef producer  JBS SA (JBSS3)  may move after fourth-
quarter earnings trailed analysts’ estimates.  Bovespa futures slid 0.9 percent to 66,580 at 9:31 a.m. in
Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.8257 per  U.S.
dollar . The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities fell 0.7
percent.  U.S.-index futures and European stocks declined after a
preliminary measure of Chinese manufacturing fell to 48.1 this
month, the lowest reading since November. A result below 50
indicates a contraction. European services and manufacturing
output contracted more than forecast in March, a separate report
showed.  “The Bovespa should track international markets, which
were dragged down by the manufacturing data in  China  and in the
 euro zone ,” Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM Capital
Markets in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to clients. “Commodities
prices fell on concern global demand will weaken.”  JBS, the world’s biggest beef producer, reported net income
of 25.6 million reais ($14 million) in the fourth quarter,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. That compares with
the average estimate of 189.9 million reais in a Bloomberg
survey of seven analysts.  Index Valuations  The Bovespa has advanced 18 percent this year after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by interest-rate cuts in
 Brazil , signs of growth in the U.S. and speculation Europe may
be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at 11
times analysts’ earnings estimates, which compares with a 10.7
ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  5.3 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.19 billion reais this year through March 15,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  