-- BP in Talks to Pump at Iraq Kirkuk Oil Field, Official Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-03-22T15:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bp-in-talks-to-pump-at-iraq-kirkuk-oil-field-official-says-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is in talks aimed at
boosting production at Iraq’s Kirkuk oil field, an Iraqi
official said, as the country’s crude exports reached a three-
month high of 2.2 million barrels a day.  BP is the “most competent” of the companies bidding to
raise output at Kirkuk by 300,000 barrels a day, more than
double the field’s current production, Hussain Gholam, the
deputy director general of Iraq’s North Oil Co., said in an
interview in Baghdad today. If successful, BP would become the
first foreign company to develop one of the country’s oldest
deposits, which now yields 280,000 barrels a day.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer, signed
a $998 million agreement with  Samsung Group  today to develop the
West Qurna-2 field.  Iraq’s government has awarded 15 licenses to foreign energy
companies since the U.S.-led invasion that ousted President
 Saddam Hussein  in 2003. It plans a new auction of drilling
rights in May. Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest oil
reserves, according to BP data that also include Canadian  oil
sands , and is seeking investment and expertise to help rebuild
an  energy industry  stunted by years of conflict and sanctions.  Exxon Letter  Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi, speaking today at a
news conference in the Iraqi capital, reiterated that  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  informed central government officials in a March 5
letter that it had frozen agreements with authorities in the
country’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region. The Oil Ministry,
which refuses to do business with companies working in the
Kurdish region, is weighing whether to allow Exxon to take part
in the next licensing round, he said.  Iraq is pumping more than 3 million barrels a day of crude,
Luaibi said, and plans to raise output to 3.4 million barrels a
day next year. Exports have reached a high for the year, though
volumes are “below our ambitions” because bad weather halted
shipments for 10 days this month, he said.  A tanker will start loading 2 million barrels of oil today
at a new offshore terminal, becoming the second vessel to
receive crude there since the facility began operating on March
7, the minister said.  State-owned North Oil Co., which manages Kirkuk and other
northern fields, plans to boost output to as much as 1 million
barrels a day from the 580,000 barrels it currently pumps, said
Gholam, the company’s deputy director general.  South Oil’s Plan  South Oil Co., which oversees the newer fields of southern
 Iraq  including West Qurna-2, will raise output to 6 million
barrels within three years, up from the current 2.3 million
barrels, the state-owned company’s Deputy Director General
Mahmud Abdelamir Hashim said.  West Qurna-2, which hasn’t produced oil yet, will pump
150,000 barrels a day by November 2013, 400,000 barrels by mid-
2014 and 1.8 million barrels in 2018, Hashim told the
conference. South Korea’s  Samsung (SAMZ)  will install a crude-gathering
facility, a central-processing plant and a water injection unit
at the field,  Asim Jihad , a ministry spokesman, said at today’s
signing in Baghdad.  Lukoil Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov  said on
March 14 that his company expects to complete the purchase of
 Statoil ASA (STL) ’s stake in West Qurna-2 in May and may invite new
partners to join the project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  