-- Vale’s Biggest Mine Faces New Brazilian State Tax in Para
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-03-22T23:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/brazil-para-to-boost-mining-tax-where-vale-has-a-third-of-output.html
Para, the Brazilian state where
 Vale SA (VALE5)  has a third of its  iron-ore  output, will introduce a
mining tax next month as governments worldwide seek to increase
revenue from the exploitation of natural resources.  The tax, which takes effect in April, will be equivalent to
6.9 reais ($3.78) per metric ton of mining output, Para State
Governor Simao Jatene said. Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro,
operates  Carajas , the world’s biggest iron-ore mine, in Para.  “The tax will finance the state so it can form a database
of mining activities, who does it, where and how much they’re
doing it,” Jatene said in an interview in Brasilia yesterday.  The state initiative is part of a global trend of
governments seeking to raise taxes on natural resources
production.  Australia , the world’s largest iron-ore exporting
country, passed legislation earlier this week that will reap
about $11 billion in taxes within three years from  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and other iron-ore and coal miners. In
 Brazil , the federal government is pursuing legislation to
increase royalties for the industry.  Governments at different levels say the profits generated
in the past years benefited the companies more than the
communities involved, Felipe Reis, an equity analyst at  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , said.  ‘Negative Impact’  “If this tax is applied and understood as legal, it will
easily incentivize other states like  Minas Gerais ,” Reis said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo today. “That would have
a negative impact on Vale.”  Vale produced a record 109.8 million metric tons of iron
ore at Carajas mine last year, or about 34 percent of its total
output, according to a Feb. 15 filing.  Vale  declined  2.1 percent to 40.60 reais at the close in
 Sao Paulo , the most since March 6.  Jatene said his Para state has authority to levy the tax
and informed Mines and Energy Minister Edison Lobao of the plans
yesterday. Jatene said he has the written opinion from two legal
experts backing Para’s stance on the tax.  State Debate  The Brazilian tax, which was approved by the local house of
representatives in December, initiated a debate over state
rights.  “It’s ruled by a reasonable principle, you can’t charge a
tax that will bring the company down,” Jatene said.  A Vale official in Rio today said the company wouldn’t
comment on the Para new tax.  Vale Chief Financial Officer Tito Martins said Feb. 16 that
the company was waiting for the assessment by the Brazilian
Mining Institute, an industry group, and other regional
associations on the effect of these taxes.  “There were similar cases to this in the past, states that
tried to impose differential taxes, and they ended up being
proved as unconstitutional”, Martins said during a conference
call with analysts, adding that Vale isn’t making provisions for
the tax payment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  