-- Buckeyes Meet Bearcats as Ohio Sends Four Teams to NCAA Final 16
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/buckeyes-meet-bearcats-as-ohio-sends-four-teams-to-ncaa-final-16.html
Two of the four schools from Ohio
remaining in the national men’s college basketball tournament
meet today as  Ohio State University  plays the  University of
Cincinnati  in the East Regional semifinals.  Ohio State and Cincinnati are joined by Ohio University and
 Xavier University , marking the first time four schools from the
same state have reached the final 16 of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament in the same season.  Tonight’s game in Boston marks the third time Ohio State
and Cincinnati will meet in the NCAA tournament and the first
time since the Bearcats won back-to-back championships against
the Buckeyes in 1961 and 1962.  “It still kind of has bad blood between the two schools,”
Ohio State’s All-American forward Jared Sullinger said. “So
this one is going to be remembered for whoever goes to the Elite
8 and it’s going to be a battle of Ohio.”  Ohio State (29-7), the second seed in the East, tips off
against No. 6 Cincinnati (26-10) following tonight’s first
regional semifinal in  Boston  between No. 1  Syracuse University 
and the fourth-seeded  University of Wisconsin .  Today’s other two games are at the West Regional in Phoenix,
where top-seeded Michigan State plays No. 4 Louisville and No. 3
Marquette meets No. 7  Florida .  The South and Midwest regionals have their semifinals
tomorrow in Atlanta and  St. Louis , respectively.  Kentucky , the top seed in the South, plays fourth-seeded
 Indiana , while No. 3 Baylor plays No. 10 Xavier.  Midwest No. 1 seed  North Carolina  plays No. 13 Ohio, which
is the lowest seed to reach the regional semifinals, and No. 2
Kansas faces 11th-seeded North Carolina State.  Regional Finals  The regional finals will be played March 24-25, with the
winners advancing to the Final Four on March 31 at the Superdome
in  New Orleans . The title game is two days later.  Ohio  State is favored by 7 1/2 points tonight against
Cincinnati. The Buckeyes also were picked to win 51 years ago.
That year, Ohio State brought a 27-0 record into the title game
and had a roster that featured Hall of Fame players Jerry Lucas
and John Havlicek, two other future National Basketball
Association players and future Hall of Fame coach  Bob Knight .  Cincinnati defeated the top-ranked Buckeyes 70-65 in
overtime and then beat Ohio State again the next season 71-59 in
the NCAA tournament’s championship game.  Ohio State coach Thad Matta said he’s excited for the
schools to have another chance to meet on a national stage and
highlight the quality of basketball in the state of Ohio.  ‘Passionate Fans’  “What I’ve felt all along is it’s just a tremendous state
for basketball,” said Matta, who previously coached at Xavier
and Miami University of Ohio. “I’ve got a pretty good
understanding of how passionate the fans are. It takes a lot of
luck for four teams to get here, but by the same token, it
speaks volumes to the level of basketball in the state.”  Cincinnati reached the regional semifinals three months
after a brawl halted a Dec. 10 game against Xavier and resulted
in the suspension of eight players from the schools. It’s the
Bearcats’ first appearance in the round of 16 since 2001, and
coach Mick Cronin said it’s especially rewarding for a team
that’s matured since the fight.  “We really focused on making sure we were having fun and
not letting that define us,” said Cronin, whose team has won
both of its first two tournament games by six points. “We’ve
been on a mission to define what Cincinnati basketball is all
about, what our university and city is all about, and the kids
have banded together to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  