-- Bulgaria Plans Eurobond Sale in May or June, Djankov Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-22T14:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/bulgaria-plans-eurobond-sale-in-may-or-june-djankov-says-1-.html
Bulgaria  plans to sell Eurobonds at
the end of May or in June to raise funds to repay about 835
million euros in 11-year Eurobonds maturing on Jan. 15, 2013.  “The sale can be arranged in a matter of several weeks,”
Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said in an interview with
Bulgarian National Television in Sofia today. “The Cabinet must
issue a mandate first, then we need some three to four weeks to
prepare the documents, so it can take place by the end of May or
the beginning of June.”  This will be the first time in 11 years that Bulgaria will
tap international markets. The European Union’s poorest country
in terms of per-capita economic output has the second-lowest
public debt in the 27-nation bloc after  Estonia , at 14.3 percent
of gross domestic product at the end of January.  “We had to wait until the Greek debt issues are cleared,
because the crisis has weighed on the EU and increased interest
rates for neighboring countries like Bulgaria,” Djankov said.
“If we were to sell the bonds a month ago, we would’ve paid 7.5
percent interest. If we sell now, it’ll be 5.5 percent. The time
to do it is between now and July.”  Djankov did not elaborate on the amount to be sold, saying
the new issue will “partly fund” the debt redemption in
January. Bulgaria’s sovereign debt is rated BBB by  Standard &
Poor (SPY) , level with Russia and  Lithuania , and Baa2 by Moody’s,
level with  Brazil .  Cash in the Bank  The move is a “case of getting cash in the bank while
global markets remain liquid,” said Tim Ash, head of emerging-
market research at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , in an e-mailed note. “Bulgaria’s key strength remains
the fact that it has a huge fiscal reserve and one of the best
public sector debt to GDP ratios in the EU.”  Another part of the debt-repayment will come from the so-
called Silver Fund, in which the government collects proceeds
from state-asset sales, which from 2017 will be used to pay
pensions, Djankov said.  The ministry has proposed investing 30 percent of the
fund’s assets, which total about 2 billion lev ($1.35 billion),
in Bulgarian  government securities  and use the return on the
investment to repay the January debt, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  