-- Calpers, Wells Fargo Among Creditors to Talk With Stockton
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-03-22T21:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/calpers-wells-fargo-among-creditors-to-negotiate-with-stockton.html
The  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension, and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are among 18 creditors that have agreed to mediation
with Stockton, California, as the city makes a last-ditch effort
to avert bankruptcy.  Creditors with at least $5 million in debt taking part in
the talks also include Union Bank NA, National Public Finance
Guarantee Corp. and a New York unit of Brussels-based  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,
according to a statement e-mailed by Stockton yesterday.  “The city and interested parties will select a mediator
with the goal of reaching an agreement on how to manage these
city debt obligations,” Stockton said in the statement.  The City Council agreed Feb. 28 to trigger a new state law
aimed at helping cities avert bankruptcy by requiring
municipalities to meet a set of hurdles that include
negotiations with creditors for at least 60 days before they can
file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection.  Stockton, about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San
Francisco , is nearing insolvency because of escalating retiree
costs, accounting errors and the lingering effects of the
recession, City Manager Bob Deis said last month.  While the mediation is confidential under state law, the
participants agreed to be identified and to make public the name
of the mediator once one is selected, according to the
statement.  “The process gives municipalities that are in fiscal
distress an opportunity for financial restructuring, not unlike
what goes on in the private sector,” according to the
statement. “The city has not declared bankruptcy.”  Unions Take Part  The police, fire and city employee unions and the U.S.
Housing and Urban Development Department have also said they
will take part.  “Calpers is committed to both protect the vested rights of
our members to the pensions they have earned through a lifetime
of public service and to assist our employers with the pension
obligations they must meet,”  Anne Stausboll , Calpers’ chief
executive officer, said today in a  statement .  Elise Wilkinson, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets, declined to
comment on the mediation.  Jane Yedinak, a spokeswoman for Union Bank, declined to
comment. Union Bank is a unit of San Francisco-based UnionBanCal
Corp., part of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s
largest publicly traded bank.  Compensation Suspended  The Stockton Police Officers’ Association, one of the
creditors that agreed to mediation, asked a county judge
yesterday to prevent the city from suspending compensation to
retiring workers for unused vacation and accumulated sick leave.
The union said that the city is contractually obligated to make
the payments.  The city in legal filings told the court that it had more
than $1 million in claims pending for those payouts, while it
only has $358,859 budgeted to pay them. Deputy Mayor Kathy
Miller said making those payments could push Stockton into
bankruptcy before the mediation process is concluded.  “Our  cash flow  is already precarious and that could force
us into an uncontrolled insolvency,” she said in a telephone
interview.  A San Joaquin County Superior Court judge didn’t
immediately grant the union’s request and has scheduled a
hearing on the matter next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 