-- Canadian Dollar Falls on Slower Global Growth Concern
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-22T22:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/canadian-dollar-falls-to-parity-on-weaker-global-growth-sales.html
(Corrects ninth paragraph to name Statistics  Canada .)  Canada’s dollar depreciated after
reports on manufacturing in Europe and China fueled concern that
global growth was slowing, spurring demand for the safest of
assets, including the  U.S. dollar  and the yen.  The Canadian currency fell to parity with the greenback for
the first time in two weeks. It declined for a third day as a
report showed January retail sales grew at less than a third of
the rate economists predicted. U.S. equities, crude oil and
copper fell as the appetite for higher-yielding assets waned.  “It’s all about the data -- they set the tone right from
the get-go,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto. “It is a day of
risk abatement as data everywhere conspired against the Canadian
dollar.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.7 percent to 99.93
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It earlier fell 0.9
percent to trade on a one-for-one basis with the greenback for
the first time since March 7. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0007.  Government bonds  rose for a third day, the longest streak
this month. The benchmark 10-year yield dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.20 percent, after rising
to 2.297 percent on March 19, the highest since October.  The loonie dropped for a third day to 82.60 yen after an
index of euro-area manufacturing and services contracted more
than economists forecast in March and a private report showed
manufacturing may shrink in  China  for a fifth month. It is the
yen’s longest streak of gains against the Canadian currency
since Jan. 31.  ‘Disappointing Data’  Retail sales in Canada expanded 0.5 percent in January, as
the biggest jump in new car sales in three years was blunted by
declines at home-improvement and electronics stores, Statistics
Canada said today in Ottawa. That was less than the 1.8 percent
median projection of 24 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  “It’s just been a wall of disappointing data,”  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “The catalyst pushing us toward parity was
the soft Canadian retail-sales number.”  The  Statistics Canada  is expected to announce tomorrow that
the  consumer price index  rose 2.7 percent in February from a
year earlier, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 25
economists. The loonie finished little changed on Feb. 17 when
the agency announced the measure of inflation increased 2.5
percent in January.  “The consumer price index number is likely to be
influential,” Spitz said. “From a closing perspective,
anything above 99.90 would be seen as a game changer in
momentum.”  The loonie declined 0.4 percent in the past week against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen was the biggest gainer,
adding 1.7 percent, while the U.S. dollar rose 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  