-- Canadian Pacific Paid CEO Targeted by Ackman No 2011 Bonus
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-22T21:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/canadian-pacific-paid-ceo-targeted-by-ackman-no-2011-bonus-1-.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  Chief
Executive Officer Fred Green, targeted for dismissal by hedge-
fund investor  William Ackman , received no bonus last year as the
carrier failed to meet its profit targets.  Green’s total compensation dropped to C$5.29 million ($5.29
million), Calgary-based Canadian Pacific said today in a
regulatory filing. That was down from C$6.58 million in 2010,
when he received an annual bonus of C$1.67 million, CP said.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is the
railroad’s biggest shareholder, is pushing to oust Green and
install retired  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO  Hunter
Harrison . Ackman plans a proxy battle at the May 17 annual
meeting to elect six directors to the  board , which backs Green.  Canadian Pacific  said today it will recommend investors
vote for Ackman as a director “so that a constructive board-
level dialogue based on all the relevant facts and information
could take place.” An earlier invitation to Ackman, 45, to join
the board “remains open,” the company said.  Ackman didn’t immediately return an e-mail message seeking
comment today. He offered himself as part of Pershing’s slate of
nominees after declining Canadian Pacific’s offer to become a
director late last year, saying in January that the terms would
have stripped him of his independence in board decisions.  Canadian Pacific needs a management change after lagging
behind North American peers on performance benchmarks since
Green, 55, became CEO in 2006, Ackman said in February. That
argument drew another rebuttal from Canadian Pacific today.  “The board strongly disagrees with  Pershing Square ’s
demand that Canadian Pacific replace its CEO with Hunter
Harrison,” the railroad said. “The board believes that Mr.
Harrison is not the right leader for Canadian Pacific.”  Net income  last year fell to C$570 million, or C$3.34 a
share, Canadian Pacific said Jan. 26. That compares with profit
of C$651 million, or C$3.85, in 2010.  Pershing Square, based in  New York , held 14.2 percent of
Canadian Pacific’s outstanding shares as of Feb. 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  