-- Car Parts, Washer, Wheelbarrow Made Into Sexy Venus
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/car-parts-washer-wheelbarrow-made-into-sexy-venus.html
You can hold a few of the works in
your hand, while others weigh tons. One includes an entire 1956
Studebaker.  Most of John Chamberlain’s sculptures in the current
Guggenheim Museum retrospective consist of mangled junkyard
metal objects, welded together in explosive bursts of line and
color.  Senior curator Susan Davidson worked with the artist to put
the show together until Chamberlain’s death in December at 84.  Wearing a gray dress, dark pony-hair heels and a black
cardigan, Davidson walked me through the exhibition, stopping in
front of some of her favorites -- “Fantail,” “Miss Lucy
Pink,” “Dolores James” -- to describe what makes the colored
hunks of metal so compelling.  Tarmy: Does this show redefine Chamberlain?  Davidson: The primary misconception about his work is that
it’s about automobile crashes. With this exhibit I want to show
him as a collagist, because that’s really what his art is about.  Tarmy: So he had a clear idea of what he wanted his
sculpture to look like before he assembled it?  Davidson: I was in the studio with him while he was
working. He would take what I saw as junk, and then put
something together that would just blow you away.  Junk and Chance  Tarmy: The act of crushing metal leaves so much to chance.  Davidson: There’s no doubt that chance plays a great part
in it. He comes from that 1950s moment with Cage and Cunningham,
where chance and probability very much affect the work.  But I think that even within that element of chance there
was still something calculated. These are abstract art works,
true, but one can’t help but see anthropomorphic relationships.  Tarmy: How about this one?  Davidson: “Fantail,” which is owned by  Jasper Johns , is
made up of a washing machine, a wheelbarrow and car parts, but
you can so clearly see a resemblance to the Venus of Samothrace.  It’s fascinatingly beautiful.  Tarmy: Do you consider his work violent?  Female Elements  Davidson: No, but I do think his work is strong. His
sculptures have a surety and a masculinity to them, but I also
think they have a real feminine side to them.  It comes out in subtle ways: the titles he gives are quite
feminine and the color choices can be quite feminine.  Tarmy: “Miss Lucy Pink,” for example?  Davidson: That was one of the works that was essential for
me to have in this show. It’s a very iconic Chamberlain, and
it’s kind of modest in its scale, which I think is important.  You see the artist’s hand, and it was made at a point where
his sculptures hadn’t fully become three-dimensional. John
talked about how her “butt” is hanging out -- it’s not really
a round piece.  Tarmy: He made some of these pieces over 50 years ago. Did
you have to restore any before the show?  Davidson: In general they’re in remarkably strong shape. We
all age though, human beings and artworks included. His
sculptures do have the occasional tendency to rust.  And sometimes when the welds break, the works slump a
little bit, so conserving his pieces is like getting
chiropractic elements back in alignment.  Gallery Switch  Tarmy: Shortly before he died, Chamberlain switched
galleries from Pace to Gagosian. Did that affect your ability to
get pieces for the show?  Davidson: Not at all. Pace continued to offer their
archive. They had been very committed to his career for a long
time.  But I do think that the switch was very good for John. He
kept wanting them to show his new work, and for whatever reason,
they didn’t like it. And so he got frustrated, and did what any
artist would do: He went somewhere else.  Tarmy: With Chamberlain’s death, has the exhibition taken
on a different meaning?  Davidson: I really hope not. We were organizing it long
before John got sick, and the exhibit has stayed exactly the
same as if he were still running up and down the ramps yelling
at me.  “John Chamberlain: Choices” runs through May 13 at the
Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-423-3500;
 http://www.guggenheim.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 