-- McDonald’s CEO Skinner Retires; Thompson Is Successor
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2012-03-22T20:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/mcdonald-s-ceo-skinner-to-retire-june-30-thompson-is-successor.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  said Chief
Operating Officer Don Thompson will take over as chief executive
officer, becoming the first black CEO of the world’s largest
restaurant chain, after Jim Skinner retires this year.  Thompson, 48, who became president and operating chief in
January 2010, will assume his new role July 1,  Oak Brook ,
Illinois-based McDonald’s said in a statement yesterday.
Skinner, 67, who ran McDonald’s for more than seven years, also
will retire from the board, where he serves as vice chairman.  “It will be a seamless transition,” Peter Saleh, an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York , said in an
interview last night. “They’re not going to skip a beat going
from Jim to Don,” he said.  Thompson takes over as the company works to keep boosting
sales and profit amid increasing competition and higher
commodity prices. Wendy’s Co. and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco Bell
chain recently have been testing breakfast foods at some U.S.
locations.  Burger King Holdings Inc. (BKC)  also began selling soft-
serve ice cream and more upscale menu items last year in a bid
to lure McDonald’s diners.  “Everyone today is trying to steal share from them,”
Saleh said. Thompson needs to protect the breakfast business and
continue to expand McCafe specialty beverages, he said.  Restaurant operators also are enduring higher commodity
costs. Raw ingredient-prices may rise as much as 5.5 percent in
the U.S. and 3.5 percent in  Europe  in 2012, Chief Financial
Officer Peter Bensen said during an earnings call on Jan. 24.  McDonald’s fell 1 percent to $95.80 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have declined 4.5 percent this year.  Electrical Engineer  Thompson, a 22-year company veteran who started as an
electrical engineer, was president of McDonald’s USA from 2006
to 2010 before he became operating chief. He is a director at
McDonald’s and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , according to the McDonald’s
 website . He received his bachelor’s degree in engineering from
 Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana .  Thompson will join five other black CEOs of Fortune 500
companies:  Kenneth Chenault  of  American Express Co. (AXP) , Clarence
Otis at  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , Rodney O’Neal of Delphi
Automotive Plc, Ursula Burns of  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and Kenneth Frazier
of Merck & Co.  There have been 13 black leaders of Fortune 500 companies
ever, according to data from the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Executive Leadership Council, an organization that promotes and
studies black leadership. Thompson is a member of the council.  Thompson, through Lisa McComb, a McDonald’s spokeswoman,
declined to be interviewed.  Remodeling Stores  As COO, Thompson led remodeling efforts, added double-lane
drive-throughs to stores and expanded the hours at some
restaurants -- about 40 percent of U.S. locations are open 24
hours a day. McDonald’s is “just beginning to ramp up” store
remodels in the U.S., Thompson said during an investor
conference on March 14.  Last year, the fast-food chain remodeled 2,500 stores
worldwide and this year plans to spend $2.9 billion to open
1,300 new restaurants and remodel 2,400.  McDonald’s hasn’t decided who will fill the COO position,
McComb said in an e-mail yesterday. The company has operated in
the past without a COO, she said.  Management Trainee  Skinner started at McDonald’s as a management trainee in
1971. Thirty-three years later he became CEO, the company’s
third in seven months, taking over from Charlie Bell who
resigned to focus on his fight against cancer. In April 2004,
then CEO James Cantalupo died of a heart attack.  Revenue at McDonald’s, which has more than 33,500 stores
worldwide, of which about 80 percent are franchised, has jumped
42 percent since 2004. The company posted revenue of $27 billion
in 2011. Analysts forecast revenue will increase 5.3 percent to
$28.4 billion this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Skinner’s total compensation from McDonald’s last year was
$8.75 million, which included a base salary of $1.47 million,
according to a company  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Thompson made $4.07 million, including
about $829,000 in salary.  The Big Mac seller’s  stock  has tripled since Skinner took
the helm on Nov. 22, 2004, making it the best performer in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  since then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivek Shankar in  San Francisco  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  