-- Channel Tunnel Seen Winning Mail Bonanza From Airlines
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-03-22T23:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/channel-tunnel-seen-winning-mail-bonanza-from-airlines-freight.html
The  Channel Tunnel , devoid of
passengers at night since opening in 1994, is seeking an influx
of mail trains as flight curbs at European airports crimp cargo
flows, opening the market for millions of next-day deliveries.  EuroCarex, which groups French, Belgian and Dutch airports,
yesterday ran its first test train into St. Pancras, the London
terminus for Eurostar Group Ltd.’s passenger expresses, after an
overnight trip from Lyon via Paris’s  Charles de Gaulle  hub.  Adding nightly routes for parcels and mail through the 30-
mile subsea link would boost sales at manager  Groupe Eurotunnel
SA (GET)  as freight flows languish two-thirds below their 1998 peak.
Each train can carry 120 metric tons of parcels, equal to seven
 Boeing Co. 737 freighters . Rail will be competitive in both the
next-day delivery “express” market and in three-day deliveries
where cost is the chief priority, Brussels-based Carex predicts.  “There’s huge potential,”  John Smith , managing director
of Eurotunnel’s GB Railfreight cargo unit, said in an interview.
“As time rolls on with the green agenda, problems at airports
and the capacity that these trains can offer, the economics are
going to begin to swing big-style in its favor.”  Air France, UPS  The test, arranged with Eurotunnel, train operator Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Français or SNCF and rail networks
in the U.K. and  France , aims to prove the plan’s viability to
end users. Potential customers include  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,
 FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and the TNT Express NV
business it’s acquiring, SNCF’s Geodis SA logistics arm and
Worldwide Flight Services, owned by buyout firm LBO France.  High-speed mail and parcel services through the Channel
Tunnel may become possible as an Anglo-French safety committee
loosens limits on train types permitted to use the subsea link
in order to encourage new passenger entrants. The journey from
London to Charles de Gaulle would take just over two hours,
Carex says on its website, with Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport
accessible in 3 1/2 hours and Frankfurt in about 5 1/2.  Yesterday’s test was performed by one of a handful of
specially adapted TGV expresses that normally operate for French
state mail service  La Poste  on SNCF’s Provence-Lyon-Paris route.
The 10-car units, which have no seats, are the fastest freight
trains in the world, with a top speed of 168 miles per hour,
compared with just 100 mph for the equivalent model in the U.K.  New Trains  Alstom SA (ALO) , maker of the TGV, and  Siemens AG (SIE) , which builds
the rival ICE, have been consulted on providing 25 new trains
capable of 186 mph, the same speed as the Eurostar, featuring a
floor with ball-bearing plates and rollers like those used in
cargo jets and with a loading and unloading time of 30 minutes.
A minimum of eight sets would be needed to commence services.  Older passenger TGVs could also be converted for freight
use as they are retired from traffic, Smith said at St Pancras.  Winning permission to run scheduled trains through the
tunnel should be straightforward given that Eurostars are
themselves modified TGVs, and that the postal units carry no
passengers, so that current evacuation rules won’t apply, said
Francois Coart, managing director of Carex’s  London  division.  Mail trains would be competitive over distances of 300
kilometers to 800 kilometers (185 miles-500 miles), Carex says,
with trucks and planes winning out either side of that range.  Air France Interest  The plan will appeal most to freight integrators operating
aircraft every night between cities such as Paris and London and
for which “even 15 minutes means something,” said Olivier
Rilhac, Air France Cargo’s delegate to the Carex project.  The carrier’s own model uses hold space on day-time flights
within  Europe , with shorter trips performed by trucks at a cost
with which trains can’t compete, though the business case could
move in the direction of rail over the next five years, he said.  “We don’t know what’s going to happen,” Rilhac said.
“You have to take into account the fuel price and environmental
concerns, and you can’t be very optimistic about night flights.
We want to be a client but we can’t lose customers, so we must
find a way with EuroCarex to devise a more competitive model.”  Environmental curbs on cargo flights are most evident at
 Frankfurt , Europe’s third-busiest airport, where a 760 million-
euro ($1 billion) fourth runway opened Oct. 21. The strip, which
lifted capacity 40 percent to 700,000 flights a year, operated
for nine days before a temporary court ban on services between
11 p.m. and 5 a.m. took effect, with a federal court judge
saying March 14 that the ruling is likely to be made permanent.  Frankfurt accounts for 25 percent of European air-freight
consignments, or 2.3 million metric tons a year. One-third move
at night, according to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , the airport’s No.
1 user and the biggest cargo carrier among passenger airlines.  Road Limits  Elsewhere, London Heathrow airport, Europe’s busiest, last
year handled 476,197 flights, or 99.2 percent of its 480,000
limit. The airport also operates under a night-flights ban and
won’t be allowed a third runway, the U.K. government has said.  Eurostar’s trains also stop running at night, limiting
services mainly to Eurotunnel shuttles that carry vehicles and
their occupants between Folkestone and Calais.  A switch to trains for express-mail deliveries will be
spurred by new speed-limit restrictions for heavy trucks imposed
across Europe in 2007, together with crowded roads, high  oil
prices  and the deregulation of freight and high-speed rail
networks, which has simplified operations, Carex says.  Paris-based Eurotunnel bought GB Railfreight in 2010 to win
clients directly, instead of relying on train operators such as
SNCF. The deal also means a company that ran only auto shuttles
through the tunnel can provide trains across Europe, helping
boost cargo volumes 17 percent to 1.32 million tons last year.  Airport Links  Eurotunnel shares have gained 27 percent this year, buoyed
by plans at Eurostar and  Deutsche Bahn AG (DBHN)  to offer passenger
services from the U.K. to Amsterdam, Cologne and Frankfurt which
should also speed up the approval process for mail-only trains.  Carex’s plans envisage rail-mail services linking London
with Paris CDG, Schiphol, Lyon, Cologne and Liege,  Belgium , in
the 2015-2017 period. The group aims to extend the network first
to Frankfurt and the French cities of Bordeaux, Marseilles and
Strasbourg and eventually to locations in Spain and  Italy .  While St Pancras has road access to some platforms, the
Eurostar terminus is unlikely to be chosen as a permanent postal
base, with Carex instead exploring options for a “railport” to
the east, where the line crosses London’s M25 orbital motorway.  The emphasis at  St. Pancras  will remain on “quality and
luxury,” according to Nicola Shaw, CEO of High Speed 1, which
runs the station and its connection to the Channel Tunnel. While
the route as a whole is open to freight trains, cargoes can be
“heavy but not dirty,” she said in interview.  “This line is principally for high-speed passenger
services,” Shaw said. “After that comes high speed freight,
and then things like fruit from Spain and Italy. But we’re not
expecting to have coal or aggregates. That doesn’t fit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  