-- Chavez, Rival Tied Ahead of Venezuela Election, Poll Shows
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-03-22T18:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/chavez-rival-tied-ahead-of-venezuela-election-poll-shows-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
locked in a statistical tie with his rival Henrique Capriles Radonski seven months before presidential elections, according
to a poll by Consultores 21.  Chavez was favored by 46 percent of those surveyed compared
with 45 percent for Capriles, said Saul Cabrera, vice president
of the Caracas-based pollster. Another 9 percent of the 2,000
people polled between March 3 and 13 were undecided, Cabrera
said today in an interview.  Chavez, who is battling cancer, had 47.3 percent support in
a December poll by Consultores 21. That was before Capriles won
a primary to select a single opposition candidate to oppose
Chavez in the October vote and before the president underwent a
third cancer operation in less than a year.  “Capriles received a boost after the primary,” Cabrera
said in a phone interview. “The initial boost of sympathy for
the president because of his health issues may dissipate as
voters decide who’s best to lead over the next six years.”  The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.3
percentage points, Cabrera said.  The 57-year-old former paratrooper is facing his toughest
election to date during his 13-year presidency as radiation
therapy to treat his undisclosed type of cancer will limit his
ability to campaign. Capriles, 39, has began to tour the country
in what he’s calling a “door-to-door” campaign to attract
disenfranchised government supporters.  ‘Engaged Voters’  The Consultores poll shows that when surveying the 72.5
percent “most engaged voters,” Chavez’s support rises to 51
percent versus Capriles’ 45 percent, with 4 percent saying
they’re undecided.  Should Chavez be unfit to run in the October elections,
Capriles would beat all four of the government officials best
positioned to succeed the president, the poll shows.  Venezuelan bonds have rallied this year, returning 22
percent year-to-date as investors see an increased probability
of a political change that may reverse Chavez’s socialist
policies that have fueled inflation and dried up foreign
investment.  The yield on  Venezuela ’s 9.25 percent benchmark bonds due
in 2027 has fallen 265 basis points, or 2.65 percentage points,
this year to 10.43 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Against Capriles’ 49 percent, Chavez’s brother Adan and
vice president Elias Jaua would get 40 percent of the vote,
foreign minister Nicolas Maduro would get 39 percent and head of
the national assembly,  Diosdado Cabello , would win 38 percent,
according to the poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 