-- Chavez Turns to Generals to Defend Revolution Amid Illness
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-03-22T19:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/chavez-in-failing-health-turns-to-generals-to-defend-revolution.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
who began his climb to power in a failed revolt two decades ago,
is returning to his military roots and promoting fellow coup
plotters to top posts to ensure the survival of his revolution.  The socialist leader says he’s fit enough to win another
six-year-term in October after undergoing cancer surgery in
February for a third time in eight months. Still, the former
tank commander’s treatment of his illness as a state secret has
fueled speculation his health is worse than he’s letting on.  Chavez is falling back on officers who fought alongside him
in the February 4, 1992 rebellion against then-President Carlos Andres Perez amid the uncertainty over his health and his
refusal to name a political heir. By consolidating his power
within an institution that has backed four coups since 1958,
Chavez wants to “strike fear” in voters that the armed forces
won’t allow an opposition victory, said Jose Machillanda, a
retired army colonel.  “The message is that if Chavez isn’t there as president
then his revolution will continue in the hands of the men of the
4th of February,” Machillanda, who teaches at the Caracas-based
Ceppro research institute, said in a phone interview. “He
trusts the military because they know how to obey orders.”  The most prominent promotion is that of former Lieutenant
Diosdado Cabello, who in December was named head of the National
Assembly and No. 2 behind Chavez in the governing United
Socialist Party of  Venezuela , or PSUV.  Married to the Revolution  Another loyalist promoted to the inner circle is Henry Rangel Silva, who as an army general told Caracas-based Ultimas
Noticias in 2010 that the armed forces are “married” to
Chavez’s revolution. In January, he was named defense minister.
Five other soldiers who partook in the uprising have also been
handed leading roles in Chavez’s re-election campaign.  The political maneuvering comes as Chavez faces his biggest
electoral test yet in a 13-year tenure in which he has
nationalized assets in the oil, metals and cement industries and
rattled markets. After winning by margins of 22 percentage
points in 2000 and 26 points in 2006, his approval rating has
fallen as the world’s fastest inflation, a slow recovery from a
two-year recession and shortages of staples like milk and corn
flour erode support among his base of poor Venezuelans.  Chavez was supported by 46 percent of those surveyed in a
poll by Caracas-based Consultores 21 taken between March 3 and
March 13, while opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski
had 45 percent. The poll used a sample of 2,000 people with a
margin of error of 2.3 percentage points, Consultores 21 Vice
President Saul Cabrera said today in a phone interview.  Coup Anniversary  Chavez, 57, celebrated the 20th anniversary of the coup
attempt with a military parade featuring Russian-made anti-
aircraft missiles and fighter jets flying overhead -- a symbol
of how the armed forces have prospered under his stewardship.  “They’ll have to bring an end to the armed forces because
the armed forces are Chavista,” the president, responding to
opposition criticism he’s politicized the military, said during
a Feb. 2 ceremony. “Venezuela’s armed forces have Chavez in
their heart, in their roots and Chavez has the armed forces in
his heart, in his soul.”  While record revenue from crude  oil prices  that reached
$116 a barrel March 16 is allowing Chavez to boost spending
ahead of the vote, the  International Monetary Fund   forecast  in
October that the economy will grow 3.6 percent this year, less
than the 4 percent average for Latin America. The central bank’s
scarcity index, which measures the availability of  consumer
goods  in stores, rose this year to its highest level since 2007.  Bond Rally  Investors have seized on Chavez’s health scare to buy up
assets in  South America ’s biggest oil producer, speculating that
he may be too weak to campaign. The nation’s bonds returned 22
percent this year, more than every country except the  Ivory
Coast , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Chavez, who has not disclosed what type of cancer he has,
returned from Cuba this month following surgery and a three-week
convalescence on the communist island.  Should Chavez eventually drop out of the race, his
opponent, Capriles, would be favored to defeat any handpicked
successor, said  Michael Shifter , president of the  Inter-American
Dialogue , a policy center in  Washington . That includes Cabello,
who lost to the 39-year-old Capriles in the 2008 election for
the governorship of Miranda state.  “Chavez can’t transfer his appeal and charisma to anyone
else,” Shifter said in a phone interview. Capriles’ campaign
didn’t respond to calls seeking comment.  The Consultores 21 poll showed Capriles beating Chavez’s
brother Adan, Vice President Elias Jaua, Foreign Minister
Nicolas Maduro and Cabello in an eventual head-to-head election.  Marginalizing Civilians  As he promotes loyalists, Chavez is on the lookout for
defectors and is marginalizing allies from the more
ideologically-driven, civilian wing of his movement.  This month, he suspended Monagas Governor Jose Gregorio Briceno, calling him a “traitor” for accusing Cabello of
trying to destabilize his rule in the oil-producing state. He’s
also asked Vice President Jaua and Foreign Minister Maduro to
step down and run in gubernatorial elections, something
tantamount to a demotion for two of the most prominent civilian
members of his cabinet, Machillanda said.  The divisions, which may become more intense as the
election nears, are being fueled by Chavez’s refusal over the
years to cultivate a successor in the belief that his leadership
is indispensable, said Gregory Weeks, director of Latin American
studies at the University of  North Carolina  in  Charlotte . Since
taking office in 1999, he’s shuffled his cabinet numerous times,
in the process going through seven vice presidents.  “If he were to name somebody right now he’d be telling the
world, ‘I’m pretty sure I’m going to die soon,’” said Weeks in
a phone interview. “I see Chavez as pretending he’s healthy as
long as he possibly can.”  Cabello’s Ascent  Like his mentor  Fidel Castro  in Cuba, who named his 26th of
July movement that overthrew  Fulgencio Batista ’s dictatorship in
1959 for a failed attack on an army barrack six years earlier,
Chavez has long touted his Bolivarian revolution’s militarist
origins. In 1992, after the uprising was squashed, the then-
unknown paratrooper urged his fellow conspirators to surrender,
famously saying he had failed “for now” in his bid for power.  After spending two years in jail, Chavez was pardoned by
Perez’s successor, Rafael Caldera, and went on to defeat
Henrique Salas Romer in the 1998 election.  Second in Command  Cabello, 48, has stood alongside Chavez throughout,
occupying the presidency for a few hours in the chaos that
followed Chavez’s ousting by a civilian-backed faction of the
military in 2002 and return to power two days later. As head of
the National Assembly, he’s first in line to assume the
presidency if Chavez wins re-election but is unable to be sworn
in for a new term in February.  He’s also one of the leading candidates to substitute
Chavez should the president drop his re-election bid. When
Chavez returned from Cuba March 16, Cabello greeted him at the
airport and a day later joined him as he addressed supporters
from the “People’s Balcony” of the presidential palace.  “He’s emerged as one of the most prominent figures within
Chavismo and to the extent that there will be a discussion about
succession he’ll play a very important role,”  Francisco Rodriguez , a senior  Latin America  economist at Bank of America
Corp., said in a phone interview from  New York .  Calls to Cabello’s office at the National Assembly went
unanswered, while Chavez’s information ministry didn’t respond
to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Pragmatist  Business leaders see Cabello as more of a pragmatist than
the civilian, pro-Cuban wing of the government. In 1999, as
chief telecommunications regulator, he ended Cia. Anonima
Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela’s monopoly on fixed-line phone
service.  “People in business felt that Cabello was someone they
could talk with,” said Rodriguez, who was an economic adviser
to Venezuela’s congress from 2000 to 2004. “While I don’t think
that’s currently the case it does appear to illustrate less of
an ideological strain of thinking.”  Cabello has repeatedly denied speculation of tension within
the government as different factions jockey for power.  “There’s no other option for a candidate representing the
PSUV except Chavez,” Cabello said on state television March 12.
“There’s no plan B, plan C or plan D.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 