-- Chicago Cools a Bit After `Incredible' Warm Streak
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-22T13:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/chicago-cools-a-bit-after-incredible-warm-streak.html
Rain and wind off Lake Michigan
will probably keep temperatures in the 70s today in  Chicago ,
where highs have been above 80 for seven of the past eight days,
according to the National Weather Service.  The high in Chicago is forecast to reach 78 degrees
Fahrenheit (25.6 Celsius) after reaching a record for the date
yesterday of 87, breaking a mark set in 1977, the  weather
service  said.  “This warm air mass has been incredible,” said  Tom Kines ,
a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . ‘The highest temperature this month in Miami has
only been 86.”  As temperature records have fallen across the Midwest,
plants have started to bloom weeks early, leaving them at risk
of spring frosts, and energy needed for heating has declined by
as much as 80 percent across the region.  “There’s a big concern with fruit-bearing trees,” Kines
said. “Apples and pears are starting to blossom and it’s way
too early for that. If we get some colder weather there could be
a problem. All you need is a normal air mass in the month of
April and nighttime lows could be in the 20s.”  The average days for last freezes across northern Illinois
range from April 19 to May 7, according to the weather service.
Wheat crops would also be susceptible to damage from a return to
seasonal temperatures.  Early Growing Season  The growing season across southern  Michigan  has arrived
about five weeks early, according to the  weather service .  Throughout the Midwest and Ohio Valley, 60 to 80 percent
less energy will be needed for heating from March 23 to March
29, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in
Belton, Missouri.  Cleveland has had eight consecutive days of highs of 70
degrees or more, passing the old mark of seven set in 1945,
according to the weather service.  The highest March temperature in  Fort Wayne ,  Indiana , 87
degrees, was recorded yesterday, breaking a 102-year-old mark.
Detroit set an all-time March high yesterday of 84 and has had
eight days of temperatures above 70.  “This current extreme weather event truly has never
happened in record history in southeast Michigan,” according to
a statement on the  Detroit  weather service’s website.  Northeast Highs  The temperature may reach 77 in Toronto and 72 in Montreal
today, according to  Environment Canada . New York City’s expected
high is 74, while Boston may have a high of 82 under sunny
skies.  The high in  Washington  is forecast to be 75 and
Philadelphia may see 76, according to the weather service.  Kines said the warmth is being caused by the far-north
position of the jet stream, which is a divider between warm and
cold air.  “For the jet stream to be real far north for this
prolonged period is very unusual,” Kines said. “What is making
this a once in a life time event? It is hard to say.”  Kines said potential culprits may be snow cover across the
U.S. and  Canada , which much lower this year, and the fact the
Great Lakes didn’t freeze over. It will take more study to
determine what happened, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  