-- Chile Swaps Tumble as Commodities, Taxes Damp Inflation Concern
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-03-22T19:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/chilean-peso-slides-for-fifth-day-on-chinese-manufacturing-dip.html
Chilean swaps fell the most in two
months and bond yields plunged as falling commodity prices and
speculation the government will cut taxes to stem inflation
undermined bets on interest-rate rises.  The two-year swap rate fell 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 5.27 percent, the steepest one-day decline
since Jan. 13. The one-year swap fell seven basis points to 5.16
percent. The yield on 10-year inflation-linked central bank
bonds fell nine basis points to 2.56 percent, the lowest in a
week.  Chile ’s peso depreciated for a fifth day.  Commodity prices worldwide are falling on concern that
Chinese and European demand is stalling. Copper, Chile’s biggest
export, fell the most in two weeks in  New York  today after a
manufacturing index in  China  indicated a contraction this month.
At the same time, Chilean traders have reduced bets on inflation
amid speculation the government will cut tax on loans.  “The fall in nominal rates is being driven by lower
inflation expectations and lower rate expectations as well as
the global correction in yields,” said Sebastian Ide, head of
the interest-rate trading desk at Banco de Chile in Santiago.
“We have had a major reversion in commodities and there’s been
a lot of noise about what the government could do with taxes.
The risks on inflation are to the downside.”  Tax Reform  A removal of stamp duty, or tax on loans, as part of the
package of tax changes to be presented to Congress next month,
would reduce inflation by 40 basis points, Christian Gomez, a
trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago, said yesterday.  The price of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil
for May delivery fell as much as 2.7 percent today.  The  Dow Jones UBS Commodity Index (DJUBSTR)  fell 1 percent today,
extending its decline this month to 3.4 percent. The yield on
10-year U.S. Treasury debt fell for a third day and the yield on
 France ’s 10-year benchmark fell 10 basis points. Five-year
dollar swaps fell for a second day, dropping 3 basis points to
1.35 percent.  Traders now expect the central bank to raise its benchmark
lending rate, currently at 5 percent, to as much as 5.25 percent
by the end of the year, Ide said. A week ago the swaps market
was pricing in a yearend rate of 5.5 percent.  The peso fell 0.8 percent to 488.8 per  U.S. dollar . The
Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index  fell  0.5
percent while emerging-market stocks declined for a sixth day.  ‘Knee-Jerk’  Copper makes up more than half of Chile’s exports and
China, the second-largest economy, has been its biggest customer
for the past three years. A preliminary measure of Chinese
manufacturing fell to 48.1 in March, the lowest level in four
months, based on data from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, and manufacturing in  Europe  also shrank.  “There’s a no doubt that China manufacturing is on
everyone’s mind,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Chile will be very affected by China and an unexpected dip of
that kind generates a knee-jerk reaction. Having said that, the
copper story is not as bad as it seems. There’s still plenty of
demand for copper and not enough supply.”  In the last three months of last year, China bought a
record $4 billion of Chilean copper, more than double the amount
bought by the U.S. and  Japan  combined.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  dropped to 48.7 from 49.3 in February, London-based
Markit said in an initial estimate today. Readings below 50
indicate contraction.  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had
a $5.5 billion short position in the peso on March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  