-- China to Restrict Coal Demand, Output to 3.9 Billion Tons
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T06:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/china-to-restrict-coal-demand-output-to-3-9-billion-tons.html
China , the world’s biggest user and
producer of coal, will limit domestic output and consumption of
the commodity in the five years through 2015 to reduce pollution
and curb reliance on the fuel.  Production and demand will be restricted to about 3.9
billion metric tons a year by 2015, according to a five-year
plan for the coal industry released by the National Energy
Administration at a briefing in Beijing today. The nation
produced about 3.8 billion tons in 2011, according to Helen Lau,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  China, the world’s biggest producer of  carbon emissions ,
will strengthen control of air pollution and take an “active
part” in international cooperation to tackle  climate change ,
the National Development and Reform Commission said on March 5.
The government aims to cut carbon dioxide emissions by as much
as 17 percent per unit of gross domestic product in its five-
year plan through 2015.  “Demand and output growth will definitely slow because of
environmental concerns,”  David Fang , a director at the China
Coal Transport and Distribution Association, said by telephone
from Beijing today. “The goals look difficult though, unless
the government can substantially reduce economic growth and
suppress enough energy-intensive industries,” he said.  The Chinese government is targeting average economic growth
of 7 percent a year during the so-called 12th five-year plan,
which covers 2011 through 2015. Annual coal demand in the period
should expand by at least the same rate, Fang said.  Air Pollution  Coal as a proportion of China’s energy demand will fall
“significantly” because of adjustments to the nation’s energy
structure, environmental protection measures and restrictions on
particulates, according to the document today, which didn’t
specify the proportion.  Local governments including those in Beijing,  Shanghai  and
Guangdong have pledged this year to release readings of air
pollutants smaller than 2.5 micrometers in diameter, known as
PM2.5, which can penetrate lungs and enter the bloodstream. The
government was criticized last year for a plan to make data on
PM2.5 publicly available by 2016. A Dec. 8 editorial in the
state-owned China Daily newspaper called that “too slow.”  New Capacity  China will add new coal-production capacity of 750 million
tons a year in the five years ending 2015, with the total
capacity limited to 4.1 billion tons, according to the NEA.
“Large” mines will account for 2.6 billion tons, while 900
million tons will be at pits that can produce 300,000 tons a
year or more, it said in the document.  The country will build 530 million tons a year of new
capacity in the western regions in the five-year period,
accounting for 72 percent of total construction, the NEA said.
About 25 percent of new-builds will be in central regions and
3.3 percent will be in the east and northeast, it said.  The government will continue to encourage coal imports,
according to the document, without elaborating. China imported
20.6 million tons of coal in February, down 7.2 percent from the
record set in November, according to customs data  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  