-- China Money Rate Jumps to Two-Week High After Cash Deposit Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T08:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/china-money-rate-jumps-to-two-week-high-after-cash-deposit-sale.html
China ’s money-market rate rose to a
two-week high after the central bank sold cash deposits at the
highest yields since October, spurring concern the supply of
funds will decline as the quarter-end approaches.  The People’s Bank of China sold 50 billion yuan ($7.9
billion) of six-month treasury deposits at commercial banks on
behalf of the Ministry of Finance at a yield of 6.8 percent,
according to a trader required to bid at the sales. That matches
the 6.8 percent yield at the last sale of similar-maturity
deposits on Feb. 23, the second-highest level since the auctions
started in 2006.  The cash deposit “result might create some volatility, and
the quarter-end might see seven-day repurchase rate fixings to
be under small and temporary upside pressure,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . He
forecast the cash deposits to be auctioned at or below a yield
of 6.1 percent.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased nine basis points to 3.18
percent as of 4:52 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
It touched 3.20 percent, the highest since March 5.  The central bank sold 20 billion yuan of 91-day repurchase
contracts in a separate sale today, according to a statement on
its website. The yield was unchanged at 3.14 percent.  The monetary authority  drained  a net 19 billion yuan of
capital from the financial market this week, compared with a
withdrawal of 57 billion yuan last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined two
basis points to 3.18 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due
June 2021 was steady at 3.55 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 