-- China Unicom 2011 Profit Misses Estimates on 3G User Cost
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-23T09:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/china-unicom-full-year-profit-misses-estimates-on-3g-user-costs.html
China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., the
nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company, said it faces
rising costs to expand coverage this year as users on its high-
speed network increase.  The company will boost  capital spending  by 30 percent to
100 billion yuan ($16 billion) in 2012, Chief Executive Officer
Chang Xiaobing said at a briefing in Hong Kong yesterday. Profit
margins “will be under pressure” as marketing and network
costs rise, Chief Financial Officer Li Fushen said.  China Unicom reported 2011 profit yesterday that missed
analyst estimates on higher marketing costs. The carrier added
record numbers of smartphone users each month from October
through December, winning customers for mobile data with
subsidies on handsets including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. That gave
the company 40 million subscribers to its third-generation
network at the end of last year, while also boosting costs.  “We remain cautious on China Unicom,” Alen Lin, an
analyst at BNP Paribas Securities  Asia  in Hong Kong, wrote in a
report to clients yesterday. “We continue to believe the high
cost of driving rapid 3G growth would offset any upside from
improved subscriber profile. This is again validated through the
poor profitability.”  Lin rates the shares hold and said he couldn’t comment
beyond his report when contacted today.  Profit, Revenue Miss  China Unicom rose 0.9 percent to close at HK$13.24 in Hong
Kong trading. The  stock  has declined 19 percent this year,
compared with a 12 percent gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Net income  rose 14 percent to 4.23 billion yuan in 2011
from a restated 3.7 billion yuan a year earlier, China Unicom
said. That missed the 5.18 billion-yuan average of 20 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 22 percent to 209.2 billion yuan, lagging
behind the 212.2 billion yuan average of 32 analyst estimates.  Total sales and marketing costs, including handset
subsidies for the company’s 3G network, more than doubled to
13.1 billion yuan last year from 6.3 billion yuan, the company
said in a statement on its website.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization as a percentage of revenue shrank to 30.3 percent
in 2011 from 34.7 percent a year earlier, the carrier said. The
 EBITDA margin  won’t fall below last year’s level, Li said.  “We need to improve the quality of our network” because
the company is seeking to add more 3G users this year than
competitors in  China , President Lu Yimin said at the conference.  ‘Eliminate Blind Spots’  The network investment will “eliminate blind spots in
urban areas; extend coverage to developed townships,” the
company said in the  statement .  “There are more iPhone and smartphone users on the
network, so they have to expand capacity, coverage, and improve
network quality,” Kelvin Ho, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Yuanta Securities Co., said yesterday. “They have to spend
more, or the window of opportunity will be missed.”  The company will offer smartphones costing less than 700
yuan to attract more users, Lu said.  China Unicom, the nation’s first carrier to offer the
iPhone with a service contract, has so far been unable to use
that advantage to close the gap with market leader  China Mobile
Ltd. (941)  The company’s total wireless user base of 199.7 million at
the end of last year was less than one-third of China Mobile’s
649.6 million, according to data the companies released in
January.  China Unicom’s 3G subscribers also lagged behind China
Mobile’s 51.2 million high-speed network users.  China Unicom lost its exclusivity on subsidized sales of
the iPhone with a service contract this month.  China Telecom
Corp. (728N) , the nation’s third-largest mobile-phone company, began
selling the device on March 9.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  