-- China Stocks Fall to One-Week Low on Manufacturing Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T07:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/china-s-stocks-fall-to-one-month-low-on-manufacturing-report.html
China’s stocks  fell to a one-week
low as a report that showed manufacturing may contract this
month overshadowed speculation the government will ease monetary
policy to bolster the economy. [bn:WBTKR=600362:CH]   Jiangxi Copper Co. [] and Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd. dropped
more than 2 percent on concern that a manufacturing slump may
curb demand for metals. China Shenhua Energy Co. paced declines
for coal producers as coal for  Asia ’s power stations headed for
the worst slump since the global financial crisis. China Vanke
Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the biggest developers, rose
after the China Securities Journal said the central bank should
cut lending rates to revive economic growth.  “The real economy is still slowing and hasn’t shown signs
of picking up as the market expected,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages about $120 million. “The concern
about growth is back and that’ll weigh on sentiment.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 2.42 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,375.77 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 0.2
percent to 2,583.75. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added
1.2 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Thirty-day  volatility  on the Shanghai Composite was at
14.91, near a two-week low. About 13.1 billion shares changed
hands in the gauge yesterday, or 4 percent higher than the daily
average this year.  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 8 percent this year on
expectations the central bank will take measures to boost
economic growth. Stocks in the index trade at 9.8 times
estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The index has
lost 22 percent over the past two years.  Manufacturing Slowdown  The preliminary manufacturing reading of 48.1 compares with
a final 49.6 in February. A result above 50 points to an
expansion and a number below 50 indicates contraction.  “The HSBC PMI tends to paint a more bearish picture
China’s manufacturing sector at the moment,” Lu Ting, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America Corp., said in a report.
He said this PMI focuses more on smaller companies, which have
been hurt by tighter liquidity and the companies surveyed may
also have more “exposure” to exports.  A measure of material stocks in the CSI 300 slid 1.6
percent, the most among the 10 industry groups. Jiangxi Copper,
the nation’s biggest producer of the metal, lost 2.1 percent to
25.89 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China, the listed unit of the
largest maker of the lightweight metal, fell 2.8 percent to 7.38
yuan.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. (600111) ,
China’s biggest producer of rare earth, slumped 5.5 percent to
66.45 yuan.  Coal Stocks  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle is set for
the steepest drop over two quarters since the period ended March
2009. Prices are unlikely to recover in the next six months amid
a glut of the fuel and slowing consumption, according to eight
analysts, traders and producers surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, dropped 0.7
percent to 26.10 yuan. Datong Coal Industry Co., the third
biggest, lost 0.4 percent to 13.98 yuan.  China may be leaning towards loosening policy to support
weakening growth based on signals such as the central bank’s
measures to boost rural credit and a State Council meeting that
discussed transport investment, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  The government boosted rural credit by cutting reserve
ratios for more branches of Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the
nation’s third-biggest lender by market value.  A total of 379 outlets in Heilongjiang, Henan, Hebei and
Anhui will be covered in a trial that previously applied to 563
branches in eight provinces, the People’s Bank of China said on
its website yesterday. Effective March 25, the ratio will fall
by 2 percentage points for 565 branches, a move that the central
bank said will free up 23 billion yuan ($3.6 billion).  Rate Cuts Needed  The central bank may choose to lower lending rates while
keeping deposit rates unchanged, or conduct asymmetric rate
cuts, the China Securities Journal said in a commentary. China
needs to cut lending rates as reserve ratio cuts are not enough
to drive “reasonable growth” in credit, according to the
report.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, rose
0.6 percent to 8.23 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest,
added 1 percent to 10.75 yuan.  Branches of China Everbright Bank Co. and Hang Seng Bank
Ltd. in the eastern city of Nanjing are giving a 10 percent
discount on  interest rates  for some 1st-home buyers, National
Business Daily reported, citing officials from the banks.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  