-- China Manufacturing Contraction May Worsen, Data Show
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T03:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/china-manufacturing-may-contract-for-fifth-month-survey-shows.html
A Chinese manufacturing index
indicated a worse contraction this month, bolstering the case
for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to add measures to sustain growth even as
he prolongs a campaign to cool property prices.  The preliminary 48.1 reading in a purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today is the
lowest since November and compares with a final 49.6 in
February. A result below 50 indicates a contraction.  Asian stocks pared gains and oil and copper fell as the
report added to concerns about a deeper slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy. Wen this month pledged pre-emptive fine-
tuning of fiscal and monetary policies to support growth after
increases in  gross domestic product  slowed in 2011.  “Growth momentum could slow down further amid a
combination of sluggish export new orders and softening domestic
demand, and this calls for further easing steps,” saidQu Hongbin, Hong Kong-based chief economist for  China  at HSBC.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks was up 0.4 percent at
11:45 a.m. Tokyo time after climbing as much as 0.8 percent. The
 Shanghai  Composite Index extended losses, dropping 0.4 percent
at 11:15 a.m. local time.  The reading points to a fifth straight monthly contraction,
the longest period since the global financial crisis, when the
gauge stayed below 50 for eight months ending in March 2009.  Odds of Reduction  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a research note after the
report that the odds of an interest-rate reduction have
“significantly increased recently.”  Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB, is forecasting a system-wide reserve-requirement
ratio cut this month or in early April following China’s
decision yesterday to boost rural credit by cutting ratios for
more branches of  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s
third-biggest lender by market value.  China’s economy may bottom in the first to second quarter
and the country has already passed through the tightest credit
conditions in this cycle,  Ba Shusong , a researcher at the
Development Research Center of the State Council, said today in
Shanghai.  400 Companies  The preliminary reading, called the Flash PMI, is from 85
percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of more than 400
companies. A separate PMI from China’s logistics federation and
the National Bureau of Statistics, which has a different sample
and methodology, showed an expansion for a third month in
February.  Joy Yang, chief China economist at Mirae Asset Securities
(HK) Ltd., said the HSBC survey is more concentrated on small-
and medium-sized companies than the official measure, which has
more large enterprises and thus more predictive power.  Wen, in his annual state-of-the-nation address this month,
pledged to complete more affordable homes and ensure funding for
key investment projects while extending his campaign to cool
property prices.  China’s  economic growth  slowed throughout last year to 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter, prompting the central bank to add
liquidity via open-market operations and reduce banks’ reserve
requirements twice since November. The government last lowered
benchmark  interest rates  in 2008.  Confidence Improving  Even so, confidence in  China’s economy  is recovering,
according to two central bank surveys of bankers and company
executives released this week. Respondents’ expectations
improved for market demand and export orders, while more bankers
said monetary policy will tend to be looser next quarter, the
central bank said.  The global economy is in better shape than three months ago
even as vulnerabilities still need to be addressed,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said this week at a conference in  New Delhi . At the same time,
Lagarde said later at a press briefing that it shouldn’t be
assumed the period of crisis is over.  Improving prospects for China’s exports have prompted
economists from Nomura Holdings Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to
raise their 2012 growth forecasts. Nomura increased its estimate
to 8.2 percent from 7.9 percent and Deutsche Bank boosted its
projection to 8.6 percent from 8.3 percent.  Wen set a 7.5 percent growth target for 2012, lower than
the 8 percent annual goal in place since 2005, as he aims to
tilt the nation’s growth toward consumption from  capital
spending  and exports.  Sany Slowing  Sany Group Co. (SANYIZ) , owner of China’s biggest machinery maker,
may see sales growth slow by about half to 25 percent this year
as the economy decelerates, Xiang Wenbo, a board member and
president of the company’s Shanghai-listed unit, said in Beijing
March 10.  “The industry’s extraordinary growth, brought about by the
government’s stimulus package, is not sustainable,” said Xiang,
whose company is based in Changsha,  Hunan province . “Still, the
Chinese market will be the best in the world,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  