-- China Grain Output May Have Been Overstated, Imports to Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T11:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/china-grain-output-may-have-been-overstated-imports-to-rise-1-.html
Grain output in  China , the second-
biggest corn consumer, may have been overstated in past official
estimates, suggesting supply may be less than expected,
according to Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  A discrepancy of about 100 million metric tons in the last
three years alone was caused by unreliable statistics, chairman
 Li Qiang  told an industry conference in Boao, Hainan. Shanghai
JC is China’s largest independent agricultural researcher by
membership. The overstated volume represents 18 percent of
annual output, according Bloomberg News calculations based on
government statistics.  An official at the National Bureau of Statistic’s media
department could not immediately comment and declined to be
identified.  Corn prices in China rose to a record last week on
speculation supplies may not be as large as expected. China
harvested 571 million tons of grains in 2011, the eighth
consecutive gain, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics. Imports in the 2012-2013 marketing year beginning
Oct. 1 may rise to 8.9 million tons from estimated 6.6 million
tons this year, Shanghai JC said March 19.  Market participants have long suspected China’s supply and
demand numbers for grain may be overstated because of inaccurate
reporting and attempts by local officials to secure increased
government funding, Li said in an interview after his speech.  China’s official statistics show corn output last year rose
8.2 percent to 192 million tons. Many in the market doubt last
year’s corn data is realistic and supply may be smaller than
expected, the Jilin Corn Center Wholesale Market said March 15,
citing analyst Li Xigui of the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center.  ‘Opportunity’  Corn demand may outstrip domestic production by as much as
20 million tons by 2020 if there is no significant improvement
in yield, boosting imports, said Cheng Guoqiang, deputy director
of the Development Research Center of the State Council.  “Now is a window of opportunity,” said Shanghai JC’s Li.
Corn users should use their annual import quotas to buy now,
because prices for next season’s supply are relatively cheap,
and government policies are also shifting towards supporting
imports of agricultural products, he said.  Net corn  imports  may reach 10 million to 15 million tons a
year by 2015, Rabobank International said March 14. Buying may
reach 20 million metric tons by 2020 on the basis of domestic
yields of 5.68 tons per hectare, Fan Zhenyu, deputy general
manager at the corn division of Cofco Agri-Trading & Logistics,
said March 15.  ‘Large Imports’  Demand for food and livestock feed has increased in China
as economic growth has lifted incomes, driving an increase in
protein consumption. Corn is used to make  animal feed .  The use of corn to produce biochemical products is growing
rapidly and may make China a “large corn importer” to meet
demand, said the Development Research Center’s Cheng. Annual
demand for industrial use has increased to 45 million tons to 50
million tons from 38 million tons in 2008, he said.  The government should reform its corn-import system by
either dropping quotas or raising the amount that buyers are
permitted to purchase, Liu Yonghao, chairman of New Hope Group
Co., the nation’s biggest feedmaker, said March 5. Imports
jumped 32 percent to 751,179 tons in January, customs data
showed.  The state-controlled quota-based management of corn imports
won’t change in the next few years, Cheng said today.  Corn for September delivery on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  closed little changed at 2,465 yuan a ton. The most-
active contract on March 16 climbed to a record of 2,497 yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  