-- Christie Court Pick Kwon Says Mother Wasn’t Evading Taxes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-23T02:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/christie-court-pick-kwon-says-mother-wasn-t-evading-taxes.html
A Chris Christie nominee to the  New
Jersey (STONJ1)  Supreme Court became the first in modern times to be 
rejected by state lawmakers after a Democrat-led confirmation 
hearing the Republican governor called a “partisan circus.”  Phillip Kwon’s nomination to one of two court vacancies was
rebuffed in a 7-6 vote, largely along party lines, after
Democrats questioned a $160,000 settlement of U.S. government
allegations that family members sought to avoid financial
reporting requirements tied to their business.  Democrats, who control the Legislature, have vowed to fight
harder against the governor, who they say has bullied them to
get his way. Midway through his first term, the two sides are at
odds over tax-cut plans. A court on March 8 overruled Christie’s
abolition of a housing agency, and 27 groups filed a legal
appeal yesterday of his policy to waive environmental
regulations in some cases.  “To see what Phil went through today is frankly not only a
disappointment for me personally but also a disappointment for
the state, the process and the judicial system,” Christie said
following the vote. “They didn’t act like officeholders or
statesmen. They acted like politicians, and that’s what the
people hate.”  Christie told reporters he didn’t have a backup for Kwon,
who would have been the court’s first Asian-American justice.
The governor said he didn’t anticipate changing his criteria for
judicial candidates.  Former Republican  Committee members accused Kwon, a registered independent
who was formerly a Republican in New York, of being part of
Christie’s plan to stack the court. If Kwon and Republican  Bruce
Harris , the governor’s other nominee, were confirmed, the
balance would be three Republicans, two Democrats and two
independents, Christie has said.  Kwon’s rejection was the first time a nominee for the high
court was turned down by the Senate Judiciary Committee since
the modern Constitution of 1947, according to Winnie Comfort, a
spokeswoman for the New Jersey courts.  “The power that’s vested with the governor is not
unbridled,” Committee Chairman Nicholas Scutari, a Democrat
from Linden, said in an interview after the vote. “There were a
lot of questions with finances and unfortunately things just
didn’t add up.”  Christie said Democrats used yesterday’s hearing to appeal
to public employee unions and solidify their base after angering
government workers last year when they backed Christie on a
pension overhaul.  ‘Push a Bit’  “Christie has made the broadest use of gubernatorial
powers of any governor in recent times,”  David Redlawsk ,
director of the Eagleton Center for Public Interest Polling at
 Rutgers University (26542MF) , said in an e-mail before the vote. “From
time to time it is likely that he’ll push a bit further than the
courts allow or than Democrats will tolerate.”  The judiciary panel, which has eight Democrats and five
Republicans, didn’t take up Christie’s second nominee, Harris.
If confirmed, the 61-year-old mayor of Chatham would be the
first openly gay justice.  Most of the hearing centered on the Justice Department
settlement with Kwon’s mother and wife, who own a liquor store
in  Mount Vernon , New York.  U.S. prosecutors filed complaints related to two bank
accounts in June 2011 and seized $290,236, asserting the
business illegally “structured” 222 cash deposits to avoid
breaching a $10,000 threshold that triggers currency transaction
filing requirements.  The business, KCP Wines & Liquor Corp., settled with the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Brooklyn ,  New York , forfeiting
$159,630 without admitting wrongdoing.  ‘Red Flags’  In the hearing, Kwon said he advised his mother that
structuring the deposits might raise “red flags” with the
banks involved. He said his subsequent involvement was confined
to helping her obtain a lawyer.  “My mother was not evading taxes,” Kwon said. “She made
a mistake.”  Democrats on the committee said Kwon should have advised
his mother of the reporting requirements and told her to make
larger deposits. Christie has defended his choice of Kwon,
saying in January that the lawsuit didn’t involve him “in the
least.”  The governor has criticized the state’s highest court for
“legislating from the bench.” He’s cited examples such as the
Abbott v. Burke school-funding cases and Mount Laurel
affordable-housing rulings.  Changes on Bench  Christie, a former U.S. attorney, was criticized by
Democrats after he denied reappointment to  John Wallace , the
court’s only black justice, in 2010. That sparked a standoff
that lasted a year and delayed hearings on Anne Murray Patterson, Christie’s Republican nominee. Christie and Sweeney
later agreed to let Patterson replace Justice Roberto Rivera Soto, who retired in September.  Kwon would have filled one of the vacancies created by the
departure of Wallace and Justice Virginia Long, who stepped down
March 1 after reaching the mandatory retirement age of 70.  The seven-member Judicial Advisory Panel, which includes
former Justice Peter Verniero, unanimously endorsed Kwon and
Harris, according to a letter from the group released by the
governor’s office. Christie also circulated a letter from a
group of former federal prosecutors endorsing Kwon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  