-- Citigroup Willing to Sell All of Smith Barney, Schorr Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-22T13:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/citigroup-willing-to-sell-all-of-brokerage-venture-schorr-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  signaled interest in
selling its remaining stake in a brokerage joint venture to
Morgan Stanley this year, said  Glenn Schorr , a Nomura Holdings
Inc. analyst.  Citigroup Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach and Chief
Operating Officer John Havens indicated a willingness to sell
more than the scheduled 14 percent stake in Morgan Stanley  Smith
Barney  if Morgan Stanley makes an attractive offer, Schorr wrote
in a note to clients today, citing a recent meeting with the
executives.  Morgan Stanley has the option to buy a 14 percent stake in
the joint venture in May, increasing its ownership to 65
percent, and can purchase the business outright over the next
two years. In 2009,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  bought a controlling stake in
the joint venture, which has more than 17,000 advisers and $1.65
trillion in client assets.  The firms would have to renegotiate their existing deal,
and Morgan Stanley, which got Federal Reserve approval for
acquiring the 14 percent stake, would have to submit a new
capital plan to regulators, according to a person briefed on the
situation who declined to be named because an agreement hasn’t
been reached.  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on whether the firm was interested in buying
the rest of Citigroup’s stake. Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for
Citigroup, also declined to comment.  Under the current agreement, New York-based Citigroup and
Morgan Stanley will submit their estimates of the fair value of
the brokerage. If the estimates are within 10 percent of each
other, the stake will be sold at the average of the two
estimates, according to the person. If the difference is more
than 10 percent, the firms would bring in an outside appraiser,
the person said.  Value Estimates  Howard Chen , an analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
estimated the value of the brokerage at $15 billion in a January
note to clients. David Trone, a JMP Securities analyst, said in
a note the following month that the unit is worth $24 billion.  Morgan Stanley’s global wealth management division, which
is mostly composed of the brokerage, had a 10 percent pretax
profit margin in 2011, well below Chief Executive Officer James Gorman’s goal of more than 20 percent. Greg Fleming, who runs
the division, has vowed to increase that to a margin in the
“mid-teens” by the first half of next year regardless of the
market’s performance.  The firm’s shares, which climbed 33 percent this year
through yesterday, slid 1.1 percent to $19.85 at 9:51 a.m. in
 New York . Citigroup, up 44 percent this year through yesterday,
fell 1 percent to $37.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 