-- Milan Settles Derivatives With UBS, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-03-22T17:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/city-of-milan-reaches-accord-with-banks-to-settle-derivatives.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Depfa Bank Plc agreed to unwind interest-
rate swaps with the city of Milan’s government in a 455 million-
euro ($600 million) transaction.  Under the settlement, the banks, which are on trial for
fraud, closed the swaps today at a “positive” mark-to-market
for the city, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Italian municipality.  The settlement isn’t for damages and doesn’t indicate any
acceptance of responsibility by the banks, according to the
statement. Milan agreed to drop claims for damages in the U.K.
and  Italy , where the banks face criminal charges. Milan agreed
to forego civil claims in return for a “discount’ on the cost
of closing the swaps, it said. The criminal trial will continue.
Officials for the four banks declined to comment further.  The lenders charged 101 million euros in so-called hidden
fees for arranging the derivatives that adjusted payments on the
city’s 1.7 billion-euro bond offering in 2005 and from
subsequent restructurings, according to city prosecutor Alfredo
Robledo. The fees are fraudulent given that they weren’t
disclosed, he said as he secured charges against the banks in
March 2010.  “It’s hard to tell the net position of the settlement
without the actual contracts,” which typically remain private,
said Michael Dempster, founder of the University of Cambridge’s
Centre for Financial Research.  The funds from the settlement will be held by the four
banks as a guarantee on other derivative contracts that the city
and the banks will maintain, according to the statement. Two-
thirds of the settlement has been invested in Italian  government
bonds , according to the city.  Across Italy, cities faced with shrinking income and rising
expenses bought swaps from banks to cut short-term interest
costs, putting them at risk of paying more in the long run.
About 300 municipalities were losing a total of 912 million
euros on such derivatives as of March last year,  Bank of Italy 
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  