-- Coalspur Seeks to Sell 25% of Vista Coal Project for Funding
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-22T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/coalspur-seeks-to-sell-25-of-vista-coal-project-for-funding.html
Coalspur Mines Ltd. (CPL) , developing the
C$864 million ($870 million) Vista coal project in Canada, said
it’s close to selling a 25 percent stake in the asset as it
seeks funds to start production in three years.  “We’ve shortlisted, and we’ve gone through quite a large
number of names, and we believe we’re only a few months away,”
Eugene Wusaty, managing director of the Perth-based miner, said
in a phone interview yesterday. Coalspur is trying to form a
venture with some of the big Asian companies, he said.  The Vista coal project in Alberta province is slated to
produce 11.2 million metric tons of power station coal from
early 2015 as demand for the fuel is forecast to rise. Coal
consumers in Japan,  South Korea  and  China  would be the logical
offtake partners, Wusaty said.  Vista has access to an existing rail line and port, unlike
many other coal development projects,  Andrew Harrington , a
Sydney-based resources analyst with Patersons Securities Ltd.
who has a  buy  rating on the stock, said by phone. “The
management team is solid with its focus on a single project.”  Coalspur expects to sign a final agreement with  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR)  to ship Vista’s coal this year, after an
initial pact in November, the company said in a Feb. 29
presentation. It has secured a total of 8.5 million tons of
export capacity at the Ridley Terminals.  China’s thermal coal  imports  may rise to 1 billion tons by
2030 from 175 million tons last year as growth spurs demand for
power,  Wood Mackenzie , the Edinburgh, U.K.-based consultancy,
said in a March 14 report. Long-term export prices are set to
stay high, even with supply growth, because of rail and port
bottlenecks, rising production costs and regulations such as
Australia’s carbon tax, according to the report.  The coal resource at the Vista project increased by 87.2
million tons to 1.29 billion tons, Coalspur, listed in  Australia 
and Canada, said June 14.  Coalspur gained 3.8 percent to A$1.51 at the close in
Sydney yesterday. The shares have fallen 16 percent over the
past year, compared with an 8.1 percent drop in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  