-- Colombian Peso Falls as Europe, China Manufacturing Contract
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-22T18:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/colombian-peso-falls-as-europe-china-manufacturing-contracts.html
Colombia ’s peso dropped as weaker-
than-forecast manufacturing data in Europe and  China  outweighed
Colombia’s higher-than-forecast growth in the fourth quarter.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 1,760.45 per  U.S. dollar  in
Bogota, after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent, from
1,759.56 yesterday. It has gained 10 percent this year, the
biggest advance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product in Colombia expanded 6.1 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, beating the 5.8 percent
median estimate of 31 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
deceleration from a revised 7.5 percent in the third quarter
damped speculation that the central bank will raise the
overnight lending rate tomorrow.  “The data corroborates that the Colombian economy is at a
good point, but not much further than what was already priced
in,” said Daniel Escobar, head analyst at Global Securities
brokerage in Bogota. “We don’t expect this to lead to a
different policy decision. The central bank will leave the rate
unchanged for one or two more sessions,” he said.  Gross domestic product grew 5.9 percent in 2011, the
biggest annual jump since it rose 6.9 percent in 2007. The
acceleration in growth has led policy makers to raise  interest
rates  nine times since the start of 2011, bucking a global trend
for lower borrowing costs.  “We’re still watchful of what’s happening
internationally,” Escobar said.  A gauge of European manufacturing fell as factory output
unexpectedly shrank in Germany and  France , according to London-
based  Markit Economics . A preliminary measure of Chinese
manufacturing dropped to the lowest level in four months, based
on figures from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due July 2024 was little changed at 7.33 percent, according to
the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  