-- Contest for Funniest New Jersey Joke Has a Winner
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/contest-for-funniest-new-jersey-joke-has-a-winner.html
Did you hear the latest joke about
New Jersey? A group of investigative journalists this week
released a report calling it the least corruptible state in the
country. How did that happen?  Easy. We bribed them.  All kidding aside, this is a state where in 2009 three
mayors, two assemblymen and five rabbis were among 44 charged in
a single money-laundering and bribery sting by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . One of those mayors, Peter Cammarano,
was from Hoboken, where I live. He was sentenced to 24 months in
prison. Five years before his arrest, another former Hoboken
mayor, Anthony Russo, pleaded guilty to corruption charges. His
 son  now sits on the city council.  In New Jersey, we expect corruption. It’s built into the
system. We have  566 municipalities , the most per capita of any
state. Local governments tax the citizenry dry, while preserving
the opportunities for  graft  that flow from operating redundant
public services. The state legislature likes it this way and
always has. Whadayagonnado?  So it was quite a story this week when the  Center for
Public Integrity , a Washington-based nonprofit, ranked  New
Jersey  as the state with the lowest corruption risk in the U.S.
(Local corruption didn’t count, it said. Only “corruption
risk” in state government did.) There’s a simple explanation
for how the group reached its conclusion, too: Its methodology
was awful.  Answering Questions  Here’s how the center got the New Jersey data for its
nationwide “ State Integrity Investigation .” Last year, it
hired  Colleen O’Dea , a freelance journalist who worked for about
26 years at the Daily Record in Morris County, to answer a list
of 330 questions about New Jersey state government. Each called
for a numerical score. O’Dea, 49, said she interviewed 26 people
for the assignment, five in person. The center paid her $5,000.  The center also hired a former local newspaper editor to
review her work. From there, the center provided O’Dea’s
responses to another Washington-based nonprofit called  Global
Integrity . That group fed the answers into an algorithm, said
Randy Barrett, a Center for Public Integrity spokesman. The
results from the algorithm were used to generate letter grades
in 14 categories and an overall score for New Jersey of  87
percent, or a B+ .  The center hired  reporters  for every other state, too,
along with “peer reviewers” to read their responses. Each
reporter got the same list of queries. The center called this
investigative reporting. Really, though, it was just a bunch of
people answering questionnaires.  For example, O’Dea gave New Jersey a top score of 100
percent when asked to evaluate this statement: “In practice,
the state-run pension funds disclose information about their
investment and financial activity in a transparent manner.”  How did she decide that? The questionnaire said to give a
high score if such information was available online at little or
no cost. Her notes, posted on the center’s website, say she
asked someone at the  New Jersey State League of Municipalities 
about this. “Very transparent,” her notes said. The center
gave the state an “A” in the category of “ state pension-fund
management ,” based partly on O’Dea’s answer to that question.  Now consider that, in August 2010, New Jersey became the
only state ever sued for  fraud  by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The SEC said the state for years lied to municipal-
bond investors about the underfunded condition of its two
largest pension plans. New Jersey settled without admitting or
denying the agency’s claims.  Making a Difference  When I asked O’Dea in a telephone interview if she knew
about the SEC lawsuit, she said she didn’t. Later, she e-mailed
me to say that she had, in fact, been aware of it, and that
“the state has since owned up to the issue.”  Either way, it’s hard to believe New Jersey deserves an A
for how it manages its pension funds. Yet for all we know, this
grade could have made the difference between finishing No. 1 in
the rankings or not. The center ranked  Connecticut  No. 2 with an
overall grade of B, or 86 percent, one point behind New Jersey.  Another example from the survey: “In practice, the state-
run pension funds have sufficient staff and resources with which
to fulfill their mandate.” O’Dea gave another top score. This
time she listed a second source, in addition to the fellow from
the league of municipalities: a spokesman at the  New Jersey
Department of the Treasury . He told her the answer was yes.  And so forth. The center gave New Jersey’s insurance
department a B+. One of the inputs was the 100 percent score
O’Dea awarded in response to this statement: “In practice, the
state insurance commission has a professional, full-time
staff.”  Her notes listed two sources: Someone from the Independent
Insurance Agents and Brokers of New Jersey, and a spokesman for
the  New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance . Both said
the statement was true. (Imagine that.) O’Dea said the sources
she chose “seemed to logically have knowledge of the
question.”  O’Dea said she was surprised by the overall grade that the
algorithm produced. “Certainly when I went into this I didn’t
think we would come up with a B+," she said. “I was thinking
maybe a C.” So give her points for candor.  Barrett, the Center for Public Integrity spokesman, said
the group stands by its data and that “if there’s a situation
where we made a mistake and need to make a correction, we’ll
make it.”  But there’s nothing here worth correcting. They ought to
dump the whole thing in the  Hudson River .  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  