-- Credit Suisse Says De Vecchi Takes Sabbatical, Will Return
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-22T18:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/credit-suisse-says-luigi-de-vecchi-takes-sabbatical-will-return.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said Luigi de Vecchi will take a sabbatical from his role as global co-head
of the investment-banking department and return in an
“important senior client coverage role.”  Jim Amine was named sole head of the business, the Zurich-
based bank said in a memo to staff. Amine will continue to
report to Eric Varvel, chief executive officer of the firm’s
investment bank. The memo, which didn’t explain the reason for
de Vecchi’s sabbatical, was confirmed by a Credit Suisse
spokesperson in London today.  Jamie Welch was named head of the investment-banking
department for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , and will be
based in London, Credit Suisse also said. Welch will share his
role as global co-head of the energy group with Osmar Abib.  De Vecchi took the co-head job in January 2010. He
previously served as CEO of the bank’s Italy operations for five
years, according to the memo, which didn’t say how long his
sabbatical will last.  Credit Suisse’s revenue from underwriting and advisory
dropped 25 percent last year to 3.02 billion Swiss francs ($3.3
billion). The decline was bigger than that of rivals  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, which fell 9.5 percent and
1.6 percent, respectively.  Credit Suisse is third in the global share of fees so far
this year, according to the memo, which said the bank ranked
between second and fourth in its European region over the past
three years.  M&A Advice  The company was the fourth-ranked adviser on global mergers
and acquisitions in 2011 and 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse also named Tim Bock and Marisa Drew as co-
heads of the global markets solutions group within the
investment-banking department, according to a separate memo.
Bock will be based in  New York  and Drew will work out of  London ,
with both reporting to Amine. The market solutions group is a
financing unit that works with the firm’s equity and debt
underwriting businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  