-- Credit Suisse Says Bank to Meet Regulations, Post ROE of 15%
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-22T09:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/credit-suisse-ceo-says-bank-to-meet-regulations-post-roe-of-15-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, will meet new regulatory
standards while generating “best-in-class” returns for
shareholders, Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said.  “Our view is that we will meet our risk-weighted asset
requirements, we will meet all our capital ratio requirements”
and “drive a business which meets our target return on equity,
which is above 15 percent,” Dougan said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong today.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, and larger Swiss rival  UBS
AG (UBSN)  are under pressure from the nation’s regulators to meet
capital requirements that go beyond those faced by international
competitors. Credit Suisse said in November that it plans to
shrink its total risk-weighted assets 23 percent to 285 billion
Swiss francs ($313 billion), a reduction Dougan reiterated
today.  “If we can make 15 percent-plus returns on equity, we’ll
be a best-in-class business model among financials,” said
Dougan, who has led Credit Suisse since 2008.  Speaking after a trip that included stops in  India ,
Singapore, Australia,  Tokyo , Seoul and Beijing, the CEO said the
bank sees “some very good opportunities to build businesses”
in the region, including in private and investment banking,
fixed income and equities.  Credit Suisse fell 2.1 percent to 26.04 francs at 10:27
a.m. in Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of
31.9 billion francs.  Job Cuts  Dougan said the lender’s decision to reduce its workforce
early last year has put it in a good position to be
“offensive” as markets recover. The bank announced about 3,500
job cuts in 2011.  “That’s obviously a tough thing to go through” as it
impacts people, Dougan said. “But we do think we did a very
good job on that. We actually cut the cost base a lot and put
ourselves in a really good position coming into this year.”  Dougan also said the bank has seen “good performances from
all of our businesses” in  Asia  in the first quarter, including
more activity in both the “secondary market, particularly in
fixed income, but also some of the primary activity” such as
mergers and acquisitions.  “We’ll see how we finish up the quarter, but hopefully
that will continue,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  