-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise by Most This Year on Global Concerns
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-22T22:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-on-concern-global-economy-is-slowing.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose by the most since December on declining
confidence in the global economy as reports showed manufacturing
contracted in Europe and  China .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 90.5 basis points
at 4:50 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  A preliminary measure of Chinese manufacturing dropped to
48.1 in March, the lowest level in four months, based on figures
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. China had earlier
this month cut its economic growth target to 7.5 percent from an
8 percent goal in place since 2005. Euro-area services and
manufacturing output also contracted more than forecast even as
 jobless  claims fell in the U.S. last week.  “The world is still a place that has a lot of  land mines 
in it,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in New
York said in a telephone interview. “While things in the U.S.
are on solid ground, you have to be wary of things outside your
market.”  Applications for  unemployment benefits  decreased by 5,000
to 348,000 in the week ended March 17, the fewest since February
2008, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .  ‘Exogenous Factors’  A European composite index, based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing, declined to 48.7 in
March from 49.3 in February, London-based Markit Economics said
in an initial estimate. Economists forecast a gain to 49.6,
according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  “There is potential for these exogenous factors to
overpower the positives on the U.S. front,” Gross said.  Markit rolled out a new version, Series 18, of the credit-
default swaps index this week after Series 17 of the gauge
reached a more than one-year low of 84.7 basis points on March
19. The CDX indexes roll in March and September.  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, rose by 6
basis points on Dec. 8. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if
a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  