-- Crude Declines on Stockpile Release Speculation, China
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-22T19:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/crude-declines-on-stockpile-release-speculation-china.html
Oil fell to a one-week low after
manufacturing in the euro area and  China  contracted this month,
signaling that fuel consumption may decline.  Futures dropped 1.8 percent as services and output slipped
more than forecast in Europe, according to London-based Markit
Economics. A preliminary measure of Chinese industrial activity
also decreased. Crude’s decline accelerated as equities
retreated and the dollar climbed against the euro.  “The European and Chinese manufacturing data is weighing
mightily on prices,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“These are significant signs of slowing. The market is keying
off of economic signals right now.”  Crude oil for May delivery fell $1.92 to $105.35 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
March 15. Futures are 6.6 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for May settlement declined $1.06, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $123.14 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to New York-traded crude widened to $17.79.
The spread reached a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  dropped to 48.7 from 49.3 in February, Markit Economics
said in an initial estimate today. Economists forecast a gain to
49.6, according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The preliminary index of Chinese manufacturing slid to 48.1
for March, the lowest level since November, and compares with a
final 49.6 in February, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics.  Bullish Case  “The bullish case for oil has been built in large part on
the prospect of Chinese growth continuing to speed ahead,” said
Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion.  The European Union’s 27 members accounted for 16 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy, released on June 8. China, the world’s
biggest oil-consuming country after the U.S., was responsible
for 11 percent of global crude use, BP figures show.  “The manufacturing picture in China and Europe isn’t
supportive for oil demand or prices,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Unless there is some unforeseen political event,
prices are probably heading lower.”  Equities Drop  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 1 percent.
The dollar strengthened 0.3 percent versus the euro. A stronger
U.S. currency reduces the appeal of commodities as an
investment. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
dropped as much as 1.6 percent.  Crude declined 2.3 percent on March 20 after Saudi Arabian
Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said the kingdom can boost output by
25 percent.  Saudi Arabia  is the largest and most influential
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Saudi Arabia has crude production capacity of 12.5 million
barrels a day and will pump about 9.9 million this month and in
April, al-Naimi said in Doha, Qatar. The global market is
oversupplied by as much as 2 million barrels a day, he said.  Libyan output  rose 200,000 barrels to 1.125 million in
February, the most in a year, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Iraqi production climbed 10,000 barrels a day to 2.76 million
last month, the most since 2000.  Fuel Demand  “We’re seeing terrific output from Iraq and  Libya  and the
Saudis made it clear this week that they can easily pump more,”
Kilduff said. “With all of this supply, attention is shifting
to the demand side of the equation.”  U.S. fuel demand dropped 4.8 percent to 17.7 million
barrels a day last week, according to an Energy Department
report yesterday. It was down 8.5 percent from the same period a
year earlier.  Gasoline demand  fell 0.4 percent to 8.38 million
barrels a day, 7.7 percent less than the year before.  President  Barack Obama  said today that his administration
will support domestic oil production while adding that won’t be
enough by itself to lower gasoline prices. Regular gasoline at
the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1.7 cents to a 10-month high
of $3.881 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the U.S.’s
biggest motoring group.  “Producing more oil and gas here at home has been and will
continue to be a critical part of an all-of-the-above energy
strategy,” Obama said in Cushing,  Oklahoma , where  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  plans to begin building the southern segment of its
Keystone XL oil pipeline.  Obama Policies  Obama said he’s taking steps to streamline the permitting
process for critical infrastructure, including pipelines such as
the one planned by TransCanada to deliver oil to the Gulf Coast.  The  International Energy Agency  isn’t planning any
coordinated action among its member nations to tap emergency oil
stockpiles, the agency’s executive director, Maria Van der Hoeven, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 495,608
contracts as of 3:01 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 473,594
contracts yesterday, 25 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  