-- Cuomo Seeks Law for Private Investment in New Tappan Zee Bridge
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/cuomo-seeks-law-for-private-investment-in-new-tappan-zee-bridge.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is
seeking legislation that would allow private-equity firms to
help finance construction of public-works projects, including a
new $5.2 billion  Tappan Zee Bridge.   The bill would authorize the state to lease bridges, roads
and state buildings to help pay for construction, maintenance
and operations of infrastructure, said Thomas Madison, executive
director of the New York State Thruway Authority. Cuomo doesn’t
want to sell state assets, said Karen Rae, deputy secretary of
transportation.  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  are
among companies expressing interest in the Tappan Zee.  “We’re still looking for opportunities to leverage private
investment” in the Tappan Zee, Rae said in an interview in New
York. “The reason we’re moving ahead with public financing is
because, number one, we don’t currently have a state law that
allows us to do public-private partnerships.”  The state has applied for a $2 billion federal loan and is
looking to sell toll-backed bonds to help build a replacement
for the Tappan Zee Bridge. The three-mile Hudson River span,
which connects Rockland and Westchester counties as part of the
Thruway system, carries 138,000 vehicles a day, 40 percent more
than planners intended when it opened in 1955.  At least 31 states and  Puerto Rico  have laws that allow
private investment in public projects, said Richard Norment,
executive director of the  National Council for Public-Private
Partnerships , an Arlington, Virginia-based group. In  Ohio ,
Republican Governor  John Kasich  has proposed leasing or bonding
against the Ohio Turnpike as a way to generate money for other
highway and bridge projects.  ‘Positive Discussions’  Last year, the state Senate approved a measure that would
create a nine-member commission to determine which projects are
best suited for private financing. It would then execute and
oversee the contracts. The bill, which covered only
transportation projects, stalled in the Assembly. Rae said Cuomo
is interested in a measure that would include state buildings
and possibly parks.  “We’ve had very positive discussions with the governor and
his administration over a period of time now, and we’re hopeful
that this year’s budget will afford the opportunity to include
it,” said Republican Senator Charles Fuschillo, chairman of the
Transportation Committee, who sponsored the Senate bill last
year.  The Legislature is expected to send a budget to Cuomo, a
54-year-old Democrat, by March 31. The Senate included support
for a public-private partnership measure in its budget
resolution last week.  Other Sources  As public funding for infrastructure projects has dried up,
 New York  needs to look for other sources, Transportation
Commissioner Joan McDonald said in a Senate hearing on
Fuschillo’s bill.  Almost 6,200 of New York’s 17,400 bridges, about 35
percent, are rated deficient, meaning that although they’re
safe, they need rehabilitation to be fully functional, McDonald
said. In his $132.5 billion budget, Cuomo has proposed a $15
billion infrastructure fund that includes state and federal
dollars and $3 billion in private investment. The fund would be
used to repair 2,000 miles (3,218 kilometers) of roads, 90
municipal water systems and 100 bridges.  “We need the right set of laws to back up the governor’s
position,” Robert Dove, a managing director focusing on
infrastructure at Washington-based Carlyle, said in a telephone
interview. “The Tappan Zee Bridge is a very interesting project
because you already have user fees in the form of tolls, so it
is less politically risky then if you start to put tolls on a
new bridge.”  Enticed by Tolls  Carlyle, the second-largest manager of private equity, has
raised $1.2 billion for infrastructure investment, Dove said.
About 70 percent of that is invested, and Carlyle is looking to
start another fund, he said.  New York is ripe for investment because it already has
tolls on bridges and tunnels leading in and out of New York City
as well as on more than 500 miles of highway from Buffalo to
 Manhattan , said D.J. Gribbin, managing director of Macquarie
Capital (USA) Inc., who helped advise Puerto Rico on its public-
private partnership law. Macquarie Capital is a division of
 Australia ’s biggest investment bank.  “ New Yorkers  get the fact that, yes, they will pay tolls
for improved infrastructure,” Gribbin said in a telephone
interview.  That’s not the case in other states, where new toll roads
have led to “huge outcry,” Gribbin said. Tolls are a key
component to making infrastructure an attractive investment, he
said.  ‘Stable Returns’  “Infrastructure is an asset class that’s incredibly
attractive to investors who want long, stable returns,” Gribbin
said.  The toll for a standard vehicle on the Tappan Zee is
currently $5. Tolls on a new bridge would be similar to those of
other Hudson crossings, Madison, the Thruway Authority executive
director, said Feb. 23 during press conference in Westchester
County near the existing bridge’s base. The toll for the George
Washington Bridge, which connects  New Jersey  to  New York City ,
is $12 without an E-ZPass.  Investment in infrastructure in the U.S. comes with
relatively high political risk when compared with other
countries such as the U.K., where it’s common, Gribbin said.  ‘No Real Logic’  The state could fund projects more cheaply on its own, said
Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute,
a Latham, New York-based research and education organization
backed by organized labor.  “There’s no real logic to public-private partnerships,”
Mauro said in a telephone interview. “If there’s a stream of
revenue that makes a project desirable to a private investor,
then the same stream could be used for public borrowing at tax-
exempt rates.”  A transportation bill approved by the  U.S. Senate  this
month includes an amendment meant to discourage states from
leasing by excluding privately operated toll roads from the
formula that calculates U.S. highway aid. The bill also would
boost funding for the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act, the program under which New York applied for the
$2 billion loan.  Madison declined to comment on how the amendment would
affect plans to bring in private investors, Andy O’Rourke, a
Thruway Authority spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Macquarie’s Plans  Political resistance helped scuttle Macquarie’s plans for
financing a new Tappan Zee Bridge about 10 years ago, said  Chris Leslie , senior managing director for Macquarie Infrastructure &
Real Assets. Macquarie Infrastructure Partners, a fund that
falls under Leslie’s purview, has about $5.6 billion, with more
than $1.2 billion from construction trade unions, Paula Chirhart, a Macquarie spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  When Macquarie established its infrastructure business in
1999, “the first thing we looked at was the Tappan Zee
Bridge,” Leslie said in a telephone interview. Early last
decade, Macquarie formed a group, which included the now-defunct
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., to pursue the idea, he said.  “We still believe it would make a compelling investment
case for private investment and we continue to watch the project
unfold,” Leslie said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  