-- Cuomo Pension Overhaul Is Boost for New York, Moody’s Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-22T20:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/cuomo-pension-change-is-critical-step-for-state-moody-s-says.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
changes to pension benefits for future workers will improve the
ability of the state and its local governments to manage
retirement costs, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The newly enacted reforms are a critical step in managing
longterm pension liabilities,” Moody’s said in a report today.
“The benefit to governments will grow as the  labor force  is
replaced with new employees.”  Lawmakers approved a measure last week that raised the
 retirement age  to 63 from 62, increased employee contributions
and offered a 401(k)-type option to nonunion workers earning at
least $75,000. Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, estimated the
changes -- which don’t affect current employees -- will save
state and local governments $80 billion over the next 30 years.  “While we have heard much political commentary, this
report from an unbiased, qualified financial expert brings
clarity to our reforms and their impact,” Robert Megna, Cuomo’s
budget director, said in a statement.  Since 2009, investment losses in the $140.3 billion  New
York  retirement fund, the third largest U.S. public pension,
have resulted in projections that the contribution rate paid by
the state would double over the next five years, Moody’s said.  ‘Affordable Rate’  Now, New York’s contribution rate will remain an
“affordable” 2.4 percent of projected operating revenue, the
report said. A program created by Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli ,
the sole trustee of the state retirement fund, allows
governments to spread out their pension payments.  “Although the state’s near-term pension costs will remain
manageable, the adopted pension reform will provide budgetary
savings for the state’s long-term exposure to this significant
liability,” the report said.  A record 43 states from 2009 through 2011 cut public-
pension benefits to reduce costs following the longest recession
since the 1930s, the  National Conference of State Legislatures 
said in a report released March 14.  New York’s retirement fund had 101.5 percent of the money
to pay its obligations in 2010, better than any other state,
according to an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  