-- CVS Ordered to Stop Controlled Drug Sales at Two Pharmacies
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-22T17:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/cvs-ordered-to-stop-controlled-drug-sales-at-two-pharmacies-1-.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  must stop
filling prescriptions for controlled substances at two of its
pharmacies in Sanford, Florida, while an appeals court weighs a
U.S. order barring the sales.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today rejected a
request by CVS to put the order by the Drug Enforcement
Administration on hold. A lower court judge on March 13 upheld
the DEA suspension, which resulted from an investigation into
oxycodone sales by the pharmacies.  “Appellant has not satisfied the stringent requirements
for a stay pending appeal,” the three-judge panel ruled.  A different three-judge panel on March 16 turned down a
similar bid by  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , the second-largest U.S.
drug distributor by revenue, to forestall the suspension of its
Lakeland, Florida, facility from distributing controlled
substances.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  said the DEA produced
enough information to show that pharmacists at the CVS stores
filled prescriptions for the painkiller oxycodone that they knew
or should have known would lead to the drug being diverted for
illegal uses.  Carolyn Castel , a CVS spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  Suspension Unwarranted  CVS, based in Woonsocket, Rhode Island, said the suspension
is unwarranted because it already stopped distributing oxycodone
at the two pharmacies while the DEA’s administrative case moves
forward. CVS also said it stopped filling prescriptions written
by 22 doctors responsible for the highest volume of oxycodone
dispensed by the stores.  On Feb. 29, Walton ruled that the government provided
adequate evidence that Cardinal’s Lakeland facility posed a
public safety threat by shipping heavy volumes of oxycodone to
pharmacies, including the two owned by a unit of CVS.  The DEA suspended the licenses of the pharmacies and the
Cardinal Health facility on Feb. 2.  The cases are Cardinal Health v. U.S. Department of
Justice, 12-05061, and Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072,  U.S.
Court of Appeals , District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  