-- Danthine Says Franc Limit Is ‘Front and Center’ of SNB Policy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-03-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/danthine-says-franc-limit-is-front-and-center-of-snb-policy.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  board member
Jean-Pierre Danthine said the franc cap remains policy makers’
main focus as risks of deflation haven’t fully disappeared.  “The minimum exchange rate of 1.20 francs per euro remains
front and center of the SNB’s monetary policy,” Danthine said
at an event in Zurich yesterday. SNB will enforce the limit
“with the utmost determination. It is prepared to buy foreign
currency in unlimited quantities for this purpose.”  The Swiss central bank imposed the franc ceiling six months
ago and maintained the level at its March 15 policy meeting,
when it said that it still sees a threat of a general fall in
the price level, or deflation. While exports and  consumer
spending  are showing signs of stabilization, consumer prices
fell for a fifth month in February from a year earlier.  If the global economy worsens or the franc doesn’t weaken
further as expected, “downside risks to  price stability  could
re-emerge,” Danthine said. “Whatever the case may be, the SNB
stands ready to take further measures at any time, if the
economic outlook and the risk of deflation so require.”  The franc gained as much as 37 percent against the euro,
the currency of the country’s main trading partners, before the
introduction of the ceiling on Sept. 6, making exports less
competitive while lowering the cost of imports. It has since
remained in a range of 1.20 to 1.25 per euro.  ‘Operatively Ready’  Dewet Moser, a SNB deputy board member, said the central
bank is “operatively always ready” to weaken the franc.  The SNB applies a “zero-tolerance principle” on its cap,
he said. It “ensures day and night that the minimum  exchange
rate  is maintained -- from Sunday night when the markets open in
Sydney until Friday night when markets close in  New York .”  Danthine said the the cap has reduced exchange-rate
volatility and given companies more security in planning.  “While the high value of the Swiss franc continues to
present enormous challenges to the economy, the minimum-exchange
rate is having an impact,” he said. “There are growing
indications that the Swiss economy is stabilizing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  