-- Deep Recessions in U.S. May Be the Norm, Say NBER Economists
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/deep-recessions-in-u-s-may-be-the-norm-say-nber-economists.html
Deeper recessions and more gradual
recoveries will be the norm rather than the exception as the
U.S. workforce grows at a slower pace, according to economists
on the panel that determines when slumps begin and end.  The typical contraction “will have steeper declines and
slower recoveries in output and employment,” according to a
 paper  by  Harvard University ’s James Stock and  Princeton
University ’s Mark Watson presented today at the Brookings Panel
on Economic Activity in  Washington . “We can expect recoveries
from future recessions to be ‘jobless’ as well,” they said,
similar to the two most recent rebounds.  The economists, who are members of the  National Bureau of
Economic Research ’s business cycle dating committee, found the
severity, length and aftermath of the 18-month slump that ended
in June 2009 were predictable based on comparisons with past
downturns. The conclusion stands in contrast to a 2009 study by
Carmen M. Reinhart and  Kenneth Rogoff  that showed recoveries
from recessions caused by financial meltdowns are different.  Stock and Watson’s research shows the “recession was the
result of one or more large shocks, that these shocks were
simply larger versions of ones that had been seen before, and
that the response of macro variables to these shocks was almost
entirely in line with historical experience,” they wrote. Stock
and Watson joined the NBER’s committee in September 2009.  Six Shocks  The authors identified six shocks that, to varying degrees,
can explain the behavior of recessions, including the 2007-2009
slump. Studying changes in  oil prices , monetary policy,
productivity, uncertainty, liquidity-financial risk and fiscal
policy are enough to draw conclusions about the eventual
outcomes, they said.  The analysis of the last downturn “suggests an economy
being hit in close succession by a sequence of unusually large
shocks, all of which have been experienced before, but not in
such magnitude or close succession,” Stock and Watson said. It
was triggered by “an initial oil shock, followed by the
financial crisis, financial market disruptions, and prolonged
uncertainty due in part to policy uncertainty.”  While the anemic nature of the most recent recovery may
indicate that this time is different, the shortfall is more a
function of long-run changes in the structure of the economy,
not a result of the recession, the economists said.  Employment Gains Smaller  In the first eight quarters of the rebound that began in
June 2009, the world’s largest economy grew 5 percent, compared
with an average 9.2 percent gain for the seven recessions from
1960 to 2001, they said. Employment increased 0.6 percent, short
of the 4 percent increase seen in the prior recoveries.  Changes in the so-called long-run trend, or fundamental
structure, of the economy, rather than the harm caused by the
collapse in growth, account for almost all the shortfall in
gross domestic product and more than half the slowdown in
employment, according to Stock and Watson, based on comparisons
with the pre-1984 averages. The authors made comparisons to
earlier recessions in this case to isolate the influence of the
structural changes.  The decrease in the trend, in turn, is almost entirely
explained by declining population and employment growth rates,
they said. One reason is a slowdown in the number of women
entering the workforce, they said.  “Barring a new increase in female labor force
participation or a significant increase in the growth rate of
the population, these demographic factors point towards a
further decline in trend growth for employment and hours in the
coming decades,” Stock and Watson said. That is why future
recoveries will continue to be “jobless,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 Ctorrres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  