-- Danish Private Debt Burden Triggers Central Bank Warning
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-03-22T14:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/denmark-s-record-private-debt-load-triggers-central-bank-warning.html
Denmark ’s central bank is stepping
up its focus on the country’s record private debt load to ensure
households don’t suffer losses when  interest rates  start to
rise, Governor Nils Bernstein said.  “People who are highly indebted are more vulnerable to
interest rates and can be hit hard by changes,” Bernstein said
in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday. The bank is now
conducting a review of the risks, he said.  Households in the AAA rated nation increased their debt
burdens to 310 percent of disposable incomes in 2010, the
world’s highest ratio, according to Exane BNP Paribas. While the
debt is backed by the world’s second-highest pension savings
rate after the Netherlands, those assets are “locked shut,”
Bernstein said. The central bank has argued that failure to
address the risks may jeopardize the stability of Denmark’s $470
billion mortgage bond market.  “The goal is to analyze how vulnerable households are to
changes in the  interest rate ,” Bernstein said. “There are
certainly some who are vulnerable. What we want to know is how
widespread it is and how vulnerable they are.”  Denmark’s central bank uses interest rates to maintain the
krone’s peg to the euro. Bernstein lowered the benchmark lending
rate to 0.7 percent in December after investors fleeing the euro
region’s debt crisis turned to the Nordic country, threatening
to strengthen the Danish currency.  Debt Crisis  Denmark’s government debt is about half the average for the
euro region, and will reach 44.6 percent this year, compared
with an average for the 17-member euro region of 90.4 percent,
the European Commission estimates. The nation’s haven status
from the debt crisis has spurred investment in its mortgage
bonds.  An  index  of Denmark’s most traded mortgage bonds compiled
by Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of
mortgage-backed covered bonds, touched a record on March 13, and
has slipped 0.3 percent since.  Investor demand for Danish mortgage bonds is allowing
households to build up more debt. Private debt rose to about 150
percent of gross domestic product in 2010, the central bank
estimates. That ratio was less than 100 percent in 2000. Pension
savings made up 142 percent of GDP in 2010, it said.  The economy is struggling to recover from the housing
bubble that burst in 2007.  House prices  will have slumped 25
percent by next year since the crisis started, the government-
backed Economic Council said in November.  Consumption Standstill  An index measuring  consumer confidence   remained  below zero
for a ninth consecutive month in March, Denmark’s statistics
agency said today. The scale runs from 100 to minus 100.  “The level of consumer confidence is still so low that it
only signals a standstill in consumption,” said Las Olsen, an
economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, in a note to
clients. “Real incomes are declining, unemployment has
stagnated at a fairly high level and there is still considerable
uncertainty in the housing market.”  House prices fell an annual 8 percent in the fourth
quarter, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said March 20.
Gross unemployment was 6 percent in January, versus 6.1 percent
a month earlier, the statistics agency said March 1.  ‘Disquieting Heights’  Gross household debt climbed to “disquieting heights”
before Denmark’s property bubble burst in 2007, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a January
report.  Debt levels have swelled as lenders move away from
traditional fixed-rate 30-year loans and offer cheaper mortgages
to attract borrowers. In 1996, banks started selling adjustable-
rate loans requiring mortgage holders to refinance their debt as
often as annually. Parliament allowed interest-only loans in
2003, allowing borrowers to defer principal payments for 10
years.  Interest-only  mortgage loans  made up 56 percent of
residential lending, the  Association of Danish Mortgage Banks 
said in January. That compares with 54 percent a year earlier.  Bernstein has argued riskier home loans and a failure to
link property taxes to home values may exacerbate economic
imbalances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 