-- Deutsche Bank Reorganizes U.S. Unit Amid Capital Regulations
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-22T12:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/deutsche-bank-reorganizes-u-s-unit-amid-capital-regulations.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, implemented a plan to alter the status of its main U.S.
subsidiary in response to capital rules being imposed under a
U.S. regulatory overhaul.  The division, known as Taunus Corp., is no longer a U.S.
bank holding company effective Feb. 1 after the German firm
reorganized the ownership of its U.S. banking subsidiaries,
Deutsche Bank said in a report  published  on its website on March
20. Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation is now the “top-tier” U.S.
bank holding company subsidiary, the firm said.  Deutsche Bank shareholders in May 2011 approved plans to
reorganize the U.S. unit to meet new regulations without
requiring additional capital. Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said last month the project is “ongoing.” Overseas
lenders including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are altering their U.S. holding
 subsidiaries  because the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 would otherwise
force the divisions to comply with the same capital rules as
domestic banks.  “We have always had and will continue to have appropriate
capital levels in all our U.S. regulated entities,” spokesman
Christian Streckert said by e-mail today. “This action, which
does not diminish any of our regulatory oversight, allows us to
streamline our organizational structure, strengthening an
already strong institution.”  Deutsche Bank’s outgoing Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger
said in June 2010 the bank’s U.S. holding structure was designed
to ensure the lender had the same tax benefits as U.S.
competitors. The operating units are “well capitalized,”
Banziger said at the time.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that Taunus
was reorganized on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  