-- Disney Junior’s McStuffins Battles Dora for Pre-Schoolers
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-23T18:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/disney-junior-s-mcstuffins-battles-dora-for-pre-schoolers.html
For more than 70 years,  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  has used a warbling Jiminy Cricket to encourage families to
wish upon a star.  These days, Disney is banking on Doc McStuffins, featuring
a 6-year-old in a lab coat and pink-sequined sneakers who fixes
ailing toys, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 26
issue.  The cartoon will debut on Disney Junior, a cable-TV network
for 2- to 7-year-olds that starts today in about 30 million U.S.
households. If all goes according to plan, Burbank, California-
based Disney will bring in big future sales from those tiny
viewers.  Preschool programming is the latest front in a decade-long
war between Disney and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the longtime leader in
children’s cable television with its Nickelodeon networks. Kids’
TV has become a lucrative business because it can earn money
from cable subscriber fees, advertising and merchandise
royalties. That’s why Disney is shuttering Soapnet, a 12-year-
old channel devoted to soap operas, and shifting those
subscribers over to what will be its fourth network aimed at
families and young people, after ABC Family, the Disney Channel
and Disney XD, a four-year-old channel for boys.  “It’s a better monetizaton of beachfront property,” says
 David Bank , an entertainment analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .
“You have a hit show, it sells records, consumer products, and
movies. They want to capture that consumer for a lifetime.”  Less Costly  An animated TV show costs about $13 million for a 26-
episode season -- a fraction of the price tag for a major motion
picture -- and can fuel sales of related products for years,
said Sean Cocchia, general manager of Disney Channels Worldwide.
Doc McStuffins will have an exclusive line of products in  Toys
“R” Us Inc. (TOYS)  stores in June, including dolls and a doctor’s
kit.  “It’s not like putting up a billboard and you’re reaching
a lot of people who may not be interested,” Cocchia said in an
interview. “We’re able to target consumers in a much more
specific way.”  Younger Viewers  Disney’s youth cable strategy began to evolve in 2001 when
the company focused on tweens with live-action comedies such as
“Lizzie McGuire” and “Hannah  Montana ,” and then even younger
kids with the 2007 cartoon hit “Phineas and Ferb.”  Disney Channel has seen its audience rise almost 5 percent
in the past two years, to 969,000 daily viewers, while
Nickelodeon’s has slid 19 percent, to 999,000, says researcher
Nielsen.  Viacom, based in New York, reported worldwide cable ad
revenue fell 3 percent to $1.35 billion in the quarter ended
Dec. 31, in part because of Nickelodeon’s weaker ratings.  The company, home to warhorse characters such as Dora the
Explorer and SpongeBob SquarePants, says it will produce a
record 650 new episodes for the season beginning in September.  “We’ve been the No. 1 kids entertainment brand for 17
years,” says Dan Martinsen, a spokesman for Nickelodeon. “We
have no intention of giving that up.”  Crowded Playground  Disney Junior enters a crowded playground that includes not
just Nickelodeon and its three spinoffs, Nick Jr., TeenNick, and
Nicktoons, but also  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Cartoon Network and the
Hub, a two-year-old joint venture between  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  and toymaker  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)   One distinction Disney Channel and Disney Junior have,
according to Cocchia, is that they are mostly ad-free, with only
spots for Disney movies and shows, and some limited sponsorships
such as a recent one from  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ’s Lysol
disinfectant reminding kids to wash their hands.  Subscribers Versus Ads  The “uncluttered” programming allows Disney to fetch
premium fees from pay TV operators, Cocchia says. Disney Channel
generates revenue from cable operators of 94 cents per
subscriber a month, compared with 50 cents for Nickeloden,
according to SNL Kagan. That’s $1.2 billion and $605 million in
annual subscriber fees, respectively, the researcher estimates.  Nickelodeon also gets $1 billion a year in ads, Kagan said.
Nick Jr. is commercial free, said Viacom’s Martinsen.  Disney added less than 1 percent to $43.57 at 2:30 p.m. in
 New York . The shares climbed 15 percent this year before today.
Viacom added less than 1 percent to $46.89 and had gained 2.8
percent in 2012.  Disney’s strategy resonates with some parents.  Sabrina Doherty, a  Los Angeles  mother of two, said that
while she prefers commercial-free PBS, she favors Disney Channel
over Nickelodeon because it has fewer ads.  “I don’t think my kids know what a commercial is, so ad-
free is a big bonus,” Doherty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  