-- Doctors Get Power in U.K. Health System’s Overhaul
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-03-22T11:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/doctors-get-power-in-u-k-health-system-s-overhaul.html
The U.K. is about to pass into law
a  National Health Service  overhaul so extensive its chief says
it’s visible from outer space and so controversial nine out of
10 family doctors don’t support it.  The big idea: put doctors in charge.  The country’s state-run health service, long derided for
its inefficiencies, will require general practitioners to watch
costs and show results under a bill awaiting Queen Elizabeth
II’s signature to become law.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government devised the
change to better serve an aging population plagued by expensive
chronic conditions like diabetes at a time when funding is tight
and the economy struggles to grow.  The transformation of the health service, whose annual
spending more than doubled to 102 billion pounds ($162 billion)
in the past decade, will be such a change that “you could
probably see it from space,” David Nicholson, chief executive
of the NHS commissioning board, told a NHS Alliance conference
in 2010, according to a  transcript  from Health Policy Insight.  In addition to scrutinizing financial performance, the new
system may attract more private companies to help local GP
practices manage their new responsibilities.  The bill also allows NHS hospitals to increase their
capacity for private patients, who self-pay or have private
insurance, from 3 percent to 49 percent. The private sector
accounted for about 16 percent of U.K. health-care spending in
2009, according to the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  in Paris.  Doctors’ Helpers  Companies including  Aetna Inc. (AET) ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
McKinsey & Co.,  KPMG  and Ernst & Young LLP have done work for
the NHS and are in a position to help physicians and
organizations as they assume new duties, say public health
researchers.  “This is a massive transformation,” said Piers Ricketts,
a partner at KPMG’s health-care practice in London. “We and
other similar firms are well-placed to advise and help.”  Cigna
Corp. (CI)  also said it expects more demand for its services.  The NHS, created in 1948 to provide a taxpayer-funded
health system for all, is the world’s fourth-largest employer
after the Chinese Army, the Indian railway and U.S. retailer
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  About 32,000 family doctors in England work
with the NHS, conducting 800,000 patient visits a day, according
to the  U.K. Department of Health .  Many doctors object to the changes. A poll by the  Royal
College of General Practitioners , a professional body, found
that nine in 10 family doctors don’t support the measures.  ‘Select Hobby’  Laurence Buckman, a north  London  family doctor and the
chairman of the  British Medical Association ’s General
Practitioners Committee, says the new system will impose
“byzantine” control and more bureaucracy on doctors.  Running a medical practice is “a very select hobby” for
the 5 percent to 10 percent of GPs “who are interested in
this,” said Buckman. A majority would rather treat patients
than deal with administrative and financial demands, he said.  Others are more optimistic. Rebecca Rosen, a family doctor
in southeast London and a health researcher at the  Nuffield
Trust , says the changes have an “inherent logic.”  The NHS spent 102 billion pounds in the year that ended
last April, compared with 44 billion pounds a decade earlier,
the health department said. A  government review  of NHS spending
concluded that its budget would not increase much beyond
inflation before 2014-2015, Nicholson told employees in an
October 2010 letter.  Money Is Tight  He also warned that the NHS had to save between 15 billion
and 20 billion pounds in that period to offset rising demand as
people live longer and with chronic health conditions.  Employment is already falling. The NHS staff fell by almost
20,000 from September 2010 to September 2011, the largest drop
in a decade, Sarah Dahlgren of the U.K. Health and Social Care
Information Centre said today.  “The real goal is driving productivity improvement and
quality of care during this period of austerity,” says David
Stout, deputy chief executive officer of  NHS Confederation ,
which represents organizations within the health service. “The
NHS is continuing to get real terms growth, a tiny amount, but
demand and costs rise faster than that.”  Cameron’s  Conservative Party , which has cut  government
spending , promised not to reduce the NHS budget during the 2010
election campaign.  Two months after taking office, Health Secretary Andrew Lansley proposed to delegate power to local doctors, streamline
bureaucracy and enable patients to choose doctors. Doctors would
focus on patients’ health, the system would be “more
responsive” and management costs would be lower, Lansley said.  No More Power  “The GPs thought they were going to get more power and run
it their own way,” says Alan Gavurin, managing director of
 Damson Health , who has advised GPs for more than 20 years.  Lansley’s plan abolishes the country’s 152 primary care
trusts, or PCTs, which manage local health budgets and contract
with doctors for routine medical care, at a cost of 2 billion to
3 billion pounds. PCTs would be replaced by 244 clinical
commissioning groups, or CCGs, which would purchase primary care
from general practices, employ fewer people and be headed by
boards that include at least one GP, a nurse and a specialist.  The commissioning groups are already forming. Forty percent
of staff in Rosen’s PCT have been fired, she says. She is now
vice chairman of the PCT’s successor, the Greenwich clinical
commissioning group.  Some doctors like Rosen welcome the greater responsibility.  “I’ve got some experience with this but most of my
colleagues don’t,” says Rosen, who has done research on  health
services  for 20 years.  ‘Politics Over Wisdom’  Lansley’s initial bill stalled in the  House of Lords  last
year. After further consultation and hundreds of amendments,
oversight provisions were included and the bill revived.  “As the politics have taken over from wisdom, the plans
have got more and more complicated and the range of
opportunities for clinical decision-making have narrowed and
narrowed,” Buckman says.  The British Medical Association opposes the changes, along
with the  Royal College of General Practitioners  and other
professional bodies.  “We’ve got an end result that nobody outside the
government is satisfied with,” says  Martin McKee , professor of
European public health at the  London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine .  The House of Lords passed the bill on March 19 and the
 House of Commons  backed the Lords’ amendments to the bill the
next day. To become law, the bill must now be given royal assent
by the queen, who is expected to sign it before parliament goes
on its Easter break on March 27.  Lansley has faced limited public protest over the
reorganization plan. A Guardian newspaper poll in February found
that 52 percent of the public didn’t support his plan. In
February, a 75-year-old former union representative harangued
him as he arrived for a meeting at No. 10 Downing Street, the
Prime Minister’s official residence.  “If Lansley had managed the politics better, no doubt he’d
have had less objections,”  Damson Health ’s Gavurin says.
“There are 30,000 GPs. They never agree on anything, but he’s
managed to upset huge numbers of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  