-- Don’t Punish Kim Jong Un’s People for His Missile Madness
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-22T23:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/don-t-punish-kim-jong-un-s-people-for-his-missile-madness.html
U.S. policy toward North Korea is
crazy -- that is, if you believe the old chestnut that insanity
means repeatedly doing the same thing and expecting different
results.  Each time the U.S. thinks  North Korea  has agreed to curtail
its nuclear or missile programs, usually in return for some
concession, the North either breaches or skips away from its
obligations. Brinksmanship and rupture ensue, followed by a
laborious and tentative rapprochement -- and then the cycle
commences anew. It’s like watching a Bugs Bunny episode, with
the U.S. in the role of Elmer Fudd or Yosemite Sam.  The latest iteration is the impending collapse of the Feb.
29 “Leap Day” agreement, in which North Korea  committed  to a
“moratorium on nuclear tests, long-range missile launches, and
uranium enrichment activity” and the U.S.  reaffirmed  that it no
longer had hostile intent toward the DPRK and promised to
provide 240,000 metric tons of food assistance. Less than a
month later, on March 16, the North announced plans to launch a
“satellite” in mid-April, provoking outrage and alarm on the
part of the U.S. and its allies, and a U.S. decision to put the
food shipments on hold.  Here’s a prediction you can bet your 401(k) on: The
Democratic People’s Republic of  Korea  will never give up its
nuclear or missile programs. Some other regime might, but not
this one. It’s got too much pride, prestige and paranoia
invested in its arsenal. (Muammar Qaddafi’s fall after giving up
his nuclear program has done nothing to convince the DPRK’s
leaders that their approach is misguided.)  So what do we do? The world needs to try to promote
positive change in North Korea faster than the regime can build
up its capacity to wreak havoc. One way to start is to help and
engage North Korea’s people.  Consider the U.S. decision to put plans for food assistance
on hold. Although State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
maintained that there was no “linkage” between the provision of
humanitarian aid and North Korea’s behavior, she also said the
launch would “abrogate” the agreement. Huh? That sounds like
“linkage” to us -- and not particularly humanitarian.  The U.S. smartly designed this food assistance program to
focus on the dietary needs of the malnourished, rather than on
grain that the regime could divert. It also insisted that the
monthly food deliveries be monitored. Isn’t helping the poorest
to survive, and having monitors on the ground to interact with
North Koreans and see what’s going on, in the interests of the
U.S.?  Provided the monitoring program works as intended --
something the U.S. can assess on a month-to-month basis -- we
think Americans should fulfill their commitment. To those who
say that the U.S. shouldn’t “reward” North Korea’s  bad behavior ,
we say that humanitarian assistance, once you agree to deliver
it, is just that.  President  Barack Obama  also faces the immediate challenge
of forging a unified response to North Korea’s camouflaged
missile test. Since the North Korean launch will commemorate
what would have been the 100th birthday of  Kim Il Sung , don’t
look for a Pyongyang climbdown. Moreover, domestic politics will
complicate the picture: Not only is Kim Jong Un’s succession
march still in formation, but there are elections this year in
 South Korea , China and, of course, the U.S.  Last time around, after protests over its April 2009
missile test, North Korea withdrew from talks with the U.S. and
its partners and conducted a nuclear test. Obama’s trip to South
Korea next week for a nuclear security  summit  offers a canvas
for a different narrative.  When Obama visits the demilitarized zone, he could go light
on the “shoulder-to-shoulder” rhetoric in favor of a future
vision of the peninsula at peace and the healing of Cold War
wounds. The U.S. and its allies could also  recognize  the DPRK’s
“right” to launch satellites (and call Pyongyang’s bluff) by
offering commercial launch services that would not violate
previous Security Council  resolutions . And before the launch
actually happens, the U.S. could work with  China  for a measured,
and with luck unanimous, United Nations Security Council
resolution that expresses global dismay without imposing
sanctions.  The world can always return to the game of tit-for-tat if
the kinder, gentler approach doesn’t work. In the meantime, it
avoids giving the DPRK excuses for behaving badly and leaving
the negotiating table.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today's highlights:  Jonathan Weil  on incorruptible  New Jersey . ( Link .)  Michael Kinsley  on being too old to hire but to young to 
retire. ( Link .)  Enrique Krauze  on a former Mexican president's sham trial 
in  Connecticut . ( Link .)  The editors on food-stamp junk food. ( Link .)  Josh Putnam  and John Sides on the Republican primary
calendar. ( Link .)  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 