-- Health Law Transforming U.S. as Court Threat Looms
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/health-law-transforming-u-s-as-court-threat-looms.html
More than one of every four
Americans last year received a free mammogram, colonoscopy or
flu shot, thanks to a federal law that many of them despise.  Roughly 3.6 million  Medicare (USBOMDCA)  recipients saved an average of
$604 as the same law began closing a gap in their prescription-
drug coverage. And 2.5 million young adults were allowed to
remain on their parents’ health-insurance plans until their 26th
birthday.  For two years, even as a debate has raged over what
Republicans deride as “Obamacare,” the new health-care law has
begun benefiting consumers and refashioning a $2.6 trillion
industry. Insurers, hospitals and doctors are forming alliances
and adopting new procedures, preparing for a reshaped market
that will debut when -- or if -- the law aimed at covering at
least 30 million uninsured Americans is fully implemented  in
2018 .  “This is probably the most transformative period I’ve
lived through,” says Doctor  David Longworth , 59, chairman of
the Medicine Institute at  Ohio ’s Cleveland Clinic who heads
teams making the health-care changes there.  As the U.S. Supreme Court considers the constitutionality
of the law’s mandate that almost all Americans buy health
insurance, those tangible changes underscore an unappreciated
reality: There may be no going back to the world before March
23, 2010, when President  Barack Obama  signed the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act before a cheering, whistling
crowd in the East Room of the White House.  Tilting Toward Benefits  Fundamental changes in the way millions of Americans
receive and pay for medical services are under way, driven both
by the new law and industry responses to the escalating costs it
was intended to curb. So far, the law’s influence over whom
insurers cover and how they cover them tilts toward benefits --
such as coverage for children with pre-existing medical
conditions -- rather than the soaring premiums and market
disruptions that critics warn are inevitable.  The coverage improvements are “very popular,” says Paul Keckley, executive director of the Deloitte Center for Health
Solutions. “I think all of that will stay regardless of the
individual mandate.”  The mandate, an essential feature of the health-care law
and its most unpopular one, ignited a proxy war over the role of
government and the limits of individual liberty. A  Supreme Court 
finding that it’s unconstitutional would upend Obama’s signature
achievement and roil the 2012 presidential campaign.  It would also confront insurers and medical-care providers
with a distorted market: In the worst case, many young, healthy
Americans could hold off on obtaining coverage until they became
sick or were injured, knowing that  insurers  would be unable to
turn them away because the new law requires them to take all
comers. That would drive up premiums for those with insurance
and undercut the law.  Prohibitive Political Cost  Still, much that has happened in health care over the past
two years is distinct from the mandate and would likely survive
its demise, in part because the political cost of reverting to
the status quo ante is prohibitive.  “The early deliverables are on the way and hard to
reverse,” said  Jonathan Gruber , an economist at the
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology who was instrumental in
crafting both the 2010 law and its 2006 precursor in
Massachusetts.  Preventive Care  At the  Cleveland Clinic , which Obama has praised for
offering “top-notch” care at costs below the national average,
doctors are now focusing more on “quality metrics” that
demonstrate the effectiveness of medical services, says
Longworth, who is also a practicing internal medicine
specialist. The goal, which the law promotes by withholding a
portion of Medicare payments from hospitals with high
readmission rates, is to prevent illness rather than treat it.  Care will be more proactive, with doctors reaching out to
chronically ill patients to make sure they attend scheduled
appointments and take prescribed medicines. And it should be
better coordinated, with primary and specialist physicians
working as a team to provide more effective and presumably less-
expensive treatments.  Perhaps the most fundamental shift the law encourages is a
move away from the traditional fee-for-service model in which
doctors are paid for each test, treatment or X-ray they provide.
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  said in February it would instead pay
doctors based on patient outcomes, offering higher payments for
better care. The company, the largest health insurer by sales,
said the new arrangement would apply to as much as 70 percent of
its commercial members by 2015, from less than 2 percent now.  Changing the Model  “This changes the business model, changes the reward and
payment system for better care and better health at lower
cost,” said Sam Ho, chief clinical officer of the insurer’s
UnitedHealthcare unit.  Even with the uncertainty over the mandate’s fate, health-
care companies are revamping their operations. Hospitals and
physicians are joining in voluntary collaborations known as
accountable care organizations, which seek to improve Medicare
patients’ care and share in any resulting cost savings. Insurers
are acquiring data and payment companies to gain the capability
to manage these new approaches.  “Many, many things already have been done,” says Drew Altman, chief executive officer of the Kaiser Family Foundation
in  Menlo Park ,  California . “The health-care industry has begun
to respond to the ACA as if it’s a done deal and not going to be
reversed.”  Provisions to Stay  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the nation’s third-largest health insurer, last
year spent $1.6 billion on  acquisitions  that were at least
partly a response to the law. In January 2011, the Hartford,
Connecticut-based insurer completed a $500 million purchase of
Medicity Inc. of Salt Lake City, which allows hospitals and
doctors to exchange medical data.  “We believe that certain provisions of the law, including
many of those which have already been implemented, are unlikely
to change,” Mark Bertolini, Aetna’s chairman and CEO, told
investors in February.  The law’s opponents, looking to the Supreme Court, say they
still hope for victory. Most of the act’s main provisions,
including the establishment of health-insurance exchanges where
millions of people will be able to purchase coverage, aren’t
scheduled to take effect until 2014, and the insurance reforms
that have been introduced represent minor tinkering, they say.  “The administration is trying to create the perception
that the changes that are already under way are a big deal.
They’re not,” says James Capretta, a former Bush administration
health-care expert now with the Ethics and Public Policy Center,
a research group in  Washington . “You can turn the clock back.”  Government Activism  Some companies are feeling the sting of government
activism. In January, the Health and Human Services Department -
- exercising the law’s new rate-review authority -- said
Trustmark Life Insurance Co.’s planned 13 percent rate increase
in five states was “unreasonable” and should be scrapped. And
 Covidien PLC (COV)  is bracing for a 2.3 percent medical device tax,
scheduled to take effect in 2013, which will cost the Dublin-
based surgical products maker about $105 million, according to
regulatory filings.  These new federal powers, however, amount to something less
than runaway Big Government. After HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius criticized Trustmark, the Lake Forest, Illinois-based
insurer said it would proceed with the higher rates affecting
more than 10,000 customers. Covidien Chief Financial Officer
Charles Dockendorff said the new tax wouldn’t prevent the
company from meeting earnings goals.  Up to Courts  All this has been happening while legal challenges to the
law grind through the courts. Within minutes of the 2010 signing
in the East Room, a group of 14 states that objected to the
requirement to obtain insurance sued the government in district
court in  Florida , joined later by a dozen others.  The law requires insurers to offer coverage to everyone,
regardless of pre-existing conditions, and to price policies
according to community averages, regardless of an individual’s
health status. With few exceptions, all Americans must maintain
insurance or pay a penalty. By 2016, the fine will be the larger
of $695 or 2.5 percent of  household income .  The math of this new model works only if additional numbers
of young, healthy individuals purchase insurance and thus help
underwrite protection for heavier users of health care.  “Let’s say the individual mandate is thrown out,” says
Keckley. “Bad debt to doctors and hospitals will continue to go
up. They’ll continue to have more people who get care that don’t
have a nickel.”  $39 Billion Bill  The nation’s hospitals absorbed more than $39 billion in
uncompensated care in 2010 and backed a health-care overhaul
only after receiving assurances the mandate would boost revenue
by more than the cost of implementation. If the mandate -- and
its millions of new paying patients -- goes away, much of the
extra $170 billion in expected revenue would also vanish.  In  Massachusetts  in 2009, the most recent data available,
26,000 residents who could afford insurance but didn’t get any
were assessed a penalty, according to the state department of
revenue. That was less than 1 percent of the 4.7 million people
who filed a state tax return.  “It’s going to be a different story when you get to the
states where half the bumper stickers say, ‘If you want my gun,
you’ll have to pry it from my cold, dead hands,’” says  Dave Shove , a health-insurance analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New
York .  Voters Oppose Mandate  Americans believe the mandate is unconstitutional by a
margin of 72 percent to 20 percent, according to a USA
Today/Gallup poll released Feb. 27.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that 4 million
people  will pay  the federal penalty in 2016, less than 3 percent
of the tax returns the  Internal Revenue Service  receives.  The Supreme Court is scheduled to begin three days of
arguments in the Florida case on March 26, with a decision
expected by the end of June. The  Justice Department  argues that
the three elements of insurance overhaul -- the mandate,
guaranteed issue, which requires insurers to cover all
applicants, and community rating, meaning people in a given
region pay the same premiums -- are inseparable. So if the
mandate goes, they all go.  There’s no guarantee the court will agree. The nine
justices could uphold the mandate, or strike it down, while
leaving the remainder of the law intact. Or they could void the
entire act.  “It’s like predicting the weather a month out,” says
Robert Laszewski, president of Health Policy and Strategy
Associates, a consulting firm in Alexandria, Virginia.  Higher Premiums  Ruling the mandate unconstitutional would leave 16 million
more uninsured individuals in 2019 than if the law survives
unscathed, according to the CBO. Without the effective subsidy
from additional healthy policyholders, insurance premiums would
be 15 percent to 20 percent higher, the budget office concluded.  “The law will be less effective,” says Gruber. “There’s
no question about that.”  Evidence can be found in the experiences of states that
revamped health insurance in the 1990s without mandating
individual coverage. In 1993,  New Jersey  began requiring
insurers to sell policies to everyone and to price them based on
community averages. After an initial surge in individual
enrollments outside the employer-based insurance market, numbers
covered fell from 186,130 in 1995 to 84,968 at the end of 2001,
according to a  2004 study  in the journal Health Affairs.  Premiums Surge  Premiums surged for coverage offered under the new state
program. The most expensive plan rose to $10,231 in 2000
compared with $4,245 in 1996, the study found.  Still, even if the mandate dies, there are other ways of
convincing the holdouts to buy insurance. Individuals who refuse
to buy a policy could be barred from later obtaining coverage
for any pre-existing conditions, said Laszewski.  The difficulty is that the Obama administration would need
Congress to approve any such do-over. And that wouldn’t be easy.
But then neither would be going back to the pre-overhaul world.  “There’s an old adage in politics,” says Kaiser’s Altman.
“Benefits once conferred are almost impossible to take away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  