-- Health-Care Law Critics Outspend Supporters 3-to-1, Report Finds
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/health-care-law-critics-outspend-supporters-3-to-1-report-finds.html
Opponents of President Barack Obama’s health-care law have dominated the nation’s airwaves
trying to shape public opinion of it with ads claiming --
falsely -- that it drained $500 billion from Medicare.  On the law’s second anniversary, a report shows critics
have outspent supporters by a 3-to-1 ratio on television
commercials since Obama signed the bill, according to the New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Groups led by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Republican
campaign organizations spent $204 million on ads framing the law
negatively, compared with $57 million spent by supporters,
primarily the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, the
report shows.  Among the most frequently aired spots is one sponsored by
Crossroads GPS, an organization affiliated with Karl Rove, who
was chief political adviser to former President  George W. Bush .
It claims the new law prompted “massive cuts to Medicare
spending.”  “I would call the ads misleading,” said Henry Aaron, a
health policy expert at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .
Under the Affordable Care Act, Medicare spending continues to
grow, though at a slower annual rate than before the law was
implemented, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The
cuts all come from Medicare providers, not beneficiaries, he
said.  ’Multiple Pinocchio’  “There are various fact-checking services which use meters
for falsity like ‘pants on fire’ or Pinocchios,” said Aaron.
“These comments merit designation as false and multiple
Pinocchios.” Pinocchio is a fictional character whose nose
grows when he lies.  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  is set to hold arguments on the
law’s constitutionality from March 26 to 28.  “One side has made a much bigger investment toward winning
the argument with voters,” Elizabeth Wilner, vice president of
CMAG, said in a statement.  “For the law’s supporters, closing the gap in advertising
would require not just more spending and different targeting,
but the sudden boost of a court victory,” she said.  The court is considering a challenge brought by 26 states
to the law’s mandate that most Americans buy  health  insurance
coverage and its expansion of the  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  program for the poor.  Divided on Merits  The public remains divided on the law’s merits, and many of
its provisions don’t take effect until 2014. According to a
 Bloomberg Poll  conducted March 8 to 11, 37 percent of adults
believe the law should be repealed, compared with 46 percent who
want more time to see how it works, while 11 percent believe it
should be left alone.  The poll also found that 75 percent of Americans said they
expect politics to influence the court’s ruling, while 17
percent said the decision would be based solely on legal merits.  Among the critics spending the most on ads were the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, at $6.3 million, and Crossroads spending
$2.8 million on ads. The 60 Plus Association, which says on its
website that it is “often viewed as the conservative
alternative” to AARP, the largest advocacy group for older
Americans, came in third at $2.4 million.  Ad Counts  In total, 410 advertisers have aired 1,018 commercials
mentioning the law in a negative way since March 23, 2010,
according to CMAG. By contrast, 48 advertisers have aired 90 ads
mentioning the plan in a positive way.  Targets for ads critical of the Affordable Care Act include
major markets in states that will be important in the
presidential campaign, including  Pennsylvania ,  Florida ,  Arizona 
and  Ohio .  Sixty-five percent of the pro-law spending has been by the
federal government, purchasing cable ads in such markets as  Los
Angeles ,  San Francisco  and Philadelphia.  The placements reflect the differing strategies of the two
sides. Opponents have focused on affecting the outcome of
elections for the presidency, Congress and local races, while
the HHS ads have primarily sought to inform “its neediest
audiences about the benefits of the law,” according to the CMAG
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  