-- Tebow as Backup to Sanchez Doesn’t Improve Jets’ Title Chances
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-22T05:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/tebow-as-backup-to-sanchez-doesn-t-improve-jets-title-chances.html
Tim Tebow ’s switch to backup for
 Mark Sanchez  from starting quarterback for the  Denver Broncos 
won’t do much to improve the  New York Jets ’ chances of winning
next season’s Super Bowl, oddsmakers said.  While the arrival of  Peyton Manning  in Denver a day earlier
slashed the Broncos’ odds of winning the National Football
League title to 10-1 from 60-1 less than a month ago, the Jets
remain a 25-1 shot after Tebow’s move was confirmed by the clubs
last night, once they’d ironed out a contractual snag.  “I don’t see how he makes the Jets a better football
team,” Andrew Patterson of Las Vegas Sports Consultants said in
a telephone interview. “He’s not going to play quarterback,
he’s going to come in maybe on third downs, but if a team signs
a really good fullback, does it affect their win total or game
lines? No, not really.”  Former Jets quarterback  Joe Namath , who led the team to its
only  Super Bowl  championship in 1969, called the trade “a
publicity stunt” by New York’s ownership.  “I’m stunned, I’m close to shocked,” Namath told ESPN
Radio. “I don’t think they know what they’re doing over there
right now. It appears the Jets are trying to grab headlines once
again just by making noise.”  Tebow, 24, who was taken by the Broncos in the first round
of the  NFL draft  from the University of Florida two years ago,
will add attacking options for the Jets, General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said on a conference call with reporters last night.  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  may use Tebow in offensive packages
that feature a running back taking a direct snap, known as the
wildcat offense, Tannenbaum said.  Jets offensive coordinator  Tony Sparano  incorporated those
types of plays when he was coach of the  Miami Dolphins  and the
Jets occasionally used the strategy with former college
quarterback  Brad Smith  to help them reach American Football
Conference championship games in 2009 and 2010. Smith moved to
the  Buffalo Bills  before last season.  ‘Dynamic Offense’  “Rex has always believed in the wildcat package from a
standpoint that it’s another weapon,” Tannenbaum said. “What
we’ve become is a more diverse, more dynamic offense that’s
going to make it more difficult for teams to defend.”  The Jets missed the playoffs last season, when they lost
their final three games amid locker-room disputes to slump to an
8-8 record.  The 6-foot-2, 236-pound Tebow, who won two national college
football championships at the University of  Florida , rushed for
660 yards and six touchdowns last year, when the Broncos had the
league’s top rushing attack.  Four Quarterbacks  Sanchez signed a three-year contract this month, and the
Jets agreed March 16 on a contract with backup quarterback Drew Stanton, who played his first four seasons for the  Detroit
Lions . They also have quarterback Greg McElroy on their roster.
The team may retain all four quarterbacks, Tannenbaum said.  Jets cornerback  Antonio Cromartie , on his  Twitter account ,
questioned why the team is adding Tebow when it needs to “bring
in more weapons” for Sanchez. The Jets’ offense ranked 25th of
32 NFL teams in total yards last season.  Sanchez took criticism after last season for the team’s
collapse and there were accusations from teammates that he
wasn’t improving enough because he didn’t have a backup who
could threaten his place on the team. Tebow said he spoke with
Sanchez on the phone yesterday and he expects to have a good
relationship with him.  “We’re both extreme competitors,” Tebow said on a
conference call with reporters last night. “We’ll be able to
push each other to get a lot better and it’ll be my goal to push
him to get better and to push myself to get better every day,
but I think we’ll have a great working relationship.”  Tebow had a 7-4 regular-season record as a starter last
season, helping the Broncos rebound from a 1-4 start to get
their first playoff win since 2005.  Favorite Pro Athlete  He was voted America’s favorite active pro athlete in an
ESPN fan-based poll in January and spawned a fad known as
“Tebowing,” which mimicked his kneel-and-pray pose after
victories. He has been outspoken in professing his Christian
faith.  “The last two weeks weren’t easy for Tim,”  John Elway , a
Hall of Fame quarterback with the Broncos and now their
executive vice president of football operations, said in a
statement on the team’s website. “He was put in a difficult
situation and I commend him for how he handled it.”  While Tebow guided five fourth-quarter comeback wins last
season, his 46.5 completion percentage was the worst among the
league’s starting quarterbacks. Sanchez completed a career-high
56.7 percent of his passes last season, his third as a starter.  Tebow led the Broncos to a 17-13 victory over the Jets in
Denver on Nov. 17 by directing a 95-yard drive in the closing
minutes, capped by his game-winning 20-yard touchdown run. He
completed nine of 20 passes for 104 yards against the Jets,
while rushing eight times for 68 yards.  For the season, Tebow completed 126 of 271 passes for 1,729
yards, with 12 touchdowns and six interceptions.  The Broncos get fourth- and sixth-round picks in next
month’s draft in exchange for Tebow and a seventh-round choice.  Contractual Delay  The trade was confirmed late last night after originally
being announced around noon  New York  time. The deal was delayed
when a dispute arose over who would make an advance payment to
Tebow of $5 million, ESPN reported. It went through after the
teams agreed to split the payment, the network said, without
giving a source for its information.  During the interim, ESPN reported that the  Jacksonville
Jaguars , who play in the area of northeast Florida where Tebow
grew up, renewed their earlier unsuccessful efforts to sign the
quarterback.  “We had a disagreement on how the advance was going to be
handled from our initial trade papers that we sent to them,”
Tannenbaum said. “Denver was well within their rights to assess
their alternatives when we couldn’t consummate the deal that we
initially had agreed to. So they certainly did that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  