-- Tebow Set to Discuss Backup Role to Jets Quarterback Sanchez
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-23T20:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/tebow-to-be-sanchez-s-backup-and-run-wildcat-plays-jets-gm-says.html
Tim Tebow ’s playing time with the
 New York Jets  will depend on the success of the offense and its
wildcat package, General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said.  Tebow, 24, will discuss his place as backup to quarterback
 Mark Sanchez  during a noon New York time news conference March
26, the team said in an e-mail. The session was delayed from
today because of a procedural issue with Tebow’s contract in
Denver, according to ESPN.  Tebow will operate the Jets’ wildcat package, a run-first
formation that utilizes multiple options to try to confuse
defenses. He will get increased playing time if Sanchez
struggles to move the offense, Tannenbaum said yesterday in an
interview on ESPN Radio’s “Mike and Mike in the Morning” show.  “If our offense is sputtering, we have three three-and-
outs in a row and we roll this out there and it’s successful,
then who knows,” he said. “It will depend on the game and the
situation.”  Two days ago, the Jets traded fourth-and sixth-round picks
in next month’s  National Football League  draft to the  Denver
Broncos  for Tebow and a seventh-round selection.  The trade was confirmed late March 22 after originally
being announced around noon New York time. It was delayed in a
dispute arose over who would make a $5 million advance payment
to Tebow, ESPN reported. The teams agreed to split the payment,
the network said, without giving a source for its information.  Rewrite Contract  The Walt Disney Co. unit then reported that Tebow will have
to sign a  rewritten contract  with the Broncos today and remain
on their salary cap for 24 hours. The procedural delay means
Tebow won’t officially become a Jet until 4 p.m. tomorrow, ESPN
said today, citing an unidentified person and without providing
details of the latest contract issue.  Tebow’s popularity, work ethic and skill set drove the
Jets’ interest, Tannenbaum said. With Tebow handling the team’s
wildcat package, which new offensive coordinator  Tony Sparano 
often used as head coach of the  Miami Dolphins , the Jets will be
harder for opposing defenses to prepare to face, he said.  “Tim is really effective with the ball in his hands, both
running it and throwing it,” Tannenbaum said. “We think we can
have explosive plays out of that package as well.”  Since 2009, the Jets have run the third-most wildcat plays
in the league, according to ESPN. Tebow rushed for 660 yards
last season, second among quarterbacks to Cam Newton of the
 Carolina Panthers .  Conference Championship  The Jets reached the American Football Conference
championship game in 2009 and 2010 with the No. 1 and then the
fourth-ranked rushing offenses in the league. Last season, they
ranked 22nd with 1,692 yards rushing and missed the playoffs.
Tebow’s Broncos led the NFL in 2011 with 2,632 yards rushing.  Sanchez signed a five-year, $58 million contract extension
this month with more than $20 million guaranteed in the first
two years, according to the New York Post, which cited a person
it didn’t identify. The team also signed Drew Stanton this month
and is considering carrying four quarterbacks, Tannenbaum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  