-- Hedge Funds Seeking 15% Returns May Try CO2 Market, DIW Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-22T13:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/hedge-funds-seeking-15-returns-may-try-co2-market-diw-says-1-.html
Hedge funds  seeking annual returns
on investments of 15 percent may enter the European Union carbon
market after prices plunged 59 percent in the past year,
according to DIW Berlin.  The plunging price may be enough to attract some new
investors to the market, even as supply threatens to overwhelm
demand over the next few years, said  Karsten Neuhoff , an energy
and climate policy specialist at the provider of economic
research in the German capital. “It could be an attractive
market for hedge funds,” he said yesterday by phone.  Carbon permits for December fell 3.4 percent to 7.18 euros
($9.46) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London at 12:55 p.m. local time. They fell to a record 6.38
euros a ton on Jan. 4.  The market may be oversupplied by 2.7 billion tons by 2014,
DIW estimated in a  report dated March 8 . Prices fell because
they needed to find a level attractive to speculative buyers
such as hedge funds, Neuhoff said.  Those investors target returns of 10 percent to 15 percent
a year, more than that needed by power utilities to cover their
cost of capital, DIW said.  “Our results differ from previous analysis of emission
trading schemes, which typically assumed that banking between
years is pursued at a 3 percent to 5 percent discount rate,”
the researcher said in the report.  Poland Blocked  The drop in the price shows the market is not meeting the
European Union’s expectations, and intervention by lawmakers and
regulators is justified, DIW said. A temporary set-aside of
allowances of at least 1.4 billion tons is needed to recalibrate
the market and keep supply at a level where buying by utilities
will have an impact on prices, given the supply of allowances in
planned auctions, selling of spare allowances by factories and
flow of imported offset credits, Neuhoff said.  Poland on March 9 blocked a move by other nations to detail
the region’s climate-protection plans after 2020. The EU
parliament voted for a set-aside of an unspecified volume of EU
carbon allowances, which may temporarily support prices by
eroding the oversupply.  Trading in carbon contracts jumped 56 percent in February
on ICE, the biggest exchange for carbon trading, compared with
February 2011, according to data from the bourse. Aggregate open
interest, a measure of trading positions that have not been
closed, was yesterday at 671 million tons, 51 percent more than
the same day last year.  The uncertainty about future regulation might make the
market less attractive for hedge funds and too risky for many
pension funds, Neuhoff said. “We are in a situation where
people are anticipating policy changes.”  ‘Potential Lenders’  New lenders may already be entering the market, including
banks and pension funds, because of the returns available,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  said March 12. Those investors may narrow the
premium of 2013 futures compared with those for 2012,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London for  Barclays Capital (JNK) , said at the
time. Carbon permit spreads widened to 6 to 7 percent above the
Euribor rate, he said.  “As more new potential lenders enter the market, we expect
some of the super contango that is now present along the curve
to begin to be unwound,” Sikorski said.  The premium narrowed 3 cents today to 54 cents a ton. It
has shrunk 18 percent since March 9, the session before
Sikorski’s comments.  The spread widened to 83 cents on Feb. 27, the highest
level since Oct. 14. Factories, especially those in countries
with high levels of sovereign debt, have sold near-dated carbon
allowances and bought longer term because that may be a cheaper
way to raise finance than lending from banks, Sikorski said.  Some banks are scaling back their carbon businesses as
prices slump, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  