-- Medvedev Calls for Cutting State’s Share in Banks Below 50%
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-22T09:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/medvedev-calls-for-cutting-state-s-share-in-banks-below-50-2-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
ordered the government and the central bank to prepare proposals
on lowering the state’s share in lenders to less than 50
percent, the Kremlin said.  Medvedev instructed Prime Minister and President-elect
 Vladimir Putin  and Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev to
submit the proposals by Sept. 1, according to a  statement 
published on the Kremlin’s website today.  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  and VTB
Group, the two biggest lenders, are run by the government.  The outgoing Russian leader promised to relinquish control
of some of the biggest state companies at the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum last June, saying it was time to
reverse the policy of strengthening the government’s presence.
The authorities plan to raise more than 1 trillion rubles ($34
billion) from state asset sales from 2012 to 2014, the  Economy
Ministry  said in September. Lenders run or part-owned by the
state control more than half of the financial industry’s assets,
the Deposit Insurance Agency estimated last year.  “This is just posturing and part of the jockeying for
position in the new government,”  Bruce Bower , a partner at
Moscow-based hedge fund Verno Capital, which owns shares in
Sberbank and VTB, said by phone. “It doesn’t necessarily mean
it will happen, and the proposal may just be dropped.”  Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, plans on April 16 to
start marketing a 7.6 percent stake held by the central bank,
people with knowledge of the matter said last week. VTB, which
raised $3.3 billion from a secondary public offering in February
last year, may sell additional shares, Interfax reported on Jan.
26, citing Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin.  The government may eventually reduce its stakes in banks to
zero, central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said
July 13.  Sberbank dropped 1.2 percent to 97.12 rubles, poised for
its lowest in a month, by 12:48 p.m. in Moscow. VTB slid 1.5
percent to 6.797 kopeks, headed for its lowest since Feb. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  