-- Egypt Biggest Yield Drop Since Revolt Signals Longer-Term Sales
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-03-22T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/egypt-biggest-yield-drop-since-revolt-signals-longer-term-sales.html
The biggest drop in Egypt’s
borrowing costs since the start of protests that toppled former
President  Hosni Mubarak  last year is fuelling speculation the
government will sell longer-term debt to meet financing needs.  The average yield on one-year Treasury bills fell 15
basis, the most since January 2011, to 15.768 percent in an
auction of 3.5 billion pounds ($580 million) of notes yesterday,
according to central bank data on Bloomberg.  Yields that had
climbed to a record 16 percent last year fell yesterday after
the central bank allowed lenders to free up more funds.  A lack of demand forced the government to cut the average
maturity of its local debt to 1.3 years at the end of last year
from 1.7 years in December 2010, according to Finance Ministry
data.  Egypt ’s banks bore the brunt of government financing after
foreign investors dumped local securities following the uprising
that ousted Mubarak, while four credit rating cuts by Moody’s
Investors Service effectively shut the country out of global
bond markets.  “There is a lot of liquidity in the market now and this
could encourage the government to issue” longer-term
maturities, Moustafa Assal, the head of fixed income at Cairo-
based investment bank Beltone Financial Holding, said by phone.
“There is a window of opportunity. For how long? I don’t
know.”  Public banks increased their holdings of treasury bills
last year by 34 percent to 100.7 billion pounds, according to
the most recent central bank data. Foreign investors reduced
theirs by 51.5 billion pounds.  A potential loan program with the  International Monetary
Fund  that the government requested in January needs “broad
political support,”  David Hawley , a spokesman for the lender,
said yesterday in  Washington .  IMF Talks  The government and political parties are holding talks with
the IMF about a $3.2 billion loan to reduce borrowing costs and
stem the decline in the country’s foreign-currency reserves,
which plunged more than 50 percent since the uprising to $15.7
billion in February.  Talks with the IMF along with the inauguration of the first
post-Mubarak parliament helped push the yield on Egypt’s 5.75
percent dollar bonds due April 2020 down 160 basis points this
year to 6.39 percent at 5:04 p.m. in Cairo yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The risk premium investors demand
to hold Egyptian debt instead of U.S. Treasuries plunged 143
basis points this year to 464 on March 21,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data show.   ‘Far Higher’  While local yields are falling, “the government funding
costs are far higher than they were before the revolution,”
 Simon Williams , the Dubai-based chief economist for the  Middle
East  and North Africa at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone.
Yields “may come off a little but until a deal is reached with
the IMF and other multilateral agencies and there is further
progress with the political transition, the cost of debt is
going to stay high,” he said.  Egypt is rated B at  Standard & Poor’s , five levels below
investment grade. The yield on one-year treasury bills at
similarly-rated Lebanon is 5.33 percent, according to central
bank data on Bloomberg.  The central bank cut the required reserve ratio on local-
currency deposits by two percentage points on March 20 to 12
percent. The government priced the sale of 2.95 billion pounds
in six-month bills yesterday at average yields of 14.799
percent.  “The reduction in borrowing costs is very helpful in terms
of fiscal sustainability,” Gabriel Sterne, an economist at
investment bank Exotix Holdings Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail
yesterday. “And indeed it’s symptomatic of confidence starting
to return, which is of more help generally.”  Credit Conditions  The central bank said its decision to cut the required
reserve ratio for banks was to provide “liquidity into the
banking system and help ease credit conditions in the market.”
It kept its benchmark overnight interest rate unchanged
yesterday at 9.25 percent. Policy makers had raised the rate by
1 percentage point in November as depositors shifted funds to
dollars instead of pounds.  Deposits in foreign currencies have increased 15 percent
since the start of the revolt last year to the equivalent of
184.6 billion pounds in January, according to the most recent
central bank data. Pound-denominated deposits for the period
were little changed in the same period.  The reserve ratio cut would help release about 9 billion
pounds to the banking system, Bank of America Merill Lynch
analysts Munir Shahin and Jean-Michel Saliba wrote in a report
released yesterday.  “The move should help unlock domestic liquidity and
moderately ease T-bill yields, while also decreasing the
Egyptian-pound funding costs for the banks and encouraging them
to attract Egyptian-pound deposits,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  