-- England Tsunami Risk Swells Costs at EDF After 40% Slump: Energy
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-03-22T17:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/england-tsunami-risk-swells-costs-at-edf-after-40-slump-energy.html
Jim Crawford needs to know his
nuclear power station on a gentle stretch of  England ’s North Sea
coast can withstand a chunk of volcanic rock dropping into the
ocean 2,000 miles (3,200 kilometers) away in the Canary Islands.  Since  Japan ’s 2011 nuclear disaster, Sizewell-B’s operator
 Electricite de France SA  has earmarked about 200 million pounds
($317 million) to protect its U.K. reactors from previously
inconceivable events. The collapse of an island off northwest
 Africa  is among the most likely causes of a wave big enough to
threaten Britain, according to  British Geological Survey  marine
geologist David Tappin.  EDF, the largest producer of atomic power, is preparing for
so-called black swan events, crises that are almost impossible
to predict, following the earthquake and tsunami that crippled
the Fukushima atomic complex a year ago. While such a wave
hasn’t hit Britain since around 6,000 B.C., public concern over
nuclear safety has combined with escalating costs to push EDF
 stock  down about 40 percent since the Japanese crisis.  “We didn’t want to say: ‘Because we don’t sit at the edge
of a tectonic plate and won’t have a tsunami, everything is
OK’,” plant director Crawford said at Sizewell, 100 miles
northeast of London and 700 miles from  Europe ’s most active
seismic regions. EDF, which has a 10-meter-high sea barrier at
the site, plans an offsite emergency control center and is
studying new equipment to reduce the risk of hydrogen blasts.  Rising Costs  EDF needs to show investors it’s prepared for any disaster
after the Fukushima crisis prompted countries including Italy
and  Germany  to scrap nuclear energy. The Paris-based utility has
already committed to stricter safety measures at home and a
program to keep existing plants running for as long as 60 years.
The state auditor has estimated that EDF, whose 58 French
reactors provide about three-quarters of the nation’s power,
will have to invest 55 billion euros ($73 billion) through 2025.
EDF also plans U.K. growth, including a new plant at Sizewell.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner and operator of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, had sea barriers at the site that
proved 8 meters too short when the tsunami hit last March, and
the ensuing meltdown of the three reactors became the worst
atomic disaster since Chernobyl.  “What Fukushima really represents is a failure of
imagination,” John Ritch, director-general of the  World Nuclear
Association , said in London. “It has taken every regulator and
industry vendor back to trying to imagine the unanticipated, the
unimaginable, and making sure the reactor is safe even against
highly unlikely events brought on by nature or human malice.”  U.K. Wave  The last major quake to cause a tsunami on Europe’s
Atlantic coast was in 1755 off  Portugal , said Tappin, a marine
geologist and expert on tsunamis from submarine and volcanic
landslides. The last U.K. tsunami, a wave about 10 meters high,
struck  Scotland ’s east coast more than 8,000 years ago, Tappin
said by telephone, citing studies of sediment.  Geologists gauging the risk of a similar event have modeled
volcanic activity off the  Canary Islands  that indicates a major
eruption could cause part of La Palma to break free of its
bedrock, slipping into the sea. Such an event may affect
Atlantic coasts far from North Africa, Tappin said.  European safety checks on reactors have assessed their
vulnerability to earthquakes and floods, as well as power and
cooling-system failures. The so-called stress tests on plants in
the U.K., where EDF has eight nuclear sites, excluded measures
to prevent terrorist attacks because regulators judged such a
risk to be outside their mandate.  Public Support  Investment in nuclear safety is aimed not only at averting
disaster but also at boosting popular support for atomic
generation as several countries retreat from the technology.  EDF  fell  40 euro cents, or 2.2 percent, to 18.01 euros in
Paris trading. The stock fell 6.39 percent since the beginning
of 2012, valuing the utility at 33.3 billion euros.  All of Britain’s operating reactors are scheduled to shut
by 2035 as they age, leaving the U.K. with an energy gap of
almost 10,000 megawatts. EDF, with partner  Centrica Plc (CNA) , plans
two new generators north of Sizewell’s current plant, and a
public consultation may begin this year. It also intends to make
an  investment decision  on two new reactors at Hinkley Point in
southwest England, costing an estimated 10 billion pounds, by
the end of 2012.  “All stakeholders have been working on what kind of risks
should be considered,” EDF’s former Chief Executive Officer
 Pierre Gadonneix  said in a telephone interview. “Now there is a
new concept, which is, ‘OK, let’s now assume that this risk
happens’.”  Control Hub  The utility’s planned offsite emergency control center for
Sizewell would allow the plant to be operated remotely, while
providing back-up supplies such as diesel generators, pumps and
motors. The original 1960s twin reactors at Sizewell-A stopped
generating power in 2006 and are being decommissioned.  About 5,500 people live in the town of Leiston, within 3
miles of the Sizewell site, and about 715,000 in the surrounding
county of Suffolk. At a Feb. 15 meeting run by the U.K. nuclear
regulator, locals  voiced concern  there could be a drinking-water
shortage in the event of an emergency should EDF use up supplies
dousing reactors. They also said the safety zone around the site
is too small and emergency exercises too infrequent.  “If anything actually happened it would be absolute
chaos,” said Pete Wilkinson, an environmental consultant who
was chairman of the meeting. “The emergency planning
arrangements are pathetic and based on the idea that this will
never happen.”  Britons in Favor  Across the U.K. as a whole, support for new nuclear has
strengthened. Britons in favor of replacing old reactors with
new models climbed to 50 percent at the end of last year from 36
percent in June, according to a poll by Ipsos MORI. About 20
percent are against new nuclear construction, down from 60
percent in 2001, the survey found.  While the U.K.’s safety checks on reactors identified “no
fundamental weaknesses” in design or resilience, work is under
way to bolster flood defenses and boost coolant supplies, among
other measures, the industry regulator said Jan. 4. EDF is also
planning to re-open visitor centers at its U.K. plants, most
likely starting with Sizewell, towards the end of this year.  “There was not anything that came out of Fukushima that
challenged our ability as nuclear operators to operate safely
and reliably,” EDF’s Crawford said. “This learning thing never
stops.” There’s no “line in the sand saying, ‘that’s it, we’ve
learned all we can learn’.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  