-- Therapists Do the Talking in Online-Video Pitches to Patients
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   W i n t e r
-- 2012-03-22T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/therapists-do-the-talking-in-online-video-pitches-to-patients.html
We all know them from Woody Allen
films and New Yorker cartoons: psychotherapists.  They’re earnest, often bespectacled brainiacs who quietly
listen and nod in the background as patients pour out their
hearts. Now the tables have been turned by Therapick.com, a Los
Angeles-based startup that lets shrinks do the talking.  The company is shooting video interviews with licensed
therapists and compiling an online directory of profile clips.
People can use the site to look up psychologists, psychiatrists,
mental-health counselors and clinical-social workers by ZIP code
and specialty, then watch their videos before deciding whether
to schedule a session, Bloomberg Businessweek  reports  in its
March 26 issue.  “They know right off the bat from watching the therapists
talk -- their mannerisms, their intonation, those intangible
things -- whether this person appeals to them,” says David
Brundige,  Therapick ’s founder and chief executive officer.
“People have compared it to online dating.”  So far, Therapick has taped interviews with more than 500
therapists in  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco , New York,  Chicago , and
seven other cities. The  no-frills clips  feature shrinks in front
of a plain backdrop. The only decor is a potted plant.
Therapists each pay $299 a year to put the videos on Therapick’s
site, accompanied by text descriptions of their backgrounds and
specialties. They can also embed the spots on their own websites
or put them on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing website.
Brundige says the site doesn’t collect or sell information on
its visitors.  Cold-Calling Shrinks  Brundige, 29, founded Therapick in 2009 together with
college pals Jeremy Weissman and Micah Baskir, neither of whom
has a background in psychology. He hit upon the idea after his
mother got fed up with her own search for a suitable therapist.
He had just finished his first feature film, and the idea of a
therapist video directory appealed to him because “it’s film
work, storytelling, but also a service to people.”  The three began cold-calling thousands of therapists and
soon ran into a problem: Most shrinks aren’t accustomed to being
in the spotlight or talking about themselves. To make the
therapists more comfortable in front of a camera, Brundige’s
team members honed their techniques.  “The interviewer has to be really smart, recognize the
therapist’s personality quickly, and bring out their
individuality,” he says. With time, Therapick’s founders even
picked up and began incorporating psychological tactics to put
therapists at ease.  Psychological Tactics  Site traffic has grown at least 15 percent each month since
last April, and Therapick has hired four interviewers and film
editors to keep up with demand for shrink interviews. Brundige
says the startup is breaking even.  Therapists say the site is helping them draw more suitable
patients.  “The video tends to attract a certain type of client that
fits with my mode of therapy,” says Todd Bresnick, a clinical
psychologist in  New York  who estimates that Therapick won him 10
new clients last year. “As a result there’s more trust, and
more change seems to happen.”  Some videos are so compelling that even Therapick’s
founders are tempted to lie down and open up.  “When therapists are selling you on therapy every day, it
makes you want to go to therapy because it sounds so awesome,”
Brundige says. “But while you’re running a startup, it’s very
hard to afford any sort of luxury.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Winter in New York at 
 cwinter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  