-- Mercedes Chases Audi in Roadster With Splashless Wipers
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-03-22T23:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/mercedes-chases-audi-in-roadster-with-splashless-wipers.html
In the new SL roadster from  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, even the windshield wipers are high tech.  The world’s oldest carmaker is packing the sixth generation
of the open-top two-seater with gadgetry including a retractable
roof that becomes transparent at the push of a button and a
trunk lid that opens and closes with the wave of a foot. The
windshield wipers spray cleaning fluid directly from the blade,
preventing splash from dousing passengers when the top’s down.  The SL, which will start at 93,500 euros ($123,400) when it
hits European showrooms March 31, is an attempt by Mercedes to
underscore its reputation for opulence at the same time it
expands downmarket to boost volume with more modest models, such
as the recently unveiled A-Class hatchback, after being
overtaken in sales by  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Audi last year.  “The SL is a showcase of everything that Mercedes can
do,” said  Jonathon Poskitt , an analyst with LMC Automotive in
Oxford,  England . “It’s underlining the brand’s high-end
position and provides that halo effect” for the new compacts.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  aims to
reclaim the top spot in the luxury-car segment from  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  after slipping to third last year in sales and
profit. The strategy to fight back is two tiered.  At the low end, Mercedes is rolling out a slate of small
cars, including the A-Class, the van-like B-Class, a compact
sport-utility vehicle and a four-door coupe, to spur sales. At
the higher end, cars like the SL and three new variants of the
S-Class flagship, which will be overhauled next year, are aimed
at boosting profit and protecting the brand’s luxury image.  Exclusive Challenge  Mercedes intends to lift its operating profit margin to at
least 10 percent of sales in 2013 from 9 percent last year.  Over the past 12 months, Daimler’s shares have  declined  3.6
percent, compared with VW’s 19 percent advance and BMW’s 24
percent gain.  “The challenge for Mercedes is to keep the exclusiveness
that they need to justify their price premium” while expanding
in utilitarian segments, said Garel Rhys, director of Cardiff
University’s automotive industry research center. “It’s trying
to keep a degree of distance from the mainstream competition in
each and every segment.”  Still, a refreshed look and new technology may not be
enough to help Mercedes gain ground. Sales of the SL are
projected to peak at about 24,100 vehicles next year, down from
the 31,700 sold in 2002, the first full year of the previous
generation, according to forecaster IHS Automotive. Daimler
doesn’t provide annual sales figures for the model.  Select Reception  The muted expectations are reflected in the plans of
Autohaus Rosier. The Mercedes dealer in Menden,  Germany , about
30 kilometers (19 miles) southeast of Dortmund, will keep
festivities surrounding the SL’s introduction small and
exclusive, according to sales chief Reinhard Weber.  The select group of customers will be served champagne and
offered cigars at a reception accompanied by a piano player,
marking a sharp contrast to the thousands drummed together for a
bratwurst bash to show off the B-Class in November, said Weber.  “The chances of winning over new customers are low,
because the concept isn’t revolutionary enough,” said Weber.
“It’s an established segment. The goal will be to keep the
existing customers.  The SL, which reaches U.S. dealers April 28, is Mercedes
mid-range roadster, priced between the 38,700-euro SLK and the
195,200-euro SLS convertible. The new SL comes in two variants
the 306-horsepower SL 350 and the 435-horsepower SL 500, which
starts at 117,100 euros. It will compete with vehicles like the
99,400-euro  Jaguar (TTMT)  XK convertible, the 123,200-euro Audi R8
Spyder and the 100,500-euro  Porsche 911  convertible.  All Aluminum  Mercedes, which first launched the luxury roadster line in
1952, is using the new SL to display its latest technology. The
all-aluminum body shell, the first in a series production
vehicle for Mercedes, reduces the SL’s weight by as much as 140
kilograms (309 pounds).  The lighter frame, combined with more powerful engines,
propels the car to 100 kilometers (62 miles) per hour in as
little as 4.6 seconds, eight tenths of a second faster than the
previous generation and competitive with the Porsche 911.  The exterior styling is highlighted by a more aggressive
front end, while the chrome accents along the side vents are
drawn from predecessors like the 50s era 300 SL roadster to
blend modern innovation with the heritage of 126 years of
carmaking.  ‘‘The athletic, sports star’s physique with its masculine,
muscular character says a great deal about the new SL,” said
Gorden Wagener, Mercedes’s design boss. The interior and
exterior styling reflects the SL’s status as “the high-
performance heart” of the Mercedes brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  