-- Erdogan Says Clubs Shouldn’t Be Punished for Fixed Matches
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-22T12:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/erdogan-says-clubs-shouldn-t-be-punished-for-fixed-soccer-games.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , whose country’s top soccer league has struggled with
match fixing, said that perpetrators and not teams should be
punished.  Speaking at a meeting of European soccer body UEFA in
Istanbul, Erdogan said it’s not fair to fans when clubs are
penalized. Turkish champion Fenerbahce was banned from the
 Champions League  this season after team President  Aziz Yildirim 
was arrested on charges of fixing games.  “We have to identify the difference between individuals
and legal entities,” Erdogan said at the Istanbul Congress
Center. “If a legal entity is punished for the crime of an
individual, millions of people would be punished.”  Executives, coaches, players, journalists and former
officials have been jailed as part of a police probe into
alleged match-fixing in more than a dozen games last season that
also implicated runner-up Trabzonspor and cup winner Besiktas,
which was led by current Turkish soccer head Yildirim Demiroren.  Before today’s meeting, a coalition of supporters groups
called the Turkish Fair-Play Platform took out a full-page
advertisement in the Haber Turk newspaper urging UEFA President
 Michel Platini  to take action after Turkish soccer authorities
failed to penalize any of the teams or individuals involved.  “Turkish football is corrupted,” the ad said. “For the
last eight months, the Turkish football federation has blocked
the applications of disciplinary actions against match-fixing.
Intervene and apply disciplinary actions immediately.”  Platini said he told Erdogan at a meeting two days ago
that he shared his sentiments about the impact of suspensions on
fans but UEFA’s disciplinary rules have been fixed for decades.  “I agree with him in principle,” Platini told reporters.
“Is there another way to work? Maybe it’s possible we can think
about it.”  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  called on national governments
to play a role in combating cheating.  “Sport, football, FIFA,  UEFA  and all the confederations --
are we responsible for all the evils besetting our world?” he
said. “No, but we must stay alert.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Istanbul at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  