-- Merkel Booed as CDU Fights to Hold Frankfurt Rule After 17 Years
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-22T19:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/merkel-booed-as-cdu-fights-to-hold-frankfurt-rule-after-17-years.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  was booed
by dozens of protestors objecting to airport-noise pollution as
she campaigned to help her party retain its 17-year hold on the
mayoral seat in Frankfurt,  Germany ’s financial capital, ahead of
polls on March 25.  Merkel, struggling to be heard above the din of drum beats
and whistles outside the city’s town hall, said Frankfurt can’t
risk losing its reputation as a symbol of stability.  “The presence of the Bundesbank and the  European Central
Bank  shows Frankfurt is a city of stability,” Merkel said late
yesterday at a rally in support of the Christian Democratic
Union candidate Boris Rhein. “We don’t need any experiments.”  “Frankfurt is a tolerant city, a city in which people
sometimes disagree, and that is a good thing.”  Petra Roth, the city’s 67-year-old mayor from the CDU,
prompted the early contest last year when said she would step
down before the end of her third term. She’s backing Hesse’s
state interior minister  Rhein , 40, who faces Social Democrat
 Peter Feldmann , a 53-year-old who has served on the city council
for 23 years.  The vote may be a test of backing for cooperation between
Merkel’s CDU and the  Green Party , which have a coalition in
Frankfurt’s city assembly. After the Green candidate failed to
make it past a first round of voting on March 11, the SPD’s
Feldmann has appealed for Green support to defeat Rhein. The
Hessian minister won the first round with 39.1 percent, compared
with 33 percent for Feldmann.  Angered Voters  Feldmann is seeking votes among people angered by the
opening last year of the fourth runway at Frankfurt’s
international airport,  Europe ’s third-busiest after  London
Heathrow  and Paris Charles de Gaulle. He supports extending a
flight ban by two hours, from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m.  With almost 700,000 people,  Frankfurt  is Germany’s fifth-
largest city after Berlin, Hamburg, Munich and Cologne. A
Feldmann win would place all five in the hands of the SPD.  Rhein, who opposes tax increases to plug the budget gap and
wants to increase policing, has relied on backing from Roth, who
won her third term in the first round in 2007 with more than 60
percent of the vote. Many campaign posters for the CDU candidate
feature an image of Roth, the city’s first female mayor, above
the words: “My Choice: Boris Rhein.”  Frankfurt ’s mayor is directly elected to a six-year term
and must work with the coalition in the city’s 93-seat assembly,
where the CDU and Greens have held 52 seats since September 2011
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  