-- Merkel’s Party Seeks to Woo FDP Voters as State Elections Loom
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/merkel-s-party-seeks-to-woo-fdp-voters-as-state-elections-loom.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party is making a grab for her coalition ally’s supporters at
state level, a sign her  Christian Democrats  are already writing
off Free Democratic chances of re-election nationally in 2013.  “I want to tell the FDP: Hey, you’ve got to do your job,”
Saskia Ludwig, leader of the  Christian Democratic Union  in the
eastern state of Brandenburg, said March 21 in an interview in
the regional capital, Potsdam. “Otherwise we’ll have to look
after your voters ourselves.”  Merkel’s CDU is loosening ties with its ally as it prepares
to fight three state elections in eight weeks beginning with
Saarland on March 25. Polls suggest the Free Democrats will fail
to win parliamentary seats in any of the three regional
parliaments, accelerating the party’s decline after it crashed
out of five state assemblies last year.  The FDP is faring just as badly Germany-wide, giving Merkel
no chance of winning a third term at the head of her current
coalition in federal elections due in the fall of 2013. That
makes a rerun of Merkel’s first-term alliance with the main
opposition  Social Democratic Party  in a “grand coalition”
increasingly probable, said Manfred Guellner, head of polling
company Forsa.  “The grand-coalition model means trying to do things by
consensus, and Germans are consensus-oriented,” Berlin-based
Guellner said in a phone interview. “It would be smart for both
the Christian Democrats and the SPD to get used to the idea.”  Higher Taxes  A Merkel alliance with the SPD would bring pressure to
introduce higher corporate, property, income and inheritance
taxes for  Germany  as well as financial transaction taxes, all of
which are demanded in the SPD’s  party program  approved last
December.  The SPD wants to raise the highest income-tax rate to 49
percent for people earning over 100,000 euros ($132,000). The
present highest rate of 45 percent kicks in for people earning
over 250,731 euros. The SPD also wants to impose limits on
executive pay.  Merkel’s coalition with the Free Democrats has failed to
gel since it came to power in 2009, as the parties clashed over
policies from the euro-area debt crisis to energy and tax cuts.
While the chancellor’s record-high approval ratings allow her to
stand by her partner for now, party officials facing elections
at state level don’t have that luxury.  Saarland Collapse  Saarland, the region bordering France and Luxembourg, may
show what voters can expect in 2013. Elections this weekend are
being held 2 1/2 years early after the CDU-led government dumped
the Free Democrats in January. Saar Prime Minister Annegret
Kramp-Karrenbauer blamed the FDP in a Frankfurter Rundschau
newspaper  interview  for “dismantling itself,” saying it has
“unreliable” leaders.  With polls showing the CDU and the state’s  Social Democrats 
running neck and neck, both Kramp-Karrenbauer and the SPD state
leader, Heiko Maas, say they want to form a grand coalition. The
election will determine which party is the senior partner and
fields the prime minister.  In North Rhine-Westphalia, the government collapsed this
month after the FDP joined the CDU to vote down the state’s
budget. Polls show the FDP below the 5 percent threshold needed
to win seats in the May 13 ballot. A Forsa poll yesterday gave
the SPD and Greens a combined 50 percent in the state, which
with almost a quarter of the country’s 82 million people is a
bellwether for the respective parties’ national fortunes.  The FDP also faces ejection from the Schleswig-Holstein
state parliament in elections on May 6, polls show.  Latest Polls  Nationally, the Free Democrats are at 3 percent, a  Forsa
poll  showed yesterday. The FDP has been at 5 percent or less for
the past 18 months after winning a record 14.6 percent in the
2009 German elections. Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc is at
36 percent, the SPD is at 26 percent and the Greens are at 15
percent. Forsa surveyed 2,504 people on March 12-16 and the
margin of error was a much as 2.5 percentage points.  The FDP’s loss of support is partly due to Merkel’s party
winning back the voters linked to Germany’s small-and medium-
sized industries, Forsa’s Guellner said. The Mittelstand,
family-owned companies typically with fewer than 500 employees,
employ more than 70 percent of workers and contribute roughly
half of the gross domestic product in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  CDU Brandenburg leader Ludwig said her party must make
greater efforts to win over Mittelstand voters. That means
slashing bureaucracy and paperwork required of companies and
simplifying Germany’s tax system, she said, speaking in her
office in the state  parliament , which used to serve as a
Prussian military officer training school and after World War II
was the city’s communist party headquarters.  FDP leader Philipp Roesler, who is federal economy minister
and vice chancellor to Merkel, said his party isn’t “exhausted
at all” and will be “very successful” in the regional votes,
according to an interview with ARD television shown on March 14.  That hasn’t stopped “many FDP business voters” from
moving back to Merkel’s party from the FDP, said Guellner.  “The FDP’s national survival has never been at higher
risk,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  