-- Hermes to Pay Bonus Dividend as Profitability Hits Record
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-03-22T17:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/hermes-to-pay-bonus-dividend-after-2011-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the
French maker of Kelly bags and silk scarves, reported 2011
profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said it will pay an
exceptional dividend.  Operating profit rose 33 percent to 885.2 million euros
($1.2 billion), the Paris-based company said today in a
statement. The  average  of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was 857.3 million euros. The company’s operating
margin widened to 31.2 percent, the highest since its shares
began trading in 1993.  Sales so far this year have been “quite good,” Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Thomas said today at a presentation in
Paris, declining to provide figures.  Italy , where Hermes will
open a second store in Rome in 2012, is doing “very well,” he
said. The company is aiming for annual revenue growth of 10
percent, the CEO said.  Hermes plans to build two leather factories in  France  this
year as demand for its Birkin and other bags outstrips supply,
Thomas said in November. The 175-year-old company’s distinctive
positioning should mean so-called organic sales rise 13 percent
in 2012, one of the fastest growth rates in the luxury industry,
HSBC analysts including  Antoine Belge  estimated this month.  Shares Rise  Hermes proposed an exceptional dividend of 5 euros a share
and a regular  dividend  of 2 euros a share. The  shares  rose 2.3
percent to 249.80 euros in Paris. The stock has advanced 8.4
percent this year, valuing the company at 26.4 billion euros.  “There is no reason for the share price to remain as high
as it is right now,” said Francois Arpels, managing director at
Bryan Garnier in Paris, before the results. “It is a fantastic
company, but because the float is so little, there’s starting to
be some disinterest from investors just because there’s not much
trading on the market.”  Hermes will open three stores and renovate 12 others this
year as part of its long-term strategy of acquiring expertise
and control of its distribution network, Thomas said. A
“maison” flagship store will open in  Shanghai  at the end of
2013, the company said.  “Quite important” raw material cost increases means
Hermes will raise prices this year by more than it did last
year, Thomas also said.  The 2011 operating margin widened by 3.4 percentage points,
matching last month’s forecast. Revenue reached 2.84 billion
euros, while net income rose 41 percent to 594.3 million euros.  In December, Hermes’s family owners created a new holding
company after  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s
largest maker of  luxury goods , built up a 22.4 percent  stake .
The new  capital structure  should limit speculation of a
takeover, according to the HSBC analysts.  LVMH’s stake “hasn’t changed Hermes’s strategy one iota,”
Thomas said, adding that the bagmaker intends to stay
independent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  