-- Ernst & Young Suit Over Lehman Fees Sent to N.Y. State Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-22T20:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ernst-young-suit-over-lehman-fees-sent-to-n-y-state-court-1-.html
A lawsuit accusing Ernst & Young
LLP of facilitating a “major accounting fraud” by helping
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  deceive the public about its
financial condition was sent back to New York state court.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in  Manhattan  today said
the lawsuit, filed in state supreme court in December 2010 by
then-New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  and later moved to
federal court, should be tried in state court. Cuomo’s
successor,  Eric Schneiderman , has continued to pursue the case.  Kaplan said he reviewed the matter even after the state
dropped its objection to having the case tried in federal court
and “now concludes that the removal was improper because the
case does not come within federal jurisdiction.” The claims in
the complaint are predominantly based on state and not federal
law, he said.  “We are disappointed by the court’s ruling, and we are
reviewing it,”  Charlie Perkins , an Ernst & Young spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “We will continue to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter.”  Cuomo alleged that Ernst & Young “assisted Lehman in a
scheme that involved the repeated, surreptitious, and temporary
removal of tens of billions of dollars of securities from
Lehman’s balance sheets in order to create false impressions of
Lehman’s liquidity” through the use of so-called Repo 105
transactions that helped concealed the debt.  Lehman’s Bankruptcy  For more than seven years before Lehman declared bankruptcy
in 2008, the investment bank engaged in transactions approved by
Ernst & Young whose purpose was to move debt off its balance
sheet and make it appear less leveraged, Cuomo said in a
statement.  Repo 105 transactions are a form of short-term financing
that Lehman used to move as much as $50 billion off its balance
sheet temporarily to show investors it wasn’t carrying too much
debt, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report. The report
was used as a basis for many suits.  New York  state is seeking disgorgement of at least $125
million in fees earned through the allegedly fraudulent Repo 105
transactions. Kaplan said he will continue to preside over 47
other complaints against Lehman that are still pending.  Lehman filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in history in
September 2008 with $639 billion in assets. It is formally out
of bankruptcy and continues to liquidate assets under a plan to
pay the average creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar.  Investor Claims  In June 2009, Ernst & Young paid $109 million to settle
investor claims that it failed to find a $2.7 billion fraud at
 HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)   In December 2009, the firm and some of its partners paid
$8.5 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission
allegations that they knew or should have known about fraudulent
accounting by  Bally Total Fitness Holding Corp. (BLLY)   Schneiderman became New York Attorney General in January
2011 after Cuomo was elected governor of New York.  The case is In re: Lehman Brothers Securities and ERISA
Litigation, 09-MD-2017, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 