-- Etch A Sketch Maker Capitalizes After Being Drawn Into Race
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-03-22T22:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/etch-a-sketch-s-maker-capitalizes-after-being-drawn-into-race.html
Mitt Romney  didn’t make Etch A
Sketch a playtime fixture. Generations of nimble-fingered
budding artists did that.  His campaign did manage to make the toy that  Ohio Art Co. (OART) 
released in 1960 a central political metaphor when a spokesman
compared the Republican presidential candidate’s views to the
erasable drawing pad.  The mention during a CNN interview -- and ensuing storm of
rivals’ mockery and social-media reiteration -- prompted a flood
of attention. In its 52 years, nothing spread the name Etch A
Sketch so fast and wide, said Martin Killgallon, senior vice
president for marketing and product development.  “If you went out and tried to buy this kind of media
coverage, it would be impossible,” Killgallon, 36, said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t know how to measure it.”  Nicole Gresh, spokeswoman for the Bryan, Ohio-based
toymaker founded in 1908, said she hadn’t had so many calls
since June. That’s when Lyons,  Colorado , held a  Sketch-A-Palooza 
to set a Guinness Book of Records mark for simultaneous
sketching.  The red, plastic tablet, a mainstay of U.S. playrooms and
Ohio Art’s best-selling product through last year, allows
children to use knobs to control a line’s horizontal and
vertical progress. Shake the gizmo and the picture disappears,
leaving a clean slate for a new creation.  Franco-American Fun  The toy was invented by Andre Cassagnes in the late 1950s.
The French electrician’s original version, called the Telecran,
used a joystick, glass and aluminum powder. Ohio Art then bought
the rights. It sells the toy for $17.99.  Etch A Sketch’s star turn began yesterday, when Romney aide
 Eric Fehrnstrom  was asked on CNN whether he was concerned that
the candidate was being forced by Republican opponents to take
extreme positions during the primary that might alienate
moderates in a race against President  Barack Obama .  “You hit a reset button for the fall campaign,”
Fehrnstrom said. “Everything changes. It’s almost like an Etch
A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up, and we start all over
again.”  The statement resounded in the political world -- and
beyond. Tim George, a Columbus, Ohio, artist whose medium is the
Etch A Sketch, said he has drawn all 44 U.S. presidents.  Get Scribbling  “I haven’t drawn any of the Republican candidates yet
because I was kind of waiting until they narrow it down to
one,” George, 60, said in a telephone interview. “It looks
like I’ll be drawing Romney, though, at some point. In fact, I
wish I had it done now.”  At the FAO Schwarz toy store in midtown  Manhattan  -- which
displays a prototype Etch A Sketch dating from 1959 -- shopper
and father Cal Elcan said the plaything is “timeless.”  “We’ve all played with an Etch A Sketch before -- every
one of us,” said the tourist from Nashville,  Tennessee .  Alexis Elcan, 9, said she finds twiddling the knobs more
challenging than a newfangled computer drawing game.  “They’re weird,” she said. “You have to be really good
at them.”  Ohio Art, which manufactures the plaything in  China ,
employs about 100 people at its Toy Street facility in  Bryan (12939MF) ,
including sales and design staffs, Killgallon said. The town of
about 11,500, dominated by the county courthouse’s clock tower,
is a capital of childhood delights: It is also home of Spangler
Candy Co., maker of Dum Dums lollipops.  Divine Plug  Ohio Art competes in a field dominated by  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and
 Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the world’s largest toymakers, with combined sales
of more than $10 billion. They spend millions on advertising and
marketing, and Hasbro even owns part of a cable television
station to help market its toys.  “It’s virtually impossible to get attention,” said
Michael Greenberg, chief executive of Chester, New Jersey-based
 PlayWow International , a small manufacturer that tries to garner
publicity by donating its inflatable toys. “Something like this
is a gift from God.”  Fehrnstrom’s free publicity might be worth tens of millions
to Ohio Art, according to Jordan Zimmerman, founder of an
eponymous advertising firm whose clients include  Papa John’s
International Inc. (PZZA)  and  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)   “It will help resurrect the brand and drive sales,” said
Zimmerman, who’s based in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . “If they
are smart, they will parlay this.”  Surprise Gift  This gift of free advertising comes after sales in the
arts-and-crafts category, which includes Etch a Sketch, declined
1 percent to $2.7 billion last year, according to NPD Group.
Total revenue in the U.S. toy industry fell 2 percent to $21.2
billion, the researcher said.  Shares of Ohio Arts, which is thinly traded, more than
doubled to $9.65 after three transactions totaling 800 shares at
the close in  New York ’s over-the-counter market.  It’s too early tell whether sales will increase, Ohio Art
said.  “It’s a pop culture icon and it’s nice to be part of the
discussion,” Killgallon said. “One thing we’d like to do with
all this publicity is to try to find a way to turn it into a
positive and look at some sort of get-out-the-vote campaign.”  Killgallon said he’s been asked whether Etch A Sketch leans
toward Democrats or Republicans.  “Etch A Sketch has right- and left-hand knobs,” he said.
“We speak to both parties. And together we can draw circles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Bryan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  