-- European Crops Damaged by Winter Freeze Now Face Drought
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-22T12:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/european-crops-damaged-by-winter-freeze-now-face-drought.html
European wheat and rapeseed crops
are at risk of drought that may further hurt yields after
freezing weather last month destroyed some fields, analysts and
forecasters said.  France , Spain,  England  and northern  Italy  got less rain
than normal since the start of January, European Union weather
data show. They will probably stay drier and warmer than usual
in the next 30 days, said Joel Burgio, an agricultural
meteorologist at Telvent DTN.  The 27-nation EU typically grows about 20 percent of the
world’s soft wheat. A cold wave in February may have lopped 5
million metric tons off this year’s harvest, and a lack of rain
might further harm EU output, according to Alexandre Marie, an
analyst at French farm adviser Offre et  Demande Agricole .  “The situation in  Europe  is alarming,” Marie said by
phone yesterday from Bourges, west of Paris. “That will remain
a factor of support for the market in coming weeks.”  Paris-traded milling wheat for November delivery was priced
above the grain for December delivery in  Chicago  for the first
time in the contracts’ lifetime on Feb. 7. Buyers now need to
pay $261.86 a ton for French wheat, $12.77 a ton more than for
soft red winter wheat.  “We’re already starting to see a market reaction,” Marie
said. European wheat has gained on U.S. grain because of concern
about frost damage to the crop, and drought is an additional
risk, he said.  Less Than Average  Rainfall in northern France, England and the north of Italy
this year was 23 percent to 47 percent below the long-term
average, data from the EU’s Monitoring Agricultural Resources
unit show. In Spain and France’s Mediterranean region, amounts
were 59 percent to 78 percent lower.  An area of high atmospheric pressure is causing a so-called
blocking effect that prevents Atlantic Ocean frontal systems
from moving into Europe,  Jim Dale , a senior meteorologist at
British Weather Services, said by phone.  “The rest of March will be dry, with high pressure more or
less in control,” he said. “In April and May, there will be
some rain. Will it be significant enough to make up for the loss
we’ve had? If spring doesn’t deliver, summer’s too late.”  Spain was “extremely dry” in the December-February
period, with the lowest rainfall since at least 1947, the
country’s  Agriculture Ministry  said March 20. Average rain was
62 millimeters (2.4 inches), 30 percent of typical levels,
according to the ministry.  ‘Disappointing’ Rains  “In the case of Spain, there is most likely damage to
crops,” Burgio at Telvent DTN said. “They typically rely on
winter rains to make the crops, and the winter rains have been
very disappointing.”  Spanish production of wheat and barley typically fluctuates
based on rainfall. Last year’s soft-wheat crop jumped to 5.97
million tons from 4.80 million tons in 2010, and the barley
harvest rose to 8.33 million tons from 8.16 million tons,
according to government data.  “If  Spain  produced 1 million tons less of barley, that
could lead to large imports of feed grains into the European
Union,” said Pierre Raye, an analyst at Paris-based InVivo, the
largest exporter of French wheat.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, last month
 forecast  the bloc’s wheat harvest will climb 2.5 percent this
year to 133 million tons from 129.8 million tons in 2011 as
yields increase. A spring drought last year hurt productivity.  Estimate Lowered  Offre et Demande reduced its forecast for EU soft-wheat
production by about 5 million tons from February to between 127
million and 128 million tons, Marie said. Winter kill cut French
output by about 2.5 million tons,  Germany ’s crop took a 2
million-ton hit, and frost destroyed 1 million tons of the grain
in  Poland , the analyst estimates.  “Some farmers lost everything,” Marie said. “For
Germany, we’re very concerned because the crop conditions were
essentially the same as in northeast France.”  Farmers in Germany, the EU’s second-largest wheat grower
after France, may have to plow under some winter crops after
some areas suffered “extensive” frost damage, particularly for
barley and early-planted winter wheat, farm lobby Deutscher
Bauernverband said.  Rapeseed may be more affected by the cold spell than wheat,
according to Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International in London. She forecasts EU production of the
oilseed at less than 20 million tons, compared with the bloc’s
estimate for a 20.2 million-ton harvest.  Rapeseed Prices  “Rapeseed is more sensitive to colder temperatures than
wheat,” FitzPatrick said by phone from  London . “Conditions
were tight for rapeseed last year. Now we’re looking for a
similar situation. The negative weather is going to have bigger
implications for rapeseed prices than for wheat.”  August-delivery rapeseed has climbed 11 percent this year
on NYSE Liffe in Paris to 450.75 euros ($592.87) a ton, beating
the 4.4 percent increase for November-delivery milling wheat.  The French rapeseed harvest was the biggest in the EU in
2011, according to data from the bloc.  France and the U.K. may still avoid drought damage with
timely rains, according to InVivo’s Raye.  “We’re not in the grain-filling phase, we’re not in the
flowering phase,” he said. “There is potential to catch up. If
it rains in coming weeks, we could still have very good yields,
but the risk is great.”  The lack of rain won’t necessarily mean lower EU grain
production, as evidenced by last year’s February-May drought,
according to  Dave Norris , an independent U.K. grain trader. EU
wheat output rose 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the bloc.  “At the time, common talk suggested that our wheat crop
would be down 25 percent to 33 percent,” Norris wrote in an e-
mail. “As we now know, somehow we managed to end up with a
slightly larger crop than in 2010. So it’s very early days to be
writing things off just yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  