-- Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Contracted in March: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-22T12:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/euro-area-services-manufacturing-shrink-more-than-estimated-1-.html
Euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted more than economists forecast in
March, adding to signs the economy has slipped into recession.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries dropped to 48.7 from 49.3 in
February, London-based Markit Economics said in an initial
estimate today. Economists forecast a gain to 49.6, according to
the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Europe ’s economy may struggle to regain strength after
 shrinking 0.3  percent in the fourth quarter as governments
toughen budget cuts, rising oil prices erode consumers’
purchasing power and global demand weakens. In the U.K., retail
sales fell more than economists forecast in February. Ireland’s
economy slipped back into a recession in the fourth quarter, and
 Chinese manufacturing  contracted this month.  “Today’s figures clearly show that the recession in the
euro zone is far from over,” said Peter Vanden Houte, an
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “This increases the danger
that the debt crisis could come back with vengeance” by making
it more difficult for governments to cut budget deficits.  The euro extended losses after the data were released,
trading at $1.3160 at 12:33 p.m. in Brussels, down 0.4 percent.  Euro-Region Recession  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  fell to 47.7 in March
from 49 in February, Markit said. A measure of services declined
to 48.7 from 48.8. Companies cut employment levels for the third
month in a row, while a gauge of new business decreased for an
eighth month, today’s report showed.  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in
today’s statement that the euro-region economy probably
continued to shrink in the first quarter.  “The downturn is only very mild at the moment,” he said.
“However, firms are clearly focusing on cost reduction, with
employment falling at the fastest rate for two years and inflows
and business continued to deteriorate, reflecting weak demand
across the region.”  European efforts to tackle the debt crisis advanced over
the past month, as  Greece  reached a debt-swap deal with its
private creditors and officials approved a second bailout. On
March 2, euro-region leaders signed up to a tighter set of
budget rules to help restore investor confidence.  ECB Measures  The  European Central Bank , which supported the region’s
economy with measures including 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
in three-year loans to banks, on March 8 lowered its economic
projections for both this year and next, forecasting a
contraction of 0.1 percent in 2012. It also increased its
inflation projections, partly because of rising energy costs.  In Ireland, the economy contracted in the fourth quarter,
with gross domestic product falling 0.2 percent from the
previous three months as exports dropped and the government cut
spending, the  Central Statistics Office  said today. Economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast a gain of 1 percent.  U.K.  retail sales  dropped more than economists forecast in
February, with sales including fuel declining 0.8 percent from
the previous month, the  Office for National Statistics  said.  Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Schaeffler AG, the world’s
second-largest maker of roller bearings, on March 20 forecast
slower sales growth and lower profitability in 2012 as European
markets weaken.  ‘Positive Trend’  “We are currently seeing demand in the European markets
weaken,” Chief Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger said.
“Globally, however, our business is continuing to show a
positive trend.”  Demand for European goods ranging from car parts to
pharmaceuticals from faster-growing economies may help to soften
a slowdown, with countries from  Portugal  to Greece and  Spain 
projected to shrink this year, according to European Commission
forecasts.  Japan  reported an unexpected  trade surplus  for
February and higher-than-forecast exports, adding to signs of a
rebound in the world’s third-largest economy.  In the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, the Conference
Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months
probably rose 0.6 percent in February after increasing 0.4
percent in the previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the third-largest power-equipment maker, said on
March 19 it expects higher sales for its  wind turbines  this year
and next, boosted by growing demand in  Brazil .  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
said on March 13 that it plans to surpass last year’s record
profit in 2012.  Reviving Confidence  “We are off to a promising start” with car sales in the
first two months of the year at an all-time high, BMW Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said.  Euro-area  economic confidence  improved in February, German
investor sentiment surged to a 21-month high this month and the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index has gained 15 percent since mid-December.
Euro-region  industrial output  rebounded in January from a slump
in the previous month.  Stephane Deo, an economist at UBS AG in  London , said on
March 16 that “some things have not turned out quite as
negatively as feared a couple of quarters back.” He now expects
the euro-region economy to shrink 0.4 percent this year instead
of a previously projected 0.7 percent, before expanding 1.1
percent in 2013.  ‘Decisive Change’  “Germany and  France  look to have avoided a return to
recession but only by very narrow margins,” Markit’s Williamson
said today. “The further drop in the PMI is clearly a
disappointment following the brief return to growth seen in
January and suggests that policy makers will need to seek ways
to revive economic growth across the region again.”  The ECB has already signaled it’s now up to governments to
tackle the crisis further after policy makers purchased
 government bonds , offered banks unlimited loans for three years
and lowered borrowing costs to 1 percent, a record low.  ECB council member Erkki Liikanen said in an interview on
March 15 that the central bank “has done its part, the
governments must do theirs.”  “We have been able to produce, from a market viewpoint, a
decisive change in  market sentiment ,” he said. “For the fiscal
side, for the deficits, for the long-term fiscal debt, it’s in
the hands of governments and that belongs to them -- and only
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  