-- Ex-Butler in Bass Fake-Virus Extortion Plot Found Guilty
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-22T21:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ex-butler-in-bass-fake-virus-extortion-plot-found-guilty-1-.html
The former butler of Anne Bass, ex-
wife of oil tycoon  Sid Bass , was found guilty of plotting to
extort $8.5 million by injecting her with a fake “deadly
virus” and demanding money for the antidote.  Emanuel Nicolescu was convicted of attempting to interfere
with commerce by extortion, conspiracy and possession of a
stolen vehicle today by a jury of five men and seven women in
federal court in  New Haven , Connecticut, after about five hours
of deliberation. He faces as long as 50 years in prison.  The defendant, dressed in the gray pinstripe suit he wore
each day of the weeklong trial, buried his face in his hands
when the verdict was read. Nicolescu, who was led out of the
courtroom in handcuffs, is scheduled to be sentenced June 14.  During the trial, Bass, 70, described how three armed,
masked men broke into her 14-room home in South Kent,
Connecticut, the night of April 15, 2007, and injected her and
her boyfriend, painter Julian Lethbridge, with what they said
was a lethal virus.  Bass, who the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said has a
net worth of “well over $100 million,” testified that the men
stormed her house in “what seemed like a military formation,”
making “war cries and terrifying sounds” before seizing her
and  Lethbridge .  Record of Philanthropy  “I thought that they were going to blow the house up,”
said Bass, whose foundation has donated to the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art, the Joyce Theater Foundation and the Brooklyn
Academy of Music, according to tax  records .  The plot collapsed when the assailants learned that the
ransom wasn’t readily available and that Bass’s 3-year-old
grandson was sleeping in the house. The men gave Bass and her
boyfriend the “antidote” and fled in a stolen Jeep,
investigators said in court filings.  The “virus” turned out to be an antifungal found in
athlete’s foot treatments, and the “antidote” was a sleeping
aid, according to investigators.  An accordion case that washed up in New York and a Cadillac
that belonged to the founder of an energy-drink company helped
link the incident to Nicolescu, 31, a Romanian-born U.S. citizen
who had worked for two months as Bass’s $70,000-a-year butler,
according to an FBI agent’s affidavit.  Suspect in Romania  Another suspect, Michael N. Kennedy -- also known as
Nicolae Helerea -- is in  Romania , prosecutors said. A third man,
Stefan Barabas, was named as an unindicted co-conspirator.
Police and airline officials testified that he left for
Bucharest on Sept. 28, 2010, after he was subpoenaed to testify
before a grand jury investigating the case.  “We’re disappointed in the verdict, obviously,” said
Audrey Felsen, one of Nicolescu’s attorneys. “I don’t think
this will be the last defendant.”  Prosecutors declined to comment on the verdict.  Bass said in a statement e-mailed by her spokesman, Allan
Mayer, that she and Lethbridge “are very grateful for the
authorities’ ongoing commitment to solving the case.”  Bass and Lethbridge said they “remain hopeful that
everyone responsible for this crime will eventually be brought
to justice.”  Bass’s 11,200-square-foot home stands on land appraised at
$3.7 million in 2008, according to the Town of Kent Assessor’s
Office. Her Rock Cobble  Farm  is listed as the owner of 26
properties in Kent, some of which were bought for more than $2
million, according to the assessor.  Bass testified that the night of the attack, the intruders
bound her and Lethbridge with plastic restraints and one of the
men “theatrically” donned latex gloves and administered what
Bass said was a painful injection.  ‘You Will Die’  “You have just been injected with a virus which will be
fatal within 24 hours,” she said he told her. “We want $8.5
million. If you don’t produce it, you will die.”  They said they had an antidote, she testified.  “I was terrified,” she said.  “I said, ‘Where do you think I’m going to get $8.5
million?’ He said, ‘That’s your problem,’” Bass testified.  Bass said she didn’t keep that kind of money at the
residence and said she would have to contact associates out of
state to get it, according to the FBI affidavit.  Bass said the men threatened to kidnap her grandson, whom
she was caring for and who was asleep in the house and ill with
strep throat. Bass said she warned the intruders that her
household staff would become suspicious when they arrived in the
morning.  Antidote Drink  After about five hours, the men “appeared to become
concerned with various factors” including the presence of the
child, the health of their captives and the inability of the
Bass and Lethbridge to get the money immediately, according to
the FBI affidavit.  Before they left in her Jeep, the men gave Bass and
Lethbridge a drink, she said. They told her it was the antidote,
according to the FBI affidavit. Bass said she awoke the next
morning, and freed herself and Lethbridge.  Investigators said the syringe the intruders used contained
an antifungal used to treat ringworm and athlete’s foot, not a
deadly virus. Diphenhydramine, the active ingredient in
Sleepinal, an insomnia treatment, was found in the blood of Bass
and Lethbridge.  Nicolescu, a resident of the Queens section of  New York ,
was Bass’s butler and was in charge of her household staff from
March to May of 2006, according to the affidavit. He and Kennedy
contacted each other repeatedly the night of the invasion
through mobile-phone calls and text messages, according to the
affidavit.  Accordion Case  An accordion case washed ashore in Broad Channel, Queens,
five days later, according to the affidavit. It contained a stun
gun, an air gun, a knife, syringes, a latex glove, Sleepinal and
a laminated card with Bass’s address. Kennedy’s father told
investigators that both he and his son play the accordion.  The Jeep was found abandoned in the parking lot of a Home
Depot Inc. home-improvement store in  New Rochelle , New York.
Security-camera footage, blurred by distance and rain, showed a
light-colored Cadillac Escalade pulling up next to the Jeep
early on April 16, 2007.  The day of the invasion, Nicolescu was working as a driver
for J. Darius Bikoff, the founder of the company that makes
Glaceau Vitaminwater. Bikoff’s wife, Jill, testified that she
owned a light-colored Escalade and that her drivers “took them
home.”  Car Totaled  Paul Kuhn, general manager of Rock Cobble Farm, testified
that he fired Nicolescu for using a Jeep without permission. He
said the vehicle was “totaled” in a crash while Nicolescu had
it. Kuhn said he had previously warned Nicolescu against using
the Jeep for personal reasons.  “I was told by Ms. Bass to terminate him” on May 8, 2006,
Kuhn recalled. Kuhn testified that he didn’t see Nicolescu on
the property after he was fired and the Jeep was replaced.  Eric Carita of the  Connecticut  Department of  Emergency
Services  and Public Protection testified that DNA samples from
the stolen Jeep were a partial match to Nicolescu.  The case is U.S. v. Nicolescu, 11-cr-00024, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  at federal court in New Haven, Connecticut, at
   j.dillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  