-- Facebook Is Said to Buy 750 IBM Patents to Boost Defenses
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-22T22:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/facebook-is-said-to-buy-750-ibm-patents-to-boost-defenses.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  acquired 750 patents
from  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , adding intellectual
property that may help it counter allegations of patent
infringement, a person with knowledge of the transaction said.  The patents cover various technologies such as software and
networking, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the deal hasn’t been made public. The acquisition would
swell the size of Facebook’s portfolio, which includes at least
56 issued patents and 503 filed U.S. patent applications.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking service, is
bolstering its legal defenses amid a standoff with rivals that
have broader intellectual property portfolios.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  sued
Facebook this month, accusing it of infringing patents covering
critical website functions. Facebook may have shelled out
hundreds of millions of dollars for the IBM patents, said Erin-
Michael Gill, a  managing director  at MDB Capital Group LLC.  “This is a very big deal,” said Gill, who is chief
intellectual property officer at MDB, an investment bank focused
on intellectual property. While it’s not clear how strong the
patents are, “Facebook is now where it’s supposed to be.”  The Yahoo suit involves patents covering Internet privacy,
advertising and information sharing. Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo asked for an order barring Facebook from infringing the 10
patents. It’s seeking triple damages.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment, as did  Ed Barbini , a spokesman
for IBM.  Earlier Deals  Facebook already has been acquiring patents from other
holders, including early social-networking site Friendster and
computing company  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , according to the U.S.
Patent & Trademark Office. Yahoo, Google Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. all have at least 1,000 patents, according to MDB, based
in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Facebook’s IBM deal could help assuage concerns that the
company lacks the intellectual property it needs, Gill said. The
social network filed for an initial public offering last month,
increasing investor scrutiny of the business.  Facebook, which had almost $4 billion in revenue last year,
announced earlier this month that it set up a new credit line of
$5 billion, replacing a $2.5 billion revolving line, that will
be used for working capital and other general corporate
purposes. The funds also will help  Facebook  cover the potential
legal costs of patent litigation with Yahoo, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Record IPO  Facebook also had 33 corresponding patents and 149 filed
applications in foreign countries as of the end of last year,
according to the  IPO filing . The company is seeking to raise $5
billion in the offering, making it the largest Internet IPO on
record.  Facebook expects more patent lawsuits in the future,
according to the filing.  “We expect the number of patent and other intellectual
property claims against us to grow,” the company said in the
Feb. 1 document, prior to Yahoo’s actions. “We may introduce
new products, including in areas where we currently do not
compete, which could increase our exposure to patent and other
intellectual property claims.”  Already, Facebook ranked No. 28 on the list of companies
most frequently targeted in patent cases last year, with 22
suits, according to LegalMetric.com. That’s more than companies
such as Cisco Systems Inc. and Yahoo.  ‘Weapons in Arsenal’  “They need to have some weapons in their own arsenal,”
Thomas Scott, a lawyer at  Goodwin Procter LLP  in  Washington ,
said in an interview last week.  Acquired patents made up $51 million of Facebook’s goodwill
and intangible assets in 2011, up from $33 million in 2010,
according to Facebook.  IBM, meanwhile, has been offering portions of its patent
hoard to Internet companies. The Armonk, New York-based
computer-services giant has made a series of intellectual-
property deals with  Google (GOOG)  over the past year.  IBM continues to add to its patent trove, receiving 6,180
new patents last year. The company has topped the list of U.S.
patent recipients for  19 straight years .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  