-- FastShip, Live Nation, Google, VW, CA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/fastship-live-nation-google-vw-ca-intellectual-property.html
FastShip Inc. (0211390D) , which planned to
build ships to speed up the delivery of freight across the
Atlantic Ocean, filed for bankruptcy protection saying, it
intends to sue the U.S. government for patent infringement.  The Philadelphia-based company listed assets of less than
$50,000 and debt of about $39 million in papers filed yesterday
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . It had sought
$2 billion in financing to provide all-weather cargo delivery
between the U.S. East Coast and Cherbourg, France, according to
FastShip President Roland K. Bullard II.  “The combination of deal fatigue and the collapse of the
global economy in 2008-2009 forced the debtors to abandon their
original commercial business plan,” Bullard said in court
papers. FastShip’s technology “would be comparable to
airfreight at half the cost,” he said.  The closely held company plans to use bankruptcy to create
a trust that would pursue a patent-infringement lawsuit against
the U.S. government and repay creditors with any proceeds,
Bullard said. A new $650 million U.S. Navy combat ship relies on
designs owned by FastShip, Bullard said.  “The debtors believe a strong claim exists against the
U.S. government for patent infringement,” the company said in
court papers.  The case is In re FastShip Inc., 12-bk-10968, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  United, Live Nation Didn’t Violate Seat Reservation Patents  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  convinced a jury they didn’t violate patents
over a method to reserve specific seats for events because those
protections are invalid.  A federal jury in Tyler,  Texas , deliberated about nine
hours before deciding in favor of the airlines and ticketing
companies.  Closely held  Ceats Inc. , based in Tyler, accused the
carriers of infringing three patents, and the ticketing
companies of infringing two of those and a third.  Consumers are demanding more control over where they sit at
concerts, on airlines and in movie theaters. Ceats has an online
licensing program, in which it seeks a royalty rate of 50 cents
from every event ticket and 30 cents on each airline ticket in
the U.S.  The top 100 tours worldwide generated 54.2 million ticket
sales in 2011, according to PollStar, an industry publication.  There were 586.1 million domestic passengers in the first
11 months of 2011, according to the U.S. Bureau of
Transportation Statistics. Aircraft are flying at near-record
level, with 83 percent of seats full, the agency said.  Also named in the case were airlines owned by AirTran
Holdings Inc.,  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,
 JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , U.S. Airways Inc., and Virgin America
Inc. The ticketing agencies included Live Nation’s Ticketmaster
and TicketsNow, and closely held Ticket Software LLC’s
TicketNetwork.  The case is Ceats Inc. v. Continental Airlines Inc.,
10cv120, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Complaint Said to Be Reviewed by EU as Soon as Next Week  The European Union’s antitrust chief will review a draft
complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as soon as next week, according to
two people familiar with the situation.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, will
make a decision on whether to proceed with a case against Google
after he sees the so-called statement of objections, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential. Almunia, who has previously described the document
as a report, would be able to quickly send it out as a formal
complaint.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost
95 percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog
post last year, citing data from regulators.  The EU is investigating claims Google discriminated against
other services in its search results and stopped some websites
from accepting rival ads. Microsoft Corp. and shopping-
comparison site Foundem are among companies that asked for a
review of Google’s actions.  A spokesman for Google in Brussels declined to immediately
comment. The EU’s press office also wasn’t immediately able to
comment.  Almunia has said he will decide next month on whether
“investigations are advanced enough” after he sees what he
described as a report on the case. He said he would then decide
on the EU’s concerns and communicate them to Google.  VW Can’t Overturn Suzuki’s GTi Trademark, EU Court Says  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  can’t overturn a trademark for SWIFT GTi
granted to  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  by the European Union’s Office for
Harmonisation in the Internal Market, the EU’s General Court
said.  “There is no likelihood of confusion between that
trademark and the earlier trademarks ‘GTI’ held by Volkswagen,”
the Luxembourg-based court said in a statement.  Volkswagen will review the ruling and consider an appeal to
the region’s highest court, the EU Court of Justice, said Eric
Felber, a spokesman for Volkswagen in Wolfsburg,  Germany . The
carmaker’s German rights “to the GTI trademark will remain
unaffected by the judgment,” he said in an e-mail.  VW and Suzuki are in arbitration concerning a separate
dispute over a 2009 cooperation agreement. The Japanese
automaker is seeking to force VW to sell back its 19.9 percent
stake in Suzuki.  NuVasive Appeals $60 Million Trademark-Infringement Verdict  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) , a medical-device company based in San Diego,
asked a U.S. appeals court to overturn a $60 million judgment in
a trademark-infringement case that it called “shocking.”  A federal court jury in  Los Angeles  awarded the damages to
 Neurovision Medical Products Inc.  in October 2010.  Neurovision, based in Ventura, California, filed the
lawsuit in September 2009, claiming NuVasive began infringing
its “Neurovision” trademark after discussions about a long-
term contract between the two companies ended without an
agreement.  The jury found that NuVasive deliberately infringed the
mark and concealed that it knew of Neurovision’s prior use of
the mark when it filed trademark applications at the patent
office.  In its March 15 filing with the U.S. Court of Appeals in
San Francisco, NuVasive argued that the award “was shocking and
excessive and not supported by evidence.”  The company additionally claimed that the judge erred by
permitting an award of a share of its profit and gave the jury
improper instructions. NuVasive also argued that the court was
too restrictive in the evidence it could present on the
likelihood of confusion.  The appeal is Neurovision Medical Products I v. NuVasive
Inc., 11-55120, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  The lower court case is Neurovision Medical Products Inc.
v. NuVasive Inc., 2:09-cv-06988-R-JEM, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Music Industry Trade Group Gets Court Order Against Indian ISPs  Indian Music Industry , a music-industry trade group in
 India , sent infringement notices to almost 400 Internet service
providers, complaining of copyright infringement by 104
websites, India’s Daily News & Analysis  reported .  The notices were accompanied by a restraining order from
the Calcutta High Court barring transmission, display,
distribution, communication, reproduction, adoption and
dissemination of sound recordings belonging to IMI’s members,
according to Daily News and Analysis.  Vijay Lazarus, president of IMI, told the publication that
piracy is “a scourge” for the media and entertainment
industry” and that only 7 percent of India’s digital music
market is legitimate.  Among the companies that received notices are  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  Sify Technologies Ltd. (SIFY) ,  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , and  Hathway Cable &
Datacom Ltd. (HATH) , the Daily News & Analysis reported.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  CA Wins Trade Secret, Infringement Ruling in Australian Court  CA Inc. (CA) , the Islandia, New York-based business-technology
service provider, said in a statement yesterday that an
Australian federal court found Independent Systems Integrators
Pty Ltd. used misappropriated intellectual property to develop
and sell a product belonging to CA’s CA Technologies unit.  The product is ISI’s 2BDB2 software product, which was also
found to have infringed CA Technologies’ copyrights, according
to the company statement.  At the next stage in the litigation, the court is expected
to issue orders to implement the ruling, CA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 