-- Dudley Says Central Counterparties Must Be ‘Bullet Proof’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-23T00:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/fed-s-dudley-says-central-counterparties-must-be-bullet-proof-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said tougher standards are needed in
overseeing financial-market infrastructure for over-the-counter
derivatives.  Clearinghouses, also known as central counterparties or
CCPs, “will be central to the system” as regulators create
“strong incentives” for financial institutions to standardize
derivatives trades and clear them through the CCPs, Dudley said
today in the text of remarks given in Armonk, New York.  “Global CCPs will be systemically important,” Dudley
said. “Thus, for the system to be safer it is not sufficient to
ensure that trades are standardized and that they are mandated
to be cleared through CCPs, but also it is necessary that CCPs
be bullet proof.”  Dudley said the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems
and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of
Securities Commissions are nearing completion of new standards
called the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures,
which are scheduled to be published next month.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , is determining which
clearinghouses should face heightened supervision, examination
and reporting requirements, and it hasn’t yet announced its
designees. The body also includes Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  ‘Potential Disruptions’  Clearinghouses must “be prepared to handle even greater
potential disruptions and more extreme market conditions,”
Dudley said. While current rules require a clearinghouse to be
able to withstand the default of its largest bank member, the
principles would require them to “collateralize its current
credit exposures to all of its participants.”  CCPs must also “have their own liquidity resources as the
first line of defense” in the event of the failure of a “major
market participant,” he said. In addition, they need “a viable
resolution regime,” Dudley said.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, designated utilities such as
clearinghouses may be required to open an account at a Fed
branch and the central bank may provide access to the central
bank’s discount window in “unusual and exigent” circumstances.  “A resolution regime is necessary to ensure that a central
bank that might lend to a CCP in extremis will be repaid,”
Dudley said. No major derivatives clearinghouse has ever failed.  Oversight of global CCPs must be “cooperative” across
international regulators and central banks, and there needs to
be “fair, open and safe access” to financial market
infrastructures, or FMIs, around the world, Dudley said.  Degree of Stress  CCPs must “have the ability to perform and meet their
obligations regardless of the degree of stress in the financial
system and even if one or more of their participants were to
fail in a disorderly manner,” Dudley said. “Hence, there is a
compelling need for tougher principles that are broadly
enforced.”  Dudley said in response to audience questions that while
we’re “not there yet” in terms of coordinating rules across
the U.S. and  Europe , regulators “really do want to achieve a
harmonized system.” One of the challenges in doing so is to get
regulators more “comfortable” sharing information, he said.  “We have a system where the regulators aren’t used to
sharing confidential information that freely across borders,”
Dudley said. “This is the tension between a global financial
system and a system of national regulators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  