-- Fed’s Fisher Sees Money on Sideline With No Support for More QE
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-22T19:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/fed-s-fisher-says-a-lot-of-money-is-lying-on-the-sidelines-.html
Richard Fisher , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas , said that “a lot of money is
lying on the sidelines, lying fallow” and “we will not
support” another round of quantitative easing, in an interview
with Fox Business Network.  “Right now, the economy is improving. It’s not a fast
trajectory,” Fisher said according to a transcript distributed
by the network today. “Economic growth is slower than we’d
like, but it is positive and gaining momentum. We wish it were
more robust. It is getting better, it is healing.”  Fisher also said that economic growth has been undermined
because investors are uncertain about the U.S. election,
 government spending  and  tax policy , according to the transcript.
The interview is scheduled to be broadcast at 4:30 p.m. New York
time, Fox said.  “Nobody knows what their taxes are going to be, no one
knows what the spending cuts are going to be,” he said. “So
economic growth is slower than we would like. But it is
positive. It’s gaining momentum. We wish it were more robust.”  Fisher said that higher gasoline costs are being offset by
lower prices for food and other commodities, according to the
transcript.  “You know, I am a hawk on inflation. But that is,
inflation has been coming down, not going up,” Fisher said. “I
watch this like a hawk, because this is my little part of the
aviary at the Federal Reserve system. I’m perched, ready to
pounce on inflation. I don’t see that as the problem
presently.”  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in February,
after increasing 0.2 percent the prior month. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
advanced 0.1 percent.  Consumer prices increased 2.9 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, the same rate as in January. The Fed aims for
an inflation rate of 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  