-- Fed’s Evans Says Guidance on Tightening May Curb Inflation
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-03-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/fed-s-evans-says-guidance-on-tightening-may-curb-inflation.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the central bank may be able to
limit inflation as economic growth picks up by clarifying the
changes that will prompt it to raise the main interest rate.  “The huge amount of accommodation required to maintain the
funds rate path near zero clearly generates extremely vigorous
macroeconomic activity putting at jeopardy the Federal Reserve’s
price stability mandate,” Evans and three Chicago Fed
economists wrote in a paper released today. “Conditioning, if
credible, could be helpful in limiting the inflationary
consequences of a surge in aggregate demand arising from an
early end to the post-crisis deleveraging.”  Even after lowering the benchmark rate to zero, the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee  has continued to add
stimulus by pledging to keep the rate low at least through late
2014. Evans has called for a more explicit promise, saying the
Fed shouldn’t begin to tighten policy until the  unemployment
rate  falls below 7 percent or inflation breaches 3 percent.  “Forward guidance in monetary policy statements has had a
significant affect on yields of Treasury notes and corporate
bonds since the onset of the financial crisis,” Evans and
economists Jeffrey Campbell, Jonas Fisher and Alejandro
Justiniano wrote in a paper prepared for a panel at the
Brookings Institution in  Washington .  The FOMC has changed the language on its rates pledge
several times since cutting the main  interest rate  to close to
zero in December 2008. At that time the committee said economic
conditions would probably warrant low rates for “some time,”
and changed that language in 2009 to “an extended period.” In
August 2011, it specified a date of mid-2013, and in January
extended that time to at least through late 2014.  Not Voting Member  Evans, who isn’t a voting member of the FOMC this year, has
been among the most vocal proponents for additional Fed easing.  Policy makers must not “buy too quickly” into the notion
that inflation expectations may soon surge or “we’ll end up
following overly restrictive policies that could unnecessarily
risk condemning the  U.S. economy  to a lost decade,” he said in
Frankfurt last week.  Today’s paper tested how inflation would evolve either with
or without Evans’ proposed thresholds, given two possible
scenarios in which the economy performs above forecasts. If
consumers finish deleveraging faster than expected, inflation
would rise above 3 percent without an explicitly communicated
threshold in place, the authors’ models showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  