-- FedEx Pares Global GDP Outlook as Slowdown Damps Forecast
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-03-22T20:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/fedex-forecast-in-line-with-estimates-as-express-shipments-slow.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  curbed its forecast for
global economic growth, citing a recession in  Europe  and rising
crude  oil prices , as it projected a profit range this quarter
whose low end trailed analysts’ estimates.  The shares fell the most since December after FedEx said
express shipments declined both domestically and internationally
because of “below-trend” growth. The operator of the world’s
biggest cargo airline said it was parking an unspecified number
of planes, paring flight hours and reviewing domestic capacity.  “We just don’t have a strong economy as we had hoped it
would be a year ago,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on
an earnings call. “The economic environment and the elasticity
that we’re seeing on our premium services from the high-fuel
costs” are weighing on this quarter’s earnings outlook.  FedEx is considered an economic bellwether because it
carries everything from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals and
financial documents. The Memphis, Tennessee-based company
trimmed its estimate for global gross domestic product growth to
2.3 percent, from 2.9 percent in December.  Domestic shipments at the Express unit, FedEx’s largest
business, fell 4 percent, while international priority shipments
of small packages declined 1 percent.  “Clearly we’ve got some depressed volumes due to economic
activity,” Mike Glenn, executive vice president for market
development, said on the call.  FedEx slid  3.5 percent to $92.50 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading, the most since Dec. 19. The shares have gained 11
percent  this year .  Earnings Forecast  Earnings in the three months ending in May, FedEx’s fourth
quarter, will be $1.75 to $2 a share, compared with $1.75 a year
earlier, the company said.  Analysts estimated  $1.98, the average
of 22 projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “Fading” domestic volumes are partly to blame,  Peter Nesvold , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York, wrote today
in a note to clients. He said he had expected a “stronger”
earnings outlook for the current quarter.  For the full fiscal year, FedEx forecast earnings of $6.35
to $6.60 a share, excluding gains from the reversal of a legal
reserve at its express unit. Analysts estimated $6.36, the
average of 25 projections compiled by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. economy  may expand 2.1 percent this calendar year,
Glenn said on the call. That’s below the 2.2 median forecast
among 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Parking Airplanes  Earnings excluding certain items for the fiscal third
quarter that ended in February were $1.55 a share, FedEx said,
which topped the $1.35 average projection in a Bloomberg survey.  Net income  more than doubled to $521 million, or $1.65 a
share, from $231 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier. Revenue
rose 9.3 percent to $10.6 billion.  FedEx will try to find savings in its domestic network,
while also reducing flight hours and putting some aircraft in
storage “until economic conditions improve,” Graf said. The
company didn’t specify how many or what type of planes it is
parking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in  New York  at   ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 