-- Fiscal Expansion Effective in Deep Slumps, Summers, DeLong Say
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-22T18:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/fiscal-expansion-effective-in-deep-slumps-summers-delong-say.html
Lawrence Summers , a former economic
adviser to President Barack Obama, and Brad DeLong, a University
of California professor, say short-term fiscal stimulus is
effective medicine for a deep contraction and can pay for
itself, according to a paper released today.  “Discretionary fiscal policy where there is room to pursue
it has a major role to play in the context of severe downturns
that take place in the aftermath of financial crises,” the
economists said in a paper delivered at the Brookings
Institution in Washington.  The economists write that if a central bank’s policy
interest  rate  is stuck at zero for a long period, that could
reduce the cost of fiscal policy and make it more effective.
“When the zero lower bound constrains interest-rate movements,
the impact of fiscal policy will be magnified,” according to
Summers and DeLong.  Deep contractions can also cast long shadows over
subsequent expansions, a phenomenon known as “hysteresis,” the
economists write. For example, the current expansion, which
began in June 2009, hasn’t been strong enough to push the
 unemployment rate  below 8 percent.  Moderate growth and low inflation are two reasons why the
 Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark lending rate near zero
since December 2008.  In these conditions, acceleration in gross domestic product
resulting from fiscal stimulus can raise  tax revenue  and make up
for the added spending.  “A combination of low real  U.S. Treasury  borrowing rates,
positive fiscal multiplier effects, and modest hysteresis
effects is sufficient to render fiscal expansion self-
financing,” the economists write.  DeLong, who teaches at the University of California’s
Berkeley campus, was a deputy assistant secretary of the U.S.
Treasury under former President Bill Clinton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 