-- Food Stamps Are Too Valuable to Waste on Junk Food
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/food-stamps-are-too-valuable-to-waste-on-junk-food.html
The  Florida  Legislature just spent
a couple of weeks debating a reasonable question: Why should
U.S. taxpayers pay for the junk food people buy with food
stamps?  A  bill  that would have imposed limits on purchases of soft
drinks, potato chips and some other foods was drafted, but  died 
amid complaints by anti-hunger groups and industry lobbyists.
Similar efforts in other states have also failed, mainly on the
same objections: Constraints on food stamp use would amount to
government interference in personal choice and stigmatize
recipients. The rules also would be too complicated to carry
out.  These claims are weak and misleading, and undermine the
program at a time when its legitimacy is being attacked for
different reasons.  House Republicans  this week offered a budget
proposal that would make painful cuts to food stamps. This
follows on a primary season in which  Newt Gingrich  and other
Republicans made “food stamp president” a common refrain.  The food stamp program, formally the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program, deserves better. It is also in need of
reform to strengthen its effectiveness by making the program a
vehicle for promoting healthy eating.  Threat of Obesity  When the Food Stamp Act was adopted in 1964, hunger was a
deep problem. Today, the far bigger public health threat is
obesity and overconsumption of foods linked to chronic diseases
-- such as diabetes -- that contribute to escalating medical
costs. In low-income families, overweight children  outnumber 
those considered underweight by 7-to-1.  Food stamp recipients have never had the right to use the
benefits however they please. They can’t buy cigarettes and
alcohol with  food stamps , pet food, or household products such
as detergent. Most prepared hot meals aren’t covered either.  In the initial draft of the food stamp law, Congress had
the good sense to include a ban on  soft drinks . The idea was
dropped because it was deemed too difficult to administer.  But banning drinks sweetened with sugar and high-fructose
corn syrup, such as Coca-Cola or Gatorade, is an idea worth
revisiting. The program pays for an estimated 20 million
servings of these beverages a day at a cost to taxpayers of $4
billion a year.  In 2010, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  (majority owner of
Bloomberg News’s parent company) sought U.S. Department of
Agriculture approval for a two-year test ban on sweetened drinks
in  New York  City. The department  declined , saying that retailers
weren’t equipped to deal with a prohibition and that it was too
hard to decide which products to exclude.  Those concerns lack merit. Almost every retail item has a
Universal Product Code. Most retailers, from Wal-Mart to
neighborhood convenience stores, are equipped with bar-code
scanners that track product sales. These systems can be
programmed to monitor food-stamp purchases.  In denying New York’s request, the Agriculture Department
also raised one objection that helped kill the bill in Florida:
Food stamp users might feel stigmatized if they couldn’t buy the
same products as everyone else.  This is a flimsy argument.  Almost all  food stamp
beneficiaries today make purchases with a card that looks much
like a debit or credit card, not a booklet of stamps. It’s not
obvious to others standing in the checkout line which products
are bought with food stamps and which are paid for with the
customer’s own money. Once everything is rung up on the
register, the customer simply pays the balance due on the exempt
items. And if other shoppers can tell what products are
purchased with food stamps, won’t it be a relief to them to see
that their tax dollars aren’t going for junk?  Status Quo  The Agriculture Department  offers  the following rationale
for the status quo: There are more than 300,000 food products in
the U.S., with 12,000 new ones introduced each year. Deciding
which to exclude would be a bureaucratic nightmare.  Instead, the department prefers experiments to promote
better nutrition, such as the Massachusetts pilot  program  that
gives food stamp users increased benefits for purchases of
fruits and vegetables. This is fine in theory. The trouble is
that many nutritionists think diets are improved when unhealthy
foods are eliminated, not when consumption of healthier foods
increases. The Massachusetts experiment does nothing to address
that point or the larger national debate about food stamps’ role
in the obesity epidemic.  What’s perplexing is the department’s willingness to ban
junk food in a different program, the Special Supplemental
Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, which serves
more than 9  million  new and expectant mothers and their
children. The offerings are limited: canned fish, milk, cheese,
eggs, whole-wheat bread, fruit, peanut butter, vegetables, tofu,
unsweetened juice, infant formula and medicines.  With modifications to allow purchases of meat, chicken and
fresh fish, that plan could serve as a template for reforming
the food stamp program into one that is able to offer better
nutrition -- and to withstand political attack.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  