-- Gazprom Signs Deal for LNG Exports From Israel’s Offshore Fields
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-03-22T12:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/gazprom-signs-deal-for-lng-exports-from-israel-s-offshore-fields.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s marketing unit signed
an initial deal to buy liquefied natural gas from fields
discovered off  Israel ’s Mediterranean coast.  Gazprom Marketing and Trading and Levant LNG Marketing
Corp., a venture to develop an LNG export project, signed a
letter of intent, Gazprom said in a statement. Levant LNG plans
to sell gas produced at Israel’s Tamar and Dalit fields using a
floating LNG plant.  A series of discoveries have given Israel the opportunity
to become a gas exporter. The Tamar and Dalit fields are due to
start output next year and are big enough to supply the country
with gas for two decades. The larger Leviathan field holds more
than the U.K.’s remaining reserves. Gazprom, Russia’s gas export
monopoly, is trying to build am LNG trading business as it
diversifies away from traditional pipeline customers in  Europe .  Levant LNG was formed by  Daewoo Shipbuilding (042660)  and Marine
Engineering Co., D&H Solutions and Next Decade LLC. Gazprom also
met with partners in the gas fields including Isramco Negev 2
LP,  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and Delek Drilling LP.  Isramco advanced 0.4 percent by 2:19 p.m. in Tel Aviv
trading, while Delek Drilling gained 0.7 percent.  LNG is gas cooled to a liquid for transport by tanker. In
the past, plants to liquefy the fuel have been built onshore.
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has ordered the first floating plant from
Daewoo competitor  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  in  South Korea 
for use in a field off Australia. It will cost about $5 billion.  Gazprom Global LNG is studying an LNG project in the U.S.,
where shale gas output has cut prices allowing terminals to be
revamped for loading and production, Frederic Barnaud, executive
director of the Moscow-based gas company’s unit, said in its
corporate magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Kennedy  in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  