-- Germany Lifts Second Quarter Debt Issuance Plan by 3%
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-22T12:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/germany-lifts-second-quarter-debt-issuance-plan-by-3-.html
Germany boosted its target for debt
sales next quarter by 3 percent to provide funding for the euro-
area’s financial backstop, the Federal Finance Agency said.  Europe ’s largest economy will issue 68 billion euros ($89.5
billion) of bonds and bills, up from a 66 billion-euro forecast
in December, the Frankfurt-based agency said today in an e-
mailed statement. Germany has agreed to pay 21.5 billion euros
of the 80 billion euros required for the “paid-in” cash
reserve of the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism.
The permanent fund will become operational in July.  “This moderate increase of the credit volume is an
important contribution to the stability of the euro,” Carl Heinz Daube, managing director of the debt agency, said in note
e-mailed to Bloomberg. “Due to the accelerated payment of the
German contribution to the European Stability Mechanism the
credit requirement in the second quarter will rise by a moderate
2 billion euros.”  Germany  plans to auction 47 billion euros of bonds next
quarter, up from a Dec. 21 prediction of 45 billion euros, the
agency said. The government will also sell 21 billion euros of
bills, it said. The country will increase the amount of February
2017 notes it will sell by 1 billion euros to 4 billion euros,
and it will issue 5 billion euros of a new security due in April
2017, up from a previous forecast of 4 billion euros.  ‘Bit higher’  Germany is increasing bond issuance as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis damps the nation’s exports and tax receipts.  Funding needs may be “a bit higher than they expected
because economic activity is not as strong,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in  London . “The
interest of the market in German auctions has been very high, so
they don’t run the risk of increasing the size and have
undersubscribed auctions.”  Europe’s fiscal turmoil, which has led to financial
bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  has crimped growth in
the region, reducing government revenues and threatening
attempts to curb debt levels. Europe’s largest economy
contracted by 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter as a stalling
global recovery hurt exports. German bond yields have fallen to
records lows as investors favored its debt as a haven.  The yield on the German 10-year bund fell four basis points
to 1.94 percent at 12:38 p.m. London time. The yield dropped to
a record 1.64 percent on Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  