-- Getco Fined $450,000 for Failing to Supervise Equity Trading
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-22T21:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/getco-fined-450-000-for-failing-to-supervise-equity-trading-1-.html
Regulators fined the market-making
unit of automated trading firm Getco LLC $450,000 for failing to
maintain proper supervision over its stock buying and selling.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  said Octeg LLC, the unit of Chicago-
based Getco that engages in equities market making, violated its
rules during the review period, which ran from May 7, 2010,
through December 2011, according to a  document  dated March 8 on
 Nasdaq ’s website. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
conducted the examination. In settling with regulators, Getco
didn’t admit or deny doing anything wrong.  “The firm failed to establish and maintain a reasonable
supervisory system, including but not limited to its written
supervisory procedures and supervisory and operational risk
control systems related to the oversight of high-frequency
trading and algorithmic trading,” according to the document.  Getco, a high-frequency-trading specialist  founded  in 1999,
provides bids and offers on more than 50 exchanges and venues
globally and is “consistently” among the top five trading
firms by volume on bourses including the New York Stock
Exchange, NYSE Arca, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Eurex in
 Frankfurt  and other markets, according to the company.  ‘No Harm’  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,” Getco said
in a statement. “While there was no harm caused to the market
or to any participants, we are always looking for ways to
further enhance our policies, procedures and controls.”  Octeg agreed to hire an independent consultant to review
the company’s supervisory procedures and risk controls for the
operation of its algorithms, or trading strategies. That
includes the “creation, modification, usage and testing of
trading algorithms” and the company’s oversight of its trading
message traffic, wash sales and “other potentially improper
trading activity,” according to the document on Nasdaq’s site.  Getco’s ranking among the biggest providers of liquidity,
or bids and offers, on Nasdaq has fallen since May 2010, data
 compiled  by the exchange show. While it was the largest supplier
that month for shares listed on Nasdaq and NYSE, Getco hasn’t
been among the 10 biggest brokers since June 2010.  The company became a New York Stock Exchange designated
market maker after buying the right to handle 350 stocks from
London-based Barclays Plc in February 2010. DMMs manage the
auctions at the start and end of each day for NYSE securities
and provide continuous bids and offers. Getco agreed to buy Bank
of America Corp.’s NYSE market-making business last November,
vaulting it to second place based on the number of securities it
oversees at the world’s largest bourse.  May 2010 Crash  The start date for Finra’s review was a day after the May
6, 2010, plunge known as the flash crash, which erased $862
billion from U.S. equities in less than 20 minutes. Regulators
have increased their scrutiny of automated trading strategies
and related practices since that market disruption.  Daniel Hawke, head of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s market-abuse unit, said at a conference last month
that the regulator is examining trading practices that gained
sway over the past decade amid a shift to automation and faster
executions. These include the number of canceled orders relative
to completed trades by individual firms, since a high daily
ratio may increase the amount of data that must be processed by
traders and investment firms, he said.  Nasdaq OMX and Direct Edge Holdings LLC, an exchange
operator in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said on March 7 they
planned to penalize trading firms in an attempt to reduce the
number of orders they process on their systems relative to
transactions. Nasdaq’s new messaging  policy  will go into effect
on June 1 and Direct Edge’s plans will be  implemented  on May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  