-- Global Stocks May Drop After Rally, Jefferies’ Darby Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   J o h n   D a w s o n
-- 2012-03-22T05:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/global-stocks-may-drop-after-rally-jefferies-darby-says.html
Global  equities  may have a
“correction” of between 5 percent and 9 percent after the
first quarter as investors sell holdings to lock in profit from
recent rallies, according to  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)   Europe’s debt crisis is still “not over” because of high
borrowing costs in Spain and Portugal,  Sean Darby , Jefferies’
chief global equity strategist, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview from  Hong Kong  today. Darby joined New York-based
Jefferies in September from Nomura Holdings Inc. His team at
Nomura was ranked second for Asian equity strategy in an
Institutional Investor poll last year.  The MSCI All-Country World Index has climbed 12 percent in
2012 as data pointed to growth in the  U.S. economy , European
policy makers approved a second bailout package for Greece and
speculation mounted that emerging nations including  China  will
ease monetary policy as inflation pressures ease. The MSCI
gauge, which slid 9.4 percent last year, is headed for its
biggest quarterly gain since the three months to Sept. 30, 2010.  “People are desperately squeezed into equities to meet
performance,” Darby said. “But after that, we will find that
unwinding.”  The MSCI index’s  valuation  rose to 12.9 times estimated
profit on March 19, the highest level since May 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at 1.8 times net assets on
March 19, the highest price-to-book level since July.  ‘Best Value’  Japanese equities offer “the best value” in Asian
equities as the nation may end five years of deflation, Darby
said. The Topix index trades for 1.05 times book, the lowest
level of 15 major Asia Pacific markets tracked by Bloomberg,
even after an 18 percent climb this year.  The nation’s finance ministry reported today an unexpected
 trade surplus  for February and as exports beat economists’
estimates. The Cabinet Office said yesterday that  Japan ’s
economy is picking up “slowly” after the earthquake and
tsunami that devastated northeastern regions in March last year.  “There is an enormous amount of skepticism about Japan’s
recovery,” Darby said. “The market is very cheap. It’s
underowned. And out of the developed markets, it has potential
earnings growth of 66 percent over the year. So from the bottom
up, it gives investors a reason to invest in Japan  equities .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dawson  in Hong Kong at 
 jrdawson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  