-- GM, Peugeot Appoint Executive to Oversee Automaking Alliance
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-03-22T14:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/gm-peugeot-appoint-executive-to-oversee-automaking-alliance-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  appointed senior executives to a 10-member steering
committee in the first move to get their automaking alliance up
and running.  Each company will hold five seats on the committee, which
will oversee the alliance’s activities and explore new areas of
cooperation, Peugeot said today in a statement. The chief
financial officers of both companies were named to the body.  “The appointment of the steering committee members marks
the first step for the alliance and illustrates the commitment
of the two companies to begin working together,” Paris-based
Peugeot said in the statement. “It is expected that work on
joint projects will commence before the end of this year.”  GM agreed in February to buy 7 percent of Peugeot as part
of an alliance to cooperate on purchasing and vehicle
development in a bid to cut costs in  Europe . Detroit-based GM is
looking for ways to turn around its unprofitable Opel brand,
while Peugeot seeks to shore up financing after debt more than
doubled in the second half of 2011.  GM will be represented on the alliance’s steering committee
by Vice Chairman Stephen Girsky, CFO Daniel Ammann, GM Europe
President Karl-Friedrich Stracke, product development senior
vice president Mary Barra and product planning vice president
Stephen Carlisle.  Peugeot appointed executive vice president of programs
Jean-Christophe Quemard,CFO Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon,
executive vice president of purchasing Yannick Bezard,
development chief Guillaume Faury and executive vice president
of industrial operations Denis Martin.  Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a spokesman for the French
automaker, said the date for the committee’s first meeting
hadn’t yet been scheduled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  