-- GM to Keep Australian Presence for 10 Years, Wins Subsidy
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-22T02:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/gm-to-keep-australian-presence-for-10-years-wins-subsidy-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
U.S. automaker, will continue making cars at its Holden unit in
Australia for at least 10 years in return for a A$275 million
($288 million) government assistance package.  “We were at real risk there would be no more Holden in
Australia,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told reporters in
Canberra today. “It would have been a knockout blow for
manufacturing, given the importance of the  auto industry .”
Holden will invest more than A$1 billion in production to make
two new models, in return for the investment, she said.  The value of Australia’s automobile exports plunged to the
lowest level since 1998 last year as a local currency that’s
strengthened 14 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past two
years reduced overseas demand. GM’s Holden division said last
month it will reduce the number of contractors and casual
workers at its assembly plant in the South Australia city of
Adelaide, while the local unit of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has also
announced job cuts this year.  “The investment by the government will help Holden
withstand the huge pressures the local car industry has faced,
especially the soaring Aussie dollar,” said Ian Chalmers, chief
executive officer of the Federal Chamber of Automotive
Industries, a car industry lobbying group. “It will trickle
down to the component-makers and re-invigorate export sales.”  Driven by rising mining exports and demand for the
country’s high-yielding, high-rated sovereign debt, the
Australian dollar has been the third best-performing major
currency against its U.S. counterpart in the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cheaper Imports  While the local currency’s strength helps contain inflation
by making imports cheaper, it hurts exporters by making their
products more expensive relative to overseas competitors.  The federal government will contribute A$215 million to
Holden, with state governments funding the balance, Gillard said
today. The deal with Holden will boost the economy by about A$4
billion, she said.  Holden, the largest producer of Australian-made cars for
the domestic market, blamed the strength of the so-called Aussie
for last month’s announcement it would cut jobs at its assembly
plant in  Adelaide .  Toyota’s Australian division, the country’s largest car
exporter, cited the strong currency in its announcement Jan. 23
that it would cut more than one in 10 jobs from its main plant
in Altona, a suburb of the country’s second-largest city
 Melbourne .  Falling Production  The division’s production has fallen 36 percent since 2007,
it said in an e-mailed statement in January. The unit shipped
83,000 cars worth A$1.5 billion in 2010, the majority to the
 Middle East , the largest importer of Australian-made cars,
according to Toyota’s website.  The Liberal-National coalition opposition has previously
said it wants to cut A$500 million from a A$1.5 billion
assistance program for the auto industry currently due to run
until 2015. Government assistance to the industry was valued at
A$1.13 billion, or A$23,500 per worker, in 2006-07, according to
a report by the government’s Productivity Commission.  “Co-investment of this kind is critical for our industry
and helps  Australia  compete against other car-making countries
that protect their industries through tariffs and/or financial
support,” Holden Chairman Mike Devereux said in an e-mailed
statement today.  U.S. Bailout  GM, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2009, received a $50
billion bailout from Barack Obama’s administration in the U.S.
The government still holds 32 percent of the Detroit-based
automaker’s shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Holden, which started as a business making  saddles  in 1856
according to its website, has been manufacturing cars in
Australia since 1948, establishing its high-selling Commodore
brand in 1978.  Passenger vehicle shipments fell 26 percent from a year
earlier to A$1.35 billion in the December quarter, the
 Australian Bureau of Statistics  said Feb. 2 in its trade report.
Car exports have slumped 63.7 percent since their peak of A$3.6
billion in 2008, when they were the largest export by the
country’s manufacturing industry.  Australian manufacturing, accounting for about 10 percent
of gross domestic product, has contracted even as booming demand
for the nation’s commodities helped the economy avoid a
recession after the 2008-09 global financial crisis.  BlueScope
Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer, in August
shuttered its export division, and Australian wine exports fell
to a 10-year low in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  