-- Greek Parliament Could Have Eight Political Parties, Poll Shows
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-03-22T08:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/greek-parliament-could-have-eight-political-parties-poll-shows.html
Greece ’s parliament may contain as
many as eight political parties after the next election with
none gaining an absolute majority, an opinion poll shows.  The New Democracy party, led by Antonis Samaras, is the
second largest in parliament and would garner the most votes
with 22.5 percent, a five percentage-point drop from the month
before, according to a poll conducted by VPRC for  Epikaira 
magazine between March 15 and March 19. The socialist Pasok
party, led by former Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, and
the Communist Party of Greece would each get 12.5 percent.   Last month’s poll showed Pasok at 11 percent with the 
Communist Party at 14 percent. Greek parties need to clear a 3 
percent threshold to enter parliament.       The Coalition of the Radical Left, known as Syriza, would
receive 12 percent and the Democratic Left 11.5 percent, the
poll indicated. Eleven percent expressed support for the
Independent Greeks party, set up on Feb. 24 by Panos Kammenos
after he was expelled from  New Democracy  for voting against
measures needed to receive the loan package. Golden Dawn would
receive 3.5 percent support and the Laos party 3 percent, the
poll showed.  Venizelos, who replaced former Prime Minister  George Papandreou  as party leader on March 18, had a negative rating of
73 percent, three percentage points lower than the month before.
Samaras had a negative rating of 72 percent compared with 70
percent the month before. Fotis Kouvelis, leader of the
Democratic Left, had a negative rating of 47 percent.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary approval
for a new 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) international bailout
on March 21. Passage of the legislation moves the country a step
closer to elections that may be held as soon as next month.
Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring in
history earlier this month, opening the way for the second
bailout.  Of the 802 people polled, 54 percent said the loan package
agreed with the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  is the wrong path for the country. Twenty-two percent said
it is flawed but needs to be implemented for the country to
overcome the crisis.  The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.53
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  