-- Li & Fung Says U.S. Orders Improving as Profit Gains 24%
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-23T09:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/li-fung-2011-profit-raises-24-beating-analysts-estimates-1-.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  said orders are
picking up in the U.S., its biggest market, after the world’s
largest supplier of clothes and toys to retailers reported a
bigger-than-expected jump in 2011 profit. The stock surged.  Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said customers in
the U.S., where the company made 60 percent of its $20 billion
 revenue , are turning more optimistic. Li & Fung, a supplier of
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , yesterday reported net income rose 24
percent to $681 million, beating the average $635 million
estimate of nine analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The results and improved outlook for the U.S. helped drive
up shares of Li & Fung by 4.2 percent today to the highest in
almost a year. The Hong Kong-based company increased earnings by
acquiring rivals and entering supply agreements to sell American
and European retailers consumer goods that are mostly made in
Asian countries, such as China and  Thailand .  The company sees opportunity to make more purchases in
areas such as beauty and health care, Deputy Chairman  William
Fung  said in an interview today.  “When things are not looking good in the world in general,
it’s probably good for opportunities,” he said. “Our primary
focus would be the markets we sell to, the US and  Europe . Europe
is not looking very good, there may be opportunities.”  Short Positions  The  stock  rose 4.2 percent to HK$19.86 at the close of Hong
Kong trading today. It has  gained  38 percent this year compared
with a 12 percent gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “The results are pretty strong, much better than expected,
resulting in a lot of investors covering their  short 
positions,” said  Andrew Sullivan , principal trader at Piper
Jaffray.  Citigroup raised its  rating  on the stock to buy from
neutral, citing improving margins. Acquisitions made in 2011
could add about 4 percent to 2012 revenue, analyst Eddie Lau
said in a note to clients today.  Li & Fung signed 18 deals last year including 12
acquisitions for the group’s trading network and six for its
distribution network, it said in a statement yesterday.  The company had cash and cash equivalents amounting to $426
million as of the end of 2011, it said. It proposed to pay a
final dividend of 34  Hong Kong  cents, compared with 26 cents a
year earlier.  Improving Margins  Li & Fung has spent more than $3 billion on deals from 2006
to 2011, driving up both sales and profit in the five-year
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cost pressures are easing and margins are improving in the
LF USA distribution business and the company’s average cost
price is expected to “gradually trend down,” it said.  Li & Fung’s Wal-Mart division, started after a 2010 supply
agreement, should turn profitable in 2012 after a “small loss”
in 2011, Rockowitz said.  “You’ve seen incremental bullishness in the  United States 
and orders are definitely better than last year from a growth
point of view,” Rockowitz said at a press conference yesterday.
“The U.S. is doing pretty well and overall the economy has
improved dramatically year on year.”  Consumer sentiment has been fluctuating in the U.S., where
Li & Fung supplies companies including Limited Brands Inc.,
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)   Asia Sales  U.S. consumers poured into the malls and took to the Web
during Thanksgiving weekend, spending a record $52.4 billion,
the  National Retail Federation  said.  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year rose 1.5
percent in the fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, the second gain in
the past 10 quarters. The fourth quarter is an important selling
period for U.S. retailers because of the Christmas and
Thanksgiving holidays.  Still, confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped
in March as higher gasoline prices threaten to squeeze household
budgets.  Sales in  Asia  tripled to 12 percent, with China accounting
for about half of revenue in the region, Li & Fung said. The
company, which traces its beginnings to 1906, when parent Li &
Fung Group was founded, may make 20 percent of its sales in Asia
by the end of its three-year plan in 2013, Rockowitz said in
August.  The purchase of Integrated Distribution Services Group
Ltd., which distributes goods in Asian nations, including  China ,
may help Li & Fung make more sales outside the U.S. The company
cited the deal as the reason the percentage of sales made in the
U.S. dropped to 60 percent from 65 percent in the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  