-- IBM’s Watson to Help Memorial Sloan-Kettering With Cancer
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ibm-s-watson-to-help-memorial-sloan-kettering-with-cancer-care.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s Watson computer, which beat champions of the quiz show
“Jeopardy!” last year and is starting to be sold to insurers
and banks, is to provide help to doctors and patients on
diagnosis and treatment for cancer.  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York and IBM
have agreed to collaborate on the development of a Watson-based
service that will assist the hospital group’s doctors with the
diagnosis of cancer and suggest treatment options by mining the
most current and comprehensive information available, the two
parties said in a joint statement today.  Combining Watson with Sloan-Kettering’s clinical knowledge,
as well as with the latest  cancer research , will make the
service a “decision support tool,” Armonk, New York-based IBM
and Memorial Sloan-Kettering said.  IBM says Watson’s  skills  -- interpreting queries in natural
language, consulting vast volumes of unstructured information
quickly, and answering questions with a defined level of
confidence -- can be applied to many industries. It has already
sold the technology to  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the U.S. insurer, and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , and expects to generate billions in new revenue
by 2015 from putting Watson to work.  “Physicians require a lot more information to make the
proper decision as we learn more about the biology of cancer,”
Martin Kohn, IBM’s chief medical scientist, said in an
interview. Using Watson “we have access to much more
information than we could possibly accomplish by reading on our
own, or even 100 people reading.”  ‘Grand Challenge’  Watson is being taught oncology and being programmed with
the types of questions it will be posed in a similar way to when
it was trained for “Jeopardy!” Applying Watson to the field of
cancer diagnosis and treatment, “given its importance on both a
human and economic level, is exactly the type of grand challenge
IBM Watson can help address,” Kohn said in the statement.  Sloan-Kettering and IBM are already developing the first
applications using Watson related to lung, breast and prostate
cancers, and aim to begin piloting the solutions to some
oncologists in late 2012, with wider distribution planned for
late 2013.  “The combination of transformational technologies found in
Watson with our cancer analytics and decision-making process has
the potential to revolutionize the accessibility of information
for the treatment of cancer in communities across the country
and around the world,” Sloan-Kettering Chief Executive Officer
Craig B. Thompson said in the statement. “We also expect
tremendous new research opportunities to emerge from this
collaboration.”  Artificial Intelligence  In February 2011, about 15 million viewers watched Watson
beat former  “Jeopardy!”  champions Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter
-- a highly publicized victory in artificial intelligence that
IBM always aimed to apply to the business world.  The supercomputer, including its work in the health-care
and finance industries, will contribute “a portion” of IBM’s
 target  of $16 billion of analytics revenue in 2015, Manoj Saxena, the man responsible for finding Watson business, said in
a February interview. That portion will “have a B next to it,”
Saxena said.  Watson may generate $2.65 billion in revenue in 2015,
adding 52 cents of earnings per share,  Ed Maguire , an analyst at
CLSA in New York, estimated in a November research note.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider,
reported  revenue  of $107 billion in 2011 and earnings of $13.06
a share. The company ended 2011 with $11.9 billion in cash.  The company’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $204.69 at
the close in  New York  yesterday. The shares have increased by 30
percent in the past 12 months and on March 5 closed above $200
for the first time, factoring in stock splits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  