-- Iceland Woos Microsoft for Part of $41 Billion Data Market: Tech
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/iceland-woos-microsoft-for-part-of-41-billion-data-market-tech.html
On the southwestern tip of  Iceland ,
housed in a former NATO air command base, a new  data center  is
waiting to host the world’s information.  Tapping into a ready supply of geothermal energy and cool
temperatures, Bjorgolfur Thor Bjorgolfsson, Iceland’s first
billionaire and the former owner of one of its largest failed
banks, is turning to the elements to attract customers to store
data on the island and capture a slice of a $41 billion market.  The Atlantic island has sought to reinvent itself as a safe
and secure data haven halfway between Europe and North America
as it recovers from the economic meltdown after the failure of
the country’s top lenders in 2008. Its chance of success is set
to improve with a link to the Emerald subsea cable between
 London  and  New York  that takes in Iceland for the first time.  “Iceland happens to be a rare spot on the earth where
there is a convergence of attributes that tick all the boxes,”
said Jeff Monroe, chief executive officer of Verne Global, the
$700 million data center Bjorgolfsson opened for business last
month in Keflavik. “You have 100 percent renewable energy. We
can do 100 percent free cooling.”  Bjorgolfsson bought a plot within the 44-acre (178,000
square meters) decommissioned military base in 2007, sited on
solid bedrock away from the seismically active part of the
island, and began converting it into a data center. At full
capacity, the campus can accommodate the equivalent amount of
computer power generated in a small town.  Facebook, Google  So far, Verne’s customers include Datapipe Inc., a  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based provider of disaster-recovery services,
and CCP Games, the Icelandic maker of the Eve online multiplayer
game with almost half a million subscribers.  While some large technology companies, including  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , have shown interest in Iceland, the island has still to
sign up major clients, according to the Icelandic investment
agency. That, says Monroe, will change. “Iceland is going to be
the place where I believe you will see some of those marquee
brand names,” he said.  Still,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  have already pursued
locations elsewhere across the Atlantic. In southern Finland,
near Helsinki, Google has converted a mill formerly owned by
 Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) , Europe’s biggest paper maker, into a data
center. Facebook’s new site, its first outside the U.S., will be
built close to the Arctic Circle in northern  Sweden .  Emerald Cable  Christian Belady, a Seattle-based general manager for
Microsoft’s data centers, said the company continues to
“explore new regions where infrastructure may be needed,”
declining to discuss specific locations.  Iceland’s nascent high-tech industry is pinning its hopes
on the $300 million Emerald cable system, planned for spring
2013, to boost the country’s connectivity. The island, located
more than 600 miles (965 kilometers) from the coast of  Scotland ,
has previously struggled with indirect cable links to North
America through Greenland and to  Europe  through the  Faroe
Islands .  Iceland’s data centers are also betting on a change in a
tax law that cuts the levy on importing equipment as the
government seeks to re-balance the economy away from financial
services. The island’s largest banks were taken over by the
government in 2008 after defaulting on about $85 billion in
debt. The collapse plunged the island’s economy into a crisis
that sent unemployment surging nine-fold and triggered a
recession that lasted through half of 2010.  Located next to the Keflavik International Airport, Verne
uses two large buildings formerly used by NATO army command for
its offices and storage that now sit in a residential area
mostly occupied by students.  Landsbanki Islands  The total investment will reach $700 million when the data
center is running at full capacity, according to Helgi Helgason,
senior facility manager at Verne Global.  Bjorgolfsson was formerly one of the largest shareholders
in  Landsbanki Islands Hf (LAIS) , the third-largest of the failed
lenders, and the chairman of Straumur Burdaras Investment Bank
hf, the fourth-major bank to be taken over by the government.
His private investment firm, Novator, was involved with the
Verne project from its inception.  “It seemed a great match and opportunity,” said Birgir Ragnarsson, a board member at Verne and a partner of Novator.
“It’s rewarding to participate in the financial rebuild of
Iceland and the creation of new opportunities.”  Seawater Cooling  Iceland, which completed a 33-month budget program from the
 International Monetary Fund  in August that demanded capital
controls on the krona and interest rate cuts, has since
outperformed a number of euro nations in recovering from the
crisis. The $12 billion economy will grow 2.5 percent this year,
the fund said in September. The euro area, by comparison, will
grow 1.6 percent in 2012, the IMF estimates.  Data hosts are rushing to cut power consumption of their
sites. In  Finland , Google is drawing seawater into its former
paper mill to cool the site. Investment in greener data centers
will climb to $41 billion by 2015, according to consultancy Pike
Research. In the U.S. at least one-quarter of operating costs
are spent on cooling the sites.  Iceland provides free cooling to data centers by using so-
called “heat wheels,” which funnel hot air out and cool air
in. The volcanic island’s power is provided by renewable energy
from hydroelectric and geothermal power plants, with contracts
locked in for as long as 20 years, according to Einar Hansen
Tomasson, project manager with Invest in Iceland Agency, which
is promoting the island, alongside other opportunities such as
mink farming.  Back-Up Data  The  Wellcome Trust , a 14 billion-pound ($22 billion) U.K.
investment foundation, is betting big on Iceland. The
organization is the largest investor in Verne, as well as a
shareholder of the Emerald cable. “Data centers are interesting
because they require a huge  capital investment ,” said Peter Pereira Gray, the managing director at the Wellcome Trust. “We
have that capital.”  Iceland may still be too remote to become a true data hub,
according to Copenhagen-based Web-hosting company One.com. The
location would be useful for back-up data rather than live
traffic as needed on a trading floor, Chief Operating Officer
Thomas Darré Medard Frederiksen said.  That won’t prevent Iceland from capitalizing on its
location as the midpoint of the Atlantic, Monroe said.  “You’ve got a tremendous opportunity for centralizing data
that would need to be replicated in Europe and  North America ,”
he said. “Iceland starts to become the center point along that
route.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  