-- Michigan to Appeal Court Order On Detroit Financial Deal
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   S t e v e   R a p h a e l   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/michigan-to-appeal-court-order-on-detroit-financial-deal.html
Michigan  officials said they will
appeal a court ruling requiring a judge’s pre-approval for
implementation of any agreement between Detroit and a state
financial review team to address the city’s financial crisis.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  appointed the team in
December after a preliminary study found the city was in
“probable financial stress.” The group is considering whether
Detroit, Michigan’s largest city, needs an emergency manager.  Snyder, a Republican, last week proposed placing Detroit’s
finances under a nine-member advisory board in an attempt to
avoid appointment of an emergency manager who would have broad
powers to rein in costs.  Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette in Mason
ruled March 20 that the review team couldn’t “execute and/or
sign a consent agreement or its equivalent” with the city
“until further order of this court.” A hearing before Collette
in a suit over the team’s meetings is set for March 29. The
group has until March 26 to recommend action to the governor.  “We are filing an emergency appeal,” Treasurer Andy Dillon said yesterday following a meeting of the review team.  Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing, who has rejected Snyder’s plan and
yesterday submitted a counterproposal, said the judge’s decision
won’t stall any agreement between the city and the state.  “We’re continuing to negotiate,” Bing said in an
interview. “We could have an agreement without going to the
judge.”  Court Order  Michigan’s Treasury Department views the court order as
problematic, said Caleb Buhs, a spokesman for the agency.  “It essentially enjoins us from acting on a consent
agreement until March 29,” Buhs said in an interview.  Collette’s ruling came as part of a lawsuit in which he
barred the review team from holding closed-door sessions in
response to a complaint by  Robert Davis , staff representative of
the American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees,
which represents Michigan employees. Davis said the group is
required under Michigan law to hold meetings open to the public.  Attorneys for the state said the study group wasn’t a
public body as defined under Michigan’s  Open Meetings Act .
Collette disagreed, and ordered the team to hold open meetings.  Davis subsequently claimed the review team violated
Collette’s earlier order by setting up a five-person
subcommittee that met in private last month. Davis asked
Collette to find Dillon and individual members of the review
team in contempt for violating his order.  The hearing on that request is set for March 29, at which
Dillon and four members of the team have been ordered by the
judge to provide sworn testimony.  The case is Davis v. City of Detroit Financial Review Team,
12-112-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan (Mason).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Raphael in Detroit at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan,
at   cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  