-- Micron Posts Third Straight Loss on Weak Memory-Chip Prices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-03-22T22:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/micron-posts-third-consecutive-loss-on-weak-memory-chip-prices.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer memory, reported a third consecutive
quarterly loss after sluggish demand for personal computers
dragged down chip prices.  The second-quarter  net loss  was $224 million, or 23 cents a
share, compared with a profit of $72 million, or 7 cents, a year
earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said today. Sales were
$2.07 billion in the period, which ended March 1. Analysts had
predicted a loss of 19 cents and revenue of $2.01 billion on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A glut of memory-chip production has sent prices tumbling,
making it harder for Micron and its  competitors  to stay
profitable. The picture may improve if the bankruptcy of  Japan ’s
 Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  reduces industry output, saidAlex Gauna, an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco.  “The industry is poised to get healthier, but it’s not
healthy yet,” Gauna said. He  recommends  buying Micron shares,
which he doesn’t own himself. “We’ve seen improvements, but
most of the product drivers and better seasonality come in the
second half of the year.”  Micron  shares  fell 1.6 percent in late trading following
the report. The stock, up 38 percent this year, had closed at
$8.71 earlier in the day.  Elpida Bankruptcy  Elpida, the last Japanese maker of computer-memory chips,
sought  bankruptcy protection  last month after losses left it
unable to pay debts. The Japanese press has speculated that
Micron may be among bidders for some of its assets.  Micron will look continue to look at developments in the
industry to see if there are investment opportunities “that
make sense for shareholders,” President  Mark Adams  said in a
telephone interview. He declined to comment on whether the
company is considering an investment in Elpida.  Today’s earnings report is the first for Micron since the
February death of Chief Executive Officer  Steve Appleton  in a
plane crash. Former Chief Operating Officer Mark Durcan replaced
Appleton as CEO, reversing a decision to retire.  Micron also makes memory chips used in smartphones and
tablet computers in a joint venture with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  On Feb. 28,
Micron announced plans to buy two of the joint venture’s
factories for about $600 million, gaining greater control over
the partnership.  Micron said today that it while it sold 20 percent more
chips by volume in the second quarter, compared with the
preceding three months, a decline in prices resulted in only
“slightly higher” revenue.  Prices of Nand chips that are used in mobile devices have
fallen about 20 percent this month, Micron said. That’s been
caused by lower orders from makers of solid state drives -- main
storage in computers made using memory chips -- as they work
through inventory, Adams said.  Prices for dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, used as
memory in personal computers, have remained unchanged this
quarter as PC makers stock up on concern that Elpida’s
bankruptcy will hurt supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  