-- Woods Trails Leader Dufner by Six During Bay Hill 2nd Round
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-23T17:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/tiger-woods-is-one-shot-behind-kim-watney-o-hair-at-bay-hill.html
Tiger Woods , playing in his final
event before next month’s  Masters Tournament , trails leader
 Jason Dufner  by six shots during today’s second round at the
Arnold Palmer Invitational.  Woods shot a 3-under-par 69 yesterday and is tied with
seven other players including  Anthony Kim , who had his first
hole-in-one on the U.S.  PGA Tour  yesterday; K.J. Choi; Justin Rose, and Sean O’Hair.  Dufner holds a one-shot lead over Graeme McDowell, and is
two in front of Charlie Wi, who ended yesterday’s first round
tied with Dufner for the lead at 6-under.  Sergio Garcia , Charles Howell III and  Vijay Singh  are at 5-under.  Dufner increased his lead over the field this morning with
birdies on his first two holes. He was 4-under on his round
through 13 holes before dropping his lone shot with a bogey on
the par-5 sixth. It’s the third time this season that Dufner
entered the second round with at least a share of the lead.  “I played pretty solid again,” Dufner told reporters. “A
birdie-birdie start gets you comfortable and feeling like you’re
going to have a good day.”  Wi, who begins his second round this afternoon, finished
runner-up at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am last month,
shooting a season-best 61 on the opening day.  Woods is a six-time winner of the event at Palmer’s Bay
Hill Club & Lodge in  Orlando  and will resume play this afternoon
in a group with two-time U.S. Open winner Ernie Els and Hunter Mahan. Woods had four birdies and a bogey in his opening round.  Kim’s Ace  Kim, also an afternoon starter today, holed a 5-iron shot
from 200 yards on the par-3 17th yesterday for an ace en route
to a 3-under 69. It was the seventh hole-in-one at No. 17 and
the 15th in the history of the event.  Woods, who withdrew from the Cadillac Championship outside
Miami this month with a strained left Achilles, now has played a
round on five straight days. He resumed play March 18 with a
practice round at Augusta National Golf Club, site of the first
major tournament of the season in Augusta, Georgia. The Masters
starts April 5.  A four-time winner of the Masters, Woods is seeking his
first full-field tournament victory in 2 1/2 years.  Woods secured the latest of his 14 major titles at the 2008
 U.S. Open . The most recent of his 71 titles on the U.S. PGA Tour
came at the BMW Championship in September 2009. Woods won a
limited-field tournament he hosts in  California  in December, his
lone stroke-play victory over the past two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  