-- IMF Seeks Broad Support in Egypt for Potential Loan Program
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-22T15:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/imf-seeks-broad-support-in-egypt-for-potential-loan-program-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
wants measures attached to a potential loan to  Egypt  to have
“broad political support,” a spokesman for the fund said.  A team just visited the country “to lay groundwork for the
return of the technical team that can continue work on Egypt’s
 economic program ,” spokesman  David Hawley  told reporters in
Washington today. The IMF consulted with different stakeholders
“to make sure that if and when a program is agreed, there is a
clear understanding on both sides about the support needed for
implementing policies.”  Egypt officially requested the loan from the fund in
January, as the government seeks to boost an economy struggling
to recover from a year of unrest in the wake of the uprising
that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak . The economy grew 1.8
percent in the fiscal year through June, the slowest pace in at
least a decade.  Hawley also said that upcoming elections in Greece are
“not an obstacle” to the implementation of a new 130 billion-
euro ($171 billion) program that the IMF helps finance. He said
it is “premature to speculate about” the success of the aid
program for Portugal.  Hawley declined to comment on the U.S. decision not to
participate in an increase in IMF resources or on the right size
of the firewall to stem  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Hungary, which is seeking a precautionary loan from the
IMF, will first need to show a “strong commitment” to engage
on policy issues “relevant to macroeconomic stability,” Hawley
said.  “In this context support of the European authorities and
institutions will be critical for the successful discussions of
a new program,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 