-- Index of U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Climbs 0.7%
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-22T14:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/index-of-u-s-leading-economic-indicators-rose-0-7-in-february.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in February by the most in 11 months, signaling
the world’s largest economy will strengthen.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.7 percent after a revised 0.2
percent gain in January that was less than initially reported,
the New York-based group said today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent
rise.  More hiring and a jobless rate that held at a three-year
low last month may encourage Americans to boost their spending,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
Strengthening demand may also drive production gains at
factories, helping to sustain the expansion and allowing the
U.S. to withstand higher oil costs.  “The general picture will be gradually improving,”  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts , said before the report. “We’re clearly getting
good signals from the labor market.”  Estimates of 49 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gains of 0.3 percent to 0.8 percent.  Stocks declined after manufacturing contracted in Europe
and  China . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,393.69 at 10:21 a.m. in  New York .  Eight of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by fewer Americans filing first-time claims
for  unemployment benefits  and by a surge in stock prices.  Jobless Claims  Claims for  jobless benefits  dropped last week to the lowest
level in four years, a Labor Department report showed today.
Applications for  unemployment insurance  fell by 5,000 to
348,000.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent for a
second month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the National Bureau of
 Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators also increased 0.2 percent.  Consumers’ moods also are lifting. More Americans this
month said the economy was improving than at any time in eight
years, according to a Bloomberg measure of consumer sentiment.
The share of households viewing the economy as heading in the
right direction rose to 34 percent in March, the most since
January 2004, pushing the Bloomberg monthly expectations gauge
to a one-year high of 1.  Weekly Confidence  The weekly Bloomberg  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  was minus 34.9 in the
period ended March 18 after reaching a four-year high of minus
33.7 over the previous seven days.  Companies seeing signs of demand include Columbus, Ohio-
based  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) , which owns the Victoria’s Secret
lingerie chain and Bath & Body Works stores.  “We’re seeing some improvement in the environment” for
the American consumer, Stuart Burgdoerfer, chief financial
officer at  Limited Brands , said March 15 at a consumer
conference. “We’re all looking at various indicators of
performance. There are certainly some signs of improvement.”  Central bank officials, while noting the pickup in the
labor market and economic conditions at their meeting last week,
said they plan to keep the benchmark interest rate near zero
through the next two years.  The Conference Board in January announced changes in the
components of the leading index, the first such move since 1996.
The group now has its own Leading Credit Index, which aggregates
measures of the yield curve,  interest-rate  swaps and the Fed’s
senior loan officer survey. Other changes include revamped
measures of new orders and consumer expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  