-- India Auditor Dismisses ‘Misleading’ Report on Coal-Block Losses
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-22T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/indian-lawmakers-protest-over-211-billion-coal-scam-report.html
India ’s chief auditor said a report
that coal-block allocations caused the exchequer a loss of 10.7
trillion rupees ($211 billion) is “exceedingly misleading”
even as the allegations disrupted parliament.  The  Times of India  said yesterday the government gave about
100 companies “undue benefits” between 2004 and 2009, citing a
draft report by the Comptroller & Auditor General. The CAG
responded in a letter to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  that the
news report contained discussion notes that don’t even
constitute a preliminary draft.  The allegations raised the specter of a 2008 phone-permit
scandal that sparked the nation’s biggest graft probe, stalled
legislation and contributed to the rout of Singh’s Congress
party in a key state election this month. A former minister,
bureaucrats and businessmen were charged with corruption after
the CAG told lawmakers in 2010 that mobile-phone licenses were
sold at “unbelievably low prices” to “ineligible bidders,”
depriving the state of as much as $31 billion.  “This government is facing death by a thousand cuts,”
said P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  at Angel Broking Ltd. based
in  Mumbai . “Every week there is more bad news. The government’s
reputation is completely in tatters.”  The newspaper report sparked protests in the lower and
upper houses of parliament yesterday morning as politicians from
opposition parties sought a discussion.  Loss Calculation  “This is the worst scam we’ve ever witnessed,” Prakash
Javadekar, a spokesman for the opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party , said in televised comments to reporters.  The auditor arrived at the loss estimate by calculating the
difference between the cost of production and the selling price
of coal for 90 percent of each mine’s reserves, the Times of
India said. The calculation was based on the actual cost of
output and the sale price at similar mines of state-owned  Coal
India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer of the fuel.  The report is “way off the mark” and the methodology used
is “very rough and does not take into account the
technicalities and cost of mining in different blocks,” Coal
Secretary Alok Perti said yesterday in a phone interview. The
allocation of the blocks was made in a transparent way, he said.  The companies allotted mines include state-owned NTPC Ltd.,
which was said to have benefited by 573 billion rupees, and
 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , which gained 212 billion rupees,
according to the Times of India.  ‘Fallacious’ Argument  “There’s no way by which NTPC can make a windfall profit
out of the coal produced” because the regulator ensures lower
costs are passed on to consumers, Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury
said in an e-mail. State-owned NTPC is India’s largest power
producer.  The argument that companies benefited from the mines is
“fallacious” because the coal hasn’t been sold in the market,
V.R. Sharma, chief executive officer at Jindal Steel & Power’s
steel division, said by phone. The mineral was used “for making
steel, cement, power, which are critical to the country’s
growth. We have investments four times the benefits they claim
we have made.”  The Congress-led federal coalition is vulnerable to attacks
by opposition politicians after the series of scams dented its
popularity as the nation heads for general elections in two
years. Policy making has slowed since the graft allegations tied
to the sale of telecommunications licenses surfaced.  The Congress suffered defeats in two key provincial
elections this month, coming fourth in its former bastion in
 Uttar Pradesh , India’s most populous state. An unexpected loss
in Punjab underscored how the Congress is struggling to escape
blame for rising prices and alleged graft.  The CAG told lawmakers in a report the phone ministry bent
rules to award cellular licenses to select companies. Andimuthu
Raja, then minister for telecommunications, a lawmaker, two
bureaucrats and some company officials are facing trial over
charges that they conspired to cause a loss to the exchequer.
They all deny any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  