-- India’s Bonds Gain a Fourth Day After Ministry Signals Rate Cut
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-03-22T12:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/india-bonds-gain-a-fourth-day-after-ministry-signals-rate-cut.html
India ’s bonds advanced for a fourth
day, the longest winning streak in six weeks, after the finance
ministry signaled the central bank will reduce  interest rates 
next month to bolster growth.  A reversal in interest rates is important as the nation is
“looking for higher growth,” R. Gopalan, economic affairs
secretary, said in a Bloomberg TV interview yesterday. The
Reserve Bank of India, which has boosted the  repurchase  rate 13
times in the last two years to cool  inflation , is scheduled to
review borrowing costs on April 17.  “Expectations of a reduction in rates is spurring demand
for debt,” said N.S. Venkatesh, head of treasury at state-owned
 IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  in Mumbai. “The RBI may act now as growth is
slowing.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.38 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. It
touched 8.43 percent on March 16, this year’s highest level.  Wholesale-price (INFINFY)  gains averaged 6.75 percent in the first
two months of this year, compared with 9.5 percent in the whole
of 2011, government data show.  “If inflation remains at this level after factoring in
various things, then an interest-rate reversal may start in
April,” said Gopalan, who forecast an inflation rate of 6.5
percent to 6.7 percent for the fiscal year starting April 1,
2012. Gross domestic product will increase 6.9 percent in the
year ending March 31, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said on
March 16. That would be the slowest pace in three years.  Containing inflation remains a policy priority for the
 Reserve Bank  as higher  oil prices  and a weaker rupee threaten to
spur consumer prices, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong . Crude oil in
 New York  has gained more than 7 percent this year. The rupee
fell below 51 per dollar today for the first time since January.  One-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell seven basis
points to 8.11 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  