-- Indian Stocks Plunge Most in Asia Amid Global Sell-Off
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-03-22T13:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/indian-stocks-drop-on-deficit-concern-reliance-retreats.html
Indian stocks tumbled the most in
 Asia  after manufacturing contracted in  China  and  Europe , the
South Asian nation’s biggest trading partner, and as the rupee
weakened to a two-month low.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the nation’s largest company,
sank the most in three weeks.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the biggest
cell-phone operator, slid 2.7 percent.  State Bank of India , the
biggest lender, lost 3.2 percent. The rupee weakened past 51 a
dollar for the first time since Jan. 17.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, sank 2.3 percent
to 17,196.47 at the close. European manufacturing fell to 47.7
as factory output unexpectedly shrank in Germany and  France ,
according to Markit Economics. A preliminary measure of Chinese
manufacturing slid to 48.1 in March, a four-month low, based on
data from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index retreated 1 percent at 6:23 p.m. in Mumbai and
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.4 percent.  “I don’t think the fall has got anything do with  India 
specific; it’s a global selloff,” Saurabh Mukherjea, director
of institutional equities at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai, told
Bloomberg UTV today. “The last couple of weeks haven’t been
good for India. Neither the budget nor the state elections have
worked out the way the markets would have liked. In that
context, a growth scare from China isn’t the best news for us.”  Foreigners have  purchased  a net $9 billion of shares this
year, fueling the 11 percent rally in the Sensex, on optimism
slowing inflation will spur the central bank to ease monetary
policy. The flows have outweighed concerns about a slowdown in
company profits, high  oil prices  and a widening fiscal deficit.  Import Costs  The  Reserve Bank  of India left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged on March 15 after a record 13 increases between March
2010 and October last year. The  wholesale-price index  climbed
6.95 percent in February, after rising 6.55 percent in January.  A weakening rupee raises the cost of imported oil and raw
materials, fueling consumer prices and reducing the RBI’s scope
to reduce rates. The rupee dropped the most in more then three
months on speculation the slump in the nation’s equities will
spur fund outflows.  “The signal that we have been sending since October is
that the cycle has peaked but we have also been cognizant of new
risks that have emerged, particularly in the last few weeks,”
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Hong Kong . “We can’t lose sight of the overall
inflation scenario.”  Borrowing costs at the highest level since 2008 to fight
price rises, policy gridlock and the worst investment slump in
almost three years contributed to a slowdown in growth to 6.1
percent last quarter, the weakest since 2009.  ‘Tough Time’  “The market will be driven by global liquidity as the
fundamentals of the Indian economy, politics and corporate
earnings are very negative,” Anil Singhvi, chairman of Ican
Investment Advisors, told Bloomberg UTV. “The first quarter of
2012 will perhaps be the best for the year. We’re going to have
a tough time in the next three quarters.”  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India lost 2.5 percent to 5,228.45. India VIX, which measures
the cost of protection against losses in the Nifty, surged 18
percent to 24.77, the most in six months. The VIX closed at a
five-month low yesterday.  A combined 1,086 million shares changed hands on the BSE
and NSE yesterday, 18 percent more than the daily average in the
past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Industrials, Lenders  Reliance, owner of the world’s largest refining complex,
plunged 4.1 percent to 736.35 rupees, the lowest level since
Jan. 16. Bharti lost 2.7 percent to 323.9 rupees, extending this
year’s loss to 5.7 percent.  State Bank  plunged 3.2 percent to
2,160.6 rupees.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-biggest lender,
dropped 3.7 percent to 899.65 rupees.  Foreign  funds  purchased a net  6.52 billion rupees  ($129
million) of local equities yesterday, raising total investment
this year to 446.9 billion rupees, according to the regulator.  Funds focused on developing nation stocks took in a net
$453 million for the week ended March 14, the 11th straight
weekly gain, according to data by EPFR Global.  “We don’t expect liquidity to dry up easily and in that
case India would be a beneficiary,” Rakesh Arora, head of
research at Macquarie Capital Securities (India) Pvt., told
Bloomberg UTV. “Even if some investors remain underweight in
India, there will be still some inflows coming in” as part of
flows into emerging markets equities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  