-- LinkedIn Chairman Hoffman Sells Facebook Stock Before IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-22T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/linkedin-chairman-reid-hoffman-sells-facebook-stock-before-ipo.html
Reid Hoffman , co-founder and
chairman of LinkedIn Corp. and an early investor in  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , plans to sell some of his shares in the world’s largest
social network prior to its initial public offering this year.  “I am selling a minority of my position as part of a
general diversification strategy, but holding onto the majority
of my stock,” Hoffman said in a telephone interview.  Hoffman participated in Facebook’s seed funding round in
2004, along with  Peter Thiel  and  Mark Pincus . He later invested
in social-gaming leader Zynga Inc. and became a partner at Menlo
Park, California-based venture capital firm  Greylock Partners .  Facebook, which filed in February to raise as much as $5
billion in an IPO, may be valued at as much as $100 billion in
the offering, people with knowledge of the matter said earlier
this year.  While Hoffman’s stake in  Facebook  isn’t disclosed in the
company’s prospectus, the website  Who Owns Facebook  estimates he
owns 0.5 percent, or about $500 million, based on a valuation of
$100 billion.  The trading of private-company shares has accelerated in
recent years, spurring the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to examine whether the trades expose investors to
fraud because the companies aren’t required to disclose
financial data. Last week, the U.S. regulator settled with
SharesPost Inc. to resolve claims that the online marketplace
acted as an unregistered broker of shares.  Hoffman is the biggest shareholder of  LinkedIn (LNKD) , with stock
valued at about $1.9 billion following its IPO last year.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Menlo Park-based Facebook,
declined to comment on the stock sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  