-- Insanity Defenses Rarely Succeed in U.S. Military Courts
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/insanity-defenses-rarely-succeed-in-u-s-military-courts.html
The lawyer representing the soldier
suspected of killing 16 Afghan civilians is inviting a
protracted fight in the U.S. military court system if he mounts
a mental-illness defense.  John Henry Browne, the civilian lawyer for Army Staff
Sergeant Robert Bales, indicated this week he may wage such a
“diminished-capacity” defense. Bales, 38, suffered a brain
injury during a previous tour in  Iraq  and didn’t want to be
deployed again, according to Browne.  A fight over whether Bales was insane or unable to act
rationally would add to the complexity of a case roiling already
strained U.S.-Afghan relations as the U.S. tries to hand off
responsibility to Afghan security forces by 2014. It’s a defense
that at best may help save Bales from a potential death
sentence, according to military-law scholars such as Morris
Davis.  “It’s a hard sell, particularly in the military
environment, where folks are under tight supervision,” said
Davis, a former chief prosecutor of terrorism trials at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, who now teaches at Howard University Law
School in Washington. Even so, Davis said in an interview,
“that seems to be the only card they’ve got in the deck.”  Military charges against Bales for the shootings in two
Afghan villages may come this week, according to Browne. The
“preferral” of charges is the first move in a military
prosecution, akin to an indictment in a civilian court. The next
public step would be a preliminary investigation known as an
Article 32 hearing. It’s the equivalent of a grand jury in a
civilian federal case, except that the defense can participate
and it’s held in the open.  ‘Swift, Transparent’  Afghan Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul, who visited
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Washington yesterday, said
his government wants to see a “swift and transparent
investigation of this case and the punishment of anyone
involved.”  Even with such international pressures, a trial may not
begin for at least a year, according to Colby Vokey, a retired
Marine Corps officer who tried or supervised hundreds of
military cases as chief prosecutor and later chief defense
counsel at Camp Pendleton,  California .  First, there would be maneuvering over issues such as the
extent and reliability of the evidence and the availability of
witnesses from the villages in southern Afghanistan, as well as
resolving the state of Bales’s mental health.  Sanity Board  The military may form a so-called sanity board to conduct a
mental evaluation and determine whether Bales is fit to stand
trial. Many such cases have been delayed to ensure that the
accused can participate in his defense, according to a military
judge advocate who briefed reporters at the Pentagon last week
on condition of anonymity because charges hadn’t been brought.  The judge advocate said he couldn’t recall a case in which
a successful insanity defense was waged based on evidence of
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury
(TBI). Eugene Fidell, who teaches military law at  Yale Law
School , said in an interview that he “can’t find any case in
which a person has been acquitted by reason of insanity with
respect to PTSD.’  One reason a mental-illness defense for Bales may be a hard
sell is the composition of the jury that eventually would hear
his case.  In civilian courts, a jury of the defendants’ peers is
chosen randomly from the population, subject to vetting by the
prosecution and the defense. Military jurors, known as ‘‘court
members,” are selected by the military “convening authority,”
which is often the base commander or a higher officer, Davis
said.  Typically Officers  While the members of such panels typically are all
officers, the accused may request that as many as a third of the
members come from enlisted ranks higher than his own. For Staff
Sergeant Bales, that would mean sergeants first class and
higher, the top 13 percent or less of the Army’s enlisted
soldiers, all with a minimum of six years of service.  Eighty-three percent of military officers had bachelor’s or
advanced degrees in 2010, compared with 30 percent of the  U.S.
population  over the age of 25, according to the Defense
Department’s “Demographics 2010” report.  “It’s probably the most educated jury you will ever
find,” Davis said.  Although military suspects are entitled to a military
lawyer at no charge, they can hire civilian attorneys at their
own expense. Browne, a Seattle lawyer who’s defended clients in
multiple-homicide cases, has said he’s being paid and is in
contact with a military lawyer assigned to the case.  Not ‘Pushed Around’  With a civilian attorney defending Bales, “they can’t go
as quick as they might like to,” said Vokey, the former
military prosecutor who is now an attorney in  Dallas . “Civilian
lawyers have their own schedules. They can’t be pushed around
the way guys in uniform can.”  Complicating the case for prosecutors is the difficulty of
obtaining evidence and finding witnesses in a war zone.  “The circumstances surrounding this case -- the fact that
it took place halfway around the world in a remote part of
 Afghanistan , the apparent absence of eyewitnesses or a
confession, the immediate burial of the bodies without forensic
testing, the strong anti-American sentiment that will likely
limit Afghan cooperation, among other factors -- clearly
compound the significant challenges that normally arise in any
mass-murder trial,” Davis said.  Evidence Questioned  The case of Army Major Nidal Hasan, who has been awaiting
trial since 2009 on charges of killing 13 people in a shooting
rampage at Fort Hood,  Texas , “is like a walk in the park
compared to this one,” Davis said.  Browne, Bales’s attorney, questioned whether prosecutors
will have sufficient evidence.  “If I was the prosecutor, I’d be concerned about how we
prove anything,” Browne told reporters while visiting his
client this week at the military prison in Fort Leavenworth,
 Kansas .  Christopher Swift, a fellow at the  University of Virginia 
Law School’s Center for National Security Law who’s conducted
field work in Afghanistan, disputed that assessment.  “It’s a contested area in terms of control,” Swift said
of the Panjwai region of Afghanistan where Bales was deployed.
“But that doesn’t mean it’s a free-fire zone.”  Videotaping Witnesses  Details of the case that have emerged so far “suggest Army
investigators haven’t had too much difficulty in getting the
information needed” to prosecute the case, Swift said in an
interview.  The military judge advocate who briefed reporters said
videotaped testimony of Afghan witnesses, with a cross-
examination from the defense, may be admissible in a trial
instead of bringing them to the U.S. An executive order signed
by President  George W. Bush  in 2007 also authorizes the use of
video-teleconferencing to obtain witness testimony.  “The U.S has no way to compel potential Afghan witnesses
to do anything, and I’m not sure how much help we’ll get from
the Karzai regime” Davis said, referring to the government led
by Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .  Months also will be added to the case if the military
decides to seek the death penalty, with the extra safeguards
required when the soldier’s life is at stake, Vokey said.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has raised the possibility of a
death penalty in the Afghanistan killings.  While an insanity defense is unlikely to result in
acquittal, “I see this as a defense that’s aimed at mitigating
the ultimate penalty,” Swift said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  