-- Insurance Upstart Signals U.S. Housing Rebound: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-03-22T14:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/insurance-upstart-signals-u-s-housing-rebound-mortgages.html
Reports of the U.S. mortgage-
insurance industry’s demise have been greatly exaggerated.  NMI Holdings, a new home-loan guarantor, has hired
investment bank  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  to help it raise $550 million after
record homeowner defaults felled three competitors and left all
but one of the survivors with junk credit grades, according to
two people familiar with the company’s plans.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among the backers of
another upstart, Essent Guaranty Inc.  “I’d love to start a mortgage insurer today,” said Chris Gamaitoni, a Washington-based analyst at Compass Point Research
and Trading LLC who’s worked at FBR and  Fannie Mae . “It’s the
absolute point in the cycle where you’d want to.”  Insurers are benefiting as the government seeks to reduce
its role in the market. Policies sold now are safer and more
profitable because of tighter lending standards, improved
pricing and  home values  that are 34 percent down from their 2006
peak. The housing market is beginning to show signs of
improvement, with the median price increasing over the past year
for the first time since November 2010, according to the
National Association of Realtors in a report yesterday.  Mortgage insurance is typically paid for by consumers,
picked by lenders, and required for debt exceeding 80 percent of
a property’s value. The policies cover some or all of
 foreclosure losses  and represent a separate business from the
mortgage-bond guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .
Those taxpayer-supported housing financiers are also private
mortgage insurers’ main clients.  Long-Term Risk  An overhaul by policy makers of the U.S. housing-finance
system presents a long-term risk to the business because it
could reduce the insurers’ role in the $9.8 trillion  market .  The government, through agencies such as the  Federal
Housing Administration , is currently the largest provider of
mortgage-insurance coverage, followed by  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) ,
American International Group Inc.’s United Guaranty unit and
 MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , according to  Inside Mortgage Finance .  New private policies climbed to 6.3 percent of the $1.26
trillion of U.S. home loans made last year, from 4.5 percent in
2009 and 2010, according to data from the newsletter and the
 Mortgage Bankers Association . That reached 6.9 percent last
quarter as the FHA, which backs loans with down payments as low
as 3.5 percent, raised its premiums to avoid a taxpayer bailout.  The agency’s share fell to 13.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from 16.3 percent in 2010.  Returning Capital  NMI, whose insurance unit may be named National Mortgage
Insurance and overseen by  Wisconsin ’s regulator, is promising to
return its capital at 95 cents on the dollar if it doesn’t get
approval from Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac by the first quarter of
2013, said one of the people, who declined to be named because
the offering is private.  The company would be led by Chief Executive Officer Bradley Shuster, who oversaw  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ) ’s foreign units before U.S.
home loans drove that guarantor into bankruptcy last year, the
people said. Jay Sherwood, formerly of investment firm
Eastbourne Capital Management LLC, would be its chief financial
officer and James McCourt, who worked at a company serving
credit unions, its chief risk officer, two of the people said.  Shannon Small, a spokeswoman for Arlington, Virginia-based
FBR, declined to comment, as did McCourt. Shuster and Sherwood
couldn’t be reached.  ‘Welcomed by the Industry’  “A new entrant, despite the fact that it increases
competition and could take share, is welcomed by the industry,”
Matt Howlett, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. It shows new funds are coming into the
business at a time when the incumbent companies have been asking
regulators for waivers to keep writing new policies as capital
levels fall below permitted levels, he said.  Radian, which fell 2 percent to $4.52 as of 10:48 a.m. in
 New York , has risen 93 percent this year. MGIC fell 3 percent to
$4.80, trimming its gain since December to 29 percent. Shares of
both are down more than 90 percent from 2007.  Essent raised $600 million in 2009 and 2010 from investors
that also included private-equity firm Pine Brook and reinsurer
 PartnerRe Ltd. (PRE)  The Radnor, Pennsylvania-based firm began writing
policies last year, providing $3.2 billion of coverage.  Essent declined to comment through an outside spokeswoman,
Janice Walker, as did JPMorgan’s Tom Kelly. Goldman Sachs
invested its own money in the company, rather than clients’,
spokesman  Michael DuVally  said, declining to comment further.  Second Comeback  Private insurers are attempting a second comeback after
losing ground during the housing bubble that began to burst in
2006. During the boom, companies from banks to bond investors
and Fannie Mae embraced riskier loans without their backing,
including piggyback home-equity debt.  The industry’s market share fell from 10.2 percent in 2003
to 8.5 percent in 2006, before jumping to 14.7 percent in 2007,
and then shriveling as the insurers,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac
grew more cautious.  The firms are growing more competitive after the FHA raised
the annual premiums it charges to as much as 1.15 percent from
0.55 percent prior to October 2010. It’s planning an additional
0.1 percentage point increase next month. The FHA will also
start charging 1.75 percent upfront, an increase from 1 percent
to an amount that can be rolled into homeowners’ debt.  Insurance from Radian costs 0.94 percent annually for a
$200,000 30-year fixed-rate loan to a New Jersey home buyer with
a 5 percent down payment and credit score of 700, according to
its  website . With a 620 credit score, premiums are 1.2 percent.  ‘Lobbying Successes’  While mortgage insurers compete against the FHA and other
U.S. programs, their “lifeblood” is Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, whose government charters require the coverage or similar
protection on loans of more than 80 percent of home values, said
Alex Pollock, the former head of Federal Home Loan Bank of
Chicago.  Pollock, a resident fellow at the  American Enterprise
Institute , called the requirement “one of the greatest lobbying
successes in finance of all time,” while saying new insurers
would be a “healthy thing.” He’s an advocate for eliminating
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have required $190 billion of
taxpayer aid since being seized in 2008.  Even if they’re replaced by similar entities, “there will
likely be a complete re-evaulation” of their need to have
mortgage insurance, said Thomas Lawler, a former Fannie Mae
economist who’s now a housing consultant in Leesburg, Virginia.  Loans with down payments of less than 20 percent shouldn’t
always require the coverage if borrowers have other strengths,
Lawler said. At the same time, rating firms’ assessments of the
insurers as sound will be viewed with more suspicion after
proving too optimistic during the crisis, similar to a trend
that’s shrunk municipal-bond insurance, he said.  ‘Something Terrible’  Protection from mortgage insurers can be untrustworthy
because their risk is tied to the housing market and health of
consumers, which often sour together, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Scott Simon said.  “It’s very hard for a mortgage insurer to charge enough
that they’re there when something terrible happens,” said
Simon, the Newport Beach, California-based mortgage head at
Pimco, which runs the world’s  largest bond fund . Survivors have
relied on their ability to reject claims because of lenders’
underwriting errors and “that’s not so good either,” he said.  While “it’s correct that there have been very significant
problems in the mortgage-insurance industry and the private
sector more broadly,” the U.S. will likely settle on a system
in which taxpayers share credit risk with private guarantors,
bond investors and others willing to bear the initial losses,
said Michael Barr, assistant Treasury secretary for financial
institutions from 2009 to 2010.  ‘Adequate Capital’  With the insurers, which are regulated by states, “it
would be important to have stronger federal oversight of their
health,” said Barr, now a professor at the University of
Michigan’s law school in Ann Arbor.  The industry has paid $30 billion of claims, mostly to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, “through the current cycle, and we
have adequate capital to continue to pay claims,” Kevin Schneider, CEO of  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ’s mortgage-insurance
unit, said March 14 in a speech at a conference, according to a
transcript. “That $30 billion, by the way, is money that didn’t
have to come from the taxpayer.”  Under rules  proposed  last year, the  Federal Reserve  and
other regulators decided against allowing insured loans with
low-down payments into a class of debt called Qualified
Residential Mortgages, potentially limiting demand for the
coverage. Sellers will be required to retain slices of non-QRM
debt when packaging it into bonds that lack government backing.  Reducing Government Role  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s federal overseer is looking to
private mortgage insurers to help further reduce the
government’s role in the market.  In a  report  last month on the two companies’ future before
a housing-finance overhaul, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
said that, “while some mortgage insurers are facing financial
challenges as a result of housing market conditions, others may
have the capital capacity to insure a portion of the mortgage
credit risk currently retained by the enterprises.”  Corinne Russell, an FHFA spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did  Brad German  of Mclean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac. Andrew
Wilson, a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae, didn’t
respond to messages.  Amid the worst U.S. housing crash in seven decades, units
of PMI, once the third-largest U.S. provider of the coverage,
Triad Guaranty Inc. and Old Republic International Corp. have
stopped writing policies and been ordered by regulators to pay
only portions of claims.  New Entrants  Aside from Essent and the second-ranked United Guaranty
unit of  AIG (AIG) , the bailed-out New York-based insurer, remaining
guarantors carry ratings below investment-grade, or the
equivalent of less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Still, new entrants may find it “very difficult to break
into this industry,” said Macquarie’s Howlett. “It’s very hard
to tell a bank why you should be doing business with a new
startup when they’ve been going to MGIC and Radian and Genworth
for so many years.”  Radian has used its ability to share risk-management data
and train lenders’ employees as marketing tools, said Teresa Bryce Bazemore, president of the Philadelphia-based firm’s
mortgage-insurance unit. “We’d put our training group up
against anybody in the industry.”  Recent policies are also helping Milwaukee-based MGIC to
recover, according to Mike Zimmerman, a spokesman for the former
market leader that fell to third place at the end of last year
and has been unprofitable in 17 of the past 18 quarters.  “The new business we’re writing is profitable, so that’s
generating organic capital,” he said. ‘As stressful as it has
been for policyholders and shareholders, one could say the
business model has worked.”  Investors’ distrust of mortgage bonds without government
backing means that private insurers are needed to help the U.S.
reduce its role in the market, First Principles Capital
Management LLC CEO Doug Dachille said.  “The government and me, as a taxpayer, want to see these
guys have some success raising capital,” said Dachille, a
former JPMorgan treasurer whose New York-based firm oversees $8
billion of assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  