-- Iran Seeks to Import Farm Commodities From India, Group Says
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-03-22T11:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/iran-seeking-to-import-farm-commodities-from-india-group-says.html
Iran , facing international
sanctions over its nuclear program, is seeking to buy more
agricultural commodities from India after agreeing to import
soybean meal used in livestock feed, said an exporters’ group.  The country “is interested in importing wheat, sugar,
soybean meal and tea,” Ajay Sahai, director general of the
Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said in an interview.
“I don’t think payment is an issue.”  India,  Asia ’s third-biggest economy, and Iran are
struggling to maintain bilateral trade after the U.S. and its
allies imposed economic and financial sanctions to prevent what
they say may be efforts to develop a nuclear weapon. Iranian
traders have already bought 100,000 metric tons of soybean meal.
The Persian Gulf state is seeking as much as 3 million tons of
wheat,  India ’s Agricultural & Processed Food Product Export
Development Authority, or APEDA, said on its website.  Iranian traders bought soybean meal for delivery next month
at prices ranging from $430 a ton to $435 a ton free-on-board
basis, said Rajesh Agrawal, a spokesman for the Soybean
Processors Association of India. Exports to the country may
increase, he said in a phone interview today.  Iran’s Kengan Wheat Flour Factory requires 30,000 tons of
wheat, while ALP Co. plans to buy 600,000 tons over the next one
year, the Indian APEDA said on its website.  “The Indian exporters are exploring the viability of
exports to Iran depending on the actual commercial terms and
phytosanitary requirements,” Asit Tripathy, chairman of APEDA,
said in an interview today.  Trade Opportunities  Two calls to Hasan Rahimi Majd, press councilor at the
Iranian embassy in  New Delhi , seeking comment weren’t answered.  India will “snap” up any trade opportunities that emerge
because of the sanctions on Iran, Rahul Khullar, commerce
secretary, said on Feb. 9.  India and Iran are considering bartering commodities and
other products for crude through a rupee account with  UCO Bank (UCO) ,
two people with knowledge of the matter said Feb. 1. Sanctions
are threatening $9.5 billion in annual crude trade between India
and Iran, after the  Reserve Bank of India  dismantled a mechanism
used to settle payments in euros and dollars in December 2010.  Shipments of basmati rice to Iran will be maintained at 1
million tons a year, the All India Rice Exporters’ Association
has said. India will have enough food grains for exports till
2014, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said yesterday.  Surplus Sugar  State stockpiles of rice and wheat were 54.43 million tons
as of March 1, compared with 45.88 million tons a year earlier,
according to state-run Food Corp. of India. The country, which
has permitted mills to ship 2 million tons of raw and refined
sugar since the start of the crop year on Oct. 1, will have a
surplus of an extra 2 million tons, according to the National
Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.  “It’s not certain whether they will buy from India or
not,” Sahai said. “Indian wheat prices are higher than
international prices. I have my reservations whether Iran will
buy from India” or whether they will go elsewhere, he said.  Iran also wants to buy steel from India, Sahai said.  The Islamic state is seeking food supplies through barter
with  Pakistan  as well, Tanveer Alam, a public relations officer
at the Ministry of Water and Power, said March 19. The country
may export 1 million tons of wheat and 200,000 tons of rice to
Iran in return for fertilizer and iron ore, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  