-- Ireland Enlists Pensioners in Bond Crusade: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-03-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ireland-enlists-pensioners-in-bond-crusade-euro-credit.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  may
be about to enlist a new bond investor as he seeks to win back
the nation’s economic sovereignty: pensioners.  Irish pension funds traditionally buy annuities that invest
in top-rated German bunds. The government is now in talks about
making it easier for pension managers to switch to annuities
tied to lower-rated, higher-yielding securities such as Irish
debt. Irish bonds maturing in 2020 yield about 6.8 percent,
compared with 2 percent for German bunds of similar maturity.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc (IPM) , the country’s biggest pension
provider, said March 8 that it plans to introduce a sovereign
annuity, using bonds issued by the nation’s  debt agency . A
successful sale by the Dublin-based company may open a funding
avenue for the state, which stepped out of the international
bond markets in 2010 before the country received a 67.5 billion-
euro ($90 billion) bailout.  “If it works, then it’s part of the choreography of a
return to the market and will be hailed as good news,” said
Eoin Fahy, an economist at  Kleinwort Benson  Investors in Dublin.
“But it’s more complicated than that, as to some extent Irish
pension funds are a ‘captive buyer.’ It will be seen as less
positive than if the money was raised on the open market through
an auction.”  Ireland’s October 2020  bonds  yield 6.83 percent, down from
a euro-era high of 13.8 percent on July 18. The rate on the
equivalent Greek security is 18 percent and it’s 12.5 percent
for Portuguese debt.  ‘Fiscal Position’  “Ireland clearly has to return to the market soon if it is
to avoid the need for a second bailout,” said  James Nixon ,
chief European economist at Paris-based Societe Generale SA, in
a March 19 research note. “Ireland’s underlying fiscal position
still looks vulnerable.”  The government is scheduled to raise 3.9 billion euros this
year and 14.2 billion euros in 2013 with bill offerings and
securities sold to retail investors. The state’s cash balance is
10.4 billion euros, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Persuading the Irish to buy more bonds may help the nation
avoid seeking additional funds, after  Greece  sought a second
international bailout. Before the euro’s introduction in 1999,
70 percent of Irish bonds were held by local investors. The
proportion has shrunk to about 17 percent, according to
Ireland’s  National Treasury Management Agency.   Many of the country’s pension funds are in deficit and
sovereign annuities may help reduce the shortfall.  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL)  said in January that the program its members are part
of may buy annuities to help plug a 700 million-euro deficit.  Preserving Funds  “These measures seek to preserve a higher level of pension
benefit for members than would be the case if the scheme were
wound up, which Aer Lingus believes is inevitable in the absence
of corrective action,” the Dublin-based company said.  The new law makes it easier for pension funds to invest in
Irish bonds as it transfers more of the risk to pensioners. In
the past, if the government that issued the bonds defaulted, the
pension company would have to make the full payment. Under the
new arrangement, part of the loss is passed on to the pensioner.  Irish debt is rated BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , seven levels
below  Germany ’s AAA grade.  The cost of insuring against an Irish default for five
years fell 2 basis points yesterday to 612, according to prices
from data provider CMA. That implies a 42 percent probability of
Ireland failing to meet its obligations within five years.  “Trustees may decide sovereign annuities are too risky
because essentially it passes the risk to the pensioner,” said
Fahy of Kleinwort Benson. “On the other hand, they could decide
a pension with lots of risk is better than no pension at all.”  Annuities Estimate  Fahy estimates sovereign annuities, if successful, may
bring in as much as 5 billion euros, about two-thirds more than
the state plans to gain from asset sales.  The NTMA said in an e-mailed response to questions that
there is “considerable interest in the proposed annuities” and
the size of issuance will depend on the level of demand. The
country’s debt agency wasn’t more specific.  “Given that Ireland has to raise funds itself this year
and next, any initiative like this is important,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “If Ireland can show it has
the confidence of its own people, then that’s a significant
signal for the rest of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  