-- Iron Mountain May Sell Italy Unit Amid Focus on Emerging Markets
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/iron-mountain-may-sell-italy-unit-amid-emerging-market-focus-1-.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  is considering
pulling out of Italy amid the European debt crisis as the
world’s largest document-storage company prefers to boost
earnings and sales with acquisitions in  emerging markets .  “The big question for us in Europe is growth. Growth is a
difficult one. We are growing, but slowly,” Iron Mountain
International President Marc Duale said in an interview in
Madrid yesterday. The company, which in October 2011 sold its
operations in  New Zealand , is now also looking at “strategic
alternatives” for its business in Italy, he said, adding that
no decision has been made yet.  Iron Mountain, based in  Boston , last year was pressured by
shareholder Elliott Management Corp. to bolster profitability
and increase the return on invested capital. Some of Iron
Mountain’s European corporate customers, ranging from big
financial firms to telecommunications companies, are cutting
orders amid the region’s debt crisis, making it difficult for
the company to keep its local growth rates, Duale said.  At the same time, the company is making “good progress”
at improving its worldwide profitability, the executive said.  “We are definitely looking at a combination of
acquisitions particularly in young, emerging markets and organic
growth,” he said, adding that record management and data
protection companies in  Brazil , Russia,  India ,  China  and the
 Middle East  could be targets. “Most of those businesses we are
looking at don’t tend to be big businesses but there are a few
still around.”  Underground Facility  Iron Mountain dropped 1.7 percent to $28.65 in  New York ,
valuing the company at $4.9 billion. The stock has declined 2.9
percent in the last 12 months.  Founded in an underground facility in Livingston, New York
in 1951, Iron Mountain provides business storage and maintains
documents including records, electronic files, medical data and
e-mail. It works with more than 140,000 organizations in 39
countries in five continents, according to its website.  The company’s international operations account for about a
quarter of sales, with  Europe  representing “a big part” of
that, a company spokeswoman said, adding that Italy is among
Iron Mountain’s smallest markets in the region. The company also
has units in Germany, Austria, Spain,  Greece  and the U.K.  New Zealand and Italy are the two markets where the company
needed to act, Duale said.  Shareholder Pressure  “Frankly, outside these two we are very optimistic that in
every other market, either we are already meeting the required
return or we’ll be in a position to achieve it by the 2013
deadline.”  The company last year unveiled a three-year strategic plan
with the aim to sustain cash flows from the North American
division while improving its international business.  Shareholder Elliott, a New York-based hedge fund which owns
less than 5 percent of Iron Mountain, last year called for a
review of the storage company’s strategy, operations and
capital, saying the company’s stock could more than double to
$77 a share if it converted to a real estate investment trust
and implemented other proposals.  Shareholders said that Iron Mountain’s return on invested
capital wasn’t enough and asked the company to earn at least its
cost of capital, which stands at about 8 percent, across the
company’s international division and also in each market, Duale
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  