-- Israel Billionaires Put Own Interest Ahead of Holders
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-03-22T18:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/israel-billionaires-put-own-interest-ahead-of-debt-investors-2-.html
(Corrects reference to deadline in 25th paragraph.)  Israeli billionaires, whose
companies gorged on debt for a decade, are putting their
interests ahead of bondholders’ as the nation confronts the most
restructurings in three years.  Almost  40 companies  are seeking debt forgiveness from
creditors after borrowing costs rose to the highest level in two
years and investors questioned their ability to repay.
Billionaire Isaac Tshuva’s  Delek Real Estate Ltd. (DLKR)  and Ilan Ben Dov’s  Tao Tsuot Ltd. (TAO)  are pressuring bondholders to accept new
terms by offering shares to avoid making cash payments on bonds.  Israel’s biggest borrowers, who helped build the country of
7.8 million people into an economy that is growing at three
times the pace of the Group of 10 nations and delivering the
world’s best risk-adjusted stock-market returns, have struggled
after losses in real-estate deals overseas. The tycoons control
the nation’s 10 biggest corporations, comprising 41 percent of
the value of  listed companies ,  Finance Ministry  data show.  “It’s not healthy that bonds are being turned into
equities,” Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said in an
interview on Feb. 20 in his Jerusalem office. “When the public
buys a bond from a corporation, they want a bond, and not an
asset that comes with a high probability of being reorganized.”  The value of corporate bonds sold outside the banking
industry sank 56 percent in the second half of 2011 from the
first six months, according to  Bank of Israel data . About 20
billion shekels ($5.3 billion) of company debt, or 7 percent of
outstanding securities, are at risk of default, data provided by
the Israel Securities Authority show.  ‘Credit Crisis’  Delek Real Estate,  owned 50.8 percent  by 63-year-old
Tshuva, asked investors in January to accept a debt settlement
agreement that will give holders of two of its bond series a 46
percent equity stake in exchange for accepting about a 19
percent loss on principal.  Tao Tsuot,  69.7 percent-owned  by Ilan Ben Dov, 55, said on
Jan. 15 that creditors agreed to a deal that includes him
transferring 6 million shares, or a 21.4 percent stake, of
Petach Tikva, Israel-based  Suny Electronics Ltd. (SUNY)  to Tao Tsuot.  Yields on 5.1 percent bonds due in December 2020 from
billionaire Nochi Dankner’s  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH)  soared to a record
19.2 percent on Dec. 20 after a debt buyback plan by the Tel
Aviv-based company failed to reassure investors that it can meet
obligations. The yield rose 16 basis points to 15.79 percent
today, the biggest increase since March 6.  “What is happening now is a form of credit crisis,” Dudi
Reznik, the head of fixed-income research at Tel Aviv-based Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd., Israel’s largest bank by assets, said by
phone on March 11. “Investors are becoming wary of lending to
companies in the face of recent debt settlements.”  Shares Tumble  Officials from  Delek Group (DLEKG)  Ltd., Tao Tsuot and IDB Holding
who asked not to be identified because of company policy
declined to comment in statements sent by e-mail.  The yield spread between Israel’s indexed corporate and
government bonds, a reflection of how costly it is for companies
to borrow, widened to 290 basis points, or 2.9 percentage
points, in November, the biggest difference since August 2009,
before shrinking to 280 a month later, the latest  central bank
data show . The similar U.S. spread was 266 basis points at the
end of November and has since narrowed to 189 as of March 21,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
Master Index.  Shares of Delek Real Estate and Tao Tsuot plunged in four
of the last five years, with their value  dropping 98 percent 
between the end of 2007 and the end of 2011. Since reaching an
initial debt accord with bondholders on Jan. 31, Delek Real
Estate has lost 22 percent and Tao Tsuot is down 24 percent
since announcing a preliminary agreement on Dec. 11.  ‘Not Fair’  IDB Holding, which invests in communications, electronics
and real estate, said on Feb. 23 that it raised about 321
million shekels in a share offering. The holding company needs
the money to pay 1.2 billion shekels in  bond principal and
interest payments  this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares of the company, which  plunged 70 percent  in
2011, have fallen 24 percent since the Feb. 23 announcement.  “We are extremely bothered by debt settlements when they
are done in a way that is not fair to investors,” Shmuel Hauser, chairman of the Israel Securities Authority, said in an
interview in  Tel Aviv  on Feb. 21.  ‘Easy’ Money  Israel’s bonds have lured investors seeking to tap into the
country’s economic growth, which surpassed 4 percent annually in
seven of the last eight years,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show.
The expansion will probably slow to 2.8 percent this year, the
 Bank of Israel  said on Dec. 26, compared with an earlier
forecast of 3.2 percent.  Corporate bonds surged nine-fold between 2004 and 2010 to
280 billion shekels, according to securities authority data. The
growth rates of Israel’s corporate bond market in recent years
are “exceptional” relative to other economies mainly because
of the companies’ ability to raise large amounts of debt without
collateral, contractual commitments or financial yardsticks, the
Bank of Israel said in its  2009 annual report .  In 2010, the nation’s 10 largest companies accounted for
about 50 percent of debt sales in the local market, the Finance
Ministry said in a February report.  As Israel’s economy grew, the non-banking market opened up
and companies increased borrowing to boost revenue, Hauser said.
Institutional investors “were too easy in investing in these
bonds and it would be a lot harder for them to do that today,”
he said.  ‘Structural Fragilities’  Fischer said in February at a conference in Herzliya,
Israel that the  rising number of debt restructurings  -- a three-
year record based on data from the Israeli stock exchange -- may
harm the local economy.  About 20 business groups, mainly family-controlled and
structured in pyramid form, own 25 percent of listed companies
on the  Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange (TA-25) , one of the highest
concentrations among developed economies, the Bank of Israel
said in its 2009 annual report.  While Israel’s stock market produced the best risk-adjusted
returns of developed markets in the past decade, according to
the Bloomberg Riskless Return Ranking, there are  “structural
fragilities”  in Israel’s corporate bond market, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a Feb. 13 report. The
Washington-based lender urged the government to study the
possible harm to the financial system of one or more of the
country’s large corporate groups going bankrupt.  Pyramid Structures  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government, seeking to
boost competition and break conglomerates, recommended on Feb.
22 that Israeli companies limit their pyramid structures to no
more than three public layers and proposed a four-year deadline
for corporations to comply with the new rules.  IDB has a holding structure of five public layers,
according to Ron Alkon, an analyst at Epsilon Investment House
Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  Should the restructurings be implemented, Delek Group and
IDB Holding will have to sell assets and merge business
activities, according to Raz Mor, a corporate debt analyst at DS
Securities & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  “The changes may help to avert the collapse of a large
corporation but they will also make it more difficult for
controlling shareholders to recycle debt as the power of
minority shareholders will be elevated,” Mor said by phone on
March 19.  Not Participating  The Israeli Supervisor of Banks required lenders on Dec. 31
to reduce exposure to holding companies to 25 percent of their
total capital from 30 percent. Those that don’t comply have a
gradual transition period to meet the regulation, according to
the directive.  Banks, which have focused on large borrowers and real-
estate lending, are “exposed to risks,” Banking Supervisor
David Zaken said in a speech to a Tel Aviv business conference
on Dec. 11. “We see the risk of credit to large borrowers as a
systemic risk, as the largest borrowers from banks are generally
also the largest borrowers outside the banking system.”  Menorah Mivtachim Holdings Ltd.,  Israel ’s fifth-largest
insurer by market value and a Delek Real Estate bondholder, said
it is avoiding the company’s debt.  “We will not participate in offerings by Tshuva’s group
until a debt settlement with Delek Real Estate is reached that
is acceptable for us,” Menorah Mivtachim said in an e-mailed
statement on Feb. 15 in response to questions from Bloomberg.  Delek Group, which holds 4.99 percent of Delek Real Estate,
is seeking a $500 million loan with HSBC Holdings Plc to
continue to develop gas sites, including the Tamar field off
Israel’s coast, the company said last month.  “Investors are unlikely to rush to buy corporate debt
trading at double-digit yields over concern companies may not be
able to refinance debt and pay it back,”  Jonathan Katz , a
Jerusalem-based economist at HSBC, said by phone on March 13.
“Stricter capital requirements will also make it more
problematic and expensive for companies to turn over debt and
raise financing as banks are less willing to lend as extensively
as in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  