-- Missing Nukes Fuel Terror Concern as Obama Drawn to Seoul
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-27T02:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/missing-nukes-fuel-terror-concern-as-seoul-meeting-draws-obama.html
(Corrects to  Long Beach , California in sixth paragraph of
story published on March 23.)  The second global conference ever
on nuclear material that has escaped state control is drawing
President  Barack Obama  and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .
Nuclear violators Iran and North Korea won’t be there.  The legacy of the Soviet Union’s breakup, inadequate atomic
stockpile controls and the proliferation of nuclear-fuel
technology mean the world may be awash with unaccounted-for
weapons ingredients, ripe to be picked up by terrorists.  “If material is loose, it may already be impossible to
contain or account for it,” said Graham Allison, director of
 Harvard University ’s international security program and a former
nuclear-security adviser to President Ronald Reagan. “There are
no precise figures for how much high-enriched uranium or
plutonium is missing.”  About 50 heads of state will attend the Nuclear Security
Summit on March 26-27 in  Seoul . Iran and  North Korea , which are
in violation of United Nations resolutions requiring them to
halt their nuclear work, are among countries excluded from the
summit because of organizers’ desire to reach consensus. So are
potential transit countries such as Moldova and Lebanon that
smugglers may target to move nuclear material.  With security officials still seeking the most basic
information about how much high-enriched uranium and plutonium
has been lost or is unaccounted-for, leaders meeting in Seoul
may have to settle for modest measures to protect their
populations from the risk of a terrorist obtaining a nuclear
weapon, Allison said. Even a small blast would cause enormous
casualties and disrupt the world economy.  Dirty-Bomb Cost  A nuclear-armed terrorist attack on the U.S. port in Long
Beach,  California , would kill 60,000 people and cost as much as
$1 trillion in damage and cleanup, according to a 2006 Rand
study commissioned by the Department of Homeland Security. Even
a low-level radiological or dirty-bomb attack on Washington,
while causing a limited number of deaths, would lead to damages
of $100 billion, according to Igor Khripunov, the Soviet Union’s
former arms-control envoy to the U.S. He is now at the  Athens ,
Georgia-based Center for International Trade and Security.  Because a terrorist needs only about 25 kilograms of
highly-enriched uranium or 8 kilograms of plutonium to improvise
a bomb, the margin of error for material accounting is small.
There are at least 2 million kilograms (4.4 million pounds) of
stockpiled weapons-grade nuclear material left over from
decommissioned bombs and atomic-fuel plants, according to the
 International Panel on Fissile Materials , a nonprofit Princeton,
New Jersey research institute that tracks nuclear material.  That’s enough to make at least 100,000 new nuclear weapons
on top of the 20,000 bombs already in weapon-state stockpiles.  ‘Poorly Secured’  “The elements of a perfect storm are gathering,” said
former Democratic Senator Sam Nunn, founder of the Washington-
based Nuclear Threat Initiative, in an e-mail. “There is a
large supply of plutonium and highly enriched uranium-weapons-
usable nuclear materials spread across hundreds of sites in 32
countries, too much of it poorly secured. There is also greater
know-how to build a bomb widely available, and there are
terrorist organizations determined to do it.”  Greenpeace, the anti-nuclear environmental group, has shown
the ease with which intruders could breach security at
 Electricite de France SA  reactors. Activists on Dec. 5 exposed
lapses at EDF nuclear reactors near Paris and in  southern
France , hiding inside one for 14 hours and unfurling a banner
reading “Safe Nuclear Doesn’t Exist” on the roof of another.  Invading Power Plants  Since then, EDF has reviewed existing barriers around
reactor sites and added patrols with guard dogs and tasers, said
Dominique Miniere, the company’s director of nuclear production.
If saboteurs were to penetrate a reactor site and disable the
power supply, creating a similar effect as when the tsunami
struck the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan  last year, there
would be a danger of the nuclear fuel rods melting and
radioactive particles being released into the air.  Criminals breached  South Africa ’s Pelindaba nuclear
facility in 2007,  overpowering guards  who oversaw the country’s
stock of bomb-grade material. The U.S. Defense Threat Reduction
Agency  dismissed staff  over nuclear security concerns in May
2008 at a North Dakota base that dispatched nuclear bombs
without proper controls.  In November 2010, Belgian  activists evaded  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization guards to expose weak security protecting
nuclear weapons at a base in Kleine Brogel. Activists spent
several hours taking pictures of a bunker containing nuclear
warheads before security guards apprehended them.  Greatest Threat  The  Global Zero Initiative , whose U.S. arm is headed by
former nuclear negotiator Richard Burt, said in a report last
month that the greatest nuclear security threat in  Russia  comes
from bases in the country’s west that house tactical nuclear
warheads targeting  Europe . These bases provide inadequate
security against theft or sabotage, according to the report,
whose authors included Russian former arms-control negotiators.  At the end of the Cold War, the  Soviet Union  had about
22,000 nuclear weapons in storage in Russia and such satellite
states as Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. Allison says
there are doubts that all the weapons-usable material was
recovered when many warheads were repatriated and dismantled
because of the chaos at the time and incomplete records.  About 100 grams of highly enriched uranium, lodged inside a
nuclear fission chamber, was plucked out of a Rotterdam scrap-
metal yard in 2009 by Jewometaal Stainless Processing BV’s
radiation-safety chief, Paul de Bruin. The scrap probably came
from a decommissioned Soviet nuclear facility, he said.  Low Detection Chance  The discovery illustrated the ease with which nuclear
material can bypass accounting checks and international
radiation monitors. The shipment containing the uranium had
already been checked for radioactivity.  “The inability to accurately account for weapon-usable
nuclear material around the world is a major obstacle to
eliminating the threat of nuclear terrorism,” said  Edwin Lyman ,
a senior physicist at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union
for Concerned Scientists, on March 14. Plutonium can be smuggled
from some facilities “without a high probability of
detection,” he said.  One issue threatening to hobble the security summit is that
all nations aren’t invited, wrote Burt, who is also a managing
director at  Washington ’s McLarty Associates. He negotiated
nuclear-weapons cuts with the Soviets under President George H.W. Bush.  IAEA Role  Other countries that weren’t invited include Belarus, home
to about 500 pounds of high-enriched uranium that the  U.S. wants 
removed, and Niger, the West African nation falsely accused of
supplying uranium to  Iraq  before the 2003 war over an alleged
nuclear-weapons program. Organizers opted to keep participation
narrow in 2010 to foster more substantive debate,  South Korea ’s
International Atomic Energy Agency envoy, Cho Hyun, said in a
March 15 interview.  By excluding some nuclear nations from the proceedings, the
summit organizers risk undercutting the role of the Vienna-based
IAEA, which verifies nuclear material worldwide.  “The summit’s lack of universality affects the ability of
the IAEA to take a visible role in nuclear security,” said Cho,
who was previously South Korea’s chief negotiator for U.S.
nuclear agreements. “The IAEA has been playing an essential
role in strengthening international efforts for nuclear
security.”  Not Yet?  The 153-member IAEA, whose powers are granted by consensus,
has published guides and helped install detection equipment, in
addition to making sure fissile material isn’t diverted for
weapons in places like  Iran . Lebanon asked the Vienna-based
agency in 2008 to help install radiation  monitors in Masnaa ,
along its border with  Syria .  “Nuclear security is a global issue and it requires a
global response,” IAEA spokeswoman Gill Tudor said today in an
e-mail, adding that the agency’s security budget will need to
grow in order for it to help  member states . “The need to
improve nuclear security greatly exceeds inflation.”  In the absence of binding oversight or an international
verification treaty, Harvard’s Allison said he was surprised
terrorists haven’t already used nuclear materials in an attack.  “There is general agreement in national security circles
that” a dirty bomb attack “is long overdue,” he said.
“Terrorists have known for a long time that nuclear reactors
are potentially vulnerable to attack or sabotage.”  Other officials say the threat of nuclear terrorism should
be taken seriously without being overplayed in public.  “Those of us who are ringing the nuclear terrorism alarm
take care to not overstate the odds of such an attack,” former
U.S. Energy Department Director of Intelligence Rolf Mowatt- Larssen wrote March 18 in an e-mail. “The population is also
suffering from terror-warning fatigue.”  “Governments are only now beginning to think about how to
raise nuclear security standards worldwide,” Washington-based
Arms Control Association President Daryl Kimball said March 14.
“Terrorists only need to exploit the weakest link in order to
acquire nuclear material that could eventually lead to a
detonation that would make the Fukushima disaster pale in
comparison.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  