-- Misys $2 Billion Deal Seen Too Cheap to Guarantee Sale
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-22T17:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/misys-2-billion-deal-seen-too-cheap-to-guarantee-sale-real-m-a.html
Misys Plc (MSY) ’s agreement to be
acquired at Europe’s cheapest valuation for a software takeover
is leaving the door open for rival bidders.  Vista Equity Partners said this week it will purchase Misys
for 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion), valuing the British
financial software maker at 13 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s the least expensive
on record for a software takeover in Europe greater than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At 21 percent
more than Misys’ 20-day trading average before merger talks with
 Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  were disclosed last month, Vista’s bid is also
half the industry’s average premium, the data show.  As banking regulations become stricter, Misys is seeking to
sell more products that handle risk management, derivatives
trading and lending. While Misys said the private equity firm’s
proposal is likely the “best deal,” the stock closed yesterday
1.7 percent above the bid of 350 pence a share, indicating some
traders project a richer offer. Temenos, which ended talks over
an all-share merger last week, can still make a counteroffer and
Misys’  biggest investor  ValueAct Capital, which teamed up with
 CVC Capital Partners , said it’s weighing a possible joint bid.  “The market is pricing in a fair chance of another
offer,” Laurie Pinto, chief executive officer of event-driven
research firm North Square Blue Oak Ltd. in London, said in a
telephone interview. “The arbitrage community is still betting
there could be a higher offer because ValueAct and CVC put out a
statement after the bid was made by Vista saying ‘take no
action.’”  Risk Management  Representatives for Misys, Temenos and CVC declined to
comment on the possibility of a counter bid. Spokesmen for Vista
and ValueAct didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Founded in  1979 , Misys makes software for cash, wealth and
risk management as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-
counter derivatives trading and post-trade processing. It has
more than 1,300 banking customers and employees based in more
than 120 countries.  Vista, a San Francisco-based firm that invests in software
and technology businesses and bought Thomson Reuters Corp.’s
trade and risk management software division this year, announced
the takeover of Misys on March 19. Misys shares have traded
higher than the cash offer every day since and closed at 356
pence yesterday, signaling some merger arbitragers anticipate a
sweeter deal.  Today, Misys shares rose 2.5 pence to 358.5 pence in  London ,
the most above the bid since it was disclosed and the highest
price since August.  Binding Support  “It is trading through the terms because there is still
another potential bidder out there and there is a little bit of
room in an LBO model for a higher price,” Christie Groves, a
London-based analyst at Churchill Capital UK Ltd., said in a
phone interview. “I would maybe put a 20 percent chance of a
higher bid.”  Misys’ independent  directors  recommend that shareholders
vote in favor of the deal and investors owning almost 22 percent
of the stock have pledged their support. The so-called
“irrevocable undertakings” from Schroder Investment Management
Ltd. and  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . are binding unless
Misys receives a competing offer that is at least 10 percent
higher, according to a statement, or 385 pence a share. The
firms also aren’t bound to the commitment if Vista’s takeover
offer is withdrawn or lapses.  “You’re paying 5 or 6 pence for the option to get 35
pence,” said Pinto of North Square. “That’s what the arb
community is making the bet on. The chance of Vista completing
the deal is still high, so you’re stopped out at 350.”  ‘Best Deal’  Vista’s offer is valuing Misys’ equity and net debt at 13
times Ebitda of 101 million pounds in the 12 months through
November, compared with a median multiple of 24 times for
software acquisitions in  Europe  worth at least $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Based on analysts’ average Ebitda
 estimate  for 112 million pounds in fiscal 2012 ending in May,
the deal would represent a multiple of 12 times, the data show.  While the price was only a 5.9 percent premium to the
 stock ’s 20-day trading average before the Vista deal was
announced, it was 21 percent higher than the average before Feb.
3 when Geneva-based Temenos confirmed it was in talks with Misys.
Still, the industry’s average premium for a takeover in Europe
is 43 percent, the data show.  Misys acting Chief Executive Officer Tom Kilroy said
Vista’s cash proposal is likely to be the “best deal” for the
company and its shareholders. Kilroy, who was made acting CEO in
February, will step down from the role after the transaction is
completed and remain with the company, he said in a phone
interview March 19.  Failed Talks  Misys traded as high as 430 pence in 2011 before ending the
year at about 232 pence after Jacksonville, Florida-based
 Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS)  broke off talks in
August to acquire the company. The two failed to agree on price,
a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  Revenue fell 12 percent in the third quarter through Feb.
29, while orders dropped 18 percent, as customers delayed
purchases while the company’s ownership was being decided, Misys
said March 19.  Temenos, which makes software for data management and
payments, reached a merger agreement on Feb. 7 that would have
exchanged 4.1 Misys shares for 1 Temenos share and given Misys
investors almost 54 percent ownership. When Temenos terminated
discussions to create the largest vendor of banking software
earlier this month, it also reserved the right to make an offer
if Misys agreed to a deal with a third party.  ‘Bottom Line’  Temenos already stated “how far they can go” and its
shareholders probably won’t allow the company to sweeten its
offer for Misys, according to Josep Bori, an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas in London.  “The Swiss company had a chance to do a deal with them,
that fell through, so ultimately you just have Vista and
presumably an opportunity for ValueAct and CVC to bump its
offer,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc,
said in a phone interview. “People are betting that two
financial buyers could come up with something better than 350.
That’s the bottom line here.”  Earlier this month, San Francisco-based ValueAct, which
owns more than 21 percent of Misys’ shares and was initially a
backer of Temenos’s merger proposal, joined forces with London-
based buyout firm CVC Capital to work on a cash bid for Misys.  ‘White Knight’  When the Vista deal was announced, the two firms said they
continue to consider their options, including a “possible
recommended joint cash offer.” They urged Misys shareholders
not to take any action.  CVC and ValueAct could pay 370 pence a share and still
generate an internal rate of return of about 15 percent within
six years, Groves of Churchill Capital wrote in a March 20 note.  Still, CVC may not step in with an offer richer than
Vista’s because it has fewer strategic opportunities than the
current buyer, Bori said in a phone interview.  “CVC doesn’t own that many assets that are in the
financial markets, so they don’t have the same synergies,” Bori
said. “They would struggle to make a higher bid.”  While it may be hard to beat out Vista’s friendly deal, the
potential risks are low betting on a higher price, Jean-Francois Comte, co-founder of Lutetia Capital, which manages a $100
million event-driven fund in Paris, said in a phone interview.  “Some people are expecting a potential party, a white
knight, somebody to step in and bid more,” he said. “Your
downside is not that big compared to the offer price. They’re
willing to trade the stock to see what’s going to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at +49-30-70010-6215 or  kwong11@bloomberg.net . 