-- Hitachi Construction to Expand Capacity in Indonesia, CEO Says
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-03-22T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/hitachi-construction-to-expand-capacity-in-indonesia-ceo-says.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,
Japan’s second-biggest maker of excavators, will boost output
capacity in Indonesia to meet demand for construction, forestry
and mining equipment in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  The annual capacity of the company’s plant in Cibitung,
West Java, will rise 67 percent to 5,500 units by March 2014,
from 3,300 currently, Chief Executive Officer Michijiro Kikawa
said in an interview.  Indonesia’s central bank forecasts economic growth to
accelerate to as much as 6.7 percent this year as the government
boosts spending on railways, airports and roads. Across the
industry, excavator sales in the Southeast Asian country will
rise 40 percent in the year ending March, faster than an
estimated 15 percent increase in  India , Kikawa said.  “Demand in Indonesia will grow at a faster pace than we
had thought,” Kikawa said March 21 at the company’s
headquarters in Tokyo. “We’re accelerating expansion to catch
up with demand.”  Hitachi Construction Machinery, also the world’s largest
maker of giant excavators, said this month it will also build a
second Indonesian plant in Cibitung to make underground
carriages as part of a 47 billion-yen ($570 million) plan to
expand its ability to produce large mining equipment.  The  shares  fell 1.7 percent to 1,823 yen in Tokyo
yesterday. Hitachi Construction Machinery has risen 41 percent
this year, outpacing the 20 percent gain in the Nikkei 225
index.  New Hires  The company will hire about 560 employees and temporary
workers in Japan by March 2016 as it adds two plants in Ibaraki
prefecture, northeast of Tokyo, under the expansion plan. Of
that number, about 150 will come from  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , which owns
half of the company, Kikawa said.  Construction machinery makers, including  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , are relying on sales in countries such as
Indonesia after  China  slowed public works and housing projects.
Industry sales of excavators in China have fallen at least 30
percent this quarter from a year earlier, and the decline may
extend until June or July, Kikawa said.  Indonesia,  North America  and Japan will boost global demand
for excavators by 7 to 10 percent in the financial year starting
April 1, Kikawa said. Demand in  Europe  will fall because of its
sovereign debt crisis, while Chinese sales will likely be in
line with global growth aided by a recovery expected after
mid-2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 