-- Italy 4-Year Retail Bonds Draw 7.3 Billion Euros in Sale
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-03-22T18:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/italy-4-year-retail-bonds-draw-7-3-billion-euros-in-sale.html
Italy  sold 7.29 billion euros ($9.6
billion) of a new four-year bond to retail investors, a result
that Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said showed renewed
confidence in the nation’s debt.  The inflation-linked securities were on sale from March 19
through today for purchase through banks, including on the
Internet, with a minimum order of 1,000 euros. The bond carries
an annual coupon of 2.45 percent to be paid on a semi-annual
basis, according to an e-mailed statement from the Rome-based
Treasury, which confirmed the final sale figures.  “It has been a good success as our households and
investors welcomed the new product,” Grilli told reporters in
Rome today. The sale “shows a normalization of our market with
investors becoming confident again about our public debt.”  The policies of Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who replaced
 Silvio Berlusconi  in November, coupled with the  European Central
Bank’s (EURR002W)  unlimited three-year loans to banks, helped prompt eight
weeks of gains by Italian bonds, the longest rally since the
start of the euro. Italy has the region’s second-biggest  debt  at
1.9 trillion euros. About half is held by domestic investors,
one of the highest rates in  Europe .  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond surged in November above
the 7 percent threshold that prompted  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts. That yield was 5.1 percent today, up
24 basis points since the start of the week.  “Our country has a significant growth potential and
ability to repay public debt,” Grilli said. “We have reassured
and still need to reassure markets about our ability to repay
our debt.”  ‘Right Things’  Italy has done the “right things” to tame its public
finances and will have a primary surplus of more than 5 percent
of gross domestic product next year, Lorenzo Codogno, a director
general of the Italian Finance Ministry, said today.  Still, Italy remains the euro-area country most under
scrutiny by policy makers as its financing needs are larger than
the support available from Europe’s crisis-fighting resources,
 Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s ,
said today at the Sovereign Debt Conference hosted by Bloomberg
Link in Frankfurt.  The new bonds will pay a minimum coupon of 2.25 percent
above a special inflation rate for working class Italians known
as the FOI. Investors who hold the debt to maturity in 2016 will
get a bonus of 0.4 percent. The principal is guaranteed even in
the case of deflation and investors don’t pay purchase fees.  The Treasury will probably offer the securities on a
quarterly basis with the next sale coming just before summer,
Maria Cannata, head of Italy’s debt agency, said on March 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  