-- Italy Too Big for Firewall to Save, Schaeuble Aide Says
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-03-22T13:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/italy-too-big-for-firewall-to-save-schaeuble-aide-says-1-.html
Italy and  Spain  would be “too big
to be saved” by the euro-area’s financial backstop and debate
should focus on the firewall’s quality rather than its size,
German Finance Ministry official Ludger Schuknecht said.  Ideas “floating around” to boost Europe’s debt-crisis
defenses aren’t “the ideas that the mega-firewall fans might
like,” Schuknecht, who heads the department of fiscal policy,
international finance and monetary policy in Wolfgang Schaeuble’s ministry, said at a Bloomberg Link Sovereign Debt
Conference in Frankfurt today.  “Italy and Spain are too big to be saved by these kind of
numbers that we are putting into the window,” he said. Making
the firewall credible to markets “is much more important than
talking about big numbers that are afterwards just a show.”  With the debt crisis now in its third year, attention is
shifting to the euro-area firewall after a successful Greek debt
swap that opened the way to a second bailout. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in an interview with Germany’s
Bild newspaper published today that the worst of the crisis is
now over, “but there are still risks.”  In the event that  Greece  needs another round of debt
restructuring, governments and central banks would have to make
concessions, Hans Humes, president of New York-based hedge fund
Greylock Capital Management, said in Frankfurt.  ‘Bargaining Power’  Private creditors have “stronger bargaining power” after
reaching an agreement in February with Greece and European
officials on the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history, said Humes, who is a member of a committee of private
bondholders that negotiated the swap with government officials.
Investors including banks, insurers and  hedge funds  agreed to
forgive more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt.  “If there need to be concessions on debt, it’s going to
have to come from somewhere else,” Humes said. “We are going to
have to look to the official sector and the central banks to
make concessions.”  Italy is the country most under scrutiny by policy makers
as its financing needs are larger than the support available
from  Europe ’s crisis-fighting resources, Standard & Poor’s
analyst  Moritz Kraemer  told the conference.  That is “simply because of its very large financing
requirements” which are, “with the current toolbox of safety
nets that we have in Europe, beyond credible support,” he said.  Keeping Greece Afloat  European officials have injected billions of euros to keep
Greece afloat and prevent contagion from spreading to larger
euro-area countries such as Italy or Spain. The  International
Monetary Fund  warned in a March 16 report that the Greek bailout
held “exceptional risks” that could prompt a “disorderly” exit
from monetary union unless additional help is mobilised.  For all the success of measures such as the ECB’s three-
year provision of cash to euro-region banks, policy makers
cannot afford to relax their efforts, said Kraemer.  “The job is not done,” he said. “The biggest mistake would
be to fall into the trap of complacency.” While time is needed,
“maybe the success of bringing yields down again has been too
wide and too fast because it could discourage policy makers from
continuing on the path of reform.”  European finance ministers are due to decide at a meeting
on March 30-31 whether to augment the region’s crisis backstop.
Germany, the biggest single contributor to euro-region bailouts,
rejects raising the 500 billion-euro ceiling on the European
Stability Mechanism, the permanent rescue fund.  ‘Gathering Momentum’  Yet  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has left the door open to
boosting the overall backstop limit, saying on March 16 that
governments have discussed “combination possibilities” for the
ESM, due to start up in July, and the existing European
Financial Stability Facility.  “Running the two funds together temporarily is justifiable
as a means to increase the firewall and would likely get
support” in parliament from Merkel’s governing coalition,
 Norbert Barthle , the ranking Budget Committee lawmaker for her
 Christian Democrats , said in a phone interview. “The proposal
is gathering momentum.”  Merkel’s government is working on a proposal for letting
the two rescue funds run alongside each other, Die Welt
newspaper reported today, citing euro-region officials it didn’t
identify. The plan, which is still being discussed, may call for
using structured financial products to boost the roughly 240
billion euros remaining in the EFSF, the newspaper said.  ‘Temporary Increase’  Schuknecht said euro-leaders have agreed to discuss “some
possibly temporary increase” and “we have to wait” until the
end of March. Policy makers must realize that large firewalls
may undermine governments’ incentive to reduce debt, he said.  The same risk applies to joint euro-area bonds, Schuknecht
said when asked whether  Germany  would ever endorse them. Merkel
has ruled out jointly issued debt for the time being, saying it
would divert from her drive to cut spending and debt across
Europe.  “Germany cannot be liable for 9 trillion euros’ worth of
debt,” Schuknecht said. “So my answer to this would be: ‘I
hope never.’”  Erik F. Nielsen, global chief economist at UniCredit SpA,
told the conference that Greece has become “irrelevant,” and
growth in the euro area will be better next year. While  Portugal 
may have to seek more aid, it will not have to follow Greece in
seeking private-investor losses to restructure Portuguese debt,
he said.  “For the next year or two the crisis has been resolved,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in  Frankfurt  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  