-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Crop Stuck Below Record Without Changes
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-03-22T16:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ivory-coast-cocoa-crop-stuck-below-record-without-changes.html
Ivory Coast  cocoa output, the
world’s largest, will be stuck below the record unless industry
changes succeed, an analyst at  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  said.  Production will be capped below 1.4 million metric tons and
last year’s record 1.5 million tons without reforms, barring
extraordinarily favorable weather,  Edward George , a commodities
specialist at Ecobank, said in a report e-mailed today. Ivory
Coast in January began cocoa auctions to ensure farmers get a
guaranteed price for their beans. Export quotas on local and
overseas traders are also being imposed, he said.  “The reforms are definitely a work in progress,” George
said. “We’re working with a hedge fund that wants to completely
reorganize the production side to increase yields, have training
and set up cooperatives.”  Ivory Coast will need to have changes working before the
2012-13 crop starts in October or exporters, traders, buyers and
farmers will back out, George said.  The country’s share of global cocoa production has declined
from about 46 percent in 1999-2000 to 32 percent in 2011-12 as
industry reforms failed and civil war erupted, and an increase
in smuggling to neighboring  Ghana , and Togo, undercut output,
George said. Ecobank is based in Lome, Togo, and George has
covered the cocoa market for eight years.  Ghana, the second-largest producer of cocoa, was able to
raise a record $2 billion from banks to finance its cocoa
industry last year, he said.  “Ivory Coast trees are old, they need replanting, they
need an overhaul and they can’t leave it much longer,” George
said. “All cocoa will have to be certified in 10 years. You’re
not going to be able to be an international exporter if you do
not have certified cocoa. Ivory Coast can’t guarantee that right
now. Ghana can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  