-- Japan’s Earthquake-Hit Northeast Region Records Land-Price Gains
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-03-23T01:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/japan-s-quake-hit-northeast-region-has-record-land-price-gains.html
Land prices in  Japan ’s northeastern
region that was damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
last year gained the most in 2011 as residents sought to
relocate, the land ministry’s annual land price report showed.  Nine of 10 sites that had the biggest gains in prices were
in Miyagi prefecture, where the coast was hit by the tsunami, as
demand rose for real estate in inland or elevated places, the 
 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism  said in 
the report yesterday. The biggest gain was in the Shirasagidai area
in the city of Ishinomaki, which rose 61 percent to 22,500 yen
($269) per square meter (10.76 square foot).  Japan’s strongest earthquake on record and tsunami damaged
more than 1 million homes, spurring housing demand as the nation
rebuilds with about 20 trillion yen in relief spending.
Nationwide  land-price  declines narrowed a second year, with the
pace slowing to a 2.6 percent drop from 3 percent a year earlier, 
supported by demand in metropolitan areas including  Tokyo , 
according to the report.  “Japan’s economy will probably strengthen in the next two
years, supported by the global recovery and rebuilding demand,”
said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at Itochu Corp. in
Tokyo. “Nationwide land-price declines will probably ease even
further, except for the areas that were the hardest hit, on the
back of economic expansion.”  Easing Declines  Nationwide average residential land prices fell 2.3 percent
last year, compared with a 2.7 percent slide a year earlier,
according to the report. Commercial land values declined 3.1
percent in 2011 from a 3.8 percent drop in 2010.  The drop in average land prices in Japan’s three-biggest
metropolitan cities -- Tokyo,  Osaka  and Nagoya -- narrowed to
1.5 percent in 2011 from 2 percent a year earlier.  Even so, economic concerns including  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis have had an impact on the country’s land prices,
said Keiji Kimura, chairman of Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s
largest developer, and the head of the Real Estate Companies
Association of Japan.  Housing starts rose 12 percent to 1.6 million in 1996 after
the 7.3-magnitude Great Hanshin Earthquake hit parts of western
Japan on Jan. 17, 1995, according to government data. Apartments
put up for sale in Osaka and its surrounding areas rose 15
percent to 44,430 units that year, according to the Real Estate
Economic Research Institute.  ‘Unusual Gains’  “We’re seeing some unusual gains in parts of  Miyagi
prefecture  on expectations for rebuilding demand in the area,”
said Yutaka Iwaki, a government official who headed the survey,
said at a press conference in Tokyo. “The gains aren’t driven
by speculative transactions, but more to do with real demand for
relocations.”  Land prices in Tokyo’s bayside neighborhoods, where
apartments were built on  reclaimed land , fell as much as 15
percent after the 2011 earthquake turned some of the landfill
into mud, shattered pipes and severed water supplies.  About half of the 10 sites that had the biggest declines in
residential land prices were in Urayasu, the home of the Tokyo
Disneyland resort in Chiba prefecture, the government report
showed.  The most expensive piece of residential property was in
Rokubancho in Chiyoda ward, where the Imperial Palace is located,
with land costing 2.78 million yen per square meter, the report
showed. Marunouchi Building, also in Chiyoda ward, and a patch
in Ginza’s shopping district, were the priciest commercial
pieces of real estate at 27 million yen per square meter, the
data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  