-- Japan’s Unexpected Trade Surplus Adds to Rebound Signs
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-22T06:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/japan-s-higher-than-forecast-february-exports-trigger-yen-gain.html
Japan  reported an unexpected  trade
surplus  for February and higher-than-forecast exports, adding to
evidence of a rebound in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Overseas shipments dropped 2.7 percent from a year earlier,
the  finance ministry  said today in Tokyo. The median forecast of
28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 6.5 percent
decrease. Imports rose a more-than-estimated 9.2 percent,
leaving a surplus of 32.9 billion yen ($395 million).  The yen’s decline of about 7 percent against the dollar
since the  Bank of Japan  expanded monetary stimulus on Feb. 14 is
making exports more competitive for companies such as  Sony Corp. (6758) 
The Cabinet Office said yesterday that the economy is picking up
“slowly” after the earthquake and tsunami that devastated
northeastern regions in March last year.  Today’s figures indicate that “a recovery in exports will
likely be sustainable,” said Kohei Okazaki, an economist at
 Nomura Securities Co. (NCLZ)  in  Tokyo . “Japan’s economy will likely
return to growth this quarter and maintain a good pace of growth
in the following quarters.”  Retail sales in the U.S. rose the most in five months in
February, adding to signs of improvements in global demand.  The  yen  rose 0.3 percent against the dollar immediately
after the data and traded at 83.29 as of 3:53 p.m. in Tokyo.
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.4 percent  Analysts’ median estimate was for a 120 billion yen trade
deficit.  Currency Slides  Japan’s currency has fallen from a post World War II high
of 75.35 per dollar in October. The currency extended declines
after  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board
members expanded bond purchases by 10 trillion yen last month
and set a 1 percent inflation goal.  The central bank held off from expanding asset purchases
this month as it monitored improvements. In yesterday’s report,
the government said that private consumption is “firm” and
 capital spending  is “picking up.”  Japan’s import bill is being swelled by energy costs
because of rising oil prices, a weaker yen and nuclear plant
shutdowns that followed last year’s Fukushima reactor meltdowns.
Imports of liquefied natural gas surged 53.8 percent from a year
earlier, today’s report showed.  “We shouldn’t think that Japan’s trade balance has turned
a corner,” said  Junko Nishioka , an economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. “There’s a possibility that Japan will go back to
trade deficits.”  Power shortages have been a particular challenge for the
western region of Kansai, which accounts for a fifth of Japan’s
economy, where all nuclear plants have been shut down. Power
supply may be up to 25 percent less than peak summer demand if
plants are not restarted, according to  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)   Nuclear-Free Kansai  Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto is considering a proposal to use
his city’s status as the largest shareholder in  Kansai Electric 
to call on the utility to abandon its use of nuclear power at a
 shareholders’ meeting  in June, the Wall Street Journal reported
this week.  Having all nuclear reactors offline this summer could put a
strain on the economy, BOJ board member Yoshihisa Morimoto said
in a speech in Kobe, western Japan, today.  Japan’s gross domestic product contracted at an annual 0.7
percent rate in the fourth quarter and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast it will expand 1.7 percent this quarter.  Elsewhere in the region,  New Zealand ’s economic growth
slowed to half the pace economists predicted in the fourth
quarter as manufacturing fell. Gross domestic product rose 0.3
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 from the previous
quarter,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report released today
in Wellington.  China Manufacturing  In  China , manufacturing may contract for a fifth month in
March, according to a preliminary reading of an index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The 48.1 reading, a four-
month low, compares with a final 49.6 in February. A result
below 50 indicates contraction.  Taiwan is expected to hold its  interest rate  for a third
straight meeting, according to 11 of 12 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. In the U.S., claims for jobless benefits
are expected to match a four-year low of 350,000 for the week
ended March 17, the Labor Department is likely to say.  U.S. house prices in January rose 0.3 percent from the
previous month, a survey showed, while the index of U.S. leading
indicators rose 0.6 percent in February, according to a separate
Bloomberg News survey.  Euro-area manufacturing and services output rose to 49.6 in
March from 49.3 the previous month, an initial estimate of
 purchasing managers  will show, according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  