-- Jindal Steel Shares Tumble After Coal Scam Report: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-22T09:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/jindal-steel-shares-tumble-after-coal-scam-report-mumbai-mover.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  was set
for its steepest drop in almost three years in Mumbai trading
after a newspaper, citing a report by the nation’s auditor,
named it among companies that received “undue benefits” from
the government on coal block allocations.  The shares of India’s biggest steelmaker by market value
 fell  as much as 7.4 percent, the most since April 16, 2009, to
545.55 rupees and traded at 546.85 rupees as of 2:33 p.m. local
time. New Delhi-based  Jindal Steel  was the worst performer on
the key BSE India Sensitive Index, which declined 1.7 percent.  Companies, including Jindal Steel, benefited in the
allocation of 155 coal fields between 2004 and 2009, the Times
of  India  said, citing a draft report by the Comptroller &
Auditor General. Allocations valued at 4.79 trillion rupees ($94
billion) went to private companies and 5.88 trillion rupees went
to government-owned companies, the newspaper said, citing the
report.  “There is a concern regarding the auditor’s report and the
market thinks there can be some action against the company,
leading to the sell-off today,” said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at
Fortune Equity Brokers India in Mumbai. He has a hold
recommendation on the stock.  Sushil Maroo, chief financial officer at Jindal Steel,
didn’t answer three calls made on his mobile phone seeking
comment. Spokesman Vivek Sharma declined to comment.  Indian lawmakers disrupted proceedings in parliament today,
demanding a government response to the report that said the loss
from coal block allocations was six times higher than a phone
license scandal that sparked the country’s biggest graft probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in  Mumbai  at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  