-- U.S. Outlook Optimism at Eight-Year High: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-22T20:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/jobless-claims-in-u-s-decline-to-lowest-level-in-four-years.html
The number of Americans saying the
 U.S. economy  is getting better rose in March to the highest
level since 2004 as a decline in claims for unemployment
benefits offered more evidence of a labor-market recovery.  Thirty-four percent of respondents to Bloomberg’s monthly
consumer expectations survey said the economy was improving, the
largest share since January 2004. The pickup boosted the monthly
expectations index to the highest in a year. Figures from the
Labor Department today showed jobless  claims  decreased by 5,000
to 348,000 in the week ended March 17, the fewest since February
2008.  The best six months of job growth since 2006 are boosting
the optimism of consumers whose spending accounts for 70 percent
of the economy. Another report today showed the index of leading
indicators rose in February by the most in 11 months, signaling
the U.S. expansion will strengthen, helping to sustain global
growth as  China  slows and  Europe  threatens to sink into a
recession.  “The economy will be gradually building up momentum going
forward,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We will be shouldering a little
bit more of the burden given the slowdown in Europe and some
degree of slowing in  emerging markets .”  Stocks fell as manufacturing contracted in Europe and
China. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.7 percent to
1,392.78 at the close in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note dropped to 2.28 percent from 2.3 percent late
yesterday.  Monthly Expectations  Bloomberg’s monthly expectations gauge climbed to 1 this
month from a reading of minus 7 in February. It was at minus 45
as recently as October. The monthly index is based on responses
to people who are asked whether the economy is getting better,
worse or staying the same.  Americans are growing more optimistic as employment
prospects brighten. Mark Eister, 47, of Kennesaw,  Georgia ,
landed a job this month with Georgia Perimeter College as
director of military outreach after sending out more than 400
applications since August. He retired from the U.S. Army in
December.  “One week, the phone was ringing off the hook with job
offers and interviews,” he said. “I feel like the economy is
getting better. As I have talked to more employers and hiring
managers, they seem ready to talk and bring people on board.”  The weekly Bloomberg  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF) , based on a separate
survey  that asks for current views of the economy, personal
finances and whether it’s a good time to buy, was minus 34.9 in
the period ended March 18, down from a four-year high of minus
33.7 over the previous seven days.  Unemployed Americans  Confidence  among the unemployed  rose to minus 44 last week,
the strongest since April 2008. Sentiment also climbed among
those with a college degree, rising to the highest level since
March 2008.  Higher gasoline prices may be limiting gains in the index.
The average  price  of regular gasoline at the pump climbed to a
10-month high of $3.88 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest auto club. It’s climbed 60 cents this year.  “We’re beginning to see positive signs that the economy is
improving,” Randy Potts, chairman and chief executive officer
of Winnebago Industries Inc., said during a March 15 conference
call. “ Consumer confidence  has been trending higher, and the
jobless rate is improving. Both the stock market and housing
markets are showing signs of improvement, but rising fuel prices
do remain a concern.”  Dismissals have been waning, and reports show companies are
becoming more willing to expand workforces amid evidence sales
are improving. Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and
tend to fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm
payrolls report -- accelerates.  Good for Spending  The decline in claims “is consistent with gradual
improvement in labor-market conditions,” said  Brian Jones , a
senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New York, who
correctly projected the level reported today. “It’s good for
 consumer spending .”  Last week included the 12th of the month, which coincides
with the period the Labor Department surveys employers to
calculate monthly payroll growth. The March employment report
will be released on April 6. Payrolls climbed by 227,000 in
February, more than forecast by economists, and the jobless rate
held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent.  Companies expanding their workforce include  General
Electric Co. (GE)  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company this week
said it will add 600 jobs at a new Louisville, Kentucky,
appliance plant producing refrigerators with freezers built into
the bottom.  Factory Production  Strengthening demand may also drive production gains at
factories, helping to sustain the expansion and allowing the
U.S. to withstand higher oil costs.  Another report today from the New York-based Conference
Board showed that its gauge of the outlook for the next three to
six months increased 0.7 percent after a revised 0.2 percent
gain in January. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.6 percent rise.  Eight of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by fewer claims for  unemployment benefits 
and a surge in stock prices. The S&P 500 Index is up more than
10 percent this year.  Growth in the U.S. may help make up for weakness in Europe
and  Asia . Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted
more than economists forecast in March, adding to signs the
economy has slipped into recession. A euro-area composite index
based on a survey of purchasing managers in both industries
dropped to 48.7 in March from 49.3 a month earlier, London-based
Markit Economics said in an initial estimate today. Economists
forecast a gain to 49.6, according to the median of 21 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Chinese Manufacturing  A Chinese manufacturing index indicated a worse
contraction this month, bolstering the case for Premier  Wen
Jiabao  to add measures to sustain growth even as he prolongs a
campaign to cool property prices.  The preliminary 48.1 reading in a purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today is the
lowest since November and compares with a final 49.6 in
February. A result below 50 indicates a contraction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  