-- JPMorgan Loses $373 Million Arbitration to American Century
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/jpmorgan-told-to-pay-373-million-in-american-century-funds-case.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was ordered by
arbitrators to pay $373 million to American Century Investments
over claims that executives led by Jes Staley enriched the bank
at the expense of the fund-management firm.  The award, issued privately in August, focused on
JPMorgan’s promise to promote American Century products when the
bank  acquired  the firm’s retirement-plan services unit, or RPS,
in 2003.  Because Staley, then JPMorgan’s asset-management chief,
mistakenly thought there was a limit on the bank’s liability if
it didn’t meet obligations, executives failed to make good on
the deal, arbitrators found. Employees were instead rewarded for
pushing JPMorgan’s own  products , according to the ruling.  “In short, JPM and RPS stacked the cards against ACI,”
the arbitrators wrote in the ruling.  The arbitrators awarded  American Century  $373 million plus
9 percent annual interest until paid in full.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, set aside funds
to cover the award during last year’s third quarter. Parties in
the case had agreed to resolve it  privately  through arbitration
and the ruling had been sealed.  Staley, 56, was promoted to lead JPMorgan’s investment bank
in 2009.  The case was brought to the American Arbitration
Association in 2009 and tried before a two-person panel in
February and March of last year. In their ruling, the panelists
said they reviewed about 600 exhibits and heard testimony from
almost 50 witnesses, including Staley.  Bank’s Earnings  “Almost no one including the top executives of JPM and RPS
down the chain of command paid any attention to what the revenue
agreement said” unless it applied to the bank’s own  earnings ,
the arbitrators wrote.  “By actively planning the shift from ACI’s funds” to
those of JPMorgan to protect their own revenue, “JPM and RPS
breached the revenue agreement,” they said.  The ruling was reported earlier by Fortune magazine.  “We disagree strongly with the arbitrator’s decision and
award,” Kristen Chambers, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, said yesterday. “Among other things, it misinterprets
the contract, ignores facts favorable to us such as the
performance of certain American Century funds during the period
in dispute, and ignores expert opinions that were favorable to
us.”  Chris Doyle, a spokesman for Kansas City, Missouri-based
American Century, said the firm is “very pleased” with the
decision.  “The panel found unanimously that JPMorgan actively
breached its contractual obligations to American Century in
order to enrich itself at our expense,” he said.  The case is American Century Investment Management Inc. v.
J.P. Morgan Invest Holdings LLC, 58 148 Y 00220 09, American
Arbitration Association ( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  