-- Judge Stands by His Detroit Financial Crisis Review Order
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-22T18:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/judge-stands-by-his-detroit-financial-crisis-review-order-1-.html
A  Michigan  judge refused to back
off an order requiring his approval for implementation of any
agreement between Detroit and a state financial review team to
address the city’s financial crisis.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  appointed the team in
December after a preliminary study found the city was in
“probable financial stress.” The group is considering whether
Detroit, Michigan’s largest city, needs an emergency manager.
The team found yesterday that the city was in a severe financial
emergency.  Snyder, a Republican, last week proposed placing Detroit’s
finances under a nine-member advisory board in an attempt to
avoid appointment of an emergency manager who would have broad
powers to rein in costs. Detroit Mayor Dave Bing has rejected
Snyder’s plan and yesterday submitted a counterproposal.  Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette ruled
March 20 that the review team couldn’t “execute and/or sign a
consent agreement or its equivalent” with the city “until
further order of this court.” The state’s request to delay
implementing that decision is “denied,” Collette said in a
two-paragraph order issued today after a hearing in Mason,
Michigan.  State Will Appeal  Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon said yesterday the state
would file an appeal of the March 20 ruling.  “We plan to appeal the decision of Judge Collette to deny
our motion for a stay later this afternoon,” Caleb Buhs, a
spokesman for Michigan Treasury Department, said in an e-mail
today. “The decision to remove a key option for the Detroit
Financial Review team is detrimental in the efforts to restore
the city’s finance health.”  Collette last month barred the review team from holding
closed-door sessions, in response to a complaint by  Robert
Davis , staff representative of the American Federation of State,
County & Municipal Employees, which represents Michigan
employees. Davis said the group is required under Michigan law
to hold meetings open to the public.  The state appealed Collette’s earlier ruling yesterday.
Attorneys for the state maintain that the study group isn’t a
public body as defined under Michigan’s  Open Meetings Act .  A hearing before Collette in Davis’s suit over the team’s
meetings is set for March 29. The group has until March 26 to
recommend action to the governor.  The case is Davis v. City of Detroit Financial Review Team,
12-112-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan (Mason).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 