-- Kids Skip Dad to Ask Mom About Money Issues, T. Rowe Survey Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-03-22T16:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/kids-skip-dad-to-ask-mom-about-money-issues-t-rowe-survey-says.html
Male titans of  Wall Street  take
note: Your kids are going to mom first about money questions, a
survey from  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  said.  About 54 percent of children said they go to their moms
first on money issues compared with about 40 percent who said
they ask dad, according to the survey of children age 8 to age
14 and parents released today.  Parents said talking to their kids about finances and
investing is more difficult than a discussion about bullying or
drugs. The survey also found it was easier talking about
finances than puberty or sex.  “You don’t have to tell your child what your salary is to
have a conversation about money,” said Stuart Ritter, a senior
financial planner for Baltimore-based mutual-fund provider T.
Rowe Price. “Your kids are learning whether you’re talking to
them or not.”  About three-quarters of parents said they’re not always
honest with their children about their finances, with 43 percent
saying they haven’t told the truth about how worried they are
about money and 32 percent telling children they can’t afford
something when they actually can.  More parents think it’s likely a cure for cancer will be
developed or that life exists on other planets than think that
Social Security, in its current form, will be available by the
time either they or their children retire, the survey found.  “I think parents are trying to be realistic about what
expectations they should have and their kids should have,”
Ritter said.  Money and Allowances  About 46 percent of parents said they don’t always agree on
money, with 42 percent of kids reporting their parents don’t
always agree. Kids said they would like their parents to talk to
them more about saving, and how to make money and allowances,
compared with other issues.  “My six-year-old the other day told me, ‘Dad, I want a
 credit card ,’” Ritter said. “And I said, ‘Well why do you want
a credit card?’ And she said, ‘Because if you have a credit card
you can walk into a store and buy anything you want.’”  T. Rowe Price hired San Francisco-based market-research
firm MarketTools Inc. to survey 1,008 parents and 837 children
during February. About 58 percent of the parents reported their
annual  household income  was from $25,000 to $99,999, with 7
percent earning $150,000 or more. The results were released in
recognition of Financial Literacy Month in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 