-- Klepierre Looks to Simon’s Know-How as Europe Struggles
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-03-22T17:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/klepierre-looks-to-simon-s-know-how-as-europe-struggles.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) ’s
cutting-edge experience as the biggest U.S. mall owner will help
Klepierre SA boost rental income at its shopping centers, the
French company’s chief executive officer said.  Simon became the biggest shareholder in Klepierre,  Europe ’s
second-largest publicly traded mall operator by value, last week
after the Indianapolis-based company bought a 28.7 percent  stake 
for about 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion).  “Simon has a savoir-faire that’s a step ahead of European
companies,” Klepierre CEO Laurent Morel, 49, said in an
interview yesterday. “In terms of marketing, there will be
significant gains.”  Klepierre can use the help. Europe’s economic slowdown is
hurting retail demand in  Greece ,  Spain ,  Italy , Portugal and
 Hungary , where about 24 percent of its real estate by value is
located, according to its latest figures. The company has
already offered rent holidays and other incentives to tenants to
maintain occupancy levels.  The U.S leads Europe because of the greater sophistication
of its retail market in the face of mounting online sales, and
Klepierre expects to benefit from Simon’s experience using
mobile-device technology to attract shoppers, Morel said.  ‘Generation Ahead’  “U.S. malls are a generation ahead of us in optimizing
revenue,” Morel said, adding that Klepierre will hire staff and
add technology to bring U.S. know-how to its centers. “I’m very
optimistic about this.”  Another benefit of the  Simon Property  investment will be to
bring more U.S. retailers to Europe and help some of Klepierre’s
existing customers set up at U.S. malls, he said. Simon bought
its stake from  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, which said it will retain its
remaining 22.2 percent holding in the company for at least
another year.  Retail sales by tenants at Klepierre’s 271 centers in 13
countries fell 0.8 percent last year, the company reported last
month, while rents rose by 1.6 percent. Both figures exclude
currency fluctuations and are for properties owned through 2011.  Klepierre’s revenue could be hurt as leases come due for
renewal in the economically troubled countries on Europe’s
periphery, said Martijn van den Eijnden, an analyst at Rabobank
International in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He has a buy rating
on the shares.  “Moreover, the smaller centers in its portfolio, which are
mainly anchored by the poorly performing Carrefour SA, could
feel the consequences in terms of footfall,” he said.  Profit Reiteration  Morel said sales at Klepierre’s centers will probably
exceed national averages and rising rents and sales in
Scandinavia and  France  will compensate for the slowdown in
southern Europe. He reiterated last month’s forecast that profit
excluding one-time charges, known as net current  cash flow , will
increase “slightly” from the  1.99 euros a share earned in
2011.   “ Consumer spending  isn’t going to be exceptional, but
there is investment taking place by successful retail brands,”
he said, speaking after presenting Klepierre’s newest center in
Paris’s St. Lazare railroad station.  Klepierre climbed 11 percent after the Simon Property
purchase, bringing the gain for this year to 20 percent. That
compares with an 11 percent advance for the FTSE EPRA/NAREIT
Developed Europe Index.  Sign of Confidence  “That’s a sign of confidence and puts an end to a period
of uncertainty,” Morel said.  The shares fell 32.5 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 26.06 euros.
in Paris, reducing the company’s market value to about 4.9
billion euros. Simon Property declined 1 percent from
yesterday’s record high of $144.22, trimming its value to $43.8
billion.  Simon Property’s investment is unlikely to change
 Klepierre (LI) ’s strategy anytime soon, said Michel Varaldo, an
analyst at Societe Generale SA with a buy rating on the French
company’s shares. Stephan van Weeren, an analyst at Amsterdam-
based brokerage Petercam Bank NV, agreed.  “Simon will take its time and once Europe’s recession has
passed, they will see what they will do with it,” van Weeren
said. He has a hold rating on the stock.  St. Lazare Station  Klepierre invested 160 million euros building a 108,000
square-foot mall in  St. Lazare  station as part of a five-year
renovation program. It’s due to open at the end of the month.
About 450,000 travelers, mostly commuters, pass through the
station daily to work or shop on nearby Boulevard Haussmann, one
of Paris’s main shopping strips.  St. Lazare is the first of Klepierre’s two large projects
scheduled to open this year. The second, the Emporia mall in
Malmo,  Sweden , will open Oct. 25. An extension to its existing
property at Claye-Soilly, near Paris, will start operating by
the year-end.  Morel plans to raise 1 billion euros from disposals through
2013 to cut  debt  to 40 percent of the value of its real estate
from 45.8 percent at the end of last year. The proceeds will
also fund projects valued at 3.3 billion euros.  About 140 million euros of agreed sales await completion
“and there are more coming,” Morel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 