-- Kosovo May Seal IMF Pact Amid Debt Crisis, Gerguri Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i
-- 2012-03-22T11:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/kosovo-may-seal-imf-pact-amid-debt-crisis-gerguri-says.html
Kosovo  may conclude an
international standby agreement worth about 110 million euros
($145 million) by the end of June as it seeks a shield from
 Europe ’s debt crisis, central bank Governor Gani Gerguri said.  Kosovo, which declared independence from Serbia four years
ago, has yet to agree on the exact amount of the accord. It
first looked to the  International Monetary Fund  in 2010 after
becoming the Washington-based lender’s 186th member. So far, aid
isn’t needed as the economy is set to expand 3.8 percent this
year, Gerguri said, though the growth outlook was revised lower
from 5 percent.  “We are confident in our growth outlook because even
within the  euro zone , which is experiencing a serious crisis, we
are mainly linked to  Germany  and  Switzerland  for remittances,”
said Gerguri in an interview yesterday in the capital Pristina.
“We are lucky that they are the best performers in Europe.”  The landlocked former province, wedged between Serbia,
Montenegro, Albania and the Republic of Macedonia, relies on
foreign investments, exports and money from Kosovars living
elsewhwere in Europe to drive an economic expansion that
averaged more than 4 percent since 2005. The Finance Ministry
plans to raise about 74 million euros in Treasury bill sales
this year to finance spending, the central banker said.  “Our financing gap for 2012 is between 150 million euros
and 160 million euros and we will cover it with the issuance of
 government securities  and with the loan agreement with the
IMF,” Gerguri said.  Soaring Joblessness  Even with growth higher than other countries in central and
eastern Europe, Kosovo is beset by a  jobless rate  as high as 40
percent and a large trade deficit as imports outpace exports,
resulting in a current-account gap of about 25 percent of gross
domestic product, the highest among the former Yugoslav nations,
according to IMF data.  Kosovo has used the euro unilaterally since 2002 and
concerns about a euro-region breakup prompted the central bank
to move its 1.1 billion euros in assets from securities of
periphery countries like  Greece , Ireland and  Italy  to core
nations like Germany, France and Luxembourg, the central banker
said.  “Our stance now is that the euro will survive as benefits
of keeping the European common currency outweigh any
shortfalls,” he said.  Recognition of Independence  Kosovo declared independence in 2008 almost a decade after
North Atlantic Treaty troops drove Serbian troops under then-
leader  Slobodan Milosevic  out of the province.  Serbia  still
refuses to recognize Kosovo along with five of the European
Union countries. The U.S., U.K., Germany and more than 80 other
nations treat Kosovo as an independent country.  Tensions between Serbia and Kosovo that erupted in violence
in July over the Serb-controlled north of the country eased
after both nations reached a compromise on regional cooperation
and on the implementation of the integrated management for
border crossings, the EU said last month.  That enabled Serbia, the largest ex-Yugoslav republic, to
win candidate status to join the EU and eventually start a
multi-year process that comes with no guarantee of admission.  “A normalization of relations should result in a positive
outcome,” Gerguri said. “Serbia approaching the EU is a win-
win situation for all its neighbors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  