-- Neiman Marcus to Enter China With Glamour Sales Investment
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-03-22T03:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/neiman-marcus-to-enter-china-with-glamour-sales-investment.html
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. (NMG/A) , the
luxury chain owned by Warburg Pincus LLC and TPG, said it will
invest $28 million in a closely held Hong Kong e-commerce
company in its first move into  China ’s luxury market.  Neiman Marcus  plans to launch an e-commerce website in
China with Glamour Sales Holding by the end of 2012, according
to an e-mailed statement from the company today.  Karen Katz, who became CEO about 18 months ago, is turning
to the world’s fastest-growing luxury-goods market to help the
Dallas-based retailer recover its pre-recession sales volume.
Besides the China venture, she has opened more U.S. stores,
particularly discount outlets, and expanded the retailer’s
social media marketing to attract younger customers.  Glamour Sales operates “flash sales” websites in  Asia ,
with Glamour-sales.com.cn in China and Glamour-sales.com in
 Japan . Flash sales involve online retailers providing a limited-
time offer of high discounts on exclusive items and have proven
to be “tremendously successful” in the European and U.S.
markets, Neiman’s statement said.  While China’s economic growth has been slowing, Asian
demand for luxury goods still outpaces that of  Europe  and the
U.S. Dozens of luxury brands including European names like  Louis
Vuitton  and Chanel and American ones like Tiffany and Coach
already are chasing Chinese consumers at home and abroad.  Not all efforts to enter the Chinese market have been
successful. Rival  Saks Inc. (SKS)  announced a plan in 2006 for
licensed stores in China that didn’t come to fruition.  Slow to Spend  Neiman Marcus hasn’t recovered all of the sales volume it
lost during the U.S. economic downturn because so-called
aspirational shoppers have been slow to increase their spending.
The retailer reported revenue of $4 billion in its most recent
full fiscal year, which ended in July, down from its peak of
$4.6 billion in the year ended in mid-2008.  Neiman Marcus posted fiscal second-quarter profit of $40.1
million on sales of $1.28 billion in the three months ended Jan.
28.  Katz, 55, replaced Burton Tansky as chief executive officer
in October 2010, 25 years after joining the company. Tansky
remains as chairman. Private-equity firms Warburg Pincus and TPG
bought the retailer for $5.04 billion in 2005.  Neiman Marcus operates 42 namesake stores, including one
that opened on March 9 in Walnut Creek,  California , as well as
two Bergdorf Goodman locations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  