-- Stocks, Commodities, Euro Drop on Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-22T20:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/new-zealand-dollar-weakens-after-economy-slows-oil-drops.html
Stocks and commodities dropped
while Treasuries rose for a third day after European and Chinese
manufacturing contracted and  FedEx (FDX)  Corp. predicted slower
growth, undermining confidence in the global economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent, the
most in two weeks, to 1,392.78 at 4 p.m. in New York and the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell for a fourth straight day, tumbling
1.2 percent. The euro depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3188. Ten-
year Treasury yields declined two basis points to 2.28 percent
and the rate on the German bund decreased seven basis points to
1.91 percent. Copper and oil sank at least 1.8 percent and
nickel slid to the lowest price this year.  A gauge of European manufacturing fell to 47.7 as factory
output unexpectedly shrank in Germany and  France , according to
London-based Markit Economics. A preliminary measure of Chinese
manufacturing slipped to 48.1 in March, the lowest level in four
months, based on figures from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. FedEx, operator of the world’s largest cargo airline,
predicted “below-trend” growth in coming quarters.  “Most people recognize that China growth has slowed,”
said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage about $125 billion at
Guggenheim Investments, in Irvington, New York. “It’s a
question of: is it going to be a sharp or a mild slowdown? The
data in  Europe  shouldn’t be a big surprise to anyone. Yet
there’s enough of a reason there after the sharp run-up in
stocks for the market to pull back or go sideways in the short
term.”  Three-Day Drop  The  S&P 500 , which reached the highest level since May 2008
on March 19, retreated for a third day as concern about global
growth overshadowed a drop in jobless  claims  to a four-year low
and better-than-forecast growth in an index of leading economic
indicators. Initial applications for  unemployment benefits 
decreased by 5,000 to 348,000 in the week ended March 17, the
fewest since February 2008, Labor Department figures showed
today. The median forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected 350,000.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.7 percent after a revised 0.2
percent gain in January that was less than initially reported,
the New York-based group said today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent
rise.  Commodity, industrial and financial companies helped lead
losses among the  10 main groups  in the S&P 500 today. FedEx
tumbled after the low end of its profit forecast for the current
fiscal quarter trailed analysts’ estimates amid slowing express-
shipment demand.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
were among the biggest  declines  in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average. (INDU)   First-Quarter Rally  The S&P 500 has rallied 11 percent so far this year, poised
for its best first quarter since 1998, amid growing optimism in
the world’s largest economy. The MSCI All-Country World Index
has also  climbed  11 percent in 2012.  Global equities may have a “correction” of between 5
percent and 9 percent after the first quarter as investors sell
holdings to lock in profit from recent rallies, according to
Jefferies Group Inc.  Sean Darby, chief global equity strategist at New York-
based Jefferies, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
 Hong Kong  today that Europe’s debt crisis is still “not over”
because of high borrowing costs in Spain and Portugal,  The Stoxx 600 declined to the lowest level since March 12
as mining and construction companies led losses.  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS) , which operates three mines in  Mali , plunged 13
percent as an army officer said the West African country’s
government has been overthrown. Baloise Holding AG sank 6.6
percent as  Switzerland ’s third-largest insurer said profit
dropped 86 percent last year.  Yields Retreat  Yields on 10-year and 30-year Treasuries retreated for a
third straight day after reaching the highest levels in more
than four months on March 19. The 30-year bond rate decreased
two basis points to 3.37 percent.  The euro fell for a third day versus the dollar. The yen
gained against all 16 of its major peers, advancing 1.3 percent
versus the euro and 2 percent against  Australia ’s currency.
 Japan ’s exports unexpectedly exceeded imports by 32.9 billion
yen ($395 million) in February, the government said. The Dollar
Index rose less than 0.1 percent.  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities declined 1.1 percent as
coffee, natural gas and cocoa fell more than 3 percent to pace
declines in 16 of 24 raw materials.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.7 percent, heading
for its sixth straight decline. The Micex Index slid 1.4 percent
in Moscow and the FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index retreated 1
percent in Johannesburg. The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 2.3
percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index lost 0.1 percent,
its seventh straight drop and its longest losing streak since
June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  