-- New Jersey Environmental Waiver Rule Challenged by 27 Groups
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-22T19:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/new-jersey-environmental-waiver-rule-challenged-by-27-groups-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s new rule that lets the state waive environmental
regulations on a case-by-case basis was challenged today by 27
groups that claim it creates damaging loopholes for developers
and polluters.  The New Jersey  Sierra Club  and others appealed a rule
signed March 6 by  Bob Martin , Christie’s environmental
commissioner. Martin said regulators will apply “commonsense
principles” for waiving compliance and “provides us with a
modest measure of flexibility to manage special circumstances.”  In signing the rule, which takes effect April 2, Martin
likened it to the variance process in municipal zoning. The
Sierra Club called the rule an “abuse of power” and challenged
it in the Superior Court’s Appellate Division in Trenton.  “This is one of the worst rules ever adopted in  New Jersey 
and is the broadest attack on environmental protections in 40
years,” Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey Sierra Club,
said at a news conference in Trenton, the state capital. “This
rule is a giveaway to special interests.”  Christie, a first-term Republican who considered running
for president, pushed the rule to “sell off New Jersey’s
environment to polluters and developers,” Tittel said.  A spokesman for the state Department of Environmental
Protection, Lawrence Ragonese, said Tittel’s attacks are
“nonsense,” and he misunderstands the intent of the change.  ‘Average Guy’  “If Mr. Tittel wants to pitch this as big business against
the little guy, he is wrong,” Ragonese said. “This is aimed at
the average guy in New Jersey. Governor Christie wants
government to work better and cut through the bureaucracy.
Everyone knows the average guy in New Jersey complains about
government being too big, too unworkable, and too
bureaucratic.”  To qualify for a waiver, an applicant must meet one of four
criteria: that a public emergency has been declared; that
conflicting rules adversely affect a project; that a net
environmental benefit would be achieved; and that an undue
hardship would be imposed by a regulation.  The DEP will post all waiver applications, and the agency’s
actions, on its website, Ragonese said. The agency won’t accept
applications until Aug. 1, he said.  The environmental and labor groups challenging the rule
include the New Jersey Environmental Lobby, the New Jersey
Audubon Society, the Delaware Riverkeeper Network, the
 Communications Workers of America , Teamsters 877 and United
Steelworkers District Four.  The rule “will pollute the water we drink and the air we
breathe, it will subject communities to increased flooding and
pollution, it will destroy jobs dependent upon healthy
environments and compromise worker health,” said Maya van Rossum, the Delaware Riverkeeper, in a statement.  The case is In re Rule 7:1B-1.1 et seq., New Jersey
Superior Court, Appellate Division (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  