-- Newedge Says Soy Beats Corn as Cekander Talks Seeds: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-03-22T18:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/newedge-says-soy-beats-corn-as-cekander-talks-seeds-commodities.html
In the world’s biggest agricultural
market, the director of grains research at the largest broker on
the Chicago Board of Trade says soybeans will beat corn.  Dan Cekander , the pheasant-hunting fourth-generation
Illinois farmer at Newedge USA LLC says soybeans, off to the
best start to a year since 2005, will trade at the  most
expensive  levels relative to corn since 2010. Global inventories
are poised to slump 17 percent to the  lowest  in three years,
while world corn  harvests  increase to a record and U.S. farmers
prepare to plant the most acres since 1944.  Six months before U.S. farmers start planting, Cekander was
already gauging what they would sow. The secret is in the seeds
because many growers buy most of their supply by the start of
January. That helped him predict on Feb. 3 that soybeans for May
delivery would rally. The contract jumped as much as 13 percent
in six weeks. He’s backing his bet that beans will beat corn by
planting more in his own fields in  Illinois .  “It’s always interesting to talk to these seed guys,”
said Chicago-based Cekander, 57, who has tracked grain markets
for more than three decades. “They’re talking to all these
farmers and they’re getting an idea of what they’re thinking.”  At a time when the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects
record grain crops, soybeans have climbed 12 percent this year
after drought damaged harvests in  South America , the biggest
growing region, and China agreed to buy as much U.S. supply in
one week last month than its own farmers produce in a year.  Agriculture Index  Soybeans have jumped 24 percent from a 14-month low in
December to $13.495 a bushel on the CBOT as corn advanced 8.8
percent to $6.445. The price ratio of 2.1 may rise to 2.5 to 2.8
this year as importers led by China buy more U.S. supplies
because of crop losses in Brazil and  Argentina , Cekander said.  This year’s advance in soybeans compares with a 0.7 percent
 gain  in the Standard & Poor’s GSGI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
appreciated 11 percent, while Treasuries lost 1.7 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  A soy-to-corn ratio of 2.8 would be an “aggressive”
forecast, said  Abah Ofon , the Singapore-based analyst at
Standard Chartered Plc who correctly predicted the rally in
beans that began in December. Ofon expects soy to average $13.13
this year and corn $6.78, giving a ratio of 1.94.  Just as Cekander relies on a friend’s German shorthaired
pointer to help him find ring-necked pheasants to shoot in
Illinois in the fall, Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft (KFT)  Foods
Inc. and other clients turn to him to track the grain markets.  ‘Extreme Coverage’  His analysis “enables you to go to your senior management
and recommend strategies to take extreme coverage in a situation
where you think prices are going to be sustainably high,” said
Jack Bienkowski, a senior director of global procurement at
Kraft who rates Cekander among the top three to five corn
analysts in the U.S. and has relied on his analysis since 1989.  Cekander is making his estimates in a market where prices
move on everything from floods to recessions to strikes by
truckers in Argentina, the biggest shipper of soy-based  animal
feed  and cooking oil. Soybeans traded as high as $16.3675 and as
low as $7.7625 in 2008 as corn swung from $7.9925 to $3.055.
That means he doesn’t always get it right.  While he correctly predicted in 2008 that ethanol producers
would increase their use of U.S. corn, he didn’t anticipate
futures slumping 48 percent in six months after reaching a
record that June. Concern over shortages was eclipsed by the
start of the worst global recession since World War II, spurring
investors to leave the market. Open interest, or contracts
outstanding, dropped from about 1.32 million in June to 810,000
by the end of the year, bourse data show.  “We never dreamed that we would go as low as we did,”
Cekander said.  Societe Generale  Newedge,  created  four years ago, is a venture between
 Societe Generale  SA and Credit Agricole CIB, and is the second-
biggest broker on U.S. exchanges, according to Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data as of Jan. 31.  Volumes traded through commodity exchanges far outweigh
actual output. Global soybean  production  reached 264.3 million
tons in 2011, valued at $128 billion at last year’s average
price. CBOT traded contracts for about 24.4 million tons of
soybeans daily last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The brokerage, which also handles equities, fixed income
and currencies, is second only to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as a
futures commission merchant, ranked by customer assets in
segregated accounts, the CFTC  data  show.  German Ancestor  Cekander traces his interest in agriculture to a German
ancestor who invested in land in the 19th century with money
made from building railroads. He grew up on a farm in Pesotum, a
village of about 550 people near where he would earn a Masters
degree in agricultural economics from the  University of
Illinois ,
Champaign-Urbana. For a summer job as a teenager, he assisted an
agronomy professor studying corn diseases and yields.  He joined Consolidated Grain and Barge Co. in  St. Louis  in
1979. He would later work as a grains analyst in  Chicago  for
Frazier-Parrott Commodities Inc., Staley Commodities Inc. and
Rodman & Renshaw Inc. before joining Fimat USA LLC in 1995.
Fimat merged with Calyon to form Newedge.  None of his three daughters is keen on following the
family’s farming tradition, he said. One of them shares his
passion for fly-fishing, which takes him in the summer to the
Blackfoot River in  Montana  where “A River Runs Through It,”
the 1992 movie directed by  Robert Redford , was filmed.  China Processors  U.S. farmers start sowing corn in March and soybeans about
a month later, with the eight-biggest crops covering 254.4
million  acres , an area the size of  Egypt , the USDA estimates.
The department is set to release a planting survey on March 30.
Exports rose to a record $136.3 billion in 2011 on demand for
grain and meat in  Asia , Central America and parts of  Africa .  Cekander plans to travel to  Japan  and  China  next month for
talks with traders and processors to gauge the outlook for
consumption. China uses about 22 percent of the world’s corn and
will buy more than 60 percent of world soybean  shipments  this
year, the USDA estimates.  “He’s very grounded in fundamentals,” said Russ Day, a
trader at the U.S. unit of Glencore International Plc who has
followed Cekander’s research for at least a decade. “Dan gives
you an insight into producer mentality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  