-- LNG-Powered Shale Drilling Reduces Fuel Costs, Encana Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-03-22T16:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/lng-powered-shale-drilling-reduces-fuel-costs-encana-says-1-.html
Using liquefied natural gas to
power drilling rigs instead of diesel can reduce fuel costs by
almost half and cut greenhouse-gas emissions, according to an
 Encana Corp. (ECA)  pilot project.  Encana,  Canada ’s largest natural-gas producer, reduced fuel
costs 47 percent, or $830,000, compared with diesel use, at a
shale-gas drilling site in the Haynesville formation which spans
the border of Texas and  Louisiana , David Haugen, who heads
Encana’s market development for gas strategic planning, said in
an interview.  The savings were based on consumption of almost half a
million gallons of fuel and average prices of diesel of $3.28 a
gallon and $1.11 a gallon for LNG over a period of about 160
days. The company plans to use LNG at more of its  operations ,
said Haugen.  “We’d love to adopt LNG across our operations,” he said.
“The potential for savings is significant. One of the
constraints is the makers of drilling rigs” which largely build
diesel-powered systems.  Gas producers in the U.S. and Canada are struggling to
remain profitable with record low prices for the fuel and are
looking for ways to increase demand. Encana, based in Calgary,
is converting its trucks to gas and has a stake in a project
with  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  to export LNG from
northern British Columbia to  Asia .  Less Pollution  Gas emits 20 percent to 30 percent less carbon dioxide than
oil-based fuels and has a fraction of the emissions of nitrogen
oxides, sulfur oxides and particulate matter, which are linked
to respiratory health problems such as asthma, according to the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  “Natural gas integrates better with renewables,” David
Layzell, executive director of the Institute for Sustainable
Energy, Environment and Economy at the University of Calgary,
said in a presentation today. “We’re about to go through a
major energy transformation across the world.”  North American gas prices are the lowest in the world as
demand stagnates and supplies increase with the use of hydraulic
fracturing. Gas for April delivery gained 2.5 cents to settle at
$2.36 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The futures declined to $2.204 per million Btu on March 13,
the lowest intraday price since Feb. 15, 2002.  Encana announced last month that it would scale back
investment and cut output to reduce North American supplies by
as much as 600 million cubic feet a day in a bid to boost prices
for the heating and power-plant fuel.  Encana fell 2.5 percent to C$20.29 at 11:42 a.m. in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  