-- Nike Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on North American Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-03-22T23:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/nike-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-north-america-sales-gain.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, reported third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales gained in North America.  Net income  in the quarter ended Feb. 29 rose 7.1 percent
percent to $560 million, or $1.20 a share, from $523 million, or
$1.08, a year earlier, Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike said today
in a statement. Analysts  projected  $1.17 a share, the average of
19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Nike’s profit has  surpassed 
analysts’ projections in 22 of the past 23 quarters.  Nike, the maker of Air Jordan basketball shoes, has been
using new products in categories such as running to lure
consumers who are spending more on athletic gear across the
industry. The strategy helped boost Nike sales 17 percent to
$2.15 billion in  North America , the company’s largest market.  “Demand behind the brand is continuing to stand very tall
and accelerating a bit more,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , said in an interview. “The
other side of the equation is on the margin,” where higher
prices eventually will help improve profit margins.  Nike rose 1.1 percent to $112.22 in extended trading at
7:33 p.m. in  New York . The shares had  gained  15 percent this
year through the end of today’s regular trading.  Orders for the Nike brand from March to July, excluding
currency exchange-rate changes, advanced 18 percent. Analysts
projected a gain of 13 percent, the average of seven estimates.
Orders for December to April rose 13 percent.  Gross Margin Narrows  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after the
cost of goods sold, narrowed 2 percentage points to 43.8 percent
from a year earlier. The company had projected a decline of 1.5
percentage points.  The measure has fallen for five straight quarters as Nike
faces higher costs and the company forecast a sixth decline this
quarter of 1 percentage point. The prices for labor continue to
be pressured, while costs for raw materials are easing, Chief
Executive Officer Mark Parker said on a conference call with
analysts.  The company introduced widespread price increases in
January and began cutting costs to help it increase gross
margins in fiscal 2013, Chief Financial Officer Don Blair said
on the call. Costs for labor, commodities and raw materials will
continue to rise over the long term, and to combat that Nike
will rely on innovation and brand strength, Blair said.  ‘Getting Better’  Gross margin is “getting better, not quite as fast as we
hoped, but it’s getting better,” Blair said.  Total revenue rose 15 percent to $5.85 billion, topping
analysts’ projections of $5.82 billion.  Nike’s results follow large customers such as  Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  and  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , which increased sales
in the quarter ended Jan. 28. Revenue rose 6.1 percent at
Dick’s, the largest U.S. sporting-goods retailer, and 7.9
percent at Foot Locker, the world’s largest athletic-footwear
chain.  Sales at  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-
goods maker, probably will increase “at a mid- to high-single-
digit rate” this year, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company said March 7. Net income at Adidas, which reports
results for the quarter ending March 31 on May 3, may rise as
much as 770 million euros ($1.01 billion), the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  