-- Obama Vows More U.S. Oil Production as Pipeline Gets Prio
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-22T19:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/obama-vows-more-u-s-oil-production-as-pipeline-gets-prio.html
President  Barack Obama , defending
his energy policy from Republican criticism, vowed his
administration will support domestic oil production while saying
that won’t be enough to bring gasoline prices down.  “Anybody who suggests that somehow we’re suppressing
domestic oil production isn’t paying attention,” Obama said in
Cushing, Oklahoma, where  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  plans to begin
building the southern segment of its Keystone XL oil pipeline.  Obama’s Cushing visit came on the second day of a two-day
swing that continues a series of energy-themed speeches and
trips the president has made across the country, mostly in swing
states.  He highlighted solar energy in  Nevada  and domestic gas
production in  New Mexico  yesterday and, in  Ohio  later today, was
to talk about energy research. Obama won all three states in
2008 and they are being targeted by both parties for the
November election.  The president stood in front of pipes that will ease the
bottleneck of oil stored in Cushing and said he’s streamlining
the federal permit process for critical infrastructure,
including TransCanada’s pipeline to deliver oil to refineries on
the Texas coast.  Timeline Set  “We’re making this new pipeline from Cushing to the Gulf a
priority,” Obama said. “We’re going to go ahead and get that
done.”  Obama’s action won’t shorten the timeline for the project,
as construction is slated to start as soon as June. TransCanada
is awaiting permits from the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, the
last it needs to begin work, according to the company.  Republicans said the president’s announcement was
meaningless.  Obama was “trying to take credit for part of the pipeline
that doesn’t even require his approval,” said House Speaker
John Boehner of Ohio.  “The only recent action the president has taken on energy
involved lobbying senators personally and successfully” to
defeat legislation that would have allowed construction of the
entire pipeline, Boehner said.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said Obama’s
action was more about politics than oil, because the
administration still hasn’t approved the northern segment of the
pipeline, which would carry crude from Canada’s oil sands.  Romney Reaction  “Apparently, the slipping poll numbers have convinced him
to announce the lower half of that pipeline,” Romney said at a
town hall meeting yesterday in Arbutus,  Maryland . “If we can
get his poll numbers just a little lower, we may be able to get
the other side too, so let’s get that job done!”  While  Oklahoma  is solidly Republican -- the state gave 65
percent of its vote to Arizona Senator John McCain in the 2008
presidential election -- its status as an oil transit hub gives
Obama a backdrop to emphasize his “all-of-the-above” energy
strategy.  With the U.S. recovery gaining traction, rising fuel prices
are a potential setback to growth by crimping  consumer spending ,
which makes up 70 percent of the economy. That makes it a
political risk for Obama as he seeks a second term.  Gasoline Prices  The average retail  price  of a gallon of regular gasoline is
$3.88, according to a daily survey by the American Automobile
Association, up from $3.57 a month ago.  The Keystone pipeline has emerged as a point of attack by
Republicans in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail.  In January, Obama denied approval for TransCanada’s $7.6
billion Keystone XL oil pipeline from  Canada  to the  Gulf of
Mexico . He blamed congressional Republicans for imposing a
deadline on his decision that he said left no time to approve
the project in the face of environmental concerns and objections
from Nebraska politicians over the route. His administration
invited TransCanada to reapply, an overture the Calgary-based
company accepted.  The southern segment from Cushing doesn’t cross an
international border and isn’t subject to the additional review.  Environmental Groups  After cheering the president’s rejection of the pipeline in
January, environmental groups now say they worry the Cushing
appearance and statements about expediting the pipeline’s
southern leg suggest the victory may be fleeting.  The National Wildlife Federation, a Reston, Virginia-based
group, calls the Cushing leg “Keystone Lite,” because the
project will eventually promote production from Canada’s oil
sands,  which environmental groups object to.  “This is the worst kind of political pandering,” said
Noah Greenwald, who is endangered species program director for
Tucson, Arizona-based Center for Biological Diversity. “He is
going to alienate the part of his base that takes  climate change 
seriously and wants us to transition to a clean-energy
economy.”  In response to Republican accusations that his policies
have helped drive up the cost of gasoline, Obama has countered
that  oil prices  are set by the global market and are rising
because of increasing demand from fast growing economies such as
China, India and  Brazil , and uncertainty caused by tension with
 Iran , the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia .  Mideast Tensions  “The main reason that gas prices are high right now is
because people are worried about what’s happening with Iran,”
Obama said. “It doesn’t have to do with domestic oil
production.”  Oil fell to a one-week low after manufacturing in the euro
area and  China  contracted this month, signaling that fuel
consumption may decline. Crude oil for May delivery fell $2.34,
or 2.2 percent, to $104.93 a barrel at 12:26 p.m. on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  The administration argues that domestic oil production is
at an eight-year high and natural gas production is at an all-
time high. New vehicle fuel economy standards put in place by
Obama will cut oil consumption by 2.2 million barrels a day,
according a White House fact sheet. The U.S. imported 45 percent
of its oil needs last year, down from 57 percent in 2008,
according to a March 12 administration report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  