-- Obama’s $10 Billion Center Unhooks Cost Checks From Burea
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-22T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/obama-s-10-billion-center-unhooks-cost-checks-from-burea.html
One of 10 cost-control efforts
attempted by Medicare over two decades has saved the U.S.
government money, the  Congressional Budget Office  reported in
January. Richard Gilfillan, head of the most ambitious bid yet,
says he can improve those odds.  Gilfillan runs a $10 billion “innovation” fund created by
the 2010 U.S. health-care law to identify ways to lower medical
costs and improve the quality of care. His solution, now taking
shape, is to take the job out of the hands of bureaucrats and
place it with companies and individuals who know best how to
compete in a changing marketplace, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its March 26 issue.  Republicans say the law created an Obama administration
slush fund that can be used to manipulate how Medicare is run
without congressional oversight. Gilfillan says independence
from entrenched political and bureaucratic interests is the only
way to guarantee private-sector involvement and creativity.  “This is not a government-run demonstration project,”
Gilfillan said in an interview. “This is about private-sector
initiatives across the country; entrepreneurs, innovators coming
up with ideas.”  Key to that effort is the naming of 73 unpaid private-
sector “innovation advisers,” who will act as go-betweens
between project administrators and Gilfillan and his
administrators, he said.  Private-Sector Support  While the debate over the constitutionality of the health-
care law rolls toward an eventual decision by the  Supreme Court 
as early as June, with the first legal arguments set for this
month, efforts such as Gilfillan’s “Innovation Center,”
located in a Baltimore building that’s a mile from Medicare’s
main campus, are moving forward undeterred.  Policy changes to Medicare, the federal health program for
the elderly and disabled, and Medicaid, the U.S. insurance
program for the poor, often ripple out to the broader health-
care system.  Private-sector interest was evident at a meeting held by
Gilfillan in January attended by more than 1,000 doctors, drug
company officials and entrepreneurs. Midway through Gilfillan’s
speech, he got a rise from the audience after he inadvertently
gave an incorrect deadline to apply for $1 billion in grants
this year.  A murmur ran through the crowd, and several people shouted
out “Friday?” concern clear in their voices.  “I’m sorry,” Gilfillan responded with a laugh, correcting
himself. “Guess there’s a few interested people here.”  Grants for 15 States  The center spent $43 million on administration in 2011,
including funding for 69 employees and $52 million on projects.
Spending this year will more than double to $112 million for
administration, as the number of employees rises to 204. About
$1.6 billion will go toward projects, according to the
administration’s fiscal 2013 budget plan.  Last April, the center awarded $15 million to 15 states to
experiment with ways to improve care for low-income people
eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare, who tend to be costlier
than wealthier elderly patients.  California ’s project, starting
in January 2013, plans to test whether paying organizations to
coordinate medical and social services for more than 1.1 million
dual-eligible patients can improve their care and cut costs.  In December, contracts worth $218 million went to 26
hospital systems, including about $5 million for  Lifepoint
Hospitals Inc. (LPNT)  of Brentwood,  Tennessee , for an effort to reduce
hospital-acquired infections and preventable complications.  Nationwide Expansion  The next big step comes in March, when the center plans to
award as much as $1 billion in grants to those who successfully
pitch “compelling new models” of delivering or paying for
health care, according to a  funding announcement .  Gilfillan, who ran a local managed-care plan in
 Pennsylvania  before taking on the Innovation Center job, is
optimistic he can overcome skepticism, partly because he doesn’t
feel handcuffed by some of the government rules that have
weighed down others who have tried to make changes.  If actuaries for Medicare certify that a program reduces
the cost of patient care without affecting quality, Gilfillan’s
boss, U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen
Sebelius , can expand it nationwide under the health-care law
without having to get permission from Congress.  He also doesn’t have to demonstrate that an experiment will
be “budget-neutral,” Washington parlance for not requiring any
new spending, before he approves a grant for it.  Republicans Want Oversight  “If we find something that can work, we have the ability
to spread it rapidly” across Medicare because of the Innovation
Center’s involvement, said Julie Lewis, director of health
policy for  Amedisys Inc. (AMED) , a  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based company
that provides home health-care and operates therapy centers.  It’s that independence that concerns Republicans who
opposed creating it in the original health-care law, and still
believe it needs to be leashed.  Something like the innovation center could work with
“proper oversight and guidelines as to how that money’s
actually used,” said Representative Charles Boustany, a
Louisiana Republican who is a heart surgeon.  That’s now lacking, said Boustany, who sits on the Ways and
Means Committee, which supervises Medicare.  Republicans in the U.S. Senate and House wrote Sebelius
separately in November and January asking for reports on who
Gilfillan has hired and how the innovation center is spending
its money. She hasn’t responded, they said.  NIH Comparison  “The question is, is that going to end up being a slush
fund, where you hand out money to a certain health-care group
that you’ve decided you want to benefit,” Boustany said in an
interview. “I’m very concerned this is going to be a way of
picking some winners and losers, rather than one actually
looking at how you improve health care and innovate.”  Gilfillan says he’ll run his agency similarly to the
 National Institutes of Health , the $30 billion U.S. biomedical
research agency that selects science projects through a peer
review process. Money will be handed out using “competitive
processes,” he said.  “We’ll be measuring in a very concrete way the results of
every one of our initiatives and doing rigorous evaluations of
every program,” he said. “We’ll see meaningful results over
the next few years and be able to demonstrate success.”  An experiment Amedysis plans in  New Orleans  is one of the
first that will be overseen by the center, though it won’t be
contributing to its funding. Being done in conjunction with
 Louisiana State University , also in Baton Rouge, the project
will focus on keeping low-income patients with multiple chronic
health conditions out of hospitals, said Lewis, one of the
“innovation advisers” at Gilfillan’s agency.  Spreading the Word  A group of doctors and nurses will focus on just a few
dozen patients with diabetes and other health problems and
manage their cases without taking cost into account, Lewis said.
The theory is that doing intensive preventive care may be costly
upfront, but it will cut down on more expensive hospital stays
down the line, she said.  Other companies are also using the innovation center to
spread word about their own experiments.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker, and Janssen
Alzheimer Immunotherapy, a unit of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , are
offering a $300,000 prize for ideas to improve the care of
Alzheimer’s patients. To find people who might be interested in
competing, the companies made a presentation at Gilfillan’s
January conference.  Only Successful Experiment  The newest efforts stand in stark contrast to what’s been
attempted in the past, those involved with the center said.  Previous failures by Medicare experiments include a project
that let physician groups keep any share of savings they could
generate by more efficiently caring for their patients and six
attempts to control health costs by employing nurses as care
managers, the CBO said in its January report.  The only experiment of the 10 it studied that succeeded at
reducing costs was a project to change the way Medicare paid for
heart bypass surgery, the budget office said.  Medicare “went in before with more of a cost objective in
mind, and any time you do that you’re probably not going to get
better care and better health,” said Suzanne Blaug, head of the
Janssen unit, in an interview.  By flipping the script and focusing on health improvements
first, “we believe that costs will be reduced,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  