-- Obama Needs to Show Voters He’s Why Economy Improving
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n   a n d   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-03-22T19:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/obama-needs-to-show-voters-he-s-why-economy-improving.html
On March 9, President  Barack Obama 
flew to Petersburg, Virginia, to tour a Rolls-Royce aircraft
engine plant. He’d been to Petersburg before as a candidate,
when he stopped his campaign bus to grab lunch at a burger
joint. That was in 2008, when he could still blame someone else
for the misfortunes of the people he met inside.  On this visit, the president was long on optimism and short
on promises, even with all the recent good news about the
economy. That morning, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported
227,000 jobs had been created in February, capping the best six
months of job growth since 2006. The stock market had doubled
over the past three years, and unemployment was falling. Still,
Obama took care not to boast, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its March 26 issue.  The economy has gotten off to a good start each of the past
two years, only to slump in the summer, and in Petersburg, Obama
cited the favorable jobs report only in passing.  “Day by day, we’re restoring this economy from crisis,”
he said. “But we can’t stop there.”  Between now and Election Day, Obama must convince people he
has steered the economy well enough to warrant another term. He
can make a case that he’s gotten some big things right. His
administration halted the worst downturn since the Great
Depression and rescued the financial sector with a plan that
drew on private, rather than public, funds to recapitalize
ailing banks. Even with an intractable Congress, he kept the
government from shutting down or defaulting on its debt, which
bought the economy time to heal.  Tepid Growth  Yet Obama and his advisers failed to recognize the shape
and scope of the crisis and hesitated to push for new jobs
programs once they did. With overwhelming assistance from the
Federal Reserve, growth remains tepid and  unemployment , though
falling, remains high at 8.3 percent. No modern president has
been re-elected with a rate above 7.2 percent.  Unlike  Ronald Reagan  or  George W. Bush , Obama isn’t
identified with a clear economic philosophy. During his
presidency, he has advocated spending more money to create jobs,
cutting the deficit, and investing for the long term --sometimes
all at once.  “President Obama’s economic approach is deeply
pragmatic,” says his former adviser, Lawrence Summers. Others
are less generous.  “I can’t infer a theory,” says Glenn Hubbard, Columbia
Business School dean and former economic adviser to Bush.  No ‘Policy Rudder’  “I’ve watched the president for a long time, and he’s very
smart, but he doesn’t have a policy rudder,” says  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who ran the Congressional Budget Office in the Bush
years and advised Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential
campaign.  Obama’s re-election chances depend heavily on how many
Americans are drawing paychecks this fall. They will also be
determined by how people assess the man who has overseen the
economy these last three years. Did his actions hasten the
recovery, or prolong the slump? His aides argue that things
could have been worse; could they have been appreciably better?  And what guides Obama’s decisions?  As the outlook has brightened, Bloomberg Businessweek put
these questions to current and former members of his
administration, and to some of their allies and opponents, to
understand the reasoning behind the president’s key economic
decisions. The idea was to discern a theory of “Obamanomics”
and an answer to the question: If the recovery is real, is it
because Obama is good - or just lucky?  ‘Very Dark’  “We were planning for a world that was very dark, and we
were very worried.” That’s how Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  recalls the first meetings of the president-elect’s
economic team in late 2008.  The discussions at that moment - when expectations for the
Obama presidency were rising in direct proportion to the
collapse of the global economy - focused mostly on the size of
the stimulus. Stretched out in an easy chair in his stately
corner office, looking every bit the crisis-ravaged veteran,
Geithner dismisses the charge, delivered most forcefully by New
York Times columnist Paul Krugman and other liberal critics,
that the White House blew its first major decision by settling
for too small a package to bring about a strong recovery.  ‘Larger Than Anybody  “We believed we should put everything we could behind the
initial response and then keep at it,” Geithner says. “And on
the stimulus, we were larger than anybody else on the relevant
part of the political spectrum.”  During the transition,  Christina Romer , who became chairman
of Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, calculated it would
take an astounding sum - $1.8 trillion - to return the economy
to full employment by 2011. An economist at the University of
California at Berkeley and a scholar of the Great Depression,
Romer was vigilant about avoiding the mistakes of the 1930s.  Most of her colleagues feared the political shock of
proposing anything so large; they wound up agreeing on a figure
of $800 billion.  “That was the magical line,” says Rahm Emanuel, Obama’s
first White House chief of staff. “The  Washington  conventional
wisdom was anything above that, you were crazy. Anything below,
you were being prudent. We got as much as we could. We knew that
we were going to have to do other things.”  Shrinking Forecasts  Geithner may have been planning for a world that was very
dark, but it turned out the administration’s projections weren’t
close to dark enough. The Department of Commerce initially
reported the economy was shrinking at a rate of 3.8 percent at
the end of 2008.  Routine revisions of the data later showed the economy had
actually been contracting at the far more alarming rate of
8.9 percent.  “Economists across the political spectrum, and at least
some of us in the White House, realized too slowly the severity
of the crisis,” says  Michael Greenstone , a Massachusetts
Institute of Technology professor and chief economist of the
Council of Economic Advisers at the time. “No one had
experienced anything like it in their lifetime. Coming off a
decade of what was clearly unwarranted self-congratulation about
the ‘Great Moderation,’ that we had solved the problems about
recessions - all of that created a terrible blind spot.”  Faulty Assumption  The Obama administration also made a faulty assumption
about how long the recession would last. The economic team, led
by Summers, the Harvard University professor and former Clinton
 Treasury Secretary  who directed the National Economic Council,
expected something close to a “V-shaped” recovery - a deep
drop followed by a rapid climb back. Many of the leading
macroeconomic models concurred. This scenario came to dominate
internal discussions and produced a stimulus designed to deliver
support quickly and then fade away.  The U.S. was actually heading into a drawn-out “L-shaped”
recovery - the type that typically follows a financial crisis,
as economists  Carmen Reinhart  and Kenneth Rogoff documented in a
widely read paper in early 2008.  “The size of the stimulus delivered in 2009 has received
lots of attention, but probably was less consequential” than
its design, says  Peter Orszag , former director of the Office of
Management and Budget. “The timing matters a lot. The initial
stimulus was mostly restricted to 2009 and 2010, when in the end
more was necessary in 2011 and 2012.”  At the time, economists including Nobel laureates Joseph Stiglitz of Columbia University and Krugman were warning of the
dangers of a prolonged recession and criticizing the White House
approach as insufficient.  Predictions  “It’s fair to say that there could have been more weight
given to the possibility that the models predicting a V-shaped
recovery were wrong,” says Orszag. “And if that central
prediction is wrong, what are the consequences?”  At first, a V-shaped recovery did appear to be under way.
The recession officially ended in June 2009. In January 2010 the
government reported the economy grew at a rate of 5.7 percent in
the fourth quarter--the fastest pace in seven years. (That
figure, too, was later revised downward, to 3.8 percent.)  In the spring, when the sovereign debt crisis hit  Europe ,
growth slowed and by year-end the stimulus was phasing out -just
as the weakened economy was being beset by a series of foreign
and domestic crises.  Summers had argued for a more modest stimulus, partly on
the assumption that the White House could go back to Congress
for more money later if necessary.  Too Little Late  “It is easier to add down the road to insufficient fiscal
stimulus than to subtract from excessive fiscal stimulus,” he
wrote in a December 2008 memo to Obama later published by the
New Yorker. “We can if necessary take further steps.”  That turned out to be wrong. Republicans and many Democrats
recoiled at the idea of further government spending, and the
next three years became a struggle to eke out any further
support.  As early as May 2009, Obama had begun worrying about the
possibility of a jobless recovery. He asked his economic team to
assemble ideas.  The White House declined requests for an interview with
Obama for this story.  “He had a sense even then that the leftover effects from
the financial crisis were straining the economy to a greater
extent than I think professional economists had expected,” says
Alan Krueger, a labor economist at Princeton University who was
an assistant Treasury secretary and now heads the Council of
Economic Advisers.  Concerted Push  Had Obama resolved right then to make a concerted push, he
might have altered the shape of the recovery. Government could,
in theory, create additional jobs through further spending, and
his advisers sifted through the options, devising models to
predict how they might perform.  These included funneling more money to state and local
governments to prevent job losses forced by the collapse in tax
revenue; programs to “green” buildings and improve roads and
bridges that could employ the legions of idle construction
workers; and a hiring tax credit for employers who added new
workers, a favorite because some models suggested this could add
as many as 1 million jobs at the relatively cheap cost of
$30 billion.  “The available evidence was it would have been very low
cost per job created,” Greenstone says. “The question was,
what is the cheapest and fastest way to get the most jobs?”  The debate dragged on for months without resolution, even
though the optimal economic response wasn’t really in dispute.  It was “accelerator now, brake later,” Romer’s phrase
meaning more stimulus followed, later, by deficit reduction to
ensure the economy’s long-term health.  Public and Private  Still, Obama concluded that what was economically desirable
wasn’t politically feasible.  “The system had come to a point politically - maybe not
economically, but politically - where those lines diverged,”
says Emanuel.  The White House was selling the first stimulus as a
success. Calling for more stimulus would have undermined that.
It might also have soured lawmakers on the health-care bill
wending its way through Congress, which was Obama’s priority.
And he held out hope that a V-shaped recovery was on track. In
December 2009, when Romer broke the news that only 11,000 jobs
were lost in the prior month, down from 800,000 in January,
Obama hugged her.  Deficit Concerns  By then the country’s tolerance for more government
spending was wearing thin. In summer 2010 the deficit had
replaced jobs as the locus of public anger when Tea Party
activists across the country assailed their members of Congress
at town hall meetings.  “At that point,” says  Jared Bernstein , Vice President
Joseph Biden’s former chief economist, “you had GDP beginning
to grow, and you had what some started calling green shoots, and
the gravitational pull toward politics became stronger.
Presidents sometimes get different advice from their economic
and political advisers. When the economy is careening off a
cliff, they give extra weight to economic advisers. When things
are improving, they might give more weight to political
advisers. The problem was, things weren’t really improving that
much. It wasn’t at that point where you have a virtuous cycle of
growth.”  There’s no way of knowing whether Obama was really boxed
in, as he believed, or whether he might have gotten the economy
more help if only he’d campaigned to save teachers’ jobs or give
businesses further resources to hire. The decision not to try
soon took on unexpected significance.  In December 2009 the president still had a filibuster-proof
majority in the Senate, and that same month the Democratic-
controlled House pushed through a $154 billion economic aid
package.  Special Election  A month later, Republicans won the Massachusetts special
Senate election to replace Kennedy, and with it the 41 votes
needed to block Democratic proposals. That foreclosed the
possibility of any more help coming on a party-line vote, which
was by far the likeliest way to get any further stimulus.  Looking back, some members of his administration regret not
trying for more while they had the chance.  “I’ve never been convinced, given how sick the economy
was,” Romer says, “that we couldn’t have gotten something
through.”  Combat  Obama’s most vexing year may have been 2010, when domestic
politics, world events, and economic conditions made it
difficult to find a path forward.  “It looked like they came to a fork in the road and took a
year to decide which way to go - jobs or deficit,” says Vincent Reinhart, chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley and a former
senior Fed official. “Whether to buy into fiscal consolidation
or whether to direct efforts toward the labor market to reduce
unemployment.”  Over the objections of Summers and Romer, the president
began emphasizing the deficit, proposing Orszag’s idea of a
three-year freeze on non-military discretionary spending in his
January State of the Union speech.  “Like any cash-strapped family,” he said, “we will work
within a budget to invest in what we need and sacrifice what we
don’t.” By conceding his conservative critics’ main point, that
austerity, not stimulus, was the proper path forward, Obama
shrank his options.  Employers were reluctant to hire, for reasons that went
beyond the recession.  Labor Costs  “The small business sector froze in its tracks as it tried
to digest the health-care bill,” says David Rosenberg, chief
economist of Gluskin Sheff & Associates, a wealth management
firm in Toronto. “You can argue it was good social policy. But
if the business sector is facing an uncertain outlook, they’re
not going to add labor costs to their bill.”  The Republican talking point that Obama was hostile to
business was also gaining currency, partly because his marquee
initiatives - health-care and climate change legislation -
involved daunting new regulatory schemes, and partly because he
seemed perennially unsure about how to address business leaders.  He’s lauded small businesses for “raising wages and
creating good jobs,” in this year’s State of the Union, while
simultaneously criticizing a culture where “a shrinking number
of people do really well while a growing number of Americans
barely get by.”  Business Roundtable  Obama knows he has fences to mend. On March 6 he spent more
than an hour with about 100 CEOs from the Business Roundtable at
the Newseum in Washington. In contrast to past meetings, the
press was barred and the conversation was unscripted, says
Motorola Solutions CEO Greg Brown.  “It is that kind of engagement that he needs to do more
of,” says American Electric Power CEO Nick Akins, who attended
the same event. “He does understand the issues that we’re
facing.”  Still, he adds, “you can’t just go around bashing
corporations when corporations are doing very important things
for the economy, providing jobs and so on.”  Geithner says that what really kept the economy from
rebounding were “headwinds” beyond the administration’s
control. To illustrate this, he has an aide retrieve a chart
tracking monthly changes in private-sector employment since
2008.  The chart shows steep losses that bottom out in
January 2009 (Obama’s first month in office) and then improve
almost as rapidly, with growth turning positive in
February 2010. Then the line flattens - a reaction to the first
tremors of a possible Greek default. Geithner’s point: Not our
fault.  Headwinds  Absent these headwinds, he says, the recovery would have
been stronger. Geithner’s critics contend the only thing the
chart demonstrates is the administration’s naive faith that the
upward trend would continue.  “There was little warrant either in the historical record
of the aftermath of financial crises or in the macroeconomic
forecasts for such judgment,” says J. Bradford DeLong, a
Berkeley economist and former Clinton Treasury official.  In the fall of 2010 the Democrats were routed in the
midterm elections, losing control of the House. Yet in the
immediate after-math, an opportunity arose in the lame-duck
session of Congress to trade a full extension of the Bush tax
cuts for additional stimulus. This put Obama in a quandary.
Republicans refused the administration’s entreaties to extend
its package of tax credits for working families. Yet they did
indicate they’d agree to a one-year payroll tax cut of similar
size, an idea conservatives had been pushing for months.  Blunter, Costlier  Although blunter and more costly than the jobs measures
favored by Obama’s team, this option still promised what
amounted to $120 billion in stimulus - though Republicans would
never call it that.  Geithner and Gene Sperling, a Treasury adviser and current
director of the National Economic Council, recognized further
that Republicans would be hard-pressed to oppose extending that
tax cut when it expired a year later, meaning there was good
reason to believe the White House would wind up with $240
billion in stimulus as it eventually did.  For Obama, this presented an opportunity to secure
something that had seemed well out of reach - at the price of
his reputation and standing with liberals in his party. He had
repeatedly sworn to veto any extension of tax cuts for the rich.
Now he was wavering.  ‘The Unthinkable’  “We had started to think about the unthinkable - that we’d
have to extend them all,” says Sperling. This set off an
intense debate.  “We had a series of meetings about strategy,” says Austan
Goolsbee, who succeeded Romer as chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers. “Should we have a giant battle, or should we
make a deal?”  Obama took the deal and absorbed the Democratic outcry. It
was a shrewd decision, and exemplifies his approach to economic
policy: get the necessary result, even at a painful cost.  One of the great mysteries of Obama’s presidency is why he
turned so aggressively toward  deficit  reduction when the economy
was still ailing. With demand weak, unemployment high, and
borrowing costs low, textbook economics called for more
government activism, not less.  “The president made the basic judgment,” Geithner says,
“that the price of entry into the debate for more short-term
stimulus or a sustained investment agenda is showing that you
can afford it, and that required laying out a path to bring down
the deficit.”  Emboldened Democrats  The emboldened Republican Party, with its new House
majority, was fixated on spending cuts alone and exploited
Obama’s desire to balance cuts with revenue. With the
possibility of a government shutdown in April and a default on
federal debt in August, Obama spent much of 2011 in a back-and-
forth with Republicans over the size and scope of government.
Obama resisted the deficit-cutting prescriptions put forward by
the Bowles-Simpson commission he’d appointed; these included
steep spending cuts and eliminating tax loopholes.  By summer 2011, Obama had begun negotiating with House
Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and he took up many of
these same ideas.  Amid these talks, the White House saw continuing to
campaign aggressively for jobs was almost impossible because it
might have poisoned the atmosphere.  “Any time you’re locked in confidential negotiations,”
Sperling told the Washington Post on Feb. 4, “you are to some
degree sacrificing your ability to fully speak your heart and
mind for the sake of trying to focus on getting one very
important thing done.”  ‘Strong Political Move’  One reason Obama got stuck in deficit quicksand is that he
had ruled out actions that might have forced a resolution -
calling the Republicans’ bluff and permitting a shutdown, or
invoking the 14th Amendment to unilaterally raise the debt limit
- as too risky for the country’s fragile economic condition..  “It would have been a strong political move, without
question, to act independently,” says David Axelrod, Obama’s
chief strategist. “Whether it would have been a strong economic
move, given the uncertainty it would have created, is a
different question.”  By July, as the deadline for default neared, the economy’s
resilience was a pressing concern. Once again, the year had
begun with forecasts of strong growth that failed to
materialize, in part because new headwinds appeared--the
Japanese tsunami and earthquake, the Arab Spring, and the slow-
motion euro-zone debt crisis. With Republicans credibly
threatening to force a default, Obama’s immediate task was
staving off disaster at home. He acceded to $900 billion in
spending cuts in exchange for raising the debt ceiling, without
getting a dime of revenue in return.  Low Point  The low point in Obama’s stewardship of the economy came on
September 2, when Sperling and Katharine Abraham, a member of
the Council of Economic Advisers, shared the task of informing
the president that the economy had failed to create a single job
in August. There were no hugs. This came on the heels of
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of U.S. government debt, and the
grim news that the chaos of the near-default had driven  consumer
confidence  much lower than anticipated. A slide back into
recession seemed possible. Republicans dubbed Obama “President
Zero”; soon after, his Gallup approval rating reached its
nadir, 39 percent.  This finally forced Obama to accept the futility of trying
to compromise.  Leveraging Public Opinion  “The only way we could move the Congress,” Axelrod says,
“was to leverage public opinion in a much more direct way and
take the case out to the American people. Sitting in a room with
John Boehner and Mitch McConnell for hours a day, hoping that
the gods of reason would come and kiss everyone on the cheek,
was not that promising.”  Obama stopped negotiating with Republicans and set his
sights instead on getting re-elected. The White House decided to
focus almost singularly on jobs, proposing a $447 billion
American Jobs Act that suspended payroll taxes for employers and
lower-income employees, and added unemployment benefits for the
long-term jobless.  It’s Obama’s great luck that this new emphasis on jobs has
coincided almost exactly with the recent turnaround in the
economy. Just when things seemed hopeless, hiring began to pick
up. That terrible August employment number -zero- was
subsequently revised upward to 200,000 new jobs. The economy has
been on a roll ever since. In the past six months, nonfarm
payrolls grew by 1.2 million, the most in six years. The
 unemployment rate  has fallen to 8.3 percent.  Faster Run  The puzzling thing is, no one is quite sure why this is
happening. Employment is coming back faster than growth can
explain, which raises questions about whether the trend is
sustainable. That’s the opposite of what happened in 2009, when
the economy shed  jobs  even faster than the decline in the gross
domestic product indicated it should.  Economists have several theories about why job growth has
been so strong. Maybe GDP is growing faster than reported
(good). Maybe employment is growing more slowly than reported
(bad). Maybe the growth in workers’ productivity has slowed,
which means more hiring (good in the short term - jobs! - but
very bad in the long term because the U.S. will be less
competitive).  “Everyone has their favored explanation,” says Orszag,
“but no one knows yet which is right.”  It’s the Economy  From the moment Obama took office, the economy has posed
the greatest threat to his political fortunes. Often overlooked
in assessments of his performance is the critical role played by
his mostly silent partner at the  Federal Reserve , Ben Bernanke.  Over the past three years the Fed has taken extraordinary
steps to stimulate the economy through monetary policy, even as
Congress has blown hot and cold on fiscal policy. From the Fed’s
unprecedented involvement in the 2008 rescue of Bear Stearns to
its massive bond purchases to drive down long-term  interest
rates , Bernanke has shown a willingness to test the limits of
his power.  If the recovery does slow this year, as it did after
promising starts in 2010 and 2011, scrutiny will fall heaviest
not on Bernanke but on Obama, who will be subjected to endless
second-guessing about what he might have done differently.  “Starting in June 2009,” says DeLong, “they should have
taken steps to set up the game board so they could still
maneuver after Congress got nervous about the next election.”  Stimulus Plan  Had Obama appreciated the possibility of an L-shaped
recovery, he might have designed a stimulus better suited to
respond to it, possibly by tying support measures to cyclical
indicators, such as the unemployment rate, so they’d last until
the economy recovered.  “That would have been relatively cheap to do,” Orszag
says, “because CBO was assuming a V-shaped recovery, so it
wouldn’t have cost much. Perhaps Congress wouldn’t have gone
along, but that’s the kind of policy you’d pay a lot of
attention to if you’re doing downside risk analysis, but that
you don’t put a lot of emphasis on if you’re overly confident of
your projection.”  The White House also failed to fill two vacant seats on the
Fed’s board of governors.  “For two years I had a Post-it note on my computer: ‘Hound
Tim [Geithner] about Fed governors,’ ” Romer says. A more
dovish Fed might have enabled Bernanke to act sooner, or more
aggressively.  Mortgage Defaults  Not doing more to address cascading mortgage defaults also
looks costly in hindsight. The White House economists didn’t
appreciate that housing was a cause, not just an effect, of the
lingering slump. Perhaps fearful of a backlash - a televised
rant about undeserving delinquent homeowners launched the Tea
Party - the administration never provided generous mortgage
relief.  Obama could have used the $250 billion of leftover Troubled
Asset Relief Program money as additional stimulus, possibly in
the form of an infrastructure bank, a mass refinance program for
underwater mortgages, or some other vehicle. But each of these
ideas would have required a different sort of president - one
who was more partisan, more radical, more inclined toward
confrontation, perhaps equipped with more of a tragic sense of
all that Washington could do wrong.  Obama often points out that he’s had to contend with the
gravest financial crisis of any president since Franklin Roosevelt. One difference is that Roosevelt consistently took up
sweeping new policies if he thought they could help, even risky
or unproven ones.  ‘Rooseveltian Resolve’  Bernanke himself has hailed the value of “Rooseveltian
resolve” in helping damaged economies to recover. In a famous
paper, he wrote, “Roosevelt’s specific policy actions were, I
think, less important than his willingness to be aggressive and
experiment - in short, to do whatever it took to get the country
moving again.”  Obama’s major economic policy decisions were guided by a
much different spirit, a cautious, results-oriented pragmatism
that is the heart of Obamanomics. Like John  Maynard Keynes ,
Obama believes government can and should act to alleviate
downturns with higher spending and tax cuts. But he’s
disinclined to challenge political constraints, settling for
what he’s able to get.  “Keynes was willing to change his mind and do things [in a
crisis] that would otherwise be viewed as radical or
inconsistent with conventional macroeconomics,” Reinhart says.
Roosevelt went much further down this path than Obama would dare
- for instance, by taking the U.S. off the gold standard. Where
Obama has gone furthest is in his willingness to suffer to avoid
damage to the economy.  Contrast With Obama  His caution is a striking contrast to candidate Obama, who
seemed to embody radical change. As president, he’s steered an
imperfect course that has nonetheless brought the U.S. to a
position of economic stability and modest growth. That’s far
from ideal, yet measured against other countries, whose leaders
made different choices, the results don’t look half bad.
“Europe is a compelling validation of our financial strategy,”
Geithner says.  The choices Obama made helped bring about this result, even
though he had help from the Fed, and even though they don’t
quite explain the recent strength of the recovery. But the
business cycle operates by a logic all its own. It cursed
Herbert Hoover and blessed Ronald Reagan. Obama’s good fortune
is that this sudden upturn is occurring just when he needs it
most.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Coy in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  