-- Obama’s Speedy Keystone Review Won’t Accelerate Cushing Pipe
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-03-22T17:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/obama-s-speedy-keystone-review-won-t-accelerate-cushing-pipeline.html
President  Barack Obama ’s promise to
expedite the review of the southern leg of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL pipeline won’t speed up the project, which already
is slated to start construction as soon as June.  TransCanada is awaiting permits from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, the last it needs to begin construction on the
pipeline segment that will carry crude from the oil-storage hub
at Cushing, Oklahoma, to Gulf Coast refineries, Terry Cunha, a
spokesman for the Calgary-based company, said in an e-mail
message yesterday.  TransCanada’s president of energy and oil pipelines, Alex Pourbaix, said in an interview March 6 that construction on the
Cushing phase of Keystone may begin as soon as June. The company
doesn’t expect the new review process to change that schedule,
Cunha said yesterday. The  Army Corps  typically approves permits
for this type of project within 60 days, according to Meg
Gaffney-Smith, chief of the Corps’s regulatory program.  Obama appeared in Cushing today as part of a four-state
tour to promote his energy policies as Republicans blame him for
surging gasoline prices. He announced that the administration is
designating the southern Keystone section an infrastructure
priority, which will make the project eligible for accelerated
review of permit applications.  “We’re making this new pipeline from Cushing to the Gulf a
priority,” Obama said today in prepared remarks. “We’re going
to go ahead and get that done.”  Keystone XL Rejected  Obama in January denied a permit for the Keystone XL to
bring oil-sands crude from  Canada  to the  Texas  coast, citing
environmental concerns. TransCanada announced plans Feb. 27 to
proceed with just the Cushing-to-Gulf segment of the pipeline.
The project is expected to ease a supply bottleneck in Oklahoma
by eventually bringing as much as 830,000 barrels of oil a day
to Texas refineries.  Since the Cushing phase doesn’t cross an international
border, it doesn’t require permission from the U.S. Department
of State and president, as the full project did. The Obama
administration released a statement in February saying the White
House will “take every step possible to expedite the necessary
federal permits.”  Obama’s new designation of the pipeline as an
infrastructure priority was dismissed by Republicans as
political window dressing on a project that’s already well under
way to deflect criticism Obama has received for refusing to
approve the northern segment of TransCanada’s line.  Obama was “trying to take credit for part of the pipeline
that doesn’t even require his approval,” Boehner, on Ohio
Republican, told reporters at his weekly news conference in
 Washington . “This idea that the president is going to expedite
this will have no impact on the construction of this pipeline.”  Rising Pump Prices  While on his two-day trip, Obama will also be focusing on
natural gas, solar and alternative-energy research. The cost of
oil is a political flashpoint as he seeks re-election in
November. Even as the broader economy improves, voters are
reminded daily by signs at local gas stations that they are
spending more to drive.  The average retail price of regular gasoline in the U.S.
was $3.84 a gallon as of March 20, up about 17 percent since the
start of the year, according to the American Automobile
Association’s daily fuel price survey. Crude oil for May
delivery rose $1.66, or 1.6 percent, to $107.27 a barrel
yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The federal permits now needed for the $2.3 billion Cushing
segment of Keystone mainly concern the environmental impact of
the pipeline where it crosses rivers and streams. The permits
required under the U.S. Clean Water Act typically are approved
in 45 to 60 days if the project is determined to have minimal
environmental impact, according to the Association of Oil
Pipelines, a Washington-based trade group.  Tunneling Under  TransCanada plans to tunnel 50 to 100 feet below any rivers
it crosses as it builds the pipeline to minimize environmental
impact, said Pourbaix, the company’s pipeline president.  “Most large rivers would be crossed using the horizontal
directional drilling method, which would install the pipeline
well below the active river bed,” according to an environmental
 impact study  of the XL pipeline route completed last year by the
U.S. State Department. “As a result, direct disturbance to the
river bed, fish, aquatic animals and plants, and river banks
would be avoided.”  TransCanada originally requested water-crossing permits for
the XL project from the Corps of Engineers last year. Corps
officials at district offices in  Oklahoma  and Texas “suspended
all work” on the permits after the State Department raised
questions in November about Keystone’s total environmental
impact, Gaffney-Smith said in  Feb. 3 testimony  to a
Congressional committee.  New Application  TransCanada is in discussions with the Corps about
submitting new permit applications for the Cushing segment,
Gaffney-Smith said in an interview yesterday. The company will
be allowed to reuse the documentation from the original
application if the route doesn’t change, she said. The Corps has
a goal of issuing approvals within 60 days, she said.  “Provided there are no issues, I believe we can process
this application fairly quickly, but I can’t put a specific
timeline on it,” she said.  In a now-separate process, TransCanada plans to submit
“within weeks” a new permit application to the State
Department for the northern leg of the XL pipeline that would
run from Hardisty,  Alberta  to  Steele City ,  Nebraska , said
Pourbaix. The company is developing a new route with regulators
in Nebraska.  Northern Segment Decision  The State Department has told TransCanada that it may make
a decision on the northern segment application as soon as March
2013, he said.  Michael Brune , executive director of the San Francisco-
based  Sierra Club (FFDEX) , the largest grassroots environmental group in
the country, said the president’s decision to issue an executive
order to speed up permitting for the southern portion of the
Keystone pipeline “may have been a political calculation for
the administration.”  “It puts American families at risk and only serves to
deepen our dependence on oil,” Brune said in an e-mailed
statement.  Obama also is using his trip to emphasize clean energy.
Speaking in front of a field of solar panels at the Copper
Mountain Solar 1 Facility near Boulder City,  Nevada , Obama said
yesterday the U.S. must stay ahead of countries such as China
and  India  in the development of alternative energy sources while
increasing production of fossil fuels.  “As long as I’m president we will not walk away from the
promise of clean energy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  