-- Oil Near One-Week Low in New York; Set for Weekly Decline
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-03-23T12:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-economy-set-for-weekly-decline.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest close
in seven days in New York, paring a weekly decline, on
speculation a strengthening  U.S. economy  will increase demand
for crude.  Futures advanced as much as 0.8 percent after falling 1.8
percent yesterday. The number of Americans saying the U.S.
economy is improving climbed to the highest level since 2004, a
survey showed yesterday. The  International Energy Agency  said it
isn’t planning a release of emergency oil stockpiles. Prices
fell this week after reports showed bigger-than-predicted
manufacturing contractions in Europe and  China .  “The economic situation is coming more into focus,” said
Gerrit Zambo, a trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The
Chinese numbers put a lot of pressure on the markets this week,
while better-than-expected U.S. jobless figures kept oil
supported.”  Oil for May delivery rose as much as 82 cents to $106.17 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange and was at $105.59 at
12:14 p.m. London time. It slid $1.92 yesterday to $105.35, the
lowest close since March 15, and is down 1.4 percent this week.  Brent oil for May settlement gained 67 cents to $123.81 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.22 after reaching an almost five-
month high of $19.54 on March 14.  No Release Planned  A release of strategic reserves isn’t warranted at the
moment, said Maria van der Hoeven, executive director of the
IEA. “Stock releases are about disruption of supplies and there
is no disruption of supplies,” she said in  New Delhi .  French Industry Minister Eric Besson said March 21 that
releasing some strategic oil stockpiles was “one option” being
considered to counter rising crude prices.  Oil has risen 6.8 percent in New York this year as  Iran 
threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a
fifth of the world’s oil, in response to Western sanctions on
its petroleum exports aimed at halting its nuclear program.  Thirty-four percent of respondents to Bloomberg’s monthly
consumer expectations survey said the U.S. economy was
improving, the largest share since January 2004. Applications
for  unemployment benefits  dropped last week to the lowest level
in four years, the Labor Department said yesterday.  An index of Chinese manufacturing in March from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economic yesterday fell to 48.1 from
49.6 in February. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. A
euro-area measure of services and manufacturing industries
dropped to 48.7 for March from 49.3. Economists predicted an
increase to 49.6.  Gasoline demand  in the U.S. slid for the third week in four
in the seven days ended March 16, an Energy Department report
showed this week.  Oil may drop next week due to the dip in U.S. fuel
consumption and Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi’s
remarks this week that the kingdom can increase output
immediately, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Seventeen of 30
analysts, or 57 percent, said oil will fall through March 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  