-- Honda Promotes American Managers in Push for U.S. Revival
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-22T20:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/honda-promotes-american-managers-in-push-for-u-s-revival.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  was the first Asian
carmaker to build autos in the U.S. and is the most dependent on
the market. Now it’s also putting more non-Japanese in key
roles.  North American Chief Operating Officer  Tetsuo Iwamura 
becomes executive vice president April 1 and No. 2 to President
Takanobu Ito. His new seven-member board will manage activities
from product planning to production to sales in North America.
Three members will be U.S. natives, the first time Americans
held such responsibility, including Erik Berkman to lead
regional product development and design.  “Honda quite literally has become a North American car
company headquartered in Tokyo, and that’s a horrible
combination,” Jim Hall, principal of 2953 Analytics Inc., an
auto consultant in Birmingham,  Michigan , said in a phone
interview. “When your headquarters isn’t in your most important
and biggest-volume market, you become disconnected. We can see
that’s what’s been happening to them. This is to reconnect
headquarters with their most important market.”  While Honda’s U.S. problems have been less dramatic than
those of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which recalled millions of vehicles
for unintended acceleration, they’ve been significant. Even
before last year’s earthquake and tsunami cut supplies, core
Honda cars such as the Civic and Accord were losing ground to
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  models that won praise for
stylish looks and fuel economy.  Growing competition spurred Honda to offer U.S. incentives
that were 87 percent of the industry average in this year’s
first two months, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
Autodata Corp. In 2008, Honda’s discounts were less than half
the average.  ‘Out of Necessity’  “For too long they’ve lived in this cocoon of ‘What we’re
doing is good enough,’” said  Maryann Keller , principal of a
self-named consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s a
recognition that that’s no longer the case, so I think they are
making these moves out of necessity.”  For the first time, Honda’s No. 2 executive will be based
at the company’s U.S. headquarters in Torrance,  California ,
instead of  Tokyo .  “Knowing the current competitive and complicated
marketplace, rapid changes in customer needs, we think it’s
better to put more emphasis on the American side,” Iwamura said
in a March 12 interview. “Production and R&D, development
facilities, those can be done by investing money. Localization
of the people is one of the key issues.”  Honda’s American depositary receipts rose 1.1 percent to
$38.83 at the close in  New York .  Toyota Moves  Honda’s revenue from sales of autos, motorcycles and power
products in North America was  986.2 billion yen  ($12.7 billion)
in the quarter that ended Dec. 31, or 51 percent of its global
total. While U.S. sales of Honda and Acura autos fell to 1.15
million units last year, that was still 38 percent of the
company’s worldwide volume.  Toyota, too, is giving more authority to North American
executives, to improve development of products for the market
and avoid a repeat of the 2009-10 recall crisis.  This month, Toyota promoted  Jim Lentz  to chief executive
officer of its U.S. sales unit, the first time that job has gone
to an American.  Asia ’s largest automaker last week said Steve St. Angelo,
executive vice president for North American engineering and
manufacturing, will oversee regional production as part of his
duties on Toyota’s North American management committee. Ray Tanguay, chairman of Toyota’s Canadian unit, is responsible for
North American quality issues. Lentz will oversee regional
sales, marketing and product planning.  Honda’s Revamping  Toyota President Akio Toyoda has said shifting more
responsibility to local managers in  North America  is central to
his goal of restoring customer satisfaction hurt by the recalls.  Honda’s U.S. car and light truck sales slid 6.8 percent
last year after natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand  curbed
output of parts and vehicles. The company’s redesigned Civic
also flopped in tests by Consumer Reports, which recommended
previous versions, a sign that the carmaker’s ills extended
beyond 2011’s one-time events.  For decades, products created for the U.S. came from a
“synergy effect” between Japanese and American engineers,
Iwamura said. Going forward, American engineers making product
decisions for U.S. customers is the best way to increase
competitiveness, Iwamura said.  “That is one of the reasons we appointed Erik as the top
man of R&D,” he said. Berkman, who begins his new job April 1,
was traveling in  Japan  and unavailable for an interview.  Honda’s Targets  John Mendel , executive vice president of U.S. sales, is
also joining Berkman on Honda’s North American management board,
as is Tom Shoupe, president of the company’s Alabama plant.  Honda wants to rebound this year with a 24 percent U.S.
sales gain. It has made some progress, boosting sales 11 percent
in 2012’s first two months, led by a 45 percent jump in Civic
deliveries. The company plans to release a modified Civic later
this year to address concerns raised by Consumer Reports, as
well as a redesigned Accord.  The company’s U.S., Canadian and Mexican plants may also
set a production volume record, building about 1.8 million
vehicles this year.  The automaker is completing more than $690 million of
upgrades at U.S. plants and is also building an $800 million
factory in  Mexico  to produce subcompact models such as the Fit.  In January, Honda said it planned to build its Acura NSX
“supercar” in Ohio within about two years. The racing-style
coupe will sell for more than $100,000. The site and cost of
that project hasn’t been announced.  Restoring Reputation  Restoring its reputation as an industry innovator, a legacy
of founder Soichiro Honda, is a bigger challenge than boosting
sales and production.  “It’s not just the Koreans; everyone has gotten better,”
Keller said. “In terms of quality and features, it’s a game of
equals. It’s just a lot harder for Toyota and Honda to stand
out.”  It may be years before Honda’s changes in local management
are effective, said Hall of 2953 Analytics.  “It’s safe to say that if they keep going the way they
were going, they were heading for a decline with other guys
passing them and just doing better than they are,” he said. In
the U.S., “the question is whether they’ve caught their
problems soon enough to not get passed by Hyundai-Kia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  