-- Hong Kong Middle Class Bitter as Tycoons Choose Leaders
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-23T06:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/hong-kong-middle-class-backlash-fed-by-tycoons-chosing-leaders.html
Stephen Chung gave up on buying an
apartment in  Hong Kong  after realizing it would take him 10
years to save the $115,000 deposit for a two-bedroom box in the
northern part of the former British colony. He isn’t expecting
any help from the city’s next leader.  “In this place there are only two kinds of people -- those
who can afford to buy a home and all the good stuff, and those
who can’t,” said Chung, 25, who quit his advertising job last
year to start a tourism firm. “There’s no more middle class.”  Chung’s bitterness reflects a broader disillusionment with
the city’s leadership ahead of a March 25 election, which will
see a 1,193-member committee of billionaires, businessmen,
lawmakers and academics choose a new chief executive for the
next five years. While  China ’s tacit approval is seen as
necessary to win, the campaign -- with two candidates dogged by
personal scandal and conflict of interest allegations -- has
exacerbated public discontent over collusion between business
and politics and fueled accusations that leaders are out of
touch with regular people.  The new chief executive will inherit a city with the
biggest wealth gap in  Asia , which has been spawned by an influx
of money from mainland China and eight years of rising property
prices that have made Hong Kong the world’s most expensive place
to buy a home. At stake is the city’s ability to maintain its
status as the best place to do business and as a gateway to the
world’s fastest-growing region, as the new leader tries to
balance China’s demands for stability with the aspirations of
Hong Kong’s 7.1 million residents.  ‘Lack of Accountability’  “The lack of accountability in Hong Kong probably
increases the disaffection of the electorate,” said Razeen
Sally, visiting associate professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School
of Public Policy at the National University of  Singapore .
“Beijing should be pragmatic enough to take account of the
concerns of the Hong Kong people, which are real and are voiced
regularly, if it doesn’t want to incite some kind of backlash.”  While the economy has grown 62 percent since the handover
of British rule in 1997, median monthly  household income 
remained unchanged at HK$20,000 ($2,576). London-based  Savills
Plc (SVS)  said the price of an apartment in Hong Kong is almost two
times higher than in  London , which placed second on the property
broker’s list of most expensive places to buy a home.  Policeman’s Son  Even though most Hong Kong residents won’t get to choose
the next leader until universal suffrage is introduced in 2017,
the candidates have directed their campaign messages at the
issues that most irk them.  Henry Tang , the city’s former chief
secretary, said in a March 8 interview he will expand public
housing by a further 60 percent in five years, spend HK$6
billion more annually on schools, and create 100,000 jobs for
the middle class if he wins.  “The middle class has been squeezed,” said Tang, 59.
“Every government in the western world is reexamining its role
in the market place. I would say government can be more
proactive.”  The election pits Tang, the son of a textile tycoon,
against Leung Chun-ying, the son of a policeman and the popular
choice in opinion polls. Democratic Party lawmaker Albert Ho is
also running.  The University of Hong Kong is running an  alternative poll ,
allowing all residents to cast votes in a mock election by
smartphone, at polling booths and online. The project’s computer
server crashed at around 7 a.m. today in a second suspected
cyber-attack, said Joyce Chan, a research executive at the
university project. Two days ago, the site experienced a million
hits a second, overloading the computer system.  Polling Booths  “We are encouraging people to use the polling booths,
which are not affected,” Chan said.  Leung, 57, was backed by 43 percent of respondents in a
poll of 957 people published March 16 by the Chinese University
of Hong Kong. Tang got 18 percent support. Two-thirds of the
respondents in a Feb. 23 poll published by the  South China
Morning Post  said Tang should quit the race after he admitted to
knowledge of a basement built illegally by his wife.  “The election isn’t really about public opinion,” said
James To, a Democratic Party lawmaker. “It’s about what the
establishment want. But Henry is still wary about how the public
view him because, if he’s elected, it’ll be difficult to govern
with such low popularity.”  China’s Leadership Woes  China, which is undergoing its own leadership transition
later this year, hasn’t formally indicated its preference. Its
rulers, who have their own leadership troubles with the ouster
of Chongqing party chief Bo Xilai last week, have signaled
concern over the prospect of growing unrest in Hong Kong.  “We have to have the confidence that Hong Kong people can
manage Hong Kong well,” Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at a
March 14 press conference. “Hong Kong must continue to work
hard, to develop the economy, improve people’s lives, advance
democracy and maintain social harmony.”  Thousands took to the streets March 3 to demand that
current Chief Executive Donald Tsang resign after it emerged he
had taken trips on yachts and planes of his tycoon friends.
Former Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa resigned after half a
million people protested in 2003 against a proposed anti-
subversion law they feared would curtail personal freedoms.  ‘Slow Us Down’  “All the things that have been happening over the last few
weeks will unfortunately slow us down in tackling the real
dividing issues,” said Bernard Chan, President of Hong Kong-
based  Asia Financial Holdings Ltd. (662)  and a member of the election
committee. “Whoever wins this Sunday will have a very difficult
time even getting started.”  Leung may have won the backing of China. Officials at
Beijing’s Liaison Office in Hong Kong have been calling
committee members to encourage them to vote for Leung, the
city’s public radio station RTHK reported March 20, citing James
Tien, the honorary chairman of the  Liberal Party . Liu Yandong, a
member of China’s Politburo, has met Hong Kong businessmen to
persuade them to vote for Leung, the local Sing Tao Daily
reported the same day, without citing anyone.  Electric Cars  Leung has pledged to build more public housing, increase
land supply and provide tax-breaks to help residents buy their
own homes. He also promised to speed up public projects like
expanding the city railway system and encourage the use of
electric and hybrid cars.  Leung has not been free of scandal. The city’s Legislative
Council is investigating claims he had a conflict of interest in
helping select an arts hub in the city in 2002. Leung, a former
adviser to chief executives Tsang and Tung, has denied any
wrongdoing.  The city’s next leader, who takes office July 1, will have
to navigate growing tensions between Hong Kong residents and
mainland Chinese. Tour operator Chung embodies the ambivalence
of his fellow Hong Kongers: While some of the customers who buy
his Secret Hong Kong packages are mainland Chinese, he blames
the influx of money from the mainland for pushing up property
prices and forcing him to put his plan to buy a 600-square-foot
apartment on hold.  ‘Not Healthy’  “Our whole economy relies on Chinese tourists,” said
Chung, whose company organizes tours in Hong Kong. “This is not
healthy.”  The tensions have spilled into the open. An advertisement
placed Feb. 1 in the local Apple Daily newspaper, controlled by
Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai, portrayed mainland Chinese
mothers who entered Hong Kong to give birth in local hospitals
as locusts for sucking up the city’s resources. The number of
births in the city almost doubled in the decade to 2010, thanks
to 232,536 babies born to mainland mothers, according to the
city’s Census and Statistics Department.  Kong Qingdong, a professor at  Peking University , called
Hong Kong residents “dogs” on a television talk-show, in
reference to the city’s colonial history and the use of
Cantonese, instead of Mandarin, by its residents.  The economic pressures buffeting Hong Kong’s leaders echo
those across the region, where voters elected an opposition
party in  Thailand  that gets its support from the nation’s poor
and in Singapore where the ruling party last year won its
smallest majority since independence in 1965.  Dollar Peg  The discontent in Hong Kong “fits a broader pattern in the
region,” said the  National University  of Singapore’s Sally.
“The smaller economies that are highly dependent on the world
economy, those with very high trade to GDP ratios, are seeing
much wider income gaps in the last 10 to 15 years or so.
Globalization has impacted them much harder than elsewhere.”  Hong Kong has limited tools to rein in inflation, which
averaged 5.3 percent last year and has hurt the poor. With the
local currency pegged to the dollar, the city takes its cue on
monetary policy from the U.S. Federal Reserve, which has kept
 interest rates  at close to zero since December 2008. Tang said
in the March 8 interview that it wasn’t in the interest of Hong
Kong to depeg from the U.S. currency.  Closer ties with China have been a mainstay of Tsang’s
policies, as he pushed for a 72.9 billion yuan ($11.5 billion)
bridge to the mainland and Macau, and encouraged Hong Kong to
become the country’s offshore yuan center. Still, the city’s
economy was surpassed in size last year for a second year by
Singapore, which competes with Hong Kong for financial talent.  Pollution Levels  A deterrent for executives considering a move to Hong Kong
is the city’s pollution levels, which causes more than 3,000
premature deaths a year, according to  Civic Exchange . The
research group said in a statement on Jan. 12 that 49.26 million
doctor visits “can be attributed to Hong Kong’s persistently
poor air quality” during Tsang’s term of office from 2005.  Hong Kong’s low corporate tax rate of 16.5 percent,
compared with the U.S.’s 35 percent, is one of the sweeteners
that have attracted international firms and helped ensure that
15 years after its return to China the city has retained its
status as a financial hub.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is one of the
financial titans listed on its stock exchange and  Gap Inc. (GPS)  is
among global retail outlets attracted by Chinese visitors to
Hong Kong.  Best for Business  Data compiled by Bloomberg show Hong Kong’s free-market
policies and low corporate taxes make it the best place to do
business. The city, which serves as the main gateway to China,
placed top in the Bloomberg Rankings index based on six factors,
including the degree of economic integration and the costs of
setting up business. The Netherlands, the U.S., the U.K. and
 Australia  occupied the next four slots.  “With Hong Kong, compared to Singapore, the connection
with China is much closer,” said Richard Vuylsteke, president
of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong. “Hong Kong
has evolved from the gateway to China to the gateway out of
China for Chinese companies and their investment. Western
companies are using it as a base, so are Chinese companies.”  Chung isn’t convinced of the advantages of growing mainland
influence on Hong Kong’s economy. It doesn’t matter who gets
elected because not much will change, he said.  “The problem lies in the system, the system that relies
too much on the mainland,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  