-- Online Film Viewing in U.S. to Top Discs in 2012, IHS Says
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-03-22T21:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/online-movie-viewing-in-u-s-to-top-discs-in-2012-ihs-says.html
Online movie viewing in the U.S.
will exceed digital video disc and Blu-ray use for the first
time this year, according to researcher IHS Screen Digest.  Legal online viewings of films will more than double to 3.4
billion this year from 1.4 billion in 2011, IHS said today in a
statement. Physical viewings of DVDs and Blu-ray discs will
shrink to 2.4 billion from 2.6 billion, according to the
forecast.  Unlimited-streaming subscription plans, including those
offered by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and online retailer  Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s Prime
service, accounted for 94 percent of all paid online movie
consumption in the U.S. last year, Englewood, Colorado-based IHS
said. Streamed movies have been replacing video discs, much as
streamed music is overtaking compact audio discs.  “We are looking at the beginning of the end of the age of
movies on physical media like DVD and Blu-ray,” Dan Cryan, IHS
senior principal analyst, said in the statement. “But the
transition is likely to take time: almost nine years after the
launch of the iTunes Store, CDs are still a vital part of the
music business.”  The report highlights the price disparity between online
purchases and movies sold in retail shops. Consumers paid an
average of 51 cents for every movie consumed online, compared
with $4.72 for physically purchased videos, IHS found.  Five major studios announced on March 13 an exclusive
agreement with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  that may re-ignite home-
video purchases by giving consumers the option to store digital
copies in the cloud. The program, called disc-to-digital, lets
consumers pay a fee to convert physical libraries to digital,
and could become a new source of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  