-- Too Old to Get Hired, Too Young to Retire
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/too-old-to-get-hired-too-young-to-retire.html
A friend of mine had his name in
the paper the other day.  It was an article speculating about who might inherit a
prestigious post in the literary world when the current grandee
retires. The article said that my friend would have led the list
10 years ago. Ouch! The obvious though unstated implication is
that now he’s too old. He just turned 60. He says he already has
his dream job and didn’t mind the idea that, because he is 60,
some career opportunities have moved beyond his reach. But I
mind.  Another friend of mine, whom we’ll call “Nick” (because
that’s his name), is doing something about it:  He’s suing . Nick
grew up in North Dakota and went to Stanford, where he graduated
with honors and won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford. Unlike  Greg Smith , the guy who wrote that already legendary  op-ed piece  last
week about quitting Goldman Sachs, Nick never won any medals in
the Jewish Olympics. On the other hand, he never worked for
Goldman Sachs, so that’s a wash.  Where was I? Oh yes: So after Oxford, Nick went to  Stanford
Law School , where he was managing editor of the law review. He
clerked for the  Supreme Court , won election and re-election
as attorney general of North Dakota, served for eight years,
then lost a race for governor, went on to practice law and
served as chief legal officer of several Fortune 500 companies.
Then he decided that he wanted to teach.  Just Two Interviews  If you want to become a law professor, one of the things
you have to do is submit your resume (plus a fee) to the
 Association of American Law Schools . Every fall in  Washington ,
the group holds a conference to recruit faculty, at which law
schools interview candidates they are interested in. Just about
every accredited American law school participates. Two years
ago, of 172 law schools, only two offered Nick an interview, and
he already  worked part-time  at one of them.  He got no job offers. Good heavens, why not? Was he
attorney general of too small a state? Did the competition have
even more Fortune 500 companies under its belt? Was it that lost
race for governor -- the only blemish of failure on his record
of success?  Nick suspects otherwise, and I suspect he’s right: It’s age
discrimination. He was 60 at the time. Now he’s 62. Law schools
just do not hire people in their 60s as tenured or tenure-track
professors, except for the occasional “adjunct” (temporary)
professor moving up or a lateral transfer from another law
school faculty.  Imagine how infuriating this must be to an ambitious guy
like Nick. Three or four decades ago, law schools were beating
down his door. Now they won’t even give him an interview.
Meanwhile, the  Georgetown University Law Center , for example,
hired three people after the 2010 job fair, none of them with
Nick’s shimmering credentials.  Of course, every law school will have reasons for a
decision not to hire a particular candidate. Georgetown, for
example, says the list of subjects Nick wanted to teach didn’t
jibe with the subjects it needed to cover. But 172 law schools
and not one job offer? It seems beyond reasonable dispute that
age discrimination must be involved.  Not everyone will agree about how big an injustice this is.
(I mean the behavior of the law schools. The fact that Nick,
like many of us, is two years older than he was two years ago is
an obvious and devastating injustice, with no remedy.) You may
be thinking: “This guy’s a jerk. He’s won life’s lottery again
and again. Instead of filing legal documents all about how his
credentials are better than everybody else’s, he should be
gracious, stand aside, and give some other people a chance at
acquiring a bauble or two for their resumes.”  Some Qualms  Well, Nick has been a friend of mine for many years, and
he’s not a jerk. He would have made an excellent governor of
 North Dakota . But I do have qualms about his lonely legal
campaign.  I don’t raise this topic easily or happily. I am one year
younger than Nick. Of all the forms of discrimination that the
law forbids -- racial, gender, sexual orientation in some states
-- age discrimination is the one that nevertheless goes on most
brazenly. Corporate recruiters and human resource departments
are carefully trained to talk in code, saying that they’re
looking for “fresh thinking” or “energy, dedication and
willingness to work long hours.” You know what they really mean.
Hiring or promotion to top positions in government and private
corporations doesn’t even pay lip service to equal opportunity
for people over age 60 or so.  Is this necessarily wrong? The  Age Discrimination in
Employment Act of 1967  begins with a “finding” of “rising
productivity and affluence.” These are different times. In
today’s zero-sum world, someone who sits on a tenured chair or
other sinecure is denying a place to someone else, probably
younger. Was the law ever intended to protect  baby boomers  in no
particular financial distress looking for a suitable capstone to
a successful career?  Of course, Nick Spaeth is entitled to whatever the law
entitles him to, irrespective of my qualms or the unusual
specifics of his case. But he’s much better off than the blue-
collar and white-collar workers whose jobs are actually
disappearing. The most severe staff reductions among white-
collar workers have come in my own industry, the media.  My literary friend who apparently is 10 years too old for a
job now held by an octogenarian may well be telling the truth
when he says it wouldn’t interest him anyway. But remaining
gracious as the generations shift is harder than I would have
expected. Fortunately, we all get a chance to be victimized by
this shift -- if we’re lucky.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 