-- Moody’s Says Governments Should Create New Ratings Firm
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-22T21:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/moody-s-says-governments-that-criticize-should-do-own-ratings.html
Governments, which have been
criticizing credit-rating companies over sovereign-debt
downgrades, should start a competing firm, according to  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  Chief Executive Officer Ray McDaniel.  “Public institutions that have both the expertise and
credibility among market participants should provide credit
views on sovereigns,” McDaniel wrote today in a paper called
“A Solution for the Credit Rating Agency Debate” that was
posted on the New York-based company’s  website .  European lawmakers have blamed Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings for complicating efforts to resolve the
region’s debt crisis by cutting countries’ ratings, leading the
European Union to adopt tougher regulations. While some have
considered prohibiting the companies from publishing their
opinions, that won’t stop investors from speculating on
creditworthiness, McDaniel said.  “Rather than stifle those opinions, policy makers could
neutralize private-sector credit rating opinions by introducing
a public-sector voice to contribute competing views,” he said.  To be credible, the new firm would have to be independent
from governments, have “analytical expertise” and disseminate
its opinions broadly, McDaniel said.  ‘Political Will’  “Given the number of public institutions that already
exist that function along these lines, and that have a record
for independence and credibility, establishing such a body is a
matter of political will,” McDaniel said.  Governments also should stop using ratings in regulations,
which adds to the perception that the companies are too
powerful, said McDaniel, who’s led Moody’s since 2005. The paper
follows a speech that he gave yesterday to the American European
Community Association in Brussels, said  Michael Adler , a
spokesman for Moody’s.  The EU’s top markets regulator said today that Moody’s, S&P
and Fitch must be more transparent. The companies registered
with the European Securities and Markets Authority for the first
time in October. The regulator said it hasn’t decided whether
the “shortcomings” constitute a breach of EU law.  Last month, Leonardo Domenici, a member of the European
Parliament, called for a ban on ratings of sovereign debt that
haven’t been approved by the country involved.  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, said that creating a public
EU credit-ratings company would be a “costly matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  