-- Oracle Investor Sues Over $200 Million Whistle-Blower Accord
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-22T17:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/oracle-investor-sues-over-200-million-whistle-blower-accord.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  directors, including
Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison , were sued by an investor
for failing to mitigate damages when the company agreed to a
$200 million whistle-blower settlement with the U.S. government.  Directors violated their fiduciary duties by forcing the
government into extensive litigation even though they knew the
allegations were “grounded in fact,” shareholder Jordan R.
Weinrib said in a complaint filed today in  Delaware Chancery
Court (1400L)  in Wilmington.  “Rather than attempt to settle all claims at that time by
the institution of appropriate corporate therapeutics and the
paying of what would have been a small fine, the board insisted
on digging in and litigating the matter extensively,” Weinrib
said in the complaint.  The settlement, announced in October, resolved a lawsuit
claiming Oracle induced the  General Services Administration  to
buy $1.08 billion in software from 1998 to 2006 by falsely
promising the same discounts offered to favored commercial
customers. The payout was the largest ever obtained by the GSA
under the  False Claims Act , which lets citizens sue on behalf of
the government and share in any recovery.  Former Oracle employee  Paul Frascella  filed the case in
2007. The  Justice Department  pursued the case after joining the
whistle-blower lawsuit.  ‘Gross Mismanagement’  Weinrib blamed the company’s conduct on “gross
mismanagement” by directors. The board failed to adopt safety
measures including implementing a tracking system, internal
controls and policies, and requiring mandatory personnel
training, Weinrib said in the complaint.  “The misconduct at issue is one of the most serious forms
of corporate misconduct as it represents a betrayal of a public
trust,” Weinrib said in the complaint. “The acts in question
were no mere technical or bookkeeping error.”  Weinrib is seeking unspecified damages on behalf of the
company.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  Weinrib said in his complaint that he initially asked the
company to investigate his claims in September 2010. Board
members “surreptitiously” abandoned an investigation and
instead focused on negotiating a settlement with shareholders
who had filed similar complaints in federal court in  San
Francisco , he said.  A federal judge dismissed those lawsuits in November while
giving the plaintiffs permission to amend them. Oracle’s board,
which has entered into mediation with those plaintiffs, is
attempting to “derail any inquiry into the wrongful acts,”
Weinrib said.  The case is Weinrib v. Ellison, CA7350, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  