-- Morgan Stanley, SEB, TBC, Lehman, Stanford in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-22T11:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/morgan-stanley-seb-tbc-adm-lehman-stanford-in-court-news.html
An ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC fund
manager, Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron, who began serving a five-
year sentence for insider trading in January, must pay  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  $10.2 million, a judge ruled.  The amount consists of $3.8 million in legal fees the bank
spent on Skowron’s case and an internal investigation, plus 20
percent of his salary from 2007 to 2010, or $6.4 million, U.S.
District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan ruled March 21.  Morgan Stanley  acquired  FrontPoint in 2006 and spun off the
unit last year.  Cote denied the New York-based bank’s request for repayment
of the $33 million it paid to settle claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The amount represents the
disgorgement of the losses the FrontPoint unit avoided as a
result of Skowron’s insider trading, Cote said in the ruling.  Skowron, who began serving his  prison  sentence in January
at the Federal Correctional Institution Schuylkill in
Pennsylvania, argued that Morgan Stanley shouldn’t collect any
funds under the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act.  Skowron, who has a medical degree from Yale School of
Medicine, pleaded guilty to getting illegal tips from a former
adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  that trials of the
company’s hepatitis C drug were being halted.  FrontPoint sold its stock before the announcement was made
public, avoiding $30 million in losses, the government said.  Morgan Stanley is pleased with Cote’s decision and plans to
seek the $33 million from Skowron in a separate civil action,
Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for the bank, said yesterday in a
phone interview.  “While we are reviewing the court’s decision, and
considering our options, Dr. Skowron has made it clear he will
accept all responsibility for his actions under the law,” his
attorney,  Josh Epstein , said in an e-mailed statement.  “However, we do not believe that Morgan Stanley is even
entitled to the amount of restitution it has secured with this
decision. We can assure you that Morgan Stanley’s attempt to
claw back $33 million in ill-gotten gains, as Judge Cote herself
referred to those monies in rejecting Morgan Stanley’s claim, is
meritless. It is startling that Morgan Stanley would ignore the
court’s clear decision to make a grab for money to which it has
no legal right.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Skowron, 1:11-cr-00699, and
the SEC case is SEC v. Benhamou, 10-cv-8266, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Hedge Fund Loses Case Against Sweden’s SEB Over Option Losses  A hedge fund that saw the value of its assets fall more
than 90 percent in a month at the peak of the global credit
crisis lost a lawsuit against  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA) 
over the liquidation of a trading account.  Euroption Strategic Fund Ltd. sued Sweden’s fourth-largest
bank in  London , claiming it suffered damages and lost profits of
as much as 173 million euros ($229 million) when the lender
closed out its portfolio of derivatives in October 2008 after
the fund didn’t meet margin calls.  Judge Elizabeth Gloster ruled SEB was right to make a
margin call and liquidate positions when extreme market swings
left Euroption facing losses of about 50 million euros, or 70
percent of the value of its assets. The bank’s conduct as
clearing broker “could not be characterized as either negligent
or irrational,” Gloster said in a judgment released this week.  The collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in September
2008 sent stocks tumbling, producing a period of “unprecedented
volatility,” Gloster said. Euroption’s strategy was to sell
out-of-the-money equity-index options that paid a premium if
markets remained stable. When shares fell and customers
exercised the options, the fund was left exposed.  The fund, based in the British Virgin Islands, had assets
of about 70 million euros before the credit crisis and is now
worth about 6 million euros. Euroption claimed in the suit that
SEB and its then head of futures clearing, Steve Martin, didn’t
understand options trading and that closing out the positions
was “slow, disorganized and often misdirected.”  Euroption is considering an appeal, according to its lawyer
Sean Upson.  For more, click here.  Ex-Bear Stearns Employees to Get $10 Million in Settlement  Thousands of former  Bear Stearns Cos. (BSC)  employees will share
a $10 million settlement of lawsuits claiming they lost money on
the bank’s stock in their retirement accounts.  Two ex-Bear Stearns employees asked March 20 a federal
court judge in Manhattan to approve the settlement on behalf of
an estimated 8,400 former colleagues.  The settlement will resolve class-action suits filed
beginning in 2008 against Bear Stearns and other defendants by
former employees of the bank. The employees, participants and
beneficiaries of Bear Stearns’s employee stock ownership plan
who held shares of the bank’s common stock, claimed risky
investments in subprime mortgages caused them to lose money.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. bought Bear Stearns in March 2008 when
the firm was on the brink of failing.  The parties engaged in mediation in October 2009 and
pursued negotiations in telephone conferences through the end of
last year, the investors said in court papers seeking approval
for the agreement. They said the settlement may equal 10 percent
to 28 percent of the losses to the stock ownership plan.  The case is In re Bear Stearns Cos. Securities, Derivative
and ERISA Litigation, 09-MDL-1963, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Wal-Mart to Pay $2 Million for Overcharges, California Says  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will pay $2.1 million for overcharging
consumers in violation of a 2008 agreement to stop scanning
errors that resulted in customers paying more for products than
their shelf price.  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris yesterday filed a
modified judgment in San Diego Superior Court that resolves Wal-
Mart’s failure to comply with the 2008 agreement, Harris said in
an e-mailed statement. The judgment was also filed with San
Diego District Attorney Bonnie M. Dumanis and San Diego City
Attorney Jan I. Goldsmith, according to the statement.  As a result of the 2008 agreement, consumers who were
overcharged at cash registers received $3 off the lowest
advertised price of the item, and if the price was less than $3,
Wal-Mart was required to give the item free of charge, according
to the statement. Yesterday’s judgment means the program,
originally intended to end in November, will be extended to
November 2013, Harris said.  Wal-Mart will also describe the policy in large signs in
English and Spanish at each of about 3,000 check-out stands at
180 stores in California, according to the statement.  “We always strive for 100 percent pricing accuracy and
will continue to make improvements to ensure we meet this
goal,” Steve Restivo, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart, said in an e-mailed statement. “California
families can trust Wal-Mart to deliver on our mission to help
them save money and live better.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Midas Sued by Shareholder Over $173 Million TBC Acquisition  Midas Inc. (MDS)  was sued by a shareholder claiming the takeover
price of about $173 million offered by tire supplier  TBC Corp. (TBCC) 
is “inadequate.”  The deal undervalues the company given its improving sales
trends and its strategy to co-brand Midas and SpeeDee shops,
shareholder Glenn Freedman said in the complaint filed yesterday
in Delaware Chancery Court. Freedman is seeking to represent all
Midas shareholders in his bid for a court order barring the
transaction.  “The proposed transaction is wrongful, unfair and harmful
to Midas public shareholders,” Freedman said in the complaint.  Midas, which has more than 2,250 franchised, licensed and
company owned namesake shops in 14 countries, announced March 13
that it agreed to a cash offer of $11.50 a share. The
transaction also includes the assumption of $137 million in debt
and pension liabilities.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which served as Midas’s financial
adviser, was unable to provide “independent, disinterested
financial advice” to the company because of its affiliation
with TBC parent  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , Freedman said in his complaint.  JPMorgan has disclosed that it owns 1 percent or more of
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  securities and has
performed and received compensation from that company for both
investment banking and non-investment banking services, Freedman
said in the complaint. JPMorgan wasn’t named as a defendant in
the case.  Bob Troyer, a spokesman for Midas, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the complaint. Jennifer
Zuccarelli, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, also didn’t return a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment on the claims.  The case is Glenn Freedman v. Midas Inc., CA7346, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  ADM, Corn Refiners Seek Dismissal From Sugar Producers’ Lawsuit  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and four other corn refiners
asked a judge to dismiss them from a lawsuit by sugar producers
over allegedly false advertising that high-fructose corn syrup
is natural.  Lawyers for the corn refiners said at a hearing yesterday
before U.S. District Judge Consuelo B. Marshall in Los Angeles
that the companies can’t be made liable for the statements of a
trade group of which they are members, the Corn Refiners
Association.  A group of sugar growers and refiners last year sued the
corn refiners and their trade association, claiming that an
advertising campaign that promotes high-fructose corn syrup as
“natural” and “nutritionally the same as table sugar” is
false and misleading.  The sugar producers, in an amended complaint filed in
November, said the corn refiners initiated the advertising
campaign in 2008 in response to the “growing vilification” of
high-fructose corn syrup, which is used as a sweetener in soft
drinks and has been linked to an increase in obesity in the
U.S., and a “resulting drop in sales.”  The corn refiners have sought approval from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration to substitute “corn sugar” for “high-
fructose corn syrup” on ingredient labels, according to the
complaint.  The case is Western Sugar v. Archer-Daniels-Midland,
11-3473, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  Tenet Healthcare Suit Over Community Health Buyout Dismissed  A federal judge dismissed  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) ’s lawsuit
against  Community Health (CYH)  Systems Inc. seeking to recover costs
incurred rebuffing a takeover bid.  U.S. District Judge Barbara M.G. Lynn in Dallas ruled
yesterday that Congress didn’t intend for target companies to
recover damages such as those Tenet sought. The case was
dismissed with prejudice, meaning Tenet can’t refile.  Community Health , the second-largest U.S. hospital company,
dropped its $7.3 billion bid in May after the board of Dallas-
based Tenet rejected the all-cash takeover offer as “grossly
inadequate.” A month earlier, Tenet sued Community Health,
accusing it of defrauding Medicare, the federal health insurance
program. Community Health called the suit “baseless.”  Tenet later modified its lawsuit to seek damages for
unspecified but “significant” costs it said it incurred in
analyzing Community Health’s offer. Tenet argued that Community
Health gave it cause to hire consultants and begin an
investigation because Community Health made misleading
statements about “synergies” that a combination would produce.  Lawyers for Franklin, Tennessee-based Community Health
argued that there was no legal basis for Tenet to recover costs
and damages. They said that companies in takeover battles pay
their own expenses.  “We’re disappointed in the ruling, but it’s important to
remember it wasn’t a ruling on the substance of our claims
against Community Health,” Rob Walters, a lawyer for Tenet,
said. “It was a ruling on the technical issue of whether Tenet
could have standing to recover the costs it incurred.”  Peter Duffy Doyle, a lawyer for Community Health, referred
a request for comment to Tomi Galin, a company spokeswoman, who
didn’t immediately return a phone call.  The case is Tenet Healthcare Corp. v. Community Health
Systems Inc., 3:11-00732, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas).  NAB Wins $6.5 Million Security Payment in Australia Lawsuit  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  shareholders must pay the bank
A$6.2 million ($6.5 million) as security for its legal costs in
a class action lawsuit, a judge ruled in a decision the
stockholders’ lawyer said may deter investors from seeking legal
redress.  The shareholders sued in the Supreme Court of Victoria in
Melbourne in November 2010 seeking to recoup A$450 million they
claim was lost as the bank’s stock declined because of its
exposure to U.S. subprime debt in 2008. The security payment may
be the biggest in Australian history, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday from the bank.  National Australia Bank said it expects to spend more than
A$20 million on legal costs until trial and had asked the judge
to order the shareholders to pay A$11 million. The plaintiffs
challenged it, calling the sum “extraordinary in size and
unprecedented in Australian legal history,” according to the
ruling by Justice Jennifer Davies, who cut the requested amount
by almost half.  “It sets a precedent in Victoria” and “reduces access to
justice,” Jacob Varghese of Maurice Blackburn Lawyers, who
represents the shareholders, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The final amount is still “very high”, he said.  Plaintiffs would usually be unable to put up that much
money in security, he said. In this case the lawsuit is being
funded by International Litigation Funding Partners Pte, who
will pay the amount, Varghese said.  The trial is scheduled to begin in December, according to
the bank.  National Australia Bank failed to disclose at the beginning
of 2008 that it had serious exposure and serious risk of losses,
from its subprime mortgage exposure, Andrew Watson, Maurice
Blackburn principal, said when the lawsuit was filed.  The case is Between Pathway Investments Ltd. and National
Australia Bank Ltd. SCL2010-6249. Supreme Court of Victoria
(Melbourne).  For more, click here.  Ex-Lehman Director Jack Pleads Not Guilty to Forgery Charge  Former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. managing director
Bradley H. Jack pleaded not guilty to a second drug-prescription
forgery charge in Connecticut state court.  Jack, 53, said nothing during his arraignment yesterday in
Norwalk Superior Court, where Judge Bruce Hudock said he entered
a plea of not guilty. Jack, who is free on bail, is due back in
court April 24.  The former banker was arrested this month and charged with
second-degree forgery for a November incident in which he
allegedly altered the date on a prescription for Vyvanse, which
is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, at a
CVS Caremark Corp. pharmacy in Westport, Connecticut.  Jack, of Westport, was also arrested in June after he
allegedly tried to pass forged prescriptions for Ritalin and the
painkiller Oxycontin, according to Fairfield police. Jack had
received treatment for cancer, had had a valid prescription in
the past and had no prior criminal record, his attorney, Robert
Golger, said in court in August.  After his June arrest, Jack was allowed to enter so-called
accelerated rehabilitation, or AR, a program available to people
charged with less-serious crimes that might result in prison
time. Golger said after yesterday’s proceeding that he didn’t
know how the latest arrest would affect the earlier case.  In the latest incident, Jack admitted to police that he
altered the prescription, according to the arrest affidavit. He
told police his psychiatrist is blind and his assistant, who
fills out the prescriptions, put the wrong effective date on the
Vyvanse prescription. In October, the doctor switched Jack from
Ritalin to 50-milligram pills of Vyvanse.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
investment banking from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with  Joseph Gregory . In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment-banking relationships.  He decided to retire from Lehman to pursue work in the
nonprofit sector and spend time with his family, Richard Fuld,
the bank’s chief executive officer at the time, said in June
2005. The company went bankrupt in September 2008.  The case is Connecticut v. Jack,  S20N-CR12-0131552-S ,
Connecticut Superior Court (Norwalk). The earlier case is
Connecticut v. Jack,  F02B-CR11-0258280-S , Connecticut Superior
Court (Bridgeport).  For more, click here.  New York Law School Wins Dismissal of Suit by Ex-Students  New York Law School won dismissal of a lawsuit filed by
former students who accused the school of inflating statistics
on graduates’ jobs and pay.  New York State Supreme Court Judge Melvin L. Schweitzer Jr.
dismissed the suit in a ruling yesterday, saying that the
school’s marketing materials weren’t misleading and that the
students had “ample information” from other sources about job
prospects.  The former students sued the 1,500-student school in
August, accusing it of knowingly inflating employment and salary
statistics to recruit and retain students. A similar complaint
was filed against Thomas M. Cooley Law School in Lansing,
Michigan, the same day.  Schweitzer also said the plaintiffs’ demand of damages that
would equal the difference between what they paid for law school
and how much their degree is worth is not a remedy under the law
since the “great recession” of 2008 and its aftermath have
“wreaked havoc” on the legal job market.  “As law graduates who made their decisions to go to law
school before the full effects of the maelstrom hit, they now
have turned their disappointment and angst on their law school
for not adequately anticipating the possibility of the
supervening storm and presenting the most complete job-related
data that could possibly have been compiled,” Schweitzer wrote.  The former students plan to appeal, said David Anziska, an
attorney representing the plaintiffs. The judge’s two main
points, that consumers shouldn’t have relied on the school’s
employment reports and that damages are too speculative, are
“fundamentally questions of fact, not law,” he said in an e-
mail.  New York Law School, founded in 1891, is one of the oldest
independent law schools in the U.S. with about 1,500 students,
according to its website. Michael Volpe, an attorney who
represented the school in the case, said he is “confident and
comfortable” the decision will be upheld on appeal.  The case is Gomez-Jimenez v. New York Law School,
652226/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Exxon Says ‘Significant Progress’ Made to End Alaska Gas Dispute  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  has made “significant progress” toward
resolving an Alaska natural-gas dispute, and more work remains
to reach a settlement, David Eglinton, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Exxon,  BP Plc (BP/)  and other oil companies are embroiled in a
six-year-old lawsuit over their leases to the Point Thomson oil
and gas field on Alaska’s North Slope, estimated to hold 300
million barrels of oil and 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.  The state revoked the leases, which date back to 1965, in
2006 for failure to submit an acceptable development plan. The
companies sued and won a court ruling last year reversing that
decision.  Alaska Governor Sean Parnell said March 20 that the parties
had been meeting over the last three months and the companies
had been given a deadline of the end of this month.  “The state is cautiously optimistic that the Point Thomson
dispute will be resolved by the governor’s deadline,” Elizabeth
Bluemink, a spokeswoman for the Alaska Department of Natural
Resources, said in a phone interview.  She declined to comment about what would be included in the
settlement. Parnell said earlier this month that his goal was
“production out of Point Thomson.” The oil companies,
primarily Exxon, have invested more than $1 billion in the field
over the last three years, he said.  Dawn Patience, a BP spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday that company teams “are actively working to resolve”
the Point Thomson issue.  “We’re still in a joint discussion phase regarding an
effort that would evaluate a North Slope liquefied natural gas
pipeline,” Natalie Lowman, a  ConocoPhillips (COP)  spokeswoman, said
in an phone interview.  The lower-court case is Exxon Mobil Corp. v. State of
Alaska, 3AN-06-13751, Alaska Superior Court, Anchorage. The
appeal is State of Alaska v. Exxon Mobil, S-13730, Alaska
Supreme Court.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Allen Stanford Cites Media ‘Tweets’ as Basis for New Trial  R. Allen Stanford is entitled to a new trial because
publicity prior to the six-week proceeding and Twitter posts by
reporters in the courtroom likely tainted the jury, his lawyers
told a U.S. judge.  The Texas financier, who was accused of leading a $7
billion international investment fraud, was found guilty of 13
criminal counts by a federal court jury in Houston on March 6.
Facing as long as 20 years in prison for each of four wire fraud
and five mail fraud charges, Stanford is scheduled to be
sentenced on June 14.  His lawyers, in a 71-page filing with U.S. District Judge
David Hittner, who presided over the case, said the pretrial and
midtrial publicity probably prevented the jury from being
impartial.  “This court failed to sequester the jury and permitted the
news media to occupy the courtroom during trial and permitted
the media to ‘tweet’ throughout the trial,” they said in a
filing March 20, referring to Twitter Inc.’s platform for
disseminating 140-character messages via the Internet.  Stanford, 61, led Houston-based Stanford Financial Group
and securities firm Stanford Group Co., as well as the Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd., which issued
certificates of deposit sold by the brokerage.  At trial, prosecutors argued that Stanford misled investors
about how he and his organization were investing the CD
depositors’ money. Defense lawyers countered that the
organization maintained sufficient assets to honor its
commitments until it was closed after being sued by the
Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment, citing a gag order by the
judge.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 