-- Mortgage Rate-Yield Gap Eases Selloff in Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-22T16:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/mortgage-rate-yield-gap-eases-selloff-in-bonds-credit-markets.html
Interest rates on new U.S. home
loans are rising slower than yields on the mortgage securities
they’re packaged into, helping to contain an increase in
borrowing costs across debt markets.  The  gap  between the cost of 30-year loans and benchmark
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  yields, a measure of lenders’ profit margins called
the primary-second spread, has tightened to about 0.9 percentage
point, compared with a two-year high of more than 1.3 percentage
points in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. bond market is poised for its biggest monthly loss
since the end of 2010 as a strengthening economy prompts traders
to move up forecasts for when the  Federal Reserve  will raise
interest rates to 2013 from 2014. Mortgages are helping to
temper the selloff as lenders seek to maintain  volumes  by
limiting increases in what they charge. Originators had raised
margins to avoid being overwhelmed by  demand  when the government
expanded eligibility with borrowing costs at record lows.  With rates rising, “there is going to be a little more
capacity so you can have the primary-secondary spread come back
in,” said  Chris Flanagan , the New York-based head of
securitized debt research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Along with reducing the damage to  housing , that’s also
limiting  changes  this month to the projected lives of the $5.4
trillion in government-backed mortgage bonds caused by a decline
in estimates for refinancing. That’s curbing the rebalancing of
interest-rate hedges by owners and loan servicers that typically
follows, according to reports from JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Nomura Securities International.  Convexity Trading  Such sales can send Treasury rates higher while widening
relative yields on home-loan bonds and interest-rate swaps, a
spiral that Bank of America Merrill Lynch says is close to
starting.  “We’re not that far off of it given how much we’ve moved
already,” Flanagan said in a telephone interview. Lending rates
rising by another 0.15 percentage point to 0.25 percentage point
may accelerate trading tied to so-called convexity, he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a measure of corporate credit
risk in the U.S. rose, with the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index Series 18, a new version of the credit-
default swaps benchmark that began trading yesterday, climbing
2.3 basis points to 89.2 basis points as of 12:24 p.m. in  New
York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  Bondholder Protection  The index rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, added 0.44 basis point to 26.69 basis points
as of 12:27 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 122 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:28
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Yields (MTGEFNCL)  on  Fannie Mae ’s current-coupon mortgage bonds, or
those that most affect borrowing costs because they trade
closest to face value, climbed to a four-month high of 3.24
percent as of March 19 from 2.46 percent on Jan. 31, a record
low, Bloomberg data show. They’ve declined to 3.13 percent as of
12:03 p.m. in New York.  New loans  average  4.05 percent, compared with a record low
3.81 percent on Feb. 15, according to Bankrate.com data.  Refinancing Applications  Even as President  Barack Obama  and Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  seek to stoke the economy by helping homeowners tap
lower rates, refinancing applications  fell  last week by 9.2
percent, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association index
released yesterday. While that’s the biggest drop since
November, volumes remain at about double last year’s lows in
February.  The higher borrowing costs follow a government effort to
encourage refinancing among homeowners who couldn’t previously
qualify or benefit. Guidelines for loans with little or no home
equity began changing at government-supported Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac  in December, while adjustments to the  Federal
Housing Administration ’s premium rules were announced March 6.  Applications under the federal Home Affordable Refinance
Program for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans account for about
30 percent of refinancing attempts at “some of the largest
institutions,”  Jay Brinkmann , the mortgage-banker group’s
senior vice president of research and education, said in a
statement.  Fed Rate Move  The gains in rates and yields are being driven by losses on
benchmark U.S. government notes, which total 1.46 percent this
month, the most since December 2010, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Master index.  Bonds in the U.S. have lost 0.83 percent this month, the
most since declining 1.09 percent in December 2010, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal funds  effective rate  to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage
advance in approximately October 2013, Bloomberg data show. Last
month, such an increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted
until early 2014.  While 10-year Treasury yields have climbed 33 basis points
this month through yesterday to 2.30 percent, the rebalancing of
hedges by mortgage-bond investors and servicers helped propel an
advance of 90 basis points in July 2003 as  mortgage rates  moved
up from then-record lows.  Mortgage Bond Returns  Convexity is a measure of the rate of change of a bond’s
duration as a result of changes in  interest rates . Duration is a
measure of a bond’s price sensitivity to rate changes.  Mortgage bonds are negatively convex because their
projected lives extend as rates rise, partly because
refinancings will decline.  As higher rates leave investors and loan servicers with
portfolios of longer-than-expected durations, they often sell
mortgage bonds, Treasuries or interest-rate swaps to rebalance.
Those sales can send yields even higher or spreads wider.  With convexity selling in check, government-backed mortgage
bonds have  returned  61 basis points more than similar-duration
Treasuries through yesterday, the most since December 2010,
Barclays Capital index data show.  Higher yields are bringing in new purchasing by banks,
insurers and real estate investment trusts, and will attract
such buying until more investors grow concerned that the Fed is
planning to raise short-term rates sooner than pledged, said
Deepak Narula, the head of hedge fund Metacapital Management LP
in New York, which manages about $1 billion.  Rate Increases  “There’s a fairly large investor base that’s yield-driven
that’s sitting on a lot of cash right now,” Narula said.  Ten-year Treasury yields would have to reach about 2.5
percent to drag loan rates to a level that would be “critical”
in accelerating convexity-related selling, according to Morgan
Stanley analysts including Vipul Jain and Janaki Rao.  Cumulative rebalancing needs since rates began climbing
would then reach the equivalent of needing to sell $100 billion
of the government debt, they said in a March 16 report.  While Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac no longer contribute as
much to such waves after shrinking the amount of debt they hold,
the next one may have “no less severe” an effect on mortgage-
bond spreads when it occurs, according to Nomura Securities
International analysts including Ankur Mehta and Ohmsatya Ravi.  ‘Next Leg’  That’s because “dealer balance sheets are very limited,”
leaving them less able to absorb a spike in supply, they wrote
in a note to clients. The growth of REITs that buy fixed-rate
mortgage securities has also offset some of the contraction at
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, they said.  JPMorgan analysts led by Matt Jozoff wrote in a March 16
report that “the mortgage market may be vulnerable to further
increases in rates from here, particularly if servicers
capitulate.”  An increase may boost the value of servicers’ contracts
past thresholds that can increase how much capital that banks
need to hold against them, the analysts said. Servicers may
lower the prices they pay for the asset as a result, boosting
rates, as well as rebalancing hedges, they said.  Mortgage bonds may also suffer with “the next leg” higher
in borrowing costs because even investors who don’t hedge their
portfolios would become concerned about their growing durations,
said Paul Jacob, the director of research at broker Banc of
Manhattan Capital in Calabasas,  California . The extension risk
would come with a larger group of bonds falling below face
value.  “From here, it gets dicier,” he said. “People fear the
unknown and right now the unknown is a discount-priced MBS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  