-- Osborne’s U.K. Budget Revenue Forecasts Called Into Doubt by IFS
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-22T14:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/osborne-forecast-on-top-income-tax-rate-called-into-doubt-by-ifs.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  used revenue assumptions in his budget yesterday
that may turn out to be overoptimistic, the  Institute for Fiscal
Studies  said.  “One worry for the chancellor as the dust settles on his
third budget is that in an attempt to achieve a fiscally neutral
package he has created some risks,” IFS Director  Paul Johnson 
told reporters in London today. “This budget may turn out to be
less fiscally neutral than intended.”  The research group questioned whether Osborne’s decision to
lower the top rate of income tax to 45 percent from 50 percent
next year will only cost 100 million pounds ($158 million) a
year, as the chancellor said yesterday. It said there are also
concerns about whether caps on relief for higher-rate taxpayers
will bring in 300 million pounds and an increase in stamp duty
on purchases of the most expensive houses and apartments will
produce 300 million pounds as Osborne expects.  Osborne pledged there would be no “unfunded giveaways” in
his budget, citing threats of a downgrade of Britain’s AAA
status from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service as a
reason to redouble efforts to stick to his austerity program,
the most severe since at least World War II, and narrow a  budget
deficit  that’s more than 8 percent of gross domestic product.  Liberal Democrats  A significant loss of revenue from top-rate taxpayers may
also stoke unease among  Liberal Democrats  in Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s coalition. The party is demanding that the rich
bear the biggest cost in repairing the deficit and agreed to
lower the 50 percent rate in return for the stamp-duty changes
and measures to help those on low incomes.  Osborne said yesterday the Treasury is losing almost as
much in  tax avoidance  from the 50 percent rate as the levy is
generating. He cited a study by the U.K. tax agency that showed
the government would forgo 3 billion pounds next year from
lowering it, while gaining 2.9 billion pounds from people who
previously chose not to pay the tax now deciding they would.  “No chancellor can justify a  tax rate  that damages our
economy and raises next to nothing -- it’s as simple as that,”
Osborne told the  House of Commons  yesterday. “Thanks to the
other new taxes on the rich I have announced today, we’ll be
getting five times more money each and every year from the
wealthiest.”  ‘Taste for Avoiding’  The calculation “that cutting the top rate to 45 percent
will only cost 100 million is particularly uncertain,” Johnson
said. “Those who have got a taste for avoiding the 50p rate may
continue to avoid the 45p rate.”  The IFS, an independent body that analyzes each budget the
day after the chancellor delivers it to Parliament, said 
Osborne’s decision to tax pensioners more by freezing allowances
is “a relatively modest tax increase on a group hitherto well
sheltered from tax and benefit changes.”  The move drew criticism from many of Britain’s best-selling
newspapers this morning. The  Daily Mail  said “Osborne Picks the
Pockets of Pensioners” on its front page, while the  Daily
Telegraph  said the “Granny Tax Hits 5 Million Pensioners.”  Osborne made a mistake in his presentation yesterday by
dressing up “what was clearly a tax increase as merely a
simplification” of the rules surrounding tax allowances, the
IFS said.  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  repeated his
criticism of Osborne’s measures today.  “The budget is giving a 40,000-pound  tax cut  to
millionaires each and every year and it is funding that by
hitting pensioners who have worked hard all their lives and
played by the rules,” Miliband said in a statement. “This is
an unfair budget from an out-of-touch government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  