-- Emerging Stocks Drop as China Manufacturing May Contract
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-22T22:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-technology-companies-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks extended
their longest losing streak in 2012 as an index showed  China ’s
manufacturing may contract for a fifth month while euro-area
output shrank more than economists forecast.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,040.58 in  New York , slipping for a sixth day. Energy and
materials companies retreated the most, with OAO Gazprom, the
world’s largest natural gas exporter, tumbling 2.2 percent.  JBS
SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef producer, plunged the most in 11
weeks in  Sao Paulo  after reporting lower-than-estimated profit
for the fourth quarter.  A preliminary measure of Chinese manufacturing fell to 48.1
in March, the lowest level since November, according to data
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. A euro-area gauge
of services and manufacturing output dropped to 48.7 from 49.3
in February, London-based Markit said in an initial estimate
today, below all but one forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 21
economists. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  “This reinforces a sense that growth is slowing down, but
for China at least we think we come out on the other side of
this with easing,”  John Lomax , an emerging-markets strategist
at HSBC, said by phone from  London . “For  Europe , it’s a bit
more problematic in that Europe doesn’t have the ability to
change policy in the same way, and it suggests a recession this
year.”  ETF, Volatility  Emerging-market shares have declined 3.6 percent this
month, amid signs of slowing growth in China and Europe.
Developing-country stocks trade for 10.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with a 13.1 ratio for  developed-nation
shares , which advanced 0.4 percent this month.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
fell 1.5 percent to $42.58 today, the lowest level since March
6. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 6 percent to 25.96.  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  slid 1.5 percent, the largest one-day loss since March 6. JBS retreated 7.1 percent.  The 48.1 reading for Chinese manufacturing compares with a
final 49.6 in February. Economists had forecast a gain for the
euro area composite index to 49.6, according to the median of 21
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  fell less than 0.1 percent, its seventh
straight decline and the longest losing streak since June.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities fell 1.1
percent to the lowest level in more than two weeks.  Micex Tumbles  KGHM Polska Miedz SA, Poland’s only copper producer, fell
2.1 percent, while the  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  slipped 1.6 percent in
Warsaw.  The Micex Index slid 1.4 percent in Moscow to the weakest
level since Feb. 10, while the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH) 
retreated 1 percent in Johannesburg.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  climbed 1 percent.  Pegatron Corp. (4938) ,
which makes iPhones for Apple Inc., jumped 7 percent to a
record, as brokerages from Yuanta Financial Holding Co. to
Nomura Holdings Inc. raised their price estimates after the
company’s fourth-quarter profit beat analyst projections.  A gauge tracking  technology stocks  rose 0.7 percent, the
only advance among 10 industry groups on the developing-nations
index, after Daiwa Securities Group Inc. said memory-chip price
increases may accelerate.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  added 1.6
percent in  Seoul .  Strengthening Yuan  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  was little changed, and the BSE
India Sensitive Index fell 2.3 percent, its biggest daily
decline since Feb. 27.  The  yuan  strengthened the most this year after the central
bank announced measures to free up funds at lenders to spur
economic growth. The currency rose 0.4 percent to 6.2997 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. That was the biggest increase since Dec. 30.  Asia’s largest economy boosted rural credit by cutting
reserve-requirement ratios for an additional 379 branches of
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value, the People’s Bank of China said on its
website yesterday.  Recent data doesn’t necessarily signal that China is headed
for a “hard landing”, George Iwanicki, who manages $4 billion
of emerging market stocks at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset
management unit, said in an interview in New York.  China’s
economy  will expand 7 percent to 8 percent this year, he said
and emerging-market equities are undervalued, based on the ratio
of price to book value, and have room to rally.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 328 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  