-- Toulouse Suspect Was Petty Criminal Turned Jihadist, Police Say
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t ,   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-22T11:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/toulouse-suspect-is-petty-criminal-turned-jihadist-police-say.html
Mohammed Merah , who admitted to
gunning down children, soldiers and a Jewish religious teacher
in  France , spent his youth in and out of the legal system before
adopting radical Islam and heading to Afghanistan.  That’s the portrait of the 23-year-old Frenchman of
Algerian descent that emerged from French authorities and his
lawyer. The petty criminal from a broken home who turned to
sensational killing and “boasted about having brought France to
her knees” according to the prosecution, died during a police
raid today after being holed up in his apartment for 32 hours.
The crimes he admitted to, make him the first homegrown
Islamic terrorist to commit violent acts on French soil.  “He expressed no regrets except to say he regretted not
having killed more people,” said state prosecutor Francois
Molins, who provided details yesterday about Merah’s life.  Merah claimed responsibility for two attacks in Toulouse,
killing a soldier on March 11 and three children and a teacher
at a Jewish School on March 19, and a March 15 shooting of three
soldiers in uniforms in the nearby town of Montauban, two of
whom died. The soldiers he killed were all of Arab descent.  He fled on a scooter after each attack, earning him the
nickname in the French media of “the scooter killer.”  Merah claimed ties to al-Qaeda when policemen laid siege to
his house yesterday. Interior Minister Claude Gueant said he was
already on the French intelligence services’ watch list.  Salafist Leanings  He made two trips to Afghanistan and was “categorized as a
Salafist” by French authorities, Molins said. Salafist Muslims
promote what they perceive as the pure form of Sunni Islam as
practiced by the  Prophet Muhammad  and his companions.  Gueant said yesterday that Merah had been questioned in
November 2011 by intelligence officials about his trips and had
said they were for tourism.  His proclaimed killings were the first radical Islamic
murders on France’s soil since an Algerian group killed four
people in a terror bombing in 1996 in Paris.  “Never could I have imagined that he was capable of doing
such a thing,” said Christian Etelin, a lawyer who represented
Merah on his numerous run-ins with the law since 2005.  Merah, born Oct. 10, 1988 in  Toulouse  to Algerian parents,
was one of five children, including three boys. His parents
divorced several years ago and his mother now lives in Le
Mirail, one of Toulouse’s poorest neighborhoods, Etelin said.
Merah was jobless after having worked for an auto-repair shop.  Juvenile Delinquent  His mother refused to help the police convince her son to
surrender, saying she had no influence on him, Gueant said
yesterday. His father was a rare presence in his life, although
he did appear in court when Merah was an adult, Etelin said.  Merah was sentenced 15 times as a minor for petty crimes,
including theft, Molins said. The psychological profile by the
police concluded he was “violent as a minor.”  Friends and neighbors cited by  Le Figaro  newspaper
described him as 5’6” tall young man, who dresses in sneakers
and jeans, smokes and sometimes goes to night clubs.  He served 18 months in a Toulouse prison between the end of
2007 and Sep. 2009 for non-violent crimes, according to Etelin,
who said he thought Merah may have been radicalized while there.  “There was a break” from the youth he knew before his
imprisonment, Etelin said. “I supposed when he got out of
prison that he was on the path of radicalization because while
in jail there are other inmates who are very religious.”  London Terrorists  For  Dominique Thomas , a specialist on radical Islam, Merah
“seems to be a delinquent, poorly integrated in society, who
failed at school. What came out is a feeling of hatred and a
desire for revenge. He didn’t seem to have a structured Jihadist
ideology but to have channeled his hatred and claimed an al-
Qaeda affiliation.”  Although his story had some parallels with homegrown
terrorists who placed bombs in a bus and in the London
underground on July 7 and 21, 2005 in a series of coordinated
attacks, the cases are different, Thomas said. The London
attacks killed 53 people and prompted an introspective look at
integration of different communities within the U.K. population.  Thomas, who’s a professor at Paris-based École des Hautes
Études en Sciences Sociales university, said Merah’s journey was
different because while the U.K. terrorists “were much more
structured, with a strong ideology, he is more borderline,
between a criminal and a ‘desperado jihadist’ type.”  Waziristan Trip  Etelin said he last saw Merah on Feb. 24 when he was
sentenced to a month in jail for driving without a license and
striking a pedestrian on his motorbike.  “He seemed calm, poised and willing to serve his
sentence,” Etelin said. “He was a bad driver. He was a fanatic
about mechanics, motorcycles, cars. He was passionate about
Kawasakis.”  Upon his release from prison in 2009, Merah journeyed to
 Afghanistan  by himself. While there, he was stopped by the
Afghan army, turned over to the U.S. Army and sent back to
France, Molins said, adding that this first trip to the central
Asian country only lasted a few days.  The suspect returned to the area on the Pakistan-
Afghanistan border between August and October 2011, and again
returned to France, this time with Hepatitis A.  During the standoff yesterday, Merah told police he was a
“mujahedeen” and that he had spent time in the tribal zone of
Waziristan, a wild, mountainous and lawless region between
Pakistan and Afghanistan, where he said he trained with al-Qaeda
affiliates.  ‘Determined’  While the suspect said he was a member of al-Qaeda, he also
told the police that he “always acted alone” in the Montauban
and Toulouse killings.  Merah’s oldest brother Abdelkader, 29, was “part of a
network of Iraqi Jihadist” and also on the watch list of the
 DCRI, France’s intelligence services . Police yesterday found
weapons and ammunitions in his brother’s car in Toulouse.  From his time in Afghanistan until the events of this
month, there was “nothing” remarkable about his stay in the
country. “He wasn’t localized, we didn’t know exactly where he
was at the time of the investigation,” Molins said.  At 1 a.m. yesterday, before the police surrounded his home,
Merah called a reporter at  France 24  news channel to claim
responsibility for the killings.  “He had the voice of a very young man,” Ebba Kalondo, the
reporter at France 24, told BFM TV. “He was quiet, polite,
spoke impeccable French, and seemed very determined. He wanted
to claim responsibility for the acts, to protest the law banning
the Islamic veil,  France’s participation in Afghanistan  and on
the killing of the Jewish children, he said it was revenge for
murdered Palestinian children,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  