-- Toulouse Suspect Shot in Head in Raid After 32-Hour Siege
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i ,   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-22T17:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/toulouse-shootings-suspect-shot-dead-after-32-hour-police-siege.html
The man suspected of murdering
seven people in  France , including three children and a teacher
at a Jewish school, died in a police raid after he was holed up
in his Toulouse apartment for about 32 hours.  He was shot in the head as he jumped out of his first-floor
apartment window in a hail of bullets during a gunfight with the
police, Francois Molins, the Paris state prosecutor overseeing
the case, said at a press conference today. The exchange of fire
began after police failed to get Mohammed Merah, a 23-year-old
Frenchman of Algerian descent, to give himself up.  “Merah suddenly burst out of the bathroom where he was
hiding, armed, and firing at police at an extremely fast rate,
so fast that it was like automatic-weapon fire,” Molins said.
“He was attacking, lunging at police across the apartment and
firing at them with a Colt .45. He continued to move forward,
armed and firing, jumping from the balcony until he was mortally
hit by return fire from the police. They got him in the head.”  The man, who admitted to the school killings and the
slayings of three soldiers, claimed ties to al-Qaeda and said he
spent time on the Afghan-Pakistan border, the police said. A
group with al-Qaeda links claimed responsibility for the
shootings, AFP said. The crimes make Merah the first homegrown
Islamic terrorist to commit violent acts on French soil.  “Everything was done to bring the murderer to justice,”
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in an address to the nation.
“But we couldn’t risk more lives. There have already been too
many deaths. An investigation is taking place to determine
whether there were accomplices.”  In Command  The police zeroed in on Merah two days after the shootings
at the school that also left a 17-year-old student seriously
wounded, in the worst attack on a Jewish target in France since
1982. In separate incidents in Toulouse and nearby Montauban, in
southwestern France, the week before the school killings, Merah
shot and killed three paratroopers of Arab origin, police said.
A fourth paratrooper remains in critical condition.  The investigators’ ability to track down the suspect has
burnished Sarkozy’s role as a leader in a national emergency and
may bolster him just a month before the first round of the
presidential election. A poll today showed Sarkozy pulling ahead
of Socialist Francois Hollande in the first round in the second
survey this month to give him a lead.  “Sarkozy is in command; he has to manage an open crisis,”
Jerome Sainte-Marie, head of Paris-based CSA’s public-opinion
unit, said in an interview. “In this role, he is the most
credible. He can show authority.”  Killer’s Camera  The election campaign, halted as the nation mourned,
resumed today. The first round of voting will be held on April
22, with the two leading contenders squaring off on May 6.  Sarkozy, who was at the funeral yesterday of the three
paratroopers, said the “killer hasn’t been able to crack our
national unity.”  The gunman filmed all his attacks, with the content of the
camera “extremely explicit,” the prosecutor, Molins, said.  “We see him at his meeting with the soldier, inquiring
about his military status and killing him with two bullets while
saying ‘you kill my brothers, I kill you,’” he said. “We also
see him killing the soldiers in Montauban in an extremely
violent scene and driving his scooter screaming Allah Akbar.”  He also filmed his attack at the Jewish school.  During his standoff with the police, Merah provided
information on where to find one of his weapons-laden rented
cars, his scooter and the camera.  The Raid  Toward the end, Merah, who wore a bullet-proof vest, locked
himself in the bathroom. He fired 30 rounds on the police
between the time he burst out of the bathroom until he jumped
from the balcony, Molins said.  Inside his apartment, police found three empty clips for
automatic pistols and a container full of ammunition. The
balcony had bottles and rags to make Molotov cocktails. Beside
his body, lay a Colt .45 with a clip containing two bullets.  Merah told the police late last night that “a surrender
would be against his commitments and beliefs,” Molins said.
“He told negotiators he wanted to die as Mujahedeen, weapons in
hand,” before cutting off all communication.  It was clear late yesterday that “the suspect wasn’t going
to give up,” Interior Minister Claude Gueant told reporters.  Police waited 12 hours before starting the final assault,
after having tried to provoke him to resume talks using
deafening grenades to increase his stress level.  Juvenile Delinquent  Merah had planned to kill again, with the goal of targeting
a soldier yesterday and two police officers later on, Molins,
said yesterday.  “He expressed no regrets, except to say he regretted not
having killed more people,” Molins said. “He boasted about
having brought France to her knees.”  Merah, who had several brushes with the law for petty
crimes, bought weapons using money from thefts, Molins said.  Born Oct. 10, 1988, in Toulouse to Algerian parents, Merah
was one of five children, including three boys. He spent his
youth in and out of the legal system before adopting radical
Islam and heading to  Afghanistan , prosecutors said.  When police spoke with the suspect yesterday, “he didn’t
have any specific demands,” Gueant said. “He just talked about
his jihadist, mujahedeen convictions. He said the attack on the
Jewish school was to avenge attacks on Palestinian children.”  ‘Fanciful Imagination’  Merah was sentenced 15 times as a minor for petty crimes,
including theft, Molins said. The psychological profile by the
police concluded he was “violent as a minor.”  Upon leaving prison after serving an 18-month sentence for
purse-snatching, he tried to join the army and was rejected,
said Christian Etelin, a lawyer who represented Merah on his
numerous run-ins with the law since 2005.  “He wanted to find his utility by serving his country,”
Etelin said in an interview. “Instead he felt he had no place
in society. He went to Pakistan-Afghanistan. He was very
mysterious about it. I think this talk of belonging to al-Qaeda
was fanciful imagination, a way to feel important.”  Merah was jobless after having worked for an auto-repair
shop until a few weeks ago, Gueant said.  A neighbor in the suspect’s apartment complex said she
barely knew him. “I’d seen him in the building but never really
noticed much about him,” said Farida Boumama, 48, a local
government worker. “He kept to himself.”  The Leads  Merah maintained he acted alone, Molins said.  Before the Jewish school attack, the investigation had
focused on soldiers to see if there was a settling of scores,
Molins said. Also, since the three murdered paratroopers were of
Arab descent, a group of former soldiers with neo-Nazi
sympathies was briefly suspected.  The weekend before the March 19 attack on the Jewish
school, investigators went through the 576 Internet e-mail
responses to a classified ad on “Au Bon Coin” to sell as
scooter placed by the soldier killed on March 11 in Toulouse.  An e-mail from Merah’s mother’s address drew investigators’
attention because it was featured on the French intelligence
list on people with jihadist links.  The “defining element” that trigged the raid was
information provided by a scooter dealer, Molins said. The
dealer told police about a man who’d questioned him about
removing a GPS tracker in order to repaint a scooter, providing
investigators with the suspect’s name. The color of the scooter
used in the attacks was altered.  Massive Manhunt  The police went through “seven million telephone data
points, 700 Internet addresses, collected 350 pieces of evidence
and conducted 200 interviews,” Molins said.  About 200 investigators and 2,000 police officers were
deployed to secure Toulouse, France’s fourth-largest city, with
about 450,000 inhabitants.  The manhunt was “the biggest police operation in France in
many years,” according to Olivier Candille, a Toulouse-based
member of the Alliance police union.  To contact the reporters on this story: Gregory Viscusi in Paris
at   gviscusi@bloomberg.net ; Helene Fouquet in
Paris at   hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  