-- House Votes to Drop Medicare Board From Health-Care Law
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-03-22T20:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/house-votes-to-drop-medicare-board-from-health-care-law.html
The House voted to remove a
Medicare advisory board from the 2010 health-care overhaul law
days before the U.S.  Supreme Court  hears arguments on the law’s
constitutionality.  The Independent Payment Advisory Board, composed of 15
presidentially appointed members who haven’t been selected, is
intended to recommend cuts in Medicare payments to doctors,
hospitals and other health-care providers.  The measure,  H.R. 5 , passed today on a 223-181 vote, also
would cap awards in medical-malpractice claims for pain and
suffering at $250,000 in most states and limit contingency fees
to lawyers. The legislation would establish guidelines for
punitive award limits and set a deadline for filing the
lawsuits.  The Republican-led House has previously passed similar
medical liability provisions, though the proposals didn’t
advance in the Senate, now controlled by Democrats.  The White House threatened a veto on March 20, calling the
advisory board “an important safeguard” to rein in Medicare
cost growth. The message from the U.S. Office of Management and
Budget said the malpractice award caps would create
“inappropriate and harmful restrictions” without reducing
preventable injuries or improving the quality of care.  Recommending Cuts  Starting in 2015, the payment advisory board would have the
ability to recommend cuts of as much as 0.5 percent of Medicare
spending, increasing to 1.5 percent for 2018 and beyond. The
board’s recommendations would automatically take effect unless
Congress passed a different plan to lower spending that matched
the amount recommended by the board.  The medical liability provisions would reduce the  budget
deficit  by $48.6 billion over 10 years, while repealing the
Medicare advisory board would increase the deficit by $3.1
billion, according to a March 19 Congressional Budget Office
estimate.  Medical associations and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are
among supporters of the bill. Opponents include trial lawyers’
associations, consumer advocacy groups and state legislatures.  The Supreme Court will hear arguments March 26-28 on
challenges to the health-care law’s constitutionality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  