-- Toyota Chief Seeks Disaster-Free Year After Quake, Flood
-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2012-03-22T11:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/toyota-s-toyoda-seeks-disaster-free-year-after-quake-floods.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President Akio Toyoda said he’s looking forward to a disaster-free year after
calamities in Japan and Thailand hobbled production, causing the
carmaker to lose the global sales lead to  General Motors Co. (GM)   “I feel that we have hit rock bottom and that we are
turning the corner,” Toyoda told reporters in  Tokyo  today.
“What we want more than anything is for nothing to go wrong
this year.”  The maker of the Camry sedan is forecasting group  sales  to
climb 21 percent to a record 9.58 million vehicles this year
after natural disasters in Japan and Thailand hobbled production
in 2011. Toyota had also recalled more than 10 million Toyota
and Lexus vehicles worldwide in 2009 and 2010 for defects
associated with unintended acceleration.  “Compared to when Toyota’s profits were at a record, there
is the strong yen,” said Takashi Aoki, senior  fund manager  at
Mizuho Asset Management Co. “Toyota needs to reduce the impact
from the strong yen by cutting costs of its cars.”  The Japanese currency is still too strong, and needs to
weaken to about 95 to 100 for the yen to be at “an appropriate
level,” said Toyoda.  Hybrid Vehicles  The yen, which appreciated more than any major currency for
two straight years, is the worst performer this quarter after
its value depreciated more than 7 percent against the dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Toyota rose 0.4 percent to 3,535 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo. The shares have gained 38 percent this year,
headed for their biggest quarterly gain since 1999.  In  China , the maker of the world’s best selling gas-
electric car Prius plans to focus on increasing sales of hybrid
vehicles, Toyoda said. The company reiterated plans to maintain
Japanese production of 3 million vehicles annually.  Toyota won’t follow  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-
biggest carmaker, to introduce a low-end brand, Toyoda said.
Nissan yesterday said it will revive its Datsun brand after
three decades to increase sales in  emerging markets .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  