-- Payday Lender Political Donors Hidden in Corporate Names
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/payday-lender-political-donors-hidden-in-corporate-names.html
Of all the names disclosed as
donors to Restore Our Future, a political action committee
supporting  Mitt Romney , some stand out for how little they
reveal.  RTTTA LLC of Provo,  Utah , is one of four corporations
created by auto-title and payday lenders who are subject to
financial regulations in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law
that Romney has vowed to repeal.  The other companies -- REBS Inc. of  Las Vegas , Select
Management Resources LLC of Alpharetta,  Georgia , and Katsam LLC
of Seattle -- were listed in Restore Our Future’s Feb. 20 and
March 20 campaign disclosure reports without revealing their
founders’ business interests.  The four firms contributed $235,000 during the two months
after President  Barack Obama  made the recess appointment of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau director, which oversees
the payday lenders, Federal Election Commission reports show.
Select Management, which offers car title loans, spent $600,000
in 2010 to lobby on the Dodd-Frank legislation and consumer
issues, Senate reports show.  “If that source of funding is hidden, voters are unable to
judge who is giving to a candidate and what the candidate is
agreeing to in return,” said former FEC Chairman  Trevor Potter ,
who is an advocate for limits on and disclosure of campaign
donations.  Latest Secrecy Tactic  Creation of a limited liability company to avoid disclosure
is the latest tool big donors and corporations are employing to
shield their political involvement.  Four years ago, such contributions weren’t possible because
the federal courts were yet to issue two rulings, including the
U.S. Supreme Court Citizens United case, that allowed unlimited
donations by wealthy individuals, corporations and labor unions
to political action committees, later nicknamed super-PACs.  In the 2010 midterms, big contributors seeking to remain
anonymous deposited their cash in a new group of “social
welfare” organizations, which under tax law can keep givers’
names secret provided the groups don’t spend most of their
resources on politics.  This election cycle is slated to feature an increased
number of so-called social welfare groups. Democrats, including
a group backing Obama, Priorities USA, and one supporting
congressional candidates, founded “social welfare” arms in an
effort to compete with Republican groups formed two years ago.  Expanding Secret Donations  The use of LLCs will further expand the amount of secret
money in this year’s campaign. Thus far in the Republican
primary, 19 limited liability firms or similar corporations have
been listed as donating a combined $3.8 million to the pro-
Romney super-PAC.  Bloomberg identified the payday lenders through state
corporate and other federal campaign finance records.  The identities of several other LLCs to the pro-Romney
super-PAC have emerged in other ways. After campaign disclosure
advocates called for a federal investigation of W Spann LLC,
which gave $1 million to Restore Our Future, a longtime Romney
donor, Edward Conard, announced he was behind the company.
Conard, a former Bain Capital LLC colleague of Romney’s, asked
the super-PAC to amend its FEC records and identify him as the
donor.  California Firm  JTC Holdings LLC of California made two donations in
January totaling $20,000. JTC shares the same address as Justin Chang of  Colony Capital LLC , a  Santa Monica , California-based
investment firm, according to filings at the California
Secretary of State’s Office and FEC records. Chang, whose
connection to JTC was first reported by the New York Times, also
had given $10,000 to the super-PAC under his own name.  Brittany Gross, a spokeswoman for Restore Our Future,
declined to comment on the donations. None of the LLCs or their
founders returned telephone calls or agreed to comment.  Legislation introduced yesterday by 34  Senate Democrats 
would prevent political contributors from using limited
liability companies and other tactics to disguise their
donations. The measure would require all groups that spend at
least $10,000 on elections to disclose their expenditures within
24 hours and identify donors that gave them at least $10,000.  “If you have one or two or three phony shell organizations
that you’re laundering your influence money through to obscure
who you are, we can chase that back under this law,” said
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat and the
bill’s chief sponsor.  Pro-Santorum PAC Disclosures  A super-PAC supporting former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum ,
Romney’s chief rival in the Republican presidential primary,
does identify the individuals behind the LLCs that have donated
to it.  The Dodd-Frank legislation enacted in 2010 in response to
the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression placed
payday lenders under the jurisdiction of the new consumer
bureau.  “Both payday and auto title pawn lenders make high-cost,
unsustainable loans to consumers,” said  Ed Mierzwinski ,
consumer program director with the U.S. Public Interest Research
Group, a Boston-based organization that supports stronger
regulations. “Both have been the source of widespread consumer
complaints, including from active-duty military commanders and
veterans’ organizations.”  Cordray Appointment  The law gave the consumer bureau the authority to begin
regulating these lenders as soon as a director was installed.
Obama responded to a Senate Republican filibuster by using a
recess appointment to install Richard Cordray as the agency’s
director Jan. 4; Cordray announced the following day that his
agency would begin looking at payday lenders and others.  Romney has called for repealing the legislation, and has
described Obama’s decision to appoint Cordray as “Chicago-style
politics at its worst.”  Jamie Fulmer, a vice president of Spartanburg, South
Carolina-based Advance America, a payday lender, said the
industry is cooperating with the bureau.  “We’ve been focused on what the bureau has focused on,
providing consumers with simple, transparent, fully disclosed,
easy-to-understand, cost-competitive products in the
marketplace,” said Fulmer, whose company donated $25,000 under
its own name to Restore Our Future last month. “We believe our
products and services compete very favorably.”  Payday Lenders’ Donations  Payday lenders in total contributed $427,500 to Restore Our
Future since Cordray’s appointment, most of it under their own
names, FEC reports show.  Katsam LLC, of  Seattle , has the same registered agent as
Moneytree Inc., a payday lender, according to corporation
records filed with the Washington secretary of state. Its
members, David and Dennis Bassford, are also corporate officers
at Moneytree. Bassford is also a director of the trade
association.  REBS shares an address and a president, James Marchesi,
with a Las Vegas branch of Check City, which offers both payday
loans and loans to consumers using their automobile titles as
collateral, according to records kept by the Nevada secretary of
state and FEC reports.  The registered agent of RTTTA LLC, J. Todd Rawle, is an
executive with Check City, based in Orem, Utah, the state’s
Department of Commerce and federal election records show.
Richard Rawle, another Check City executive and an officer of
RTTTA, is a director of the Community Financial Services
Association of America, an Alexandria, Virginia-based trade
group for payday lenders. The group spent $2.3 million to lobby
last year, according to reports filed with the  U.S. Senate .  District of Columbia Lawsuit  Select Management is one of several companies owned by Rod
Aycox. Another Aycox-owned title lender, Loan Max, was sued in
2009 by  District of Columbia  Attorney General Peter Nickles for
charging interest rates of more than 300 percent a year,
according to a press release from the attorney general’s office.  Loan Max settled out of court by agreeing to provide
refunds to customers who lived in the nation’s capital and
return cars that the company had repossessed, according to a
D.C. government release.  Aycox, who also contributed $100,000 to Restore Our Future
last month in his own name, contributed to five presidential
candidates during the 2008 elections, including Romney and
Obama, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks political giving.
His foundation, the Georgia-based Rod and Leslie Aycox
Foundation Inc., made a separate $100,000 donation to Restore
Our Future in July, FEC filings show.  Personal Donations  Todd Rawle gave Romney the maximum $2,500 contribution last
May. Dennis Bassford, chief executive officer of Tukwila,
Washington-based Moneytree, and David, executive vice president,
each contributed $2,100 to Romney’s 2008 presidential campaign,
according to the center records.  Potter, a Republican who is president of the Campaign Legal
Center, a Washington-based group that supports stronger
disclosure requirements, said the FEC should require more
information.  “If the money being given belongs to a particular person
or a small group of people, it ought to be disclosed,” Potter
said. “If the money really is  John Smith ’s and is given through
a corporation John Smith discloses, it should be disclosed as
coming from John Smith.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 