-- Philadelphia Regulates Brotherly Love to Curb Homeless Picnics
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/philadelphia-regulates-brotherly-love-to-curb-homeless-picnics.html
When Philadelphia’s spring dogwoods
blossom, Brian Jenkins will head to a triangular greenway on the
Benjamin Franklin Parkway just before dusk and help set up two
long, cloth-covered tables where cornbread, grilled Tilapia and
peach cobbler are served to the homeless.  The outdoor feeding that begins each May includes music,
sometimes a banjo-strumming gospel singer or a sound system and
a choir. Parents come with children in tow, and while some have
found a place to sleep, in an economy still recovering from
recession, more are in need of something to eat.  This year, the annual ritual has sparked a clash between
groups such as  Chosen 300 Ministries Inc. , where Jenkins works,
and Mayor Michael Nutter. The city has banned feedings in city
parks, except for family picnics and public events, and is
considering rules to protect the homeless from foodborne
illness. Jenkins says the requirements, such as preparing items
in approved facilities and attending food-safety classes, are a
ploy to rid tourist areas of people deemed an eyesore.  “Jesus didn’t have to go to an approved kitchen,” Jenkins
said. “If I have to pay a fine, then I will. I’m still going to
feed outside, the way I always have. I’ll just put up a sign
that says ‘God’s Family Picnic.’”  Philadelphia’s city leaders are entering a showdown that’s
playing out across the U.S., according to advocates for the
homeless.  Dallas  has implemented food-safety requirements and
cities such as Middletown,  Connecticut (STOCT1) , and Nashville,
 Tennessee (STOTN1) , have stopped food distribution that didn’t comply
with public health codes. The churches and ministries aren’t
going quietly.  Nationally Tense  “This is nationally very tense,” Philadelphia Health
Commissioner  Donald Schwarz  said in an interview.  Homeless advocates say it’s not the cost that’s bothering
them, since many municipalities are offering food-training
classes for free. Instead, they’re concerned the bureaucratic
intrusions will cause some small operations, such as those that
don’t have access to approved kitchens, to shut down.  Philadelphia’s Board of Health is scheduled today to
consider additional food-safety standards for feeding three or
more people outside, including a mandatory permit. Nutter said
another policy change that bans outdoor feeding at city parks
will increase “the health, safety, dignity and support” for
the homeless.  “It’s not about who is on the parkway but how it is
used,” Nutter said in  prepared remarks  March 15 announcing his
policy changes. “Providing food to those who are hungry must
not be about opening the car trunk, handing out a bunch of
sandwiches and then driving off into a dark and rainy night.”  Houston Ordinance  Houston Mayor Annise Parker has also been the target of
criticism as her city considers restrictions on homemade meals.  “People have the best intentions, but you leave food out
for four hours or don’t store it properly, it can be severe,”
Jessica Michan, the mayor’s spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Houston this month considered making those who feed the
homeless register, banning the storage or preparation of food in
private homes and requiring that one person obtain food-safety
training. Fines would have been as much as $2,000.  The proposal has been amended and now makes food-safety
training voluntary, with violations of as much as $500 if
permission to serve food isn’t obtained by the property owner.
Hearings have brought crowds of almost 100 people and left one
lawmaker in tears.  The measure was intended to protect the homeless, who may
have less access to health care or be more at risk of
complications if they develop foodborne illnesses, Michan said.  Red Herring  “It’s a red herring,” Randall Kallinen, a civil rights
lawyer in Houston who has organized opposition to the city’s
plans, said in an interview. “They can’t provide one example
where someone got injured or sick. This is really a way to push
homeless out of downtown.”  Targeting people and groups who try to share food with the
homeless has become more common, according to a 2010 report by
the Washington-based National Coalition for the Homeless and the
 National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty . Limits on sharing
food outdoors grew as the economic collapse in 2008 led to more
demand for meals. There are restrictions on sharing food in at
least 23 towns and cities in the U.S., according to the report.  New York City  prohibits private donations of food to
homeless shelters as part of a policy partly aimed at ensuring
meals are nutritious.  New York Shelters  The Homeless Services Department has rules about food
preparation going beyond nutritional standards the city set in
2009, and updated in 2011, said Samantha Levine, a spokeswoman
for Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  “We are regulated by the state in the provision and
delivery of food to homeless people in our shelter system and
those regulations are very specific and written to ensure safety
and proper distribution of food to homeless people,” said
Barbara Brancaccio, a spokeswoman for Homeless Services. “There
is very little opportunity for people to come in with food from
outside, and that’s how it’s always been.”  The safety measures can be an important public health
protection as long as they don’t restrict access to food or the
rights of the homeless, Neil Donovan, executive director of  the
National Coalition for the Homeless , said in an interview.  Good Samaritan Laws  “The only thing worse than being homeless is being
homeless on the street with a stomach infection,” said Donovan,
who supports the intent behind the proposals.  There were 636,017 homeless people in the U.S. in 2011, a 1
percent decrease from 2009, according to the Washington-based
 National Alliance to End Homelessness , a nonprofit policy group.
Urban areas have the highest rate of homelessness, about 29
people per 10,000. Houston has an estimated 10,000 homeless
people every night, according to the Beacon, a nonprofit group
that provides services to the poor.  U.S. lawmakers have sought to encourage donations to the
hungry. Congress passed a  good Samaritan  food donation act in
1996 under President  Bill Clinton  to protect businesses,
organizations and individuals that donate food from legal
liability. All 50 states and  Washington , D.C., also have good
Samaritan laws that provide additional protection to donors,
according to the U.S. Agriculture Department.  The latest city initiatives run counter to a philosophy of
helping the homeless, said Heather Johnson, a civil rights
attorney with the National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty.  Do-Gooder Rebellion  “Food-safety restrictions, while well intentioned, make it
more difficult for groups to share food and may make it harder
for the homeless to get meals,” Johnson said in an interview.
“We’re seeing more cities and municipalities adopting these
kinds of regulations.”  Philadelphia’s mayor last week instructed the parks
department to issue a regulation in 30 days banning outside
feeding in all city parks, with exceptions for picnics and
permitted events. A temporary food distribution location at  City
Hall  will be set up for groups to provide food to the homeless,
according to a press release.  The regulations would apply to Jenkins’s site along the
parkway, a  mile-long scenic boulevard  that connects City Hall to
just near the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Jenkins,
who currently feeds the homeless indoors because of the winter
season, plans to resume his ministry’s outdoor program in May.  Jenkins called Nutter’s plan an “attack on the poor” and
expects to fight, even if that means violating a ban.  “You can’t regulate someone doing good,” Jenkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  