-- Platini Said No Apology After Premier League Chairman’s Rant
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-22T14:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/platini-said-no-apology-after-premier-league-chairman-s-rant.html
European soccer president  Michel Platini  said he hasn’t received an apology from English Premier
League chairman Dave Richards, who claimed last week that UEFA
and FIFA “stole” the sport from  England .  Richards said he’d apologize to the two bodies after making
the comments last week at an event in Doha, Qatar, where he
later tripped and fell into a fountain. Premier League Chairman
 Richard Scudamore  said this week that Richards had called to
apologize all those he may have offended.  “I read in an English media outlet he was going to send an
e-mail -- maybe the e-mail got lost in the corridors of UEFA but
I never saw it,” Platini told a press conference in Istanbul
after  UEFA ’s annual Congress. “What he said is slightly
surprising.”  Richards was to attend the event in his capacity as
chairman of the European Professional Leagues but sent his
apologies, without explaining why he couldn’t be present.  “He said football was stolen from England and that a gang
has done this,” Platini said. “We are not a gang at UEFA and
the English are so generous they have given football to the
entire planet. Football now belongs to the whole world and I
want to thank England for their gift.”  Richards was due to sign a memorandum of understanding
between UEFA and EPFL, an umbrella body representing European
soccer’s professional leagues.  “I don’t know the reasons that motivated the president of
the EPFL not to come,” Platini said. “What was important was
to have the contract with the EPFL signed.”  Owners  Richards issued his apology after making outspoken comments
at a roundtable which included Prince Ali Bin Al-Hussein, a FIFA
vice-president and brother to the king of Jordan.  “For 50 years, we owned the game,” Richards said. “We
were the governance of the game. We wrote the rules and designed
the pitches. Then, 50 years later, some guy came along and said,
‘we like this,’ and they actually stole it. It was called FIFA.
Fifty years later, another gang came along called UEFA and stole
a bit more.”  Video of Richards falling into the water feature at an
Arabic Art museum had more than 100,000 hits within a week of
being posted on video sharing website Youtube.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Istanbul via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  