-- Porsche’s $116,000 Rival Fisker Pushes Battery Power to Limits
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/porsche-s-116-000-rival-fisker-pushes-battery-power-to-limits.html
Henrik Fisker gets nostalgic as he
reminisces about the cars of the 1950s. He loves oversized,
over-the-top designs with soaring fins and lush interiors.  “Those were American cars that ruled the road,” he says
at an Italian restaurant in  Los Angeles .  While the 48-year-old Dane previously designed cars for
 Aston Martin  and BMW, it takes a Grand Canyon-sized leap to
start a car company. He co-founded Fisker Automotive Inc. in
2007.  He showed the  Fisker Karma  concept a year later. It’s meant
to be unpredictable, surprising, fast and sexy with an
environmental twist. The hybrid can run in all-electric mode or
in tandem with a small gasoline engine. It’s now on sale,
stuffed with eco-conscious technology.  It’s easy to get swept up in Fisker’s vision. I just wish I
liked the car better.  As a luxury sports sedan, the Karma (starting at $103,000)
swims with slick sharks. Competitors include the Porsche
 Panamera  S Hybrid ($96,000), the  BMW (BMW)  ActiveHybrid 750i
($97,900), the $130,800 Maserati Quattroporte and even the
$210,000-plus Aston Martin Rapide.  The Karma looks exotic. Its generous proportions hover
somewhere between the voluptuousness of a 1960s Italian exotic
like a Maserati and the over-ripeness of a 1970s Corvette.  Low and long, it has oversized, flared fenders and rides on
fat 22-inch wheels. The only exterior misfire is the ridiculous
grill, which is shaped like a French waiter’s pencil mustache,
straight out of a Bugs Bunny cartoon.  Karma Compromise  Fisker argues the Karma’s major selling point is its blend
of sportiness and green credentials. I’m not convinced. Luxury
consumers don’t like compromises, and the Karma is full of them.  The car works similarly to the  Chevy Volt . It can run on
all-electric power from a lithium-ion  battery  pack in what
Fisker calls “stealth mode.” Most drivers will get more than 30
miles of range this way. Plug the car into a 220-volt outlet
every night for a six-hour recharge, and you’ll use little or no
gasoline on short commutes.  It has a 2.0-liter, turbocharged gasoline engine, which
turns on when the batteries are depleted, or when the driver
wants more oomph. Simply turn it to sport mode.  The 260-horsepower engine powers a generator, which in turn
recharges the batteries on the go. While this eliminates range
limitations, it also hurts the Karma’s official Environmental
Protection Agency numbers. The  EPA  gave it a 52 miles-per-gallon
equivalence in all-electric mode and only 20 mpg when running
fully on gas.  Reliability Issue  This new technology comes with its own set of issues. These
may include reliability.  Consumer Reports  said its Karma, which
it bought,  broke down . The  San Francisco Chronicle  reported that
four out of five shipped to one dealership had software glitches
almost immediately.  I experienced nothing like that. But the meshing of systems
is often noisy and harsh, with unaccounted-for noises and
vibrations. This happens almost entirely when the gas engine is
on, and in a luxury ride it’s unacceptable.  In slow traffic, the car has a tendency to shudder as you
creep along. Mash the accelerator and the gasoline engine
announces itself rudely. And no, that’s not the sexy whine of an
inline six-cylinder nor the roar of a V-8. That’s the same cheap
sound you’ll hear in small economy cars. (The engine is sourced
from  General Motors. (GM) )  Heavy Motors  Nor is the car especially fast. Combined power from the
motors is a claimed 403 horsepower and 959 pound-feet of torque.
That should translate into sonic speeds, except the heavy
batteries and additional equipment weigh the car down. At some
5,300 pounds, it’s heavier than some SUVs.  The company says it will do 0-to-60 miles per hour in 6.3
seconds using sport mode and 7.9 in all-electric. BMW’s hybrid 7
Series makes it in 4.7.  Yet I much preferred the car in all-electric mode. The lack
of noise makes it feel quicker off the line and you get the
genuine sense that you’re driving something special -- an exotic
electric car.  The Karma corners flatly and neatly, with virtually no body
roll. Snap around curves and accelerate cleanly into short
straight-aways, and stealth mode is rewarding.  The sci-fi sensation is enhanced by two exterior speakers
that emit an odd whirring noise at low speeds to alert
pedestrians.  Idiosyncratic Interior  Interior options are idiosyncratic. Buyers can opt for an
“EcoSport” leather interior that raises the sticker price to
$109,000 or the $116,000 “EcoChic” option which eschews animal
products in favor of recycled or reclaimed materials.  When I drove one of the latter, it sported an upholstered
dash that made me feel I was motoring around town in a tweed
suit. Odd, but in a conversation-starting way.  The batteries are stored in a long tunnel that runs through
the center of the car, intruding into the cabin. This means only
four people can fit inside. Elbow, trunk and storage space are
at a premium. I was hard pressed to find a place for my cell
phone. The EPA rates it as subcompact because of the scant
volume. Yet another compromise.  That’s a shame, because I really do want to love this
audacious car. Given another generation or two, it could develop
into a sports sedan that spanks the big boys.  I hope it has the luxury of time. I’m just not sure enough
buyers will ultimately step out of their Porsches and Bimmers
long enough to give it that chance.  The 2012 Fisker Karma At a Glance  Engines: 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder and two
electric motors, for a combined 403 hp and 959 lb-ft of torque.  Transmission: Single gear.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.3 seconds (sport mode) or 7.9
seconds (all-electric).  Range: More than 30 miles on all-electric; an additional
250 miles in extended-range mode.  Price as tested: $116,000.  Best features: Eye-catching exterior, stealth-mode driving.  Worst features: Cramped, shudders and unpleasant engine
noise.  Target buyer: The Silicon Valley wunderkind who wants to
show his eco side.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 