-- Portugal Strike Against Labor Reform Halts Metro, Ferries
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-22T14:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/portugal-strike-against-labor-reform-halts-metro-ferries.html
A strike against  Portugal ’s
austerity measures and labor-market changes that are “killing
the welfare state” halted the metro and some ferry services in
Lisbon, making it difficult for commuters to get to work.  Lisbon’s metro, which carries about half a million
passengers a day, will be shut until 1:00 a.m. tomorrow, Metro
de Lisboa said on its  website . Ferries from the capital city to
towns on the southern bank of the river Tagus were canceled,
while the capital city’s airport remained operational, airport
manager ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA’s said on its  website .  “We are protesting against the labor-market reform,
unemployment and austerity measures that are killing the welfare
state,” Armando Farias, a member of CGTP labor group’s
executive committee, said in an interview. “The government is
destroying the country.”  CGTP called the protest after the government signed an
agreement on Jan. 18 with the UGT union to overhaul the labor
market. The deal reduces the number of paid vacation days for
employees and makes it easier to fire workers. The changes are
part of the terms of Portugal’s 78-billion euro ($103 billion)
bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  “This strike will hardly resolve the country’s problems,”
Luis Marques Guedes, the secretary of state for the presidency
of the council of ministers, said today in comments broadcast by
SIC Noticias Television station.  A peaceful demonstration began at 2 p.m. at the Rossio
square in central Lisbon that is expected to be followed by a
march to Parliament, according to the  CGTP’s website . The UGT
said it won’t take part in today’s strike.  Galp Workers  Workers at Portugal’s  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  Matosinhos and
Sines refineries will probably join the one-day strike, Diario
Economico reported on March 20, without saying how it got the
information. Unions representing some Galp workers at the two
plants didn’t respond to two phone calls. Both refineries are
“operating normally,” Pedro Marques Pereira, a spokesman for
Galp, said by phone today.  The protest takes place five months after CGTP and UGT held
a general strike against government spending cuts in the public
sector and an increase in taxes that have weighed on the
southern European country’s economy.  Portugal’s economic  growth  has averaged less than 1 percent
a year in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest rates. The
economy is expected to shrink 3.3 percent this year, the
European Commission forecast on Feb. 23, more than twice the 1.5
percent contraction last year.  Unemployment, which reached 12.7 percent in 2011, will rise
to 14.5 percent this year before declining to less than 14
percent in 2013, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said on Feb. 28.  “I understand the reasons behind the protest, but the
country is in such a difficult situation that I don’t think
anyone can afford to take a day off to strike,” Maria Celeste,
who’s 63 and unemployed due to health issues, said at a Lisbon
metro station yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  