-- Proview Says Talks With Apple Over IPad Trademark Stalled
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T09:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/proview-says-talks-with-apple-over-ipad-trademark-stalled.html
Proview International Holdings
Ltd. (334) ’s Shenzhen unit said talks to arrange settlement
negotiations with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  regarding the rights to the iPad
name in  China  have stalled.  The talks between the failed Hong Kong-listed display maker
and the world’s most-valuable company were disclosed by Proview
International Chairwoman Sun Min at the  High Court  in Hong Kong
today. The last face-to-face meeting with Apple was on Feb. 16,
Proview founder Rowell Yang said when asked about the talks.  Apple on Feb. 29 appealed a November ruling by a lower
court that its 2009 contract to buy rights to the iPad name in
China was invalid because Proview’s Shenzhen unit, which owned
them, wasn’t a party to the agreement. The unit’s lawyer, Roger
Xie, said the Guangdong appeal court, which is due to rule
within three months, tried to organize mediation.  “There is some gap between Apple and Proview,” Yang said
in a phone interview from Shenzhen today. “We are waiting for
their offer. If the offer is fair, a settlement is good for both
parties.”  Today’s pre-trial hearing in  Hong Kong  was part of the
Cupertino, California-based company’s lawsuit against Yang and
his companies for conspiring to breach the 2009 sale agreement.  A Hong Kong judge ruled in July “there is clearly a
serious question to be tried for the claim of conspiracy.” The
Hong Kong case is parallel to the Guangdong proceedings.  Proview sold the rights to Apple and is misleading Chinese
courts and customers, Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman
for Apple, said today.  “We respect Chinese laws and regulations, and as a company
that generates a lot of intellectual property we would never
knowingly abuse someone else’s trademarks,” Wu said.  She declined to comment on whether the two sides have held
settlement talks.  Xie said Proview International is willing to hold them.  “We are trying to contact Apple and set up a formal
negotiation,” Xie said. “We haven’t started any formal
negotiation as of now.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  