-- Public Debt Holders Must Act If New Greek Cut Needed, Humes Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-03-22T11:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/public-debt-holders-must-act-if-new-greek-cut-needed-humes-says.html
Governments and central banks would
have to make concessions if  Greece  needs another round of debt
restructuring, according to Hans Humes, president of  New York- 
based hedge fund Greylock Capital Management.  “If there need to be concessions on debt, it’s going to
have to come from somewhere else,” Humes, who is a member of a
committee of private bondholders that negotiated the swap with
government officials earlier this year, said today at the
Bloomberg Sovereign Debt Conference, hosted by Bloomberg Link in
Frankfurt. “We are going to have to look to the official sector
and the central banks to make concessions.”  Private creditors have “stronger bargaining power” after
reaching an agreement in February with Greece and European
officials on the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history, Humes said. Investors including banks, insurers and
 hedge funds  agreed to forgive more than 100 billion euros ($132
billion) of debt, opening the way for a second bailout.  Euro-area central banks and the Luxembourg-based  European
Investment Bank  negotiated a deal to sidestep losses on Greek
bond holdings, said euro-region officials with with knowledge of
both transactions. The  European Central Bank  swapped its Greek
bonds, bought as investments under the Securities Markets
Program, for bonds of identical structure and nominal value that
are exempt from so-called collective action clauses.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said March 8 the swap was the
“right thing to do,” adding “the ECB has in a sense the duty
to do everything to protect the taxpayers’ money that was
entrusted to it.”  ‘Accident Prone’  Greece remains “accident prone” and may require further
debt restructuring or additional financing from euro countries
if it struggles to implement measures attached to a new 130
billion-euro bailout, staff at the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report last week. With the debt swap and austerity
measures, the Greek government plans to cut the country’s debt
burden to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020 from as
high as 170 percent.  “The private sector now has got such a small piece to play
in this that the attention really has to focus on what is the
official sector going to do going forward,” said  William White ,
chairman of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development’s economic and development review committee, who
estimates the three-quarters of remaining Greek debt is held by
the official sector. “That’s the real question as to what’s
going to happen on the official side if the Greeks can’t meet
the objectives.”  Reaching the 120 percent debt-to-GDP target is “very
optimistic,” White said. Together with a 130 billion-euro
second Greek aid package, the restructuring is a key element in
European leaders’ efforts to turn the tide against the crisis
that has roiled  Europe , and forced Ireland and  Portugal  to
follow Greece in requiring bailouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  