-- Putin’s Spending May Cripple Medvedev as Kudrin Eyes His Job
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-23T12:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/putin-s-spending-may-cripple-medvedev-as-kudrin-eyes-his-job.html
Dmitry Medvedev may struggle to
hold onto his new post as Russian prime minister as the budget
buckles and the finance official he ousted waits in the wings to
take over, investors and analysts from Moscow to London say.  The president, who’s stepping aside to allow  Vladimir Putin 
to reclaim the Kremlin spot he occupied from 2000 to 2008, faces
a widening fiscal deficit when taking over as premier in May
after his mentor promised $160 billion in extra spending such as
pensions and state salaries before being re-elected on March 4.  The budget, which posted a shortfall of 6 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009 after  oil prices  sank, may need crude
to average a record $150 a barrel to balance by 2014, Citigroup
Inc. predicts. A  budget crisis  may test the president-elect’s
loyalty to Medvedev and open the door for Alexei Kudrin, a Putin
ally who in 11 years as finance minister cut state debt to less
than 10 percent of GDP and posted nine fiscal surpluses.  “Most people think Medvedev won’t last long in that
role,” Robert Procope, a London-based  fund manager  with
Charlemagne Capital, which oversees $3 billion including Russian
shares, said March 16 by phone. “He seems to be a crippled
figure, shorn of any credibility.”  Credit Outlook Cut  Fitch Ratings , which lowered its outlook on Russia’s BBB
credit rating to negative in January, warned this month that a
failure to tighten public finances accompanied by a “severe and
sustained” drop in oil prices would damage the economy and may
lead to a credit downgrade.  While Urals crude oil, Russia’s main export, is trading at
about $120 a barrel, $3 above the price needed to balance this
year’s budget, a weaker global economy may force the price down
next year. The high price of oil, along with Putin’s election,
has helped push the  MICEX (INDEXCF)  stock index up 11 percent and the
ruble 9.8 percent higher to the dollar since January.  Crude prices could potentially fall below $100 next year,
meaning Russia may face an “expanding” budget deficit unless
the government cuts spending and proceeds with plans to sell
assets, according to  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika
Dialog, the investment bank owned by state-run OAO Sberbank.  “The next government is going to have a really tough time
from the middle of next year,” Weafer said March 15 by phone.
“It will face tougher decisions from 2013 and 2014, and we may
see changes in terms of who’s in the various seats.”  ‘Commodity Supercycle’  Citigroup Inc. warned that the “Russian investment case”
will have to change because the “commodity supercycle” on
which it is based has peaked and prices are likely to fall in
the coming years, according to a report emailed today.  “The saving grace for  Russia  is that the market is a play
on energy, and energy is a late cycle commodity,” analysts
 Kingsmill Bond  and Andrey Kuznetsov, wrote. “The near-term
problems about to face the metals sector may therefore act as an
early warning system for Russia.” Putin may raise taxes on
mining to fund his spending programs, Troika Dialog said.  Kudrin said in a radio interview in December that he may be
offered the premiership, adding that Medvedev’s authority had
fallen “significantly” after he agreed to make way for Putin.  The former finance minister would insist on Putin reneging
on some of his pre-election spending promises as a condition for
taking the prime minister’s job, as he wouldn’t agree to become
a “cashier to dole out money for populist reasons,” said a
former Kremlin adviser,  Gleb Pavlovsky . Medvedev, who won’t have
such autonomy, will last “a maximum of a year,” Pavlovsky,
head of the Moscow-based Effective Policy Foundation, said in a
March 22 interview.  Bullish Story  “Part of the bullish story by certain investors is that
Kudrin will come back as prime minister and lead a highly
effective regime,” Bond, chief strategist at Citigroup in
Moscow, said by phone.  Kudrin was forced to resign by Medvedev in September after
saying he wouldn’t work in a Cabinet led by the president
because he opposed plans to spend 2.1 trillion rubles ($72
billion) more on defense through 2014. Government expenditure is
reaching a critical level, he said the next month.  Kudrin proposes raising the  retirement age  to as high as 63
years for men and 62 years for women, saying  life expectancy 
will average 75 years by 2050, up from 69 years now. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the
 World Bank  back an increase. Putin ruled out such a move in his
election campaign.  Pension Spending  Pension spending accounts for a fifth of the budget,
Citigroup estimates. The pension gap will reach 1.75 trillion
rubles in 2012 from 875 billion rubles last year, Deputy Health
and Social Development Minister Yury Voronin said in October.
That’s 3 percent of the  Finance Ministry ’s 2012 GDP forecast.  “The fundamental difference is we know Kudrin’s ability to
control the purse strings,”  Charles Robertson , global chief
economist at  Renaissance Capital , said March 15 by phone.  Even with his ally Kudrin lurking in the wings, Putin,
whose new term runs to 2018, may be loathe to backtrack on his
promise to swap jobs with Medvedev, according to Michael Kart,
managing partner at hedge fund company Spectrum Partners Ltd,
which manages $150 million in assets.  Wishful Thinking  “Kudrin returning could be wishful thinking on the part of
some investors as Putin made it clear Medvedev will be the next
prime minister and that the ‘tandem’ will be able to deliver on
its reform agenda,” Kart said March 16 by phone.  Furthermore, the government forecasts little fiscal danger.
The budget gap will narrow to 0.7 percent of GDP in 2014 from
1.5 percent this year, according to a marketing presentation for
a government Eurobond sale obtained by Bloomberg News.  The budget’s break-even oil price will start declining
after growing “substantially” in recent years, the authors of
the presentation wrote.  Still, Renaissance predicts a Medvedev administration would
spend more than one headed by Kudrin. Russia’s state debt is
likely to rise toward 50 percent of GDP from 11 percent within
five years if the current president were premier, compared with
20 percent under Kudrin, it said.  Kudrin’s “preference for a very low level of government
debt” bolsters calls for his appointment as prime minister in
the coming years, according to Renaissance’s Robertson.  “Investors would love to see Kudrin in a powerful position
in Russia and prime minister would obviously be a powerful
position,” he said from  London . “At some point in the future
he’s a very credible candidate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  