-- Quake Risk From Fracking Seen Cut With Disclosures, U.S. Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-22T16:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/quake-risk-from-fracking-seen-cut-with-disclosures-u-s-says.html
U.S. energy companies should report
information on waste water from hydraulic fracturing to help
officials reduce the risk of earthquakes, the head of the  U.S.
Geological Survey  said.  “We do need help from industry,”  Marcia McNutt , director
of the U.S. Geological Survey, said today in an interview in
Washington. “There is not good public information on the amount
of water being pumped, and the rate at which it’s pumped.”  The Ohio Department of Natural Resources proposed this
month creating rules for transporting and disposing of the
fluids after concluding quakes last year were probably caused by
water from oil and natural-gas drilling, know as fracking, being
injected into a disposal well.  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  pump millions of gallons of water, sand
and chemicals underground to break up shale-rock formations and
release the trapped gas.  Some drillers voluntarily disclose information on waste-
water wells, while others are required to report by state rules,
said Kathleen Gohn, deputy congressional liaison officer at the
survey, a unit of the Interior Department. The agency has no
power to impose additional requirements, she said.  Less than 1 percent of wells drilled to dispose of the
water after fracking causes “induced seismicity,” McNutt said
today in testimony to a House Natural Resources Committee panel
in Washington.  “I’m wondering what would be an acceptable percentage of
induced earthquakes, I think 1 percent is probably pretty
large,” Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey Democrat, said
during the hearing.  Getting more information would help reduce the quake risk
in a year or two, McNutt said.  “It’s a very solvable problem,” McNutt said. “You either
have to put the holes in a different place, or pump it at a
different rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  