-- Quebec Students Rally in Montreal Against Tuition Increases
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-22T18:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/quebec-students-rally-in-montreal-against-tuition-increases.html
Tens of thousands of students took
to the street of downtown  Montreal  to protest against a planned
increase in university tuition.  Starting at Place du Canada, the site of a pro-federalist
rally days before a 1995 referendum on Quebec sovereignty,
protesters began marching north on Peel Street at about 1:40
p.m. before turning east on Sherbrooke Street. The  march  is
scheduled to conclude in the city’s Old Port district. A police
helicopter is hovering overhead, and local television reports no
incidents. Organizers want to draw more than 100,000
participants, La Presse newspaper reported.  University and high school students across Canada’s second
most-populous province went on strike last month over the
planned increase, staging protests that included the blocking of
Montreal’s Champlain Bridge. Premier Jean Charest reiterated
today that the government’s decision on tuition is final.
Finance Minister Raymond Bachand’s budget, introduced March 20,
contained no measures to help offset the increase.  Quebec unveiled plans last year to boost tuition fees by
C$1,625 ($1,625) over five years as part of a plan to plug a
budget gap. Quebec has among the lowest tuition fees in  Canada .  Bachand reaffirmed his goal to balance the budget by 2013-
14, with the deficit shrinking to C$1.5 billion in the year that
starts April 1. Pauline Marois, who leads the separatist Parti
Quebecois, said she would cancel the tuition increase if
elected.  Charest’s  Liberal Party  trails the Parti Quebecois in
voting intentions. One-third of respondents in a Leger Marketing
 poll  published March 12 would have voted for the Parti Quebecois
had an election been held this month, compared with 28 percent
for the Liberals.  Charest has until December 2013 to call an election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  