-- Rajoy Seeks Free Hand on Cuts With Andalusia Vote: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/rajoy-seeks-free-hand-on-cuts-with-andalusia-vote-euro-credit.html
Spain’s most populous region votes
in two days in an election that may give Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s People’s Party free rein to enact his deficit-cutting 
policies.  Andalusia is the last state under Socialist control after
the party was ousted in May from its traditional strongholds of
Castilla-La Mancha and Extremadura. The region has obstructed
efforts to curb the nation’s debt load, as its deficit was more
than twice the target last year.  Rajoy, who has been in power since ousting the Socialists
in December, said March 2 that the nation will miss its deficit
goal for a second year. The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds has
climbed 63 basis points since then, rising above  Italy ’s for the
first time since August and ending yesterday at a two-month high
of 5.5 percent.  “Andalusia is a region that has been in the Socialists’
power forever and winning there will be a strong sign the whole
country now supports the government of the  People’s Party ,”
said Antonio Fatas, an economics professor at the Paris-based
INSEAD business school.  Rajoy, 56, has demanded that regions halve their total
 budget gap  this year, even as the economy faces its second
recession since 2009, to meet the nation’s European commitments.
Regions control about 36 percent of public spending, including
health and education, and accounted for most of Spain’s deficit
slippage last year.  Default Insurance  The cost of insuring against a Spanish default for five
years rose 12 basis points yesterday to 434, the highest level
since January, according to prices from data provider CMA. That
implies a 32 percent chance of Spain failing to meet its
obligations within five years.  Spanish debt is rated A by  Standard & Poor’s , five levels
below  Germany ’s AAA grade.  Andalusia, with the highest  unemployment  rate in the
country and the second-lowest output per capita, has been
controlled by the Socialists since Spain’s return to democracy
in 1978. Victory in Andalusia would leave Rajoy’s PP and its
allies in control of all but two small regions and the Basque
Country, which is run by a one-off coalition of the Socialists
and PP.  This week’s polls by  El Pais  and  ABC  newspapers indicate
the PP will win an outright majority on March 25, while a survey
by  El Mundo  suggested it will fall short of a majority. The
latter outcome may allow the Socialists to remain in power in
coalition with the United Left party, El Mundo reported.  “A defeat of the PP at the Andalusia election could fuel
fears that Spain will miss its deficit targets again this
year,” said Georg Grodzki, who helps oversee $515 billion as
global head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in  London . “The jury is still out on the regions’
willingness to belatedly share the consolidation burden.”  Cooperation Needed  Rajoy needs their cooperation to reorganize public
finances, which Moody’s Investors Service expects to include
health-care cuts. Once the vote is over, Rajoy will be able to
risk unpopular policies without electoral concerns. Asturias,
the third-smallest state, also holds an election on March 25 
and polls by ABC and La Razon indicate the PP may win enough
votes to govern in a coalition.  “Rajoy has been presenting his measures gradually,” said
Javier Del Rey Morato, a political-communications professor at
 Madrid ’s Complutense University. “The markets would have
preferred an immediate lump-package, but the premier has had an
internal electoral front to heed.”  Rajoy, who will close the Andalusian campaign with a speech
in Seville today, plans to present his 2012 budget on March 30,
three months after coming to power. Investors remain “skeptical
that the reforms brought underway by Rajoy will suffice,”
Grodzki said.  Missing Targets  The regions, which spend more than a third of their budgets
on healthcare and hire half of  Spain ’s public workers, need to
reduce their overall shortfall to 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 2.9 percent.  Spain’s total gap last year was 8.5 percent, overshooting
the 6 percent target mainly because of slippage by the regions.
Euro finance chiefs agreed March 12 to ease this year’s overall
goal to 5.3 percent from an initial 4.4 percent. Rajoy wanted
backing for a target of 5.8 percent.  Andalusia, Catalonia and Valencia are the three regions big
enough to undermine Rajoy’s efforts.  Andalusia’s deficit was the second largest in absolute
terms last year after Catalonia’s, even as it was about average
as a proportion of GDP. After being shut out of public debt
markets, Andalusia, like Catalonia, has resorted to selling so-
called patriot bonds to retail investors, who can commit as
little as 1,000 euros to each transaction.  Madrid Rates  Madrid, the second-biggest region, has the smallest  budget deficit 
as a share of GDP. The state sold bonds on March 15 that yielded
200 basis points more than equivalent Spanish securities.  “Andalusia is a very important region that the PP can
realistically take over to have absolute dominance of regional
power in Spain,”  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia and a
former government pollster, said in a telephone interview. A
victory is “what Rajoy wants in order to transform the Spanish
economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  