-- Rand Falls to Month-Low as Inflation Slows; Bond Yields Decline
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-22T13:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/rand-drops-to-week-low-as-china-manufacturing-damps-exports.html
The rand dropped to its lowest
level in a month against the dollar and bonds gained after  South
Africa ’s inflation rate unexpectedly fell in February, prompting
investors to pare rate-increase expectations.  South Africa’s currency slipped as much as 1.3 percent to
7.7501 per dollar, the weakest since Feb. 22. It traded 0.9
percent weaker at 7.7203 as of 3:07 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the nation’s 65 billion rand of 13.5 percent bonds due
2015 dropped 1.5 basis points, or 0.015 percentage point, to
6.92 percent.  The consumer inflation rate slowed to 6.1 percent from 6.3
percent in January, the first decline in a year, Statistics
South Africa said on its website today. The median estimate of
14 economists was 6.4 percent. The South African  Reserve Bank ,
led by  Gill Marcus , has kept the benchmark repurchase rate at
5.5 percent since November 2010. The bank aims to keep inflation
in a 3 percent to 6 percent target range.  “The market will be cheered by this inflation print,”
 Razia Khan , the London-based head of Africa research at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in e-mailed comments. “The immediate market
reaction is likely to be that this allows the Reserve Bank to
keep interest rates on hold a while longer, despite the more
hawkish comments we’ve had from Governor Marcus lately.”  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in December
shed 10.5 basis points to 5.975 percent. The contracts, which
give an indication of investors’ expectations of  interest rates ,
had climbed to an eight-month high yesterday after Marcus said
on March 15 recent data signaled inflation was becoming “more
generalized” as demand in the economy picked up.  Carry Trade  Higher interest rates would boost rand returns for
investors who borrow dollars to invest in higher-yielding
currencies, known as the carry trade. The rand has returned 6.5
percent in the dollar carry trade this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite some recent warnings from the Governor concerning
 core inflation , we still expect the Monetary Policy Committee to
maintain its accommodative stance until the downside risks to
economic growth fade more compellingly in late 2012 and early
2013,” Dennis Dykes, chief economist at Nedbank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, and colleagues, wrote in a e-mailed note today.  Earlier, the rand declined after a report showed
manufacturing in  China , the biggest buyer of South Africa’s
exports, may contract for a fifth straight month in March.  The preliminary reading of China manufacturing for March
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 48.1, a
four-month low, from a final 49.6 in February. A result above 50
points to an expansion and a number below 50 indicates
contraction. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of commodities
dropped as the prices of metals including copper and nickel
declined. Raw materials account for 65 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  The Chinese manufacturing data “should have some impact on
the rand, given South Africa’s economic reliance on China”,
Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  