-- Real Madrid Leads by 6 Points After Draw; Napoli Reaches Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-22T02:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/real-madrid-leads-by-6-points-after-draw-napoli-reaches-final.html
Real  Madrid  missed the chance to
restore its eight-point lead over Barcelona atop Spanish
soccer’s La Liga by drawing 1-1 at Villarreal in a match it
finished with nine men.  Cristiano Ronaldo put Real ahead in the 62nd minute with
his 33rd league goal of the season before Marcos Senna’s free
kick tied it with seven minutes left.  Sergio Ramos  and Mesut Ozil were red-carded before the final whistle, while coach  Jose Mourinho  and assistant Rui Faria were sent to the stands.  Real’s second straight 1-1 draw leaves it with 72 points,
six more than Barcelona having led the defending champion by as
many as 13 points last month. Barca beat Granada 5-3 two days
ago as  Lionel Messi  scored a hat trick to break the Catalan
club’s goal-scoring record.  “Referees hurt us too much sometimes, but we must hold our
heads high and move on,” Real defender Marcelo said on his
club’s website. “Every team would like to have a six-point
lead.”  Third-place Valencia lost 2-1 at home to bottom club Real
Zaragoza last night, allowing fourth-place Levante to get within
three points after a 3-1 win at Real Sociedad.  Atletico Madrid 
and Mallorca also won.  Napoli joined Juventus in the May 20 Italian Cup final by
beating Siena 2-0 for a 3-2 win over their two-match semifinal.
The Naples-based club is seeking its first trophy since winning
Serie A in 1990.  Bayern Munich beat Borussia Moenchengladbach 4-2 in a
penalty shootout to reach the German Cup final for a record 18th
time after their semifinal finished scoreless after extra time.
Bayern will face Bundesliga leader  Borussia Dortmund  in the May
12 title match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  