-- Treasury Sells Inflation Notes at Record Low Negative Yield
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-22T20:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/treasury-sells-inflation-notes-at-record-low-negative-yield.html
The U.S. sold $13 billion in 10-
year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities at a record low
negative yield with investors willing to pay a premium to guard
against the threat of rising consumer prices.  The TIPS were auctioned at a so-called high yield of
negative  0.089 percen t, the Treasury said today. The U.S. first
sold the 10-year securities at a negative yield in January.
Five-year TIPS have also been sold at  negative yields  at the
past four auctions of the securities.  “We are continuing to see inflation expectations gather
steam,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that are
required to bid at the sale. “With energy prices running hot
the market has priced in inflation over the next 10 years.”  The bid-to-cover  ratio  for the notes, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.81,
compared with an average of 2.74 at the past 10 auction of the
securities.  TIPS pay interest at lower rates than regular Treasuries on
a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the Labor
Department’s consumer price index.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in February by the most
in 10 months, reflecting a jump in gasoline. The consumer-price
index climbed 0.4 percent, after increasing 0.2 percent the
prior month, the Labor Department said March 16. The so-called
core measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy
costs, climbed 0.1 percent.  Operation Twist  Federal Reserve policy makers said March 13 that the
advance in fuel costs will be temporary, and most see little
risk inflation will flare out of control as unemployment exceeds
8 percent. The Fed also raised its assessment of the economy
during its meeting that day.  Inflation adjusted yields have been under pressure as the
Fed continues to extend the average maturity of its $2.89
trillion securities portfolio, a program dubbed by traders as
Operation Twist and maintains its policy of reinvesting maturing
housing debt into agency mortgage-backed securities.  “Central banks’ goals have been to make people think there
is going to be inflation, and the investor community is buying
into the idea that the Fed is more likely to create inflation
than not,” said Richard Gilhooly, an interest-rate strategist
in  New York  at TD Securities Inc.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
comparable TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation during
the life of the debt known as the  break-even  rate, was 2.38
percentage points. The average during the past decade is 2.13
percentage points.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 40.4 percent of the securities at
the sale today, compared to an average of 41.6 percent at the
past 10 auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 21.1 percent of
the securities, versus an 9.67 percent average at the past 10
auctions.  TIPS have gained 0.74 percent this year after returning 14
percent in 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Treasuries have dropped 1.7 percent since December and
gained 9.8 percent last year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  