-- Treasury Holdings Wins Ruling for NAMA Receivership Appeal
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-22T17:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/treasury-holdings-wins-ruling-for-nama-receivership-appeal-1-.html
Treasury Holdings Ltd., an Irish
property developer, can appeal a decision by the country’s
National Asset Management Agency to appoint receivers for some
of the company’s units, a Dublin judge ruled today.  Treasury Holdings showed grounds for its claims that NAMA
should have notified the developer it was calling in receivers
and that the agency didn’t take into account potential
purchasers of the company’s debts, Justice Mary Finlay Geoghegan
wrote in the judgment. Geoghegan, of the  High Court  in Dublin,
didn’t rule on the legal and factual issues in dispute.  “Treasury has raised a substantial issue for determination
by the court,” Geoghegan wrote in the 88-page ruling.  NAMA had set a Jan. 25 deadline for Dublin-based Treasury
Holdings to pay back part of 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in
loans that the government agency held. NAMA was set up to help
purge Ireland’s banks of 74.2 billion euros of troubled
commercial real-estate loans, for which it paid about 31.7
billion euros.  “We are pleased that the High Court has found that we have
raised ‘substantial’ legal issues concerning our treatment by
NAMA,” Treasury Holdings said in an e-mailed statement today.
The company said it’s open to proposals to secure its future and
that of its 400 staff, while satisfying the public organizations
that have supported Treasury Holdings during the past two years.  Hines Real Estate Holdings LP and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  made
an offer for the loans and “show continued interest and are
willing to improve their offers,” Rory Williams, a Treasury
Holdings director, said in a telephone interview today.  NAMA appointed the receivers because it was “most likely
to deliver the best financial return for the taxpayer,” the
agency said in a statement today. “The receivers will remain in
place pending the outcome of the judicial review.”  Treasury Holdings owns the Westin Hotel in Dublin and the
Irish headquarters of accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 