-- Renren Facebook Boost to Be Shortlived on Ads, Maxim Says
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-22T20:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/renren-facebook-boost-to-be-shortlived-on-ad-growth-maxim-says.html
Chinese social-network operators
 Renren Inc. (RENN)  and  Sina Corp. (SINA)  can’t rely on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial
public offering to boost their shares as both face challenges
attracting advertisers, according to Maxim Group LLC.  Renren, which completed an $855 million IPO last year, and
Sina, owner of the Twitter-like  Weibo  site in  China , jumped in
New York trading on Feb. 2, the day after the world’s most
popular social network announced plans to raise $5 billion in an
IPO this year. American depositary receipts of Beijing-based
Renren have climbed 49 percent in 2012 while  Sina (SINA) , based in
 Shanghai , has erased 2011’s 24 percent slump to gain 35 percent.  “There could be a short-term bounce from the Facebook IPO
but it’s not sustainable,” Echo He, a New York-based analyst
who covers Chinese Internet stocks for Maxim Group, said in an
interview. “Renren has a lot of promise but online advertising
dollars are hard to make in China. Advertising in China is still
TV dominant.”  More than $68 billion was spent on  TV advertising  in China
last year, accounting for more than 75 percent of ad spending in
traditional media, excluding online, according to  CTR
Marketresearch Co.  Renren, which got 42 percent of 2010  revenue 
from ads, said this month the market has got off to a “slow
start” in 2012 because of China’s  economic slowdown . Sina
earned 76 percent of revenue from ads last year and said in
February that ad sales this quarter will be “disappointing” as
customers cut spending.  Sell Recommendation  Maxim’s He has had a sell rating on  Renren (RENN)  since Feb. 3 and
on  Sina (SINA)  since October last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Renren, which fell 0.4 percent to $5.30 in  New York  today,
will slip to $4.50 over the next 12 months, while Sina will
tumble to $51, from $70.75, He said.  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the last three months
of 2011, the slowest pace since the second quarter of 2009, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a lackluster recovery in the U.S.
subdued demand for exports. Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut China’s
economic growth goal to 7.5 percent for 2012 on March 5, down
from 8 percent over the past seven years.  Renren reported an unaudited operating loss of $19.7
million for the fourth quarter, compared with operating income
of $2.3 million in the same period of 2010, as the company
boosted name-recognition advertising and increased the sales
force for its Nuomi e-commerce venture, according to a March 8
statement.  The  site , whose name means “everyone” in Chinese and
which is targeted at the student market, is  not expected  to be
profitable this year, according to the average forecast of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Apples-to-Apples’  Facebook’s success -- it has 845 million members worldwide
and founder  Mark Zuckerberg  said in 2010 that it’s “almost a
guarantee” that it will achieve 1 billion users -- has yet to
be replicated by China’s social networking sites, said Qi Guo,
an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in  San Francisco .  “Renren and Sina’s Weibo are still in the early stages of
development, so it’s not an apples-to-apples comparison with
Facebook,” said Guo, who has rated Sina a buy since October and
doesn’t cover Renren.  Sam Lawn, Renren’s investor relations director, didn’t
answer calls to his office in Beijing after hours. Sina’s
spokeswoman Cathy Peng also didn’t pick up calls in the capital.  Sina said on Feb. 28 that Weibo, which means “microblog”
in Chinese, had more than 300 million registered users. Renren’s
user base will grow to about 200 million in 2012, Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Chen said in a Feb. 14. interview.  Potential Acquisitions  Renren will post “healthy growth” this year from its
Nuomi e-commerce site, Chen said, adding that the company “will
not hesitate” to make acquisitions to gain new technology.
Renren bought online video website 56.com for $80 million last
year, and has cash holdings of about $1.2 billion.  “If the Facebook IPO is successful, the social networking
space in China will get a bounce,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based
analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. said in a phone interview.
“Regardless of the Facebook IPO, Renren’s advertising revenue
will remain strong in 2012 and their online gaming business will
probably see some re-acceleration this year as well.”  Renren’s revenue from online games was $12 million in the
fourth quarter, up 39 percent from the same period of 2010, as
the company started and promoted new games, Chief Financial
Officer Huang Hui said on a March 8 earnings conference call.  Yeung rates Renren outperform, meaning he expects it to
gain more than the market, with a 12-month price target of $8.  Renren and Sina also compete with the Pengyou social
networking service operated by  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s
biggest Internet company by sales. Tencent stock traded in  Hong
Kong  added 3 percent to HK$223.40 today and is up 43 percent in
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  