-- Republican Rules Are Not to Blame for Primary War
-- B y   J o s h   P u t n a m   a n d   J o h n   S i d e s
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/republican-rules-are-not-to-blame-for-primary-war.html
Republican Party leaders
increasingly express concern that their elongated presidential
primary process will damage the party’s eventual nominee.  As Governor  Mitch Daniels  of  Indiana   put it , “I don’t know
anybody who thinks if you started out to design a good process
to pick a president you’d choose exactly what we have now.”  Prior to the 2012 campaign, the  Republican National
Committee  made changes to the party’s delegate selection and
allocation  rules . The move had two main effects. First, it
stretched the primary calendar. Many states delayed their
primaries, but others held fast to early dates. The process
actually began earlier this year than in 2008. Second, the
committee arranged for those delegates chosen in primaries and
caucuses held prior to April 1 to be awarded proportionally,
rather than on a winner-take-all basis.  Some Republicans complain that the new rules have led to an
internecine war of attrition rather than a unified campaign
against President  Barack Obama . The proportional delegate model
is “the dumbest idea anybody ever had,”  said  Republican Governor
 Chris Christie  of  New Jersey . “You’re running against an
incumbent president who will not have a primary, so your idea is
make ours longer so we can beat each other up longer?” Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  similarly  blamed  Republican front-runner
Mitt Romney’s troubles in clinching the nomination partly on
“the proportional distribution of the delegates.”  Yet the notion that the delegate rule changes have dragged
out the primary -- and dragged down Romney -- is a myth. After
all, the  Democratic Party  has been using proportional allocation
since the mid-1980s without apparent catastrophes. Our
calculations show that the Republicans’ new proportionality rule
has actually accelerated this year’s primary, not slowed it.  Variety of Methods  The  Republican Party  has traditionally allowed states to
allocate delegates in a variety of ways. Some states used a
proportional method, others used winner-take-all, still others
used hybrids that fell between those two poles. In 2008, the
nearly 40 Republican primary states were split about evenly
among the three methods.  The 2012 campaign is essentially no different. The rules do
not mandate strict proportionality but allow a mix of systems.
For example, states can proportionally allocate their at-large
delegates while allocating their congressional district
delegates on a winner-take-all basis, according to the vote
within each district. States can also use a conditional winner-
take-all rule: If a candidate receives the majority of the vote
statewide, then that candidate is awarded all of a state’s
delegates or all of the at-large delegates.  As a result, differences between the 2008 and 2012 rules
are not drastic. Consider  Georgia . In the 2008 Republican
primary, the state allocated its at-large delegates on a winner-
take-all basis. The candidate who won the most votes in a
congressional district won all of that district’s delegates. But
the candidate who won the most votes statewide received all of
Georgia’s at-large delegates.  In 2012, the Georgia Republican Party changed the
allocation of its at-large delegates from winner-take-all to
proportional (although candidates needed at least 20 percent of
the statewide vote to be eligible for at-large delegates). If a
candidate received the majority of the vote in a congressional
district, that candidate was entitled to all three district
delegates. If the winning candidate received only a plurality of
votes in the district, he was awarded two delegates and the
runner-up in the district vote received one. Both the old rules
and the new could produce a variety of outcomes depending on how
votes were cast. But nothing about the 2012 rules dictated a
more fractured apportionment of delegates than in 2008.  Recalculating Results  To gauge the effect of the 2012 rules, we calculated what
the 2012 delegate count would be so far using the 2008 delegate
rules. Any such simulation rests on the tenuous assumption that
all other things about the process are equal -- an obvious
drawback. Still, the results are instructive.  Using the 2008 rules, we found, would have produced a
slightly slower primary process. What’s more, Romney above all
should be grateful for the change. Far from elevating the
current front-runner, the 2008 rules would have reduced his
current delegate count by 56. Under the old rules,  Newt Gingrich 
would have earned 5 fewer delegates and Ron Paul 8 fewer.  Rick Santorum  would have come out with 15 more delegates.  Even these differences are not entirely due to the shift
toward proportionality. They arise in part because the Nevada
caucuses were not considered binding in 2008. Proportionality
changes don’t factor into the 2012 results until Super Tuesday,
and even then, the effects were not large. Of the 56 delegates
Romney would lose under the 2008 rules, only 32 of them are due
to the 2012 proportionality requirement. The remainder are
delegates that would be unbound under the 2008 rules.  If anything is extending the Republican nomination process,
it’s the new, longer primary calendar. In 2008, more than half
of the delegates had been awarded by the first week in February.
In 2012, the halfway point won’t arrive until this weekend’s
Louisiana primary.  Despite all the grumbling about the new calendar, it is
fulfilling the RNC’s goal: to extend the process well into the
“second phase” primaries after  Iowa ,  New Hampshire ,  Nevada  and
 South Carolina .  “By making the second phase of the nominating process
proportional, you reduce the possibility that any candidate in
any one primary in any one state can deliver a knockout blow
that early in the process and end the process prematurely,”  said 
John Ryder, a Republican national committeeman from  Tennessee .
Ryder may be wrong that proportionality is extending the
process. But he certainly seems right about the lack of a
knockout blow. It appears the 2012 Republican primary is working
exactly as designed. The real problem might be that it’s working
far too well.  ( Josh Putnam  is a visiting assistant professor of political
science at Davidson College who blogs at  Frontloading HQ . John
Sides is associate professor of political science at George
Washington University and a co-founder of, and contributor to,
the  Monkey Cage  blog.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Josh Putnam at  frontloading.hq@gmail.com  or 704.894.2034; John Sides at  jsides@gwu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 