-- Republican Delegate Chase Turning to Romney’s Advantages
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-03-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/republican-delegate-chase-turning-to-romney-s-advantages.html
For  Mitt Romney , April may be the
kindest month. For  Rick Santorum , it could be the cruelest.  Seven states and Washington, D.C. -- all but one in the
Northeast or mid-Atlantic regions -- will hold primary elections
next month. Romney stands to win most of them because they are
demographically similar to states where the former Massachusetts
governor performed well in previous contests.  Following a 12 percentage point victory in the  Illinois (BEESIL) 
presidential primary March 20, Romney holds about half the 1,144
national convention delegates needed to become the Republican
Party’s presidential nominee, according to an Associated Press
tally. He needs just 46 percent of the outstanding delegates to
clinch the nomination, compared with about 70 percent for
Santorum, whose bid to block Romney will grow tougher in
primaries next month.  April “projects like a month that Romney is going to be
able to grow his lead even more, and Santorum is not going to be
able to catch up all that much,”  Josh Putnam , a political
scientist at Davidson College in  North Carolina  and a specialist
on the nominating process, said in a telephone interview.  Romney, 65, counts on boosting his delegate lead on April
3, when he’s favored to win primaries in Maryland and
Washington, D.C. First, he faces Santorum in  Louisiana ’s primary
March 24, with polling showing Santorum running ahead there.  Romney, a cofounder of the private-equity firm Bain Capital
LLC whose wealth is estimated at as much as $250 million, has
thrived in primaries in higher-income states with large
metropolitan areas.  Evangelical Voters  Maryland’s $68,854  median household income  was the highest
in the nation in 2010, according to a U.S. Census Bureau
estimate. Romney counts on outpacing Santorum in  Maryland ’s
populous precincts in and around Baltimore and Washington.  Romney has won every state in which self-described
evangelical or born-again Christians were less than a majority
of voters, according to exit polls. Just 34 percent of Maryland
Republicans in the 2008 primary identified as evangelical.  Santorum, 53, didn’t even qualify for the ballot in
Washington, D.C. That contest’s winner-take-all format favors
front-runner Romney, who should win all 16 delegates at stake.  Wisconsin should be more competitive. It is in the Midwest,
where Santorum has pressed Romney in previous races. Santorum
lost by about three points to Romney in  Michigan  on Feb. 28 and
by less than one point in  Ohio  on March 6. Romney and Santorum
may share the 24  Wisconsin (BEESWI)  delegates awarded by congressional
district; the statewide winner would add 18 more.  Three-Week Lull  A three-state sweep for Romney would generate more momentum
for his candidacy during a three-week lull in the Republican
calendar. Voting resumes April 24 in five states, most of which
favor Romney.  He probably will win most delegates in  New York (MDANNY) , a base of
fundraising support for Romney’s campaign and an allied super-
PAC raising unlimited funds for television ads attacking
Santorum. The former  Pennsylvania  senator has attacked Romney
for backing the $700 billion financial rescue package in 2008.  In  Connecticut , Romney would sweep the 25 delegates at
stake with a majority of the statewide vote and plurality wins
in each of the five congressional districts. Rhode Island, also
adjacent to  Massachusetts , offers more friendly territory.  Santorum is favored to win Pennsylvania, the state he
represented in Congress for 16 years, while Romney could be
competitive in upper-income, politically moderate precincts near
Philadelphia. Delaware also holds its primary that day.  Southern States  Santorum’s aides told reporters this week that they are
looking favorably on contests in May, when the Southern states
of  Arkansas ,  Kentucky  and Texas will vote late in the month.
Delegate-allocation rules there limit his advantage, though. All
three states divide their delegates proportionally, ensuring
that Romney will get an allotment of them.  Even if Santorum continues his campaign through May and
wins some primaries during the month, Romney has the edge in
June in delegate-rich states such as  California  and  New Jersey ,
which together have 222 delegates and use winner-take-all
systems to allocate them.  It’s expensive to wage a statewide campaign in California,
the nation’s most populous state. Romney’s campaign began March
with about three times as much in the bank as Santorum’s
campaign, and Romney’s allied super-PAC had about 29 times the
cash-on-hand of a pro-Santorum organization, Federal Election
Commission documents show.  ‘Tipping Point’  Politics and demographics favor Romney in New Jersey. It
had the nation’s second-highest median income in 2010, Census
data show, and one of Romney’s top surrogates is New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie .  The Republican race may not last that long, Putnam said. If
voters sense Romney is pulling away from Santorum, they may want
to end the nomination contest to focus on defeating President
 Barack Obama .  It’s possible the Republican race may reach a “tipping
point” at which Romney’s rivals may see the “handwriting on
the wall” and end their campaigns even if he technically is
short of the 1,144 delegates, Rhodes Cook, the editor of a
nonpartisan political newsletter, said in a telephone interview.  “Will the race reach that point where he can have a
‘gimme’ and he won’t need the 1,144?” Cook said. “That depends
in essence more on what he’s done and how generous his opponents
are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  