-- Rex Leads Financial Oligarchs Attacking State Laws Across U.S.
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/rex-leads-financial-oligarchs-attacking-state-laws-across-u-s-.html
Rex Sinquefield likes to write
checks. In 2010, his $11.3 million bankrolled a successful
ballot initiative banning new local income taxes in  Missouri . It
also required  Kansas City  and St. Louis voters to reaffirm their
existing levies, which they later did.  That was a warm-up for Sinquefield’s much bigger target --
repealing  Missouri (STOMO1) ’s statewide income tax. The retired index-
fund pioneer, in stocking feet and a pullover shirt, explains
his free-market vision in the parlor of his century-old,
limestone St. Louis mansion.  Income taxes “punish work,” stymie economic growth and
are “a horrible way to raise money,” Sinquefield says. He
helped devise the first  Standard & Poor’s  index funds in 1973
and co-founded Dimensional Fund Advisors in 1981. Repealing
Missouri’s levy would spark a tax-slashing prairie fire across
the Midwest, he says.  “Other states will follow,” Sinquefield says. “I know
they will.”  In a fractured political universe that spawned the  Tea
Party , Occupy  Wall Street  and 10 percent congressional approval
ratings, Sinquefield, 67, is up to his eyeballs in frustration.
While he maintains he isn’t a billionaire and won’t divulge his
net worth, he is using his wealth to go over the heads of the
political establishment. He is a new American oligarch,
appealing directly to voters for help in reshaping his home
state to fit his economic beliefs.  ‘Dominating the Landscape’  “He’s dominating the landscape because he’s got so much
money,” said James Moody, who was budget director for former
Republican Governor John Ashcroft and is part of a coalition
opposing the repeal.  Others are following the same strategy. In  California (STOCA1) ,
George Joseph, chairman of the insurance company  Mercury General
Corp. (MCY) , gave $8.2 million to put a proposal concerning auto
insurance rates on  California ’s November ballot. His company
spent $15.8 million in 2010 on a similar measure that voters
rejected.  Howard Rich, a  New York (STONY1)  real estate investor, helped fund
efforts in several states to limit  government spending  and
authority. This year he is opposing what he calls a “scam
initiative” on  term limits  in California. And  George Soros , who
has donated millions to back proposals that would liberalize
marijuana laws, gave $500,000 in February to a California
initiative aimed at revising sentencing standards.  Sinquefield is “really frustrated” with the Missouri
General Assembly, he said, referring to unsuccessful attempts
since 2008 to repeal the income tax. “It drives me nuts. That’s
why we’ve been having to go to the ballot.”  $3 Billion Hole  The Sinquefield plan would kill Missouri’s 6 percent
personal income tax and raise the  sales tax  to a maximum of 7
percent from today’s 4 percent. Since 1992, 140 proposals to cut
or limit taxes have appeared on state ballots, and 61 percent
passed, said Jennie Bowser, who tracks initiatives at the
 National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  The Missouri proposal would burden low- and middle-income
wage earners while leaving a $3 billion budget hole, says Moody,
the former budget director. It would also benefit rich people,
he says. Moody describes Sinquefield and his tax plan this way:
“There’s not a nice way to say it. They don’t know what they’re
doing.”  Travis Brown, a Sinquefield ally and president of the
ballot effort called Let Voters Decide, says the tax change is
revenue-neutral and forecasts of budget shortages are the work
of “a couple bureaucrats.” Sinquefield says the measure will
remove the chief impediment to Missouri’s economy, which he
says, citing government data, lagged behind all except Michigan
and  Ohio  in the past decade.  Kansas, Oklahoma  In neighboring  Kansas (STOKA1)  and  Oklahoma (STOOK1) , lawmakers are advancing
bills to repeal income taxes. Sinquefield says he contributed
money to Kansans for No Income Tax. For the Missouri proposal,
he has given $2.5 million so far to help get the measure on the
ballot, he says.  To Amy Exelby, deputy executive director of the Washington-
based Ballot Initiative Strategy Center, Sinquefield “is an
extreme conservative who wants to reshape an entire state to fit
his ideology.” The nonprofit, union-funded center supports what
it calls progressive measures.  Sinquefield learned hard work in an orphanage and developed
impatience with the established order at an early age, he says.
He quit seminary after three years, joking that “I was studying
to be a bishop, and then they told me I had to start at
priest.” After he was drafted into the Army, he angled
unsuccessfully for a hitch in  Vietnam  because he knew he’d be
paid more and get out sooner.  ‘Just Bored’  In 1981, he and David Booth created Dimensional Fund
Advisors, which today manages $214 billion in assets. After two
decades, the fun of investing other peoples’ money faded.  “I was just bored,” he said. “Frankly, I stayed the last
year for the money.” That was 2005. The next year, Sinquefield
started to spend, laying plans for a Cato Institute-like think
tank in  St. Louis  called the Show-Me Institute, which promotes
his free-market agenda.  Sinquefield is praised and damned in his hometown. He and
his wife, Jeanne, created a charitable foundation that supports
art, music and education. He serves on the boards of the St.
Louis Symphony Orchestra and the Missouri Botanical Garden,
among others. His life-long advocacy of chess won him induction
Jan. 29 into the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame. He exchanges
friendly e-mails with  Tony La Russa , the former manager of  Major
League Baseball ’s St.  Louis Cardinals .  Public-School Gaffe  Opponents slam Sinquefield for promoting a “radical
agenda” as well as for his support of school vouchers and
abolishing teacher tenure. Sinquefield drew a torrent of
protests after a presentation at Lindenwood University in
suburban St. Louis Feb. 9, when he quoted a columnist saying the
Ku Klux Klan devised the public school system to hurt African-
American children. He apologized a day later, calling the
remarks “ill-timed and inappropriate.”  “He says what he thinks,” said David Booth, Sinquefield’s
business partner at Dimensional Fund Advisors. “Sometimes you
can argue about whether he said it in the right way or not, but
his heart’s in the right spot.”  The future of the Missouri tax proposal hinges on the
actions of a state court in Jefferson City, the capital, which
today is considering a suit challenging the ballot language on
potential revenue loss. Sinquefield has made it clear that if
the measure doesn’t qualify for the November ballot, there is
always 2014.  “I don’t think Rex is going to go away,” Moody said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net  and
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 