-- Trina Considering U.S. Factory to Increase Solar Market Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T02:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/trina-considering-u-s-factory-to-increase-solar-market-share.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) ,  China ’s third-
biggest maker of solar panels, may build a U.S. factory to
increase its market share as President  Barack Obama ’s
administration imposes tariffs on solar equipment imported from
China.  Trina is evaluating strategies to increase U.S. sales and
minimize the impact of the tariffs, Chief Executive Officer Gao Jifan said in an interview in  Shanghai  yesterday.  A U.S. production facility would let Changzhou-based Trina
avoid duties imposed on solar panels produced in China. The U.S.
Commerce Department announced tariffs on all Chinese producers
March 20 and singled out Trina for the highest rate, 4.73
percent.  “We’re evaluating possibilities to build a production
plant in the U.S.,” Gao said. “We’ll continue to support the
American market, no matter how bad the final determination is
made to impose tariffs on Chinese imports.”  The company last year had about 17 percent of the market in
America, which added about 2 gigawatts of modules, he said. This
year, Trina expects to “reinforce or raise” that figure. Trina
has begun to outsource production to overseas companies to meet
demand from the U.S.  The duties announced this week may be increased in May,
after the Commerce Department rules on a second case, which
alleges the Chinese producers sell their solar products at a
loss to drive out competition. The agency didn’t say why Trina
received the highest duty. Suntech Power Holdings Co. got a 2.9
percent tariff and all other Chinese producers will pay 3.61
percent.  The U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  and six other U.S.
manufacturers brought the complaints.  Increasing Shipments  The biggest Chinese companies expect higher shipments even
as analysts predict the first drop in sales of solar modules in
a decade. Homes and businesses will add 24.8 gigawatts of solar
panels across the world, the average of six forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg News. That’s equal to the power of about 20 nuclear
reactors and down 10 percent from 2011 installations.  The top 10 module producers are gaining market share, Gao
said. “Consolidation is weeding out uncompetitive firms” and
will accelerate in 2012, he said.  Trina said Feb. 23 it would boost shipments as much as 39
percent to 2.1 gigawatts in 2012.  Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. (YGE)  expects shipments of as much as 2.5 gigawatts, up 56
percent. Suntech said it expects a 19 percent gain to 2.5
gigawatts.  “We’ve seen price declines alleviating in the first
quarter and the drop will slow down this year compared with last
year,” Gao said. “There’s likely to be a revival in profits in
the second half, while it’s hard to predict the degree.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  