-- Romney Fights Etch a Sketch Image in Bid to Seal Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-03-22T20:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/romney-fights-etch-a-sketch-image-in-bid-to-seal-race.html
As he moves closer to clinching the
Republican presidential nomination,  Mitt Romney  is facing fresh
doubts about his commitment to core party principles after a top
aide’s televised gaffe amplified critics’ charges that he is a
political shape-shifter.  The former Massachusetts governor is within reach of
securing his party’s nod -- well ahead of his rivals in
convention delegates, polls and campaign cash after his win 
in the March 20  Illinois (BEESIL)  primary. Still, he was thrown on the 
defensive yesterday when a longtime adviser compared his
campaign to an Etch A Sketch, a toy that can be shaken to erase
what is marked on its surface.  The issue arose when the aide,  Eric Fehrnstrom , was asked
on CNN whether he is concerned that Romney might be forced by
his Republican opponents to take extreme positions during the
ongoing primary fight that could alienate independent voters in
a race against President  Barack Obama .  “I think you hit a reset button for the fall campaign,”
Fehrnstrom said. “Everything changes. It’s almost like an Etch
A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up, and we start all over
again.”  Bush Endorsement  The remark marred what would otherwise have been a
triumphant day for Romney, 65, the day after his  Illinois 
victory. He won the endorsement of former Florida Governor 
Jeb Bush, who often had been mentioned as a possible late 
entrant to the Republican race if the party refused to embrace 
Romney.  Instead, the Etch A Sketch comment handed ammunition to
Romney’s Republican rivals and Democrats as they portray him, a
second-time presidential contender, as an inauthentic candidate.  “You are not looking at someone who is the Etch A Sketch
candidate,” former  Pennsylvania  Senator  Rick Santorum  told a
cheering crowd yesterday at a rally in Mandeville,  Louisiana ,
where he shook one of the toys to make his point.  The Romney campaign today tried to move past the flap and
declare the Republican race over. Andrea Saul, a Romney
spokeswoman, told reporters in an e-mail: “You know you have
reached the end of a long, hard-fought campaign when your
opponents are waving around children’s toys at campaign
events.”  Meeting With Lawmakers  Romney, who has no public events scheduled today, met
privately in  Washington  with some Republican members of
Congress. He told them he is running for president “to save the
country,” said Senator Jim DeMint of  South Carolina , who
attended the meeting and helped usher in a wave of Tea Party-
backed senators in 2010.  “What we got from him is a sense of urgency that our
country’s in trouble and we need some real leadership,” DeMint
said. He declined to say whether Romney asked the group to back
him. DeMint has said he will wait until the nomination is
settled before endorsing anyone.  DeMint said he is untroubled by Romney’s role in enacting 
a health-care law in  Massachusetts  that resembles the federal 
plan pushed by Obama. The state law is “very different than 
a federal model that you can’t change,” DeMint said.  Romney also met with House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and other lawmakers from  Wisconsin , which holds its primary
April 3. And Romney talked with congressional delegations from
Pennsylvania, which votes April 24, and  Texas , whose primary is
scheduled for May 29, Saul said.  Ohio Art Shares  Shares of  Ohio Art Co. (OART) , the Bryan, Ohio-based company that
makes Etch A Sketch, more than  tripled  after Fehrnstrom’s
comment and its political fallout -- as well as pictures of the
iconic red tablet -- dominated cable television and the
Internet. It rose $5.65, or 141 percent, to $9.65 at 12:04 p.m.
in over-the-counter trading in  New York  after touching $12.50,
its  highest  price since December 2003.  Fehrnstrom today sought to make light of the furor he
touched off. He posted a Twitter message noting the market
reaction and saying, “Psst, I’ll mention Mr. Potato Head next.
Buy  Hasbro (HAS) ,” the maker of the latest toy he mentioned.  Santorum’s top adviser, Alice Stewart, appeared outside a
town-hall meeting Romney held yesterday in Arbutus,  Maryland ,
handing out Etch A Sketches.  Fehrnstrom “acknowledged that his conservative credentials
can come and go with the climate, just like an Etch A Sketch,
and we can’t have that,” Stewart said of Romney yesterday,
holding a miniature pink version of the toy. “It confirms what
a lot of conservatives have been afraid of.”  ‘A Great Toy’  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who finished
fourth in the Illinois primary, posted on Twitter: “Etch A
Sketch is a great toy but a losing strategy.”  After initially ignoring shouted questions about the issue
as he greeted voters at his Maryland event, Romney made a rare
point of assembling reporters moments later to address the
matter. He said he wouldn’t change his “policies and
positions” in a race against Obama.  “Organizationally, a general election campaign takes on a
different profile,” Romney said, refusing to take additional
questions on the subject or what it might say about his
candidacy. “The issues I’m running on will be exactly the same.
I’m running as a conservative Republican. I was a conservative
Republican governor. I’ll be running as a conservative
Republican nominee.”  The day started off better for Romney, who trumpeted Bush’s
endorsement on Twitter, saying, “March 21 is turning into a
pretty big day.”  Remaining Neutral  Bush, who had remained neutral as Romney claimed a 14-
percentage point victory in  Florida (BEESFL) ’s Jan. 31 primary, is the
latest top Republican to call for an end to the prolonged
primary fight. Romney said Bush telephoned him early yesterday
with news of the endorsement.  “Now is the time for Republicans to unite behind Governor
Romney and take our message of fiscal conservatism and job
creation to all voters this fall,” Bush said in a statement.  It wasn’t the first time Romney has seen the boost from a
primary victory evaporate swiftly after a comment by him or one
of his aides underlined a concern about him among Republicans.  Tax Returns  In the weeks after his 16-point win in  New Hampshire ’s Jan.
10 primary, Romney was dogged by his refusal to release his tax
returns, while he said he probably paid a tax rate of about 15
percent -- lower than many taxpayers -- and dismissed hundreds
of thousands of dollars he had earned from speeches as “not
very much” money.  The morning after his victory in  Florida , Romney said in a
television interview that he was “not concerned about the very
poor” because they have many programs to help them. He later
said those comments were taken out of context and he had only
meant to emphasize that his focus would be on the middle class.  Both remarks highlighted questions about whether Romney --a
former private-equity executive whose net worth is estimated as
high as $250 million -- can connect with average Americans.  Santorum, stung by a loss in Illinois that undercut his
claim to be strong in politically competitive areas, sought to
regain momentum by focusing on  Louisiana’s (BEESLA)  March 24 primary. The
South has proved a favorable region for him, playing to his
strength among evangelical Christians. Santorum, 53, told
reporters in Harvey, Louisiana, yesterday that Romney isn’t
“someone that conservatives can or should trust.”  “They should all start supporting me, because I am the
strong conservative candidate,” Santorum said.  Some of the people who came to his rally agreed.  “I would vote for Romney, only I would not be happy,”
said Linda Terrebonne, 60, a retired Louisiana Clerk’s office
worker who is supporting Santorum.  After Louisiana this weekend, the nomination contest moves
to primaries on April 3 in Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington,
D.C. Romney now has 563 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
party’s nomination, according to the  Associated Press . Santorum
has 263 delegates, to Gingrich’s 135 and Paul’s 50, according to
the AP count.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Arbutus, Maryland at   jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Harvey, Louisiana, at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  