-- Rousseff Bid to Spur Brazil Industry Undercut by Currency Gains
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-03-22T21:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/rousseff-bid-to-spur-brazil-industry-undercut-by-currency-gains.html
Two numbers sent a jolt through the
government of Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  in March. The
first was the gross domestic product figure for 2011: Brazil GDP
grew only 2.7 percent last year, down from 7.5 percent in 2010.  That statistic made Brazil the laggard among the so-called
BRICS group of nations that also includes  Russia ,  India ,  China ,
and  South Africa . The second number hurt, too: January
 industrial output  contracted 3.4 percent from a year earlier.
Rousseff’s strategy -- to leverage Brazil’s strength to build up
a world-class manufacturing power -- is threatened, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its March 26-April 1 issue.  Rousseff’s impulse is to protect Brazilian industry. In
that respect she hasn’t strayed far from her days as a graduate
student studying developmental economics.  Many of Brazil’s companies from the textiles, shoe,
electronics, and other industries are urging her on, as she has
imposed tariffs on shoes, chemicals, textiles, and even Barbie
dolls. Under pressure from automakers, which saw imports jump
30 percent last year, the government renegotiated a trade deal
in March that caps car imports from  Mexico  for three years.  Rousseff has also been quick to condemn the loose monetary
policy of the U.S. and  Europe , which, she said in a speech in
Germany on March 5, forced a “monetary tsunami” on Brazil.  European and U.S. investors turned off by low rates at
home have been buying higher-yielding Brazilian bonds. The
influx of foreign capital has strengthened the real, which
reached a 12-year high against the dollar last year.  ‘Infinite Arsenal’  In recent weeks, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has
threatened to unleash an “infinite arsenal” of measures
against investors driving up the real. That blast has weakened
the currency somewhat, but it remains much stronger than during
most of the administration of Rousseff’s predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Strong currencies make exports more expensive.  Brazil ’s
trade deficit in manufactured goods was $92.5 billion last year.
Strong currencies also make it cheaper to buy foreign goods: One
in five industrial products consumed in Brazil was imported in
2011, according to the National Industry Confederation.  While the currency is having an impact, Brazilians in
industry say the problem is much bigger. Rousseff’s moves don’t
address inefficiencies in the world’s sixth-largest economy,
said Jose Augusto de Castro, vice president of the Brazilian
Foreign Trade Association.  Lack of Progress  De Castro argues that the government has used the currency
as a scapegoat to hide the lack of progress in fixing
infrastructure. The government also must reduce the second-
highest  interest rate  -- 9.75 percent -- in the Group of 20
nations and relieve a tax burden that totals 34 percent of GDP.
“It’s no good blaming others. We’re at fault as well,” he
said.  Inflation (BZPIIPCY)  has also been pernicious, driving up the costs of
energy, raw materials, and wages. Operating costs in Brazil are
now higher than in many developed countries, said Jose Velloso,
vice president of the association of machine builders.  “If you were to take a factory by helicopter from  Germany 
to Brazil, your costs would jump 48 percent as soon as you
touched down,” said Velloso. “Those of us producing in Brazil
are doomed not to be competitive.”  Bank loans at double-digit rates are much more expensive
than in Germany, and steel costs 30 percent more in Brazil, said
Velloso. Because of wage inflation, a treasury director at a
multinational company in  Sao Paulo  earns 285,000 reais
($156,000), compared with 249,000 reais in  Shanghai  and 185,000
reais in  New York , said the Robert Walters consultancy.  Promote Research  The government has granted tax credits and low-cost loans
to boost domestic production and promote research in such areas
as digital tablets, automobiles, and offshore oil production. It
also intends to cut payroll taxes in up to five industries to
push down labor costs.  Julio Gomes, economist at the industry-funded think tank
Iedi, said manufacturers will still struggle. In a worst-case
scenario, Brazil’s industry could lose an additional 20 percent
share of its market and 1 million jobs, Gomes said.  The decline of its industry could force Brazil to reassess
its strengths -- and that could be a good thing, said Alberto Ramos, chief Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “What is the comparative advantage of Brazil? I doubt it
is industry. Its services, agribusiness, and commodities,” said
Ramos. “The economy needs to redirect resources to where it’s
competitive. That’s actually a healthy process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  