-- Ryanair May Have to Compensate Passengers in Volcano Delays
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-22T11:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ryanair-may-have-to-pay-volcano-compensation-eu-court-aide-says.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount carrier, should pay for passengers’ hotels,
meals and transport after a volcanic explosion grounded flights,
an aide to the European Union’s top court said.  EU law requires airlines to provide care for passengers
stranded by “extraordinary circumstances,” and the eruption of
an Icelandic volcano in April 2010 that closed European airspace
qualifies as such an event, according to a non-binding opinion
today by Yves Bot, an advocate general for the EU’s Court of
Justice in Luxembourg.  Bot believes “the provision of care to air passengers is
especially important and essential where their flights have been
canceled as a result of the eruption of a volcano,” the court
said in a statement about the opinion.  The eruption of the Eyjafjallajokull volcano in Iceland two
years ago caused airlines to cancel more than 100,000 flights on
concern glass-like particles spewed into the atmosphere might
clog  aircraft engines . The shutdown of airspace cost carriers at
least $1.7 billion, while European transport ministers took five
days to agree airports could open with the dust still in the
air.  Ryanair, based in Dublin, canceled about 9,400 flights
during the event. It refunded all of the passengers’ tickets and
processed 90 percent of their “reasonable expense claims” at a
cost of about 32 million euros ($42 million), according to a
November 2010 regulatory filing at the time.  ‘Blatant Discrimination’  Ryanair argued the eruption qualified as an event that was
“above and beyond” the kind of extraordinary circumstances
that require airlines to provide meals and hotel rooms for
stranded passengers under EU law, according to the court’s
statement.  The block’s current rules expose airlines to “unlimited
liability, even in cases such as volcanic ash,” Ryanair
spokesman Stephen McNamara said in an e-mailed statement. “We
hope the final court decision will find in favor of Ryanair’s
appeal and remove the blatant discrimination.”  The EU court is advising an Irish tribunal on a claim by
Denise McDonagh for about 1,130 euros in damages that
she sought from Ryanair to pay for meals, accommodation and
transport when her flight from Faro,  Portugal , to Dublin was
canceled. She was stranded for a week, the court said today.  Bot said the provision of care is “particularly
important” in the case of extraordinary circumstances which
persist over a long time, according to the court’s statement.  “It is precisely in situations where the waiting period”
is lengthy “that it is necessary to ensure that an air
passenger whose flight has been canceled can have access to
essential goods and services throughout that period,” Bot said
in his opinion.  Although the legal adviser’s opinion isn’t binding, such
advice is followed by the court in the majority of cases.  The case is  C-12/11  Denise McDonagh vs Ryanair Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  