-- S. Africa Cuts Oil From Iran as Industry Awaits Detail
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-03-22T15:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/s-africa-cuts-oil-from-iran-as-industry-awaits-detail.html
South Africa’s foreign affairs
ministry said it is reducing  Iran  oil imports as its largest
supplier of crude oil faces international sanctions. A national
oil industry group said it hasn’t been informed of the plan.  South Africa has “downscaled” Iran imports, partly in
response to requests from the U.S., and also to diversify
supplies, Clayson Monyela, a spokesman for the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation, said by phone today.  Africa’s largest economy has been exploring ways to adapt
to U.S. sanctions against Iran, which it relies on for 29
percent of its oil imports. President  Barack Obama  signed a law
on Dec. 31 that denies foreign banks that do business with the
 Central Bank  of Iran access to the U.S. financial system. The
U.S. may bar access to its banking system should a country not
make “significant” reductions in its Iranian crude oil
purchases during the first half of this year.  “We are importing very little oil from Iran,” Monyela
said in an interview on his mobile phone today. said.  South
Africa  has suspended almost all oil imports, Reuters said,
citing Ebrahim Ebrahim, the deputy minister of the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation.  It’s “hard to believe” that South Africa has suspended
almost all its Iranian oil imports, the South African Petroleum
Industry Association’s Executive Director Avhapfani Tshifularo
said by phone. SAPIA, the industry body, only expects to get
feedback from a government task team on Iran by the end of May,
he said.  Happy Americans  Thandiwe Maimane, a spokeswoman for the  Department of
Energy , declined to comment and referred questions back to
Monyela. National Treasury spokesman Jabulani Sikhakhane
declined to comment. South Africa’s Cabinet is deliberating on
Iran and hasn’t made a decision, government spokesman Jimmy
Manyi said in  Pretoria .  Iran supplied 5.5 million metric tons of oil to South
 Africa  in 2010, according to SAPIA. Iranian crude trades at a
discount to global market prices.  “We have had bilateral discussions with the Americans as
recently as last week” to discuss how to reduce oil supplies
from Iran, Monyela said. “The Americans are quite happy with
the measures we’ve implemented.”  Petroliam Nasional Bhd (PET) .’s Engen unit, which operates the
country’s second-biggest refinery with a capacity of 135,000
barrels a day, says it sources about 80 percent of its supply
from Iran. South Africa is working to ensure the refinery will
remain open to secure fuel supply and protect jobs, Energy
Minister Dipuo Peters said on March 20.  Diversifying Supply  “As an integrated group we always have contingency plans
on our supply chain and sources,” Tania Landsberg, a
spokeswoman for Engen, said in an e-mailed response to questions
on March 19.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  said less than 20 percent of the crude used by
the Natref refinery, which it owns with  Total SA (FP) , is from Iran,
and that it’s diversifying supply away from the Middle Eastern
nation. The company is also in preliminary talks to sell a 50
percent stake in the Arya Sasol Polymer Co., which it co-owns
with Iran’s Pars Petrochemical Co. The assets have a so-called
carry value of about 4 billion rand ($518 million), Sasol has
said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which owns the nation’s biggest
refinery with  BP Plc (BP/) , known as Sapref, declined to comment on
March 20. BP and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which operate a refinery in  Cape
Town , don’t buy Iranian crude.  MTN Waiting  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest mobile-phone operator,
said March 7 it will remain in Iran unless South Africa applies
sanctions against the country. Iran is MTN’s second-biggest
market by subscriber numbers. It owns 49 percent of MTN Irancell
Telecommunications Services Co., the second-largest mobile
operator, with the rest held by Iran Electronic Development Co.  The European Union decided two months ago to stop Iranian
oil imports effective July 1. The EU and U.S. are trying to
pressure Iran to abandon any work it may be conducting to
acquire nuclear weapons capability. Iran insists that its
nuclear program is strictly for civilian energy and medical
research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  