-- S. Korea Seeks to Extend Missile Range Against North Threat
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-22T06:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/s-korea-seeks-to-extend-missile-range-against-threat-from-north.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  is seeking to extend the range of the country’s ballistic
missiles in response to possible nuclear and missile attacks
from North Korea, a presidential spokeswoman said.  Lee yesterday told reporters that the government is in
discussions with the U.S. to amend a 2001 accord that restricts
South Korea’s missile range to 300 kilometers (186 miles),
spokeswoman Lee Mi Yon said. An agreement will be reached
shortly because conditions and realities have changed, she cited
the president as saying.  The talks come as North Korea, under new leader Kim Jong
Un, plans to launch a satellite atop a long-range rocket next
month that the U.S. says will nullify a deal to provide the
impoverished totalitarian state with food aid. President  Barack
Obama  arrives in Seoul next week to attend a summit on checking
nuclear proliferation, where the agenda will include  North
Korea ’s atomic weapons program.  “We’re always looking for ways to enhance defense
cooperation and ways of promoting enhanced stability of South
Korea and stability in the region,” Pentagon spokesman George
Little said yesterday at a briefing in  Washington , declining to
give specifics on talks with South Korea.  North Korea has rejected international criticism of its
announcement of the launch to celebrate the centennial of the
birth of state founder  Kim Il Sung , Kim Jong Un’s grandfather. A
North Korean rocket fired in 2009 demonstrated a reach of as far
as 4,500 kilometers, and the government aims to increase the
range to 7,000 kilometers, according to Baek Seung Joo of the
Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in  Seoul .  UN Invitation  North Korea invited  United Nations  inspectors back to
survey its nuclear facilities for the first time in three years,
as part of its February agreement to halt nuclear and missile
tests in exchange for 240,000 metric tons of U.S. food aid. UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon today said launching a satellite
would be “in clear violation” of UN Security Council
resolutions forbidding North Korea from using ballistic missile
technology.  Speaking to reporters in  Malaysia , Ban said he will raise
the issue at next week’s nuclear summit in Seoul.  While Kim’s regime says the April rocket launch and food
deal are separate issues, the U.S. yesterday suspended efforts
to recover remains in North Korea of thousands of its soldiers
who died during the 1950-1953  Korean War , citing next month’s
plan. The Obama administration had begun resuming an effort that
was put on hold in 2005.  ‘Bellicose Statements’  “When there are suggestions that they might launch
ballistic missiles, when they make bellicose statements about
 South Korea  and engage in actions that could be construed as
provocative, we think that it’s not the right time to undertake
this effort,” Pentagon spokesman Little said. “So we’re
hopeful that we will get past this period and that we can
continue the remains recovery effort.”  The two Koreas technically remain at war since the conflict
ended without a peace treaty. North Korea, which has twice
detonated a nuclear device, has more than 250 long-range
artillery installations along the world’s most fortified border
in reach of Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  