-- S&P’s Modeling Was ‘Garbage In, Garbage Out, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-23T03:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/s-p-enters-last-phase-of-trial-for-cdos-sold-in-australia.html
Standard & Poor’s  ignored warnings
that notes sold to Australian towns didn’t deserve a AAA rating
and used faulty data to support its decision, a lawyer said.  “It was a simple case of GiGo - garbage in, garbage out,”
said Noel Hudley, lawyer for a dozen Australian towns seeking to
recoup investments that were wiped out when the notes’ value
collapsed during the 2008 global financial crisis.  The towns claim they lost A$15 million ($15.6 million) of
A$16 million invested in the Community Income Constant
Proportion Debt Obligation Notes. They were unwound less than
two years after the towns bought them as credit spreads
increased and their cash value was exhausted, and the towns
accused S&P of giving the notes the highest rating on pressure
from a bank.  An S&P committee determining the rating on the notes had 31
results from tests run by analysts, with 68 percent of those
findings not supporting a AAA rating, Hudley said today, on the
first day of closing statements before Justice Jayne Jagot in
Federal Court in Sydney.  The ratings company didn’t follow procedures that are a
standard in the industry in developing the rating, Hudley said,
citing evidence given by experts during the trial.  “You are the wuss for bending over in front of bankers and
taking it,” Sebastian Venus, who had prepared an internal model
for the notes at S&P, wrote to Derek Ding, an analyst
responsible for rating the note, according to e-mail transcripts
presented in court documents. “You rate something AAA, when
it’s really A-?”  U.S. Downgrade  U.S. lawmakers accused ratings companies of mishandling
their assessments of the mortgage-backed securities at the heart
of the 2008 global financial crisis, and Congress sought to
reduce their influence as part of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating on Aug. 5.
Instead of eroding the value of  U.S. government debt , the rating
cut sparked financial market turmoil that made Treasuries and
the world’s reserve currency favorites among investors, with  10-
year note  yields dropping to a record low of 1.6714 percent just
seven weeks later.  S&P, a unit of New York-based  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , was sued
along with ABN Amro Bank NV, the Australian affiliate of the
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , over the sale of the notes by
towns that claim to have been misled by the ratings. Jagot will
have to decide whether S&P owes a duty to the people who read
their ratings.  The firm rated the notes AAA based on data supplied by ABN
Amro Bank and under “significant pressure” from the bank,
Hudley had said earlier during the trial, that began Oct. 4.  ‘Serious Process’  The plaintiffs cited “selectively” from the hundreds of
documents that were submitted, S&P said.  “Those e-mail exchanges also evidence the fact that S&P
did not simply rubber stamp ABN’s opinion,” the company said.
“Conflicting views are to be expected in the context of any
serious process of analysis and consideration.”  The towns also sued  Local Government Financial Services
Ltd. , a municipal financial adviser that bought the notes from
ABN Amro Bank and resold them to the towns. LGFS also sued the
bank, accusing it of breach of contract.  S&P said the councils didn’t properly review the
investments and the ratings company blamed LGFS for failing to
inform the councils of the risks.  LGFS, intent on offering new investment products to
municipalities as it competed with Grange Securities Ltd., which
later became a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., took
advantage of its relationship with the towns to sell them
unsuitable investments, Hudley said today.  Fine Print  “The way it was marketed was to divert attention” from
the fine print in the documents that warned of the risks of the
investments, including that they could lose all their value,
Hudley said.  The closing statements from the towns, LGFS, ABN Amro Bank
and S&P are scheduled to take at least until March 30.  The AAA rating gave the purchasers confidence that they
were buying a product similar to a AAA-rated bond, Guy Parker,
LGFS’s lawyer said.  S&P, which has been issuing credit ratings for almost 100
years, conducted extensive testing of the notes and analyzed the
models before a committee at the firm was satisfied they
deserved a AAA rating, the company said of today’s case.  “Rating is an art, not a science,” S&P said. “There is
no ‘correct’ procedure for ratings.”  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of  Australia 
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  