-- S&P’s Kraemer Says Italy Risks Are Main Focus for Policy Makers
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-22T10:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/s-p-s-kraemer-says-italy-risks-are-main-focus-for-policy-makers.html
Standard & Poor’s analyst  Moritz Kraemer  said  Italy  is the country most under scrutiny by policy
makers as its financing needs are larger than the support
available from  Europe ’s crisis-fighting resources.  “The country that is most in the eye of the attention of
policy makers has to be Italy,” Kraemer said at the Sovereign
Debt Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link in  Frankfurt  today.
That is “simply because of its very large financing
requirements” which are, “with the current toolbox of safety
nets that we have in Europe, beyond credible support.”  European Union officials have injected billions of euros to
keep  Greece  afloat to prevent crisis contagion from spreading to
larger euro-area countries such as Spain or Italy. The
 International Monetary Fund  warned in a March 16 report that the
Greek bailout held “exceptional risks” that could prompt a
“disorderly” exit from monetary union unless additional help
is prepared.  Kraemer said that while countries such as Cyprus and
Portugal are no longer investment grade, and are therefore most
at risk, because of their small size their problems “should not
necessarily bring about a  euro-zone  wide calamity.”  He also said that the success of measures such as the
 European Central Bank’s (EURR002W)  three-year provision of cash to euro-
region lenders must not lead to complacency among policy makers.  ‘Complacency’ Trap  “The job is not done,” Kraemer said. “I think the
biggest mistake would be to fall into the trap of complacency.”  “What is needed is time, but what matters is what you make
with the time that you gain,” he said. “Maybe the success of
bringing yields down again has been too wide and too fast
because it could discourage policy makers from continuing on the
path of reform.”  Kraemer, speaking later in an interview on Bloomberg
Television, said  Portugal  may succeed in avoiding a debt
restructuring.  “Portugal in our view has the weakest credit in the euro
zone other than Greece, which has to do with some of the
structural challenges they’re facing,” he said. “But compared
to Greece the debt is not as high. The implementation capacity
for policy reform, the institutions in Portugal are much
stronger than in Greece so I think they have a good fighting
chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  