-- Goodell Says Payton's Lies Led to One-Year Ban for Illegal Hits
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/saints-coach-payton-banned-for-season-over-bounty-plan-for-hits.html
National Football League
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  moved to protect the U.S.’s most
popular sport with an unprecedented suspension of Super Bowl-
winning coach Sean Payton for a bounty program that paid players
on the New Orleans Saints for injuring opponents.  The league also banned Saints General Manager Mickey Loomis
for eight games and indefinitely barred former assistant  Gregg Williams  for the program. Under the bounty plan, about two dozen
players, led by Williams, paid each other as much as $1,500 for
targeting opponents such as Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Kurt Warner  and  Brett Favre  from 2009 to 2011, the NFL said. Payton
and the Saints won the  Super Bowl  after the 2009 season.  The action, among the stiffest penalties ever imposed by
the league on a team and its leadership and described by NFL
spokesman  Greg Aiello  as unprecedented, came because the Saints’
behavior, which included misleading NFL investigators,
threatened the league’s safety and integrity, Goodell said.  “Clearly, we were lied to,” Goodell said in an interview
televised on the NFL Network. “I don’t think you can be too
hard on people that put at risk our players’ health and
safety.”  Goodell said in a league statement he wanted to send “a
strong and lasting message” that the Saints’ conduct was
unacceptable. The team also was fined $500,000 and stripped of
second-round picks in 2012 and 2013. No players were immediately
punished. Goodell said “that’s next up.”  ‘Never Happen Again’  “We offer our sincere apology and take full responsibility
for these serious violations,” the Saints said in an e-mailed
release. “It has always been the goal of the  New Orleans Saints 
to create a model franchise and to impact
our league in a positive manner. There is no place for bounties
in our league, and we reiterate our pledge that this will never
happen again.”  David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the  University of Southern California ’s Marshall
School of Business, said Goodell had to punish the Saints
severely in order to maintain the confidence of the league’s
business partners.  “He could do nothing short of drop the hammer,” Carter
said in a telephone interview. “Whether you’re a broadcast
partner, sponsor or season-ticket holder, to think that
something like this might be going on in such a fashion is
totally unacceptable.”  The NFL has increasingly handed out fines and suspensions
for illegal hits, while changing rules to protect players over
the past three seasons. Pittsburgh Steelers Pro Bowl linebacker
 James Harrison  was suspended for one game last year for his
fifth illegal hit on a quarterback over that span.  That effort comes as the NFL is being sued by former
players who say it ignored the dangers posed by head injuries.  Brian Billick , who won a Super Bowl as coach of the
 Baltimore Ravens , called the extent of the sanctions stunning.  “The commissioner is sending a clear message,” Billick,
now an analyst with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and the NFL Network, said
in a telephone interview. “If you want to get rid of it, this
is how you do it.”  Coaches Apologize  Loomis, Payton and Williams all apologized for their roles
in the program in statements after the league announced the
results of its investigation on March 2. Williams, 53,
occasionally contributed to the funds himself, the NFL said.  Players were paid $1,500 for a “knockout” in which an
opposing player was unable to return to the game, and $1,000 for
a “cart-off” in which opponents were carried off the field,
according to the NFL. Payments doubled or tripled during the
playoffs.  Such a pool violates an NFL rule prohibiting non-contract
bonuses. Players can’t receive added pay for performance against
particular teams or opponents, or for on-field misconduct such
as injuring opponents or personal fouls. The Saints also made
payments for interceptions or fumble recoveries in violation of
that rule, the NFL said.  Fabricated Truth  Williams, now a coach with the  St. Louis Rams , said he
misled investigators when first contacted by the league in 2010
and made no effort to stop the program, the NFL said. Assistant
head coach Joe Vitt, who was also suspended for six games, said
he “fabricated the truth” when questioned, denying the program
existed.  Goodell called safety a critical issue for the league. He
said he was disappointed that players would participate and said
the league is still looking into sanctions against them.  “A combination of elements made this matter particularly
egregious,” Goodell said in the league’s statement. “When
there is targeting of players for injury and cash rewards over a
three-year period, the involvement of the coaching staff, and
three years of denials and willful disrespect of the rules, a
strong and lasting message must be sent that such conduct is
totally unacceptable and has no place in the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 