-- Sandusky Asks Judge to Dismiss Abuse Charges, Postpone Trial
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-22T21:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sandusky-asks-judge-to-dismiss-abuse-charges-continue-trial.html
Former  Pennsylvania  State
University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, who is
scheduled to face trial in May for allegedly abusing boys during
a 15-year period, asked a judge to dismiss many of the charges
against him.  Prosecutors haven’t been specific enough about the
allegations, violating Sandusky’s constitutional rights by
preventing him from adequately preparing and presenting a
defense, attorney Joseph Amendola said in papers filed in state
court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  Sandusky, 68, is charged with more than 50 counts tied to
the alleged abuse of boys he met through a charity he founded
for needy children. The case led to last year’s firings of Penn
State President  Graham Spanier  and head football coach  Joe Paterno . Prosecutors have denied Sandusky’s requests for details
on times and places of the alleged acts of sex abuse, citing the
victims’ trauma.  Prosecutors are reviewing Sandusky’s filing and will
respond to the court,  Nils Frederiksen , a spokesman for
Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly, said today in a phone
interview.  Sandusky argued that in addition to not being specific,
charges related to three alleged victims lack sufficient
evidence, The statute of limitations may have run out for
charges related to eight of the 10 boys, Sandusky said.  Charges over one boy, whose identity is still unknown, were
based solely on the testimony of assistant football coach  Mike
McQueary , Amendola said in court papers. The boy is identified
only as Victim 2 in a grand jury report.  Grand Jury Testimony  McQueary told the grand jury that he witnessed Sandusky
molesting what appeared to be a 10-year-old boy in a locker room
shower in March 2002. McQueary’s testimony, at preliminary
hearings for two Penn State officials charged with perjury in
the case, didn’t establish sufficient evidence to support the
charges, Amendola said.  Amendola cited the potential refusal by the university
officials, Timothy Curley and  Gary Schultz , to testify at
Sandusky’s trial in May as a reason to delay the case.  Curley, Penn State’s athletic director, and Schultz, a
former vice president at the school, “are the only witnesses
known to the defendant who can testify as to what Michael
McQueary told them concerning the defendant’s alleged actions on
March 1, 2002,” Amendola said in court papers.  Home Searched  In addition to the dismissal requests, Sandusky said that a
June search of his home was illegal and any information
collected should be barred, along with details from taped
conversations he had with two alleged victims in June 2009 and
last November.  He also asked that state court Judge John M. Cleland
sequester a jury for its two-week selection process and during
the trial.  “It is unrealistic to expect that the jurors selected to
hear his cases will be able to totally and completely insulate
themselves from all contact and information related to his cases
during the course of his trial,” Amendola said.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  