-- Sanofi Loses Appeal in Roche Suit Over Rituxan, Avastin
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-22T18:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sanofi-loses-appeal-in-roche-suit-over-rituxan-avastin.html
Sanofi (SNY)  lost an appeals court ruling
on its patent-infringement claims against  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
 Genentech  and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for the cancer drugs Rituxan and
Avastin.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit today
upheld a lower court ruling that the drugs don’t infringe two
Sanofi patents. The opinion was  posted  on the court’s website.  Sanofi sued Genentech and Biogen Idec in 2008 after
Genentech said it was canceling a licensing agreement that had
dated back to 1991. Paris-based Sanofi said the cancer drugs
were made using inventions it owned to enhance the expression of
a gene and make production more efficient.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in  San Francisco  ruled
that Genentech and Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen Idec
didn’t use the same steps as those covered by the Sanofi
patents. Sanofi said Illston had misconstrued certain terms of
the patents. The Federal Circuit rejected the arguments.  Sanofi, which said it was disappointed in the decision, can
ask the court to reconsider the opinion.  “The company is currently evaluating its options and next
steps,” said Carrie brown, a Sanofi spokeswoman  Rituxan is Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s top-selling
drug, with sales of 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.6 billion) last
year. Roche is the world’s biggest seller of cancer drugs. The
drug is approved for use in rheumatoid arthritis, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.  Avastin is approved for colon, lung, kidney and brain
cancer in the U.S., as well as for  breast cancer  in Europe.
Sales of the drug fell 18 percent last year to 5.29 billion
Swiss francs from 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmBh v. Genentech
Inc., 2011-1397, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court cases are Sanofi-Aventis
Deutschland GmBh v. Genentech Inc., 09cv4919, and Genentech Inc.
v. Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmBh, 08cv4909, both U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  