-- Sarkozy Gains After Shootings as Candidates Resume Campaigning
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-22T09:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sarkozy-gains-in-poll-as-shooting-handling-may-boost-authority.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
pulled ahead of Socialist Francois Hollande in a poll tracking
intentions for the first round of next month’s elections
following a spree of terrorist murders that underscored his role
as a crisis fighter.  The campaign resumed today after it was suspended in the
wake of a March 19 shooting that killed four people, including
three children, at a Jewish school in Toulouse. The self-
proclaimed assassin, who also shot dead three people last week,
has been holed up in his apartment since 3 a.m. yesterday.  “Sarkozy is in command,” Jerome Sainte-Marie, who heads
Paris-based CSA’s public-opinion department, said in an
interview. “In this role, he is the most credible. He can show
authority and maybe regain some of his past image.”  The CSA poll showed Sarkozy would get 30 percent of the
votes in the April 22 first round, up two points, while Hollande
would garner 28 percent, down two points. Hollande maintained
his lead for the May 6 runoff with 54 percent against 46
percent, identical to the March 12 poll. CSA’s survey was
conducted for RMC radio and BFM television and 20 minutes free
daily after the March 19 attack.  With the shooter who killed three children and a teacher
outside a Jewish school and three soldiers of Arab descent,
having been found, Sarkozy’s role as  France ’s leader in a
national emergency may bolster him just a month before the first
round of the presidential election, especially if security jumps
up the list of voter concerns.  ‘Unheard, Unseen’  Mohammed Merah, a 23-year-old Frenchman of Algerian
descent, took responsibility for the attacks, a move that would
make him the first homegrown terrorist to commit violent acts on
French soil.  The killings in Toulouse and Montauban by someone like
Merah, who was born in the country, is “unheard of, unseen
before in France,” said Sainte-Marie. “So we have no benchmark
to understand the repercussions.”  The man, who has spent his youth in and out of legal
trouble before adopting radical Islam and traveling to
 Afghanistan , claimed to have been conducting the killings on the
order of al-Qaeda.  “It is impossible for now to make any judgment on the
impact of this crisis on the outcome of the election,” Saint-
Maire said.  Other Polls  The CSA poll, in which 888 registered voters were
questioned, followed an Ifop survey last week showed Sarkozy
gaining momentum. While Sarkozy trails in all voter surveys
ahead of the likely runoff against Hollande, he has narrowed the
lead. An Ipsos SA poll on voting intentions this week showed he
has narrowed his deficit against Hollande to 1 percentage point
in the first round from 3.5 in a March 3 poll.  For the second round, Hollande’s lead narrowed to 55
percent against 44 for Sarkozy, compared with a 16-point lead in
the previous poll.  Sarkozy leads on security issues. An Ifop poll showed that
the French rate him better than Hollande on security by a 58-
to-39 percent margin. The survey for Le Monde involved 4,728
people questioned from Feb. 16 to 21.  “For  Hollande , this crisis brings the campaign to a point
where he is not seen as the most credible,” Sainte-Marie said.
“If the terror crisis wanes, which we cannot predict, Hollande
will have to work hard to put the race back on track to where he
is more at ease, like on the economy.”  Hostage Drama  After the killing at the Jewish school yard, presidential
candidates declared a 48-hour campaign halt. Six of the 10,
including Sarkozy, attended a memorial ceremony yesterday in the
town of Montauban for the murdered paratroopers.  Security hasn’t been a major issue in the election so far,
with just 15 percent of voters saying it will weigh on their
choice, behind the economic crisis at 50 percent, unemployment
at 46 percent and government debt at 32 percent, according to
Ifop pollster.  Sarkozy first came to national attention as mayor of
Neuilly, a town near Paris, when in a 1993 kindergarten hostage
drama he talked a dynamite-belted, ransom-demanding gunman into
releasing a child, with television footage showing the mayor
leaving the classroom with the youngster in his arms. After 46
hours of talks, the gunman was killed by police sharpshooters
and the seven remaining hostages were freed unharmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  