-- Sarkozy Returns to Campaign Trail Seeking to Close Hollande Lead
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sarkozy-returns-to-campaign-trail-seeking-to-close-hollande-lead.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  sought to
maintain his campaign momentum, seeking to narrow an
unprecedented deficit in polls after France’s first homegrown
Islamic terrorist murders convulsed the nation this week.  Speaking to supporters in Strasbourg late yesterday,
Sarkozy congratulated police who cornered and killed the man
suspected of assassinating seven people, including three
children, and lauded the nation’s spirit.  “A murderer sought to put France on its knees,” Sarkozy
said. “He was neutralized.”  A month before the April 22 first-round ballot, the
challenge for Sarkozy is to capitalize on the law-enforcement
success without appearing opportunistic, pollsters say. While
three surveys have shown the incumbent gaining support for the
opening round, he remained at least eight points behind
Socialist Francois Hollande in a potential May 6 run-off.  “This sort of  gap  has never been seen before,” said
Emmanuel Riviere, a pollster at TNS Sofres in Paris. “That
doesn’t mean it can’t be done but never has such a wall been
climbed with just one and a half months before the final vote.”  The two leading candidates are neck-and-neck in first round
support. A BVA poll of 978 voters taken March 21 and 22 after
the terrorist incident gave Hollande 29.5 percent support,
compared with 28 percent for Sarkozy. The Socialist candidate
was down 1.5 points since mid-February, while Sarkozy had gained
2 points.  The same survey predicted a second round result of 54 to 46
for Hollande, narrower than the 12-point spread registered a
month ago. The BVA poll has a margin of error of 2.5 points.  Campaigns Suspended  The suspected killer in southwest  France  was Mohammed
Merah, a 23-year-old of Algerian descent, who was shot in the
head by police yesterday. The attack on a Jewish school in
Toulouse March 19 prompted candidates to suspend their
campaigns.  The murders have thrown the spotlight on issues such as
immigration and crime that voters perceive as strengths of
Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular Movement party. About 58 percent
of voters judge Sarkozy “capable of reducing insecurity,”
compared with 39 percent for Hollande, according to  Ifop-Logical 
polling. The same survey showed a 59-38 perception gap on the
ability of the two candidates to “make difficult decisions.”  In Strasbourg yesterday, Sarkozy played to such themes,
repeating the words ’’authority’’ and ’’responsibility,’’ and
evoking the “values that are fundamental to our nation.”  ‘Positive Effect’  “The facts speak for themselves: the man was arrested, he
won’t kill more people, he is dead,” said Douglas Yates, a
professor at the American Graduate School in Paris in an
interview. “Sarkozy can use the benefits and not have to play
with this story. He looked competent, the net effect is
positive.”  Hollande, who held his first campaign speech after the
drama in Toulouse in the central town of Aurillac, spoke about
the need for “national unity.” He promised a crackdown on
petty crime and gangs that “feed terrorist activities.”  Sarkozy first came to national attention as mayor of
Neuilly, a town near Paris, when in a 1993 kindergarten hostage
drama he talked a dynamite-belted, ransom-demanding gunman into
releasing a child, with television footage showing the mayor
leaving the classroom with the youngster in his arms. After 46
hours of talks, the gunman was killed by police sharpshooters
and the seven remaining hostages were freed unharmed.  So far, security hasn’t been a major issue in the election.
Just 15 percent of voters said it will influence their choice,
behind the economic crisis at 50 percent, unemployment at 46
percent and government debt at 32 percent, according to Ifop.
Whether the killings will become a voter preoccupation remains
to be seen, pollsters said.  The killings in Toulouse and Montauban by someone like
Merah, who was born in the country, is “unheard of, unseen
before in France,” Jerome Sainte-Marie, who heads Paris-based
CSA’s public-opinion department, said in an interview yesterday.
“So we have no benchmark to understand the repercussions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  