-- Scene in D.C.: Lott, Dole, Howard Baker, Daschles, Biden
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-22T17:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/scene-in-d-c-lott-dole-howard-baker-daschles-biden.html
“I was a Sigma Nu,” said former
Republican Senator Trent Lott. “There will be a lot of Sigma
Nus here tonight.”  It wasn’t really a fraternity reunion, unless you think
G.O.P. is Greek.  The Bipartisan Policy Center’s “A Century of Service”
gala last night gathered many of the Republican brotherhood 
in the palatial Andrew Mellon auditorium to honor former
Republican Senate Majority Leaders  Bob Dole  and Howard
Baker and to celebrate the center's fifth anniversary.  Lott and another ex-majority leader,  Bill Frist , were on
hand with Japanese Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki. Former Senator
Mel Martinez, now a vice chairman of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said
Dole reminded him of a time “when we all got along.”  Federal Express Corp. (FDX)  executives Gina Adams and Sandy
Dickey credited Baker, the former Tennessee senator, with
helping their Memphis-based company get off the ground when he
was in office.  Other Tennessee folk in the crowd included the state’s
senior senator, Lamar Alexander, and Representative Marsha
Blackburn.  The Bipartisan Policy Center was started in 2007 by Baker,
Dole, and former Democratic Majority Leaders Tom Daschle and
 George Mitchell . Daschle, Vice President  Joe Biden , and current
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  offered tributes.  Guests nibbled small grilled-cheese sandwiches and deviled
eggs on tables anchored with tall vases of calla lilies.  Women’s Shelter  Linda Hall Daschle was elsewhere. Wearing pearls and
bearing a Chanel handbag, the former senator’s wife held court
in the Ritz-Carlton lobby for the N Street Village Gala, an
annual fundraiser benefitting the city’s largest women’s
homeless shelter.  She chatted with Senator Roy Blunt, the Missouri
Republican, whose wife, Abigail, was recruited into Linda
Daschle’s “charity mafia” to be on the board of the
organization.  Blunt joked that he follows “the pretty girls” because he knows
it’s going to be a good night.  One of the evening’s honorees, Senator Amy Klobuchar, a
Minnesota Democrat, got a bear hug from her former Senate
colleague Byron Dorgan before guests dug into a dinner of beef,
mashed potatoes and Oreo cheesecake.  Frederick Humphries, the vice president of U.S. government
affairs for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , caught up with Senator Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine.  Raffle Prize  The other honorees were Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming
Republican, and his wife, Diana, another Linda Daschle recruit,
who said she appreciated the “sisterhood” that the charity
generates.  The evening raised more than $600,000, with Microsoft
donating $35,000, Humphries said, and Scripps Networks
Interactive giving $25,000, according to A.B. Cruz III, the
chief legal officer of Scripps and a co-chairman of the gala.  Melissa Maxfield, the senior vice president for
congressional and federal government affairs for Comcast, was
the other gala co-chair, whose sister, Melinda Maxfield, a
principal at Williams and Jensen, walked away with the biggest
raffle prize of the night: a trip to  Argentina .  The other guests got house-shaped cookies with a thank-you
note from the women whom N Street Village has sheltered.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 