-- Schultz Transforming Starbucks Into Supermarket Supplier: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-03-22T20:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/schultz-transforming-starbucks-into-supermarket-supplier-retail.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  is looking more and
more like  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  all the time.  Since returning as chief executive officer in 2008,  Howard Schultz  has revived the company and is now guiding Starbucks
well beyond its cafe roots. Increasingly, the Seattle-based
chain is playing in an arena staked out decades ago by Big Food:
the grocery aisle. While Schultz still presides over about
10,800 macchiato- and scone-selling cafes in the U.S., grocery
 revenue  is rising almost three times as fast as store sales.  “We’re in the nascent stage of what we believe is our
capability to do a number of things within food and beverage,”
Schultz said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Starbucks  rose  2.6 percent to $55.21 at the close in New
York, after earlier advancing to a record high of $55.25. The
shares have gained 20 percent this year.  While researcher IBISWorld Inc. expects grocery industry
sales to stagnate in the coming years as more shoppers eat out,
the Starbucks brand may give it an edge against niche rivals
such as Naked Juice and Bolthouse Farms as well as big players
like Kraft and  Nestle SA (NESN) , which both sell coffee and tea. In
fiscal 2011, operating income for Starbucks’s global packaged-
goods unit was 32 percent of revenue, compared with 19 percent
for the U.S. business.  “You’re seeing investors recalibrating how they view this
company,” Phillip Juhan, an Atlanta-based analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, said in an interview. Starbucks is “no longer
just a retail store business,” said Juhan, who  rates  the shares
the equivalent of a buy.  Starbucks has slowly yet steadily been moving into grocery
stores since 1995, when it began selling ice cream in such
flavors as java chip frappuccino and caramel macchiato. It has
since added packaged coffee, bottled drinks and Tazo brand tea.  Keurig Deal  Last year, Starbucks cut a deal with  Green Mountain Coffee
Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  to sell capsules for  Green Mountain ’s Keurig
single-serve coffee makers. It then paid $30 million for
juicemaker Evolution Fresh Inc. and has plans to sell the flash-
pasteurized juice in grocery stores.  In 2009, Schultz introduced Via, a single-serve instant
coffee that took 20 years to develop. At the time, some analysts
said Via, which sells for about $10 for a 12-pack, was too
expensive and might dilute the Starbucks brand. Now many
consider it a driver of overseas growth, especially in  Asia 
where instant coffee is widely drunk. Schultz has said Via
eventually will become a billion-dollar brand.  In Schultz’s boldest move yet to become a player in
groceries, he last year wrested control of packaged coffee
distribution from Kraft. The foodmaker sued Starbucks for breach
of contract. The dispute has since gone to arbitration and
probably will be resolved this year. Even if Starbucks winds up
paying a large settlement, Schultz now has the power to demand
the best shelf space for Starbucks products.  New Phase  “We think we can build a business that can be as a large
as our retail business,” Jeff Hansberry, president of channel
development, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The
consumer-goods segment will continue to expand both organically
and through acquisitions, he said.  This month, Starbucks upped the ante by announcing its own
single-serve espresso brewer. Called Verismo, it will be sold in
stores, online and at some Starbucks cafes by the holidays. The
real money will come from selling the coffee capsules. Single-
serve beverages are the coffee industry’s fastest-growing
segment, according to Mitch Pinheiro, an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  While the shares rose as much as 4.2 percent on the day
after the Verismo announcement, the machine probably won’t
generate profit until Starbucks’ fiscal 2013. Sales from the
Verismo machine and capsules won’t surpass that of Starbucks’s
K-Cups for three to five years, David Palmer, an analyst at UBS
Securities LLC, wrote in a research note dated March 20.  Energy Drinks  Later this year, Starbucks will start selling 60-calorie
energy drinks in U.S. stores. Called Refreshers, they are made
with fruit juice and green-coffee extract. The energy beverage
category is worth about $8 billion, according to the company.  The idea is to translate Starbucks’s 40 years of experience
in coffee to juice and Refreshers, Schultz said. “We’ve done
our homework, we understand how to execute that.”  As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for the company’s packaged-goods
segment will rival that of the stores in five to 10 years,
according to Juhan.  By then, it will be “more of a conglomerate and they’ll
have a more diversified revenue stream,” says Peter Saleh, an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York . “The biggest
opportunity for them is on the packaged-goods side -- selling K-
Cups and selling Via,” he said.  What’s Important  Still, 91 percent of revenue comes from Starbucks cafes,
and management should be careful not to “lose sight of what’s
important,” Saleh said. “My concern would be that they get
distracted from the real revenue and profit driver.”  Packaged coffees are also more affected by commodity costs
than its cafe business; margin for that segment will narrow to
about 25 percent this year primarily because of higher coffee
bean prices, Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said at an
investor  conference  on March 14. By fiscal 2013, that figure
should be back to the upper 20 percent range and approach 30
percent in the next two years, which is what Starbucks is
targeting in the long run, he said.  Ultimately, Schultz’s move into groceries is necessary,
according to Bill Smead, portfolio manager at Seattle-based
Smead Capital Management Inc., which holds about $3.6 million of
Starbucks in its Smead Value Fund. The company’s real value and
growth potential lies in its brand, he said.  “They sell water, milk and coffee beans at boiling
temperatures,” Smead said in an interview. “ Warren Buffett 
says the best companies buy a commodity and sell a brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  