-- Sempra, Terra-Gen Get California Approval for Wind-Power Deals
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-03-22T19:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sempra-terra-gen-get-california-approval-for-wind-power-deals.html
Sempra Energy (SRE)  and Terra-Gen Power
LLC received approval to sell wind energy from two projects
they’re developing in the U.S. and  Mexico  to  California 
utilities.  The California Public Utilities Commission approved the
contracts today at a meeting in San Francisco.  The agreements, with Sempra’s San Diego Gas & Electric and
 Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison, will help the
utilities comply with a state law that requires one-third of
their energy to come from renewable sources by 2020. The
companies in 2010 supplied 11.9 percent and 19.3 percent,
respectively, according to the commission’s fourth-quarter 2011
 report .  SDG&E was  approved  to buy the output from Sempra’s 156-
megawatt Energia Sierra Juarez project in  Baja California . The
price is $106.50 a megawatt-hour, Scott Crider, a Sempra
spokesman, said. That represents a cost of about $820 million
over the duration of the contract, the utility said in a filing.  Southern California Edison was  approved  to buy the output
from four additional phases of Terra-Gen’s 1,550-megawatt Alta
 Wind Energy  Center in Tehachapi, California, which would be the
world’s largest wind farm. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Two Phases  Two phases of Alta, the 168-megawatt seventh and 132-
megawatts ninth, are expected to enter operation in January
2013. The 138-megawatt tenth phase and 90-megawatt eleventh are
expected to begin shipping power to the utility in January 2015,
Marc Ulrich, Southern California Edison’s vice president of
alternative and renewable power, said by telephone.
 Terra-Gen may complete the latter two phases before that date
and sell the power on the  spot market , he said. The seven
remaining segments, totaling 1,020 megawatts of capacity, were
operational at the end of last year.  “We have enough land secured down in the area that could
support up to about 1,000 megawatts,” Crider said of Sempra’s
project by telephone yesterday. “It has always been our intent
to develop this project in various phases,” he said.  The first phase approved today is expected to enter
operation in August 2013, and  BP Plc (BP/LN)  is negotiating an agreement
to jointly develop it, Crider said. Development of subsequent
phases depends on similar power-purchase deals with other U.S.
or Mexican utilities, he said.  Energia Sierra Juarez would still be built if Congress
doesn’t extend the primary incentive for wind energy, a tax
credit worth 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour, according to Crider.  “It is not dependent on the production tax credit that is
due to expire at the end of 2012,” Crider said. “This is a
project that the state can count on,” he said. “We’re hopeful
that the PTC will be extended in the near future, but it if
isn’t then this is a project that will still be able to move
forward.”  Joseph Greco, a senior vice president at Terra-Gen, didn’t
reply to a phone message today seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  