-- Senate Votes to Ban Congressional Insider Stock Trading
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-03-22T18:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/senate-votes-to-ban-congressional-insider-stock-trading.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to strengthen
the ban on insider securities trading by members of Congress and
other government officials a day after a poll showed 82 percent
of Americans disapprove of lawmakers’ work.  The Senate’s 96-3 vote sends the measure to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature. The legislation,  S. 2038 , would
bar members of Congress, their staffs and some executive branch
workers from trading stocks, commodities or futures based on
non-public information they learn on the job. It would prevent
lawmakers from participating in initial public offerings that
aren’t available to the general public.  The House passed the measure Feb. 9 on a 417-2 vote. Obama
called for passage of a congressional  insider trading  bill in
his State of the Union address.  The bill is the “most significant congressional ethics
reform in at least five years,” said Senator Joe Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent who caucuses with Democrats, and
chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee.  Members of Congress aren’t exempt from existing federal
insider-trading laws, though the Constitution’s protection of
their speech and debate may complicate investigations of
potential violations under existing law.  Reporting Trades  The bill also would require more than 28,000 senior
government officials who already must file public disclosures --
including the president, vice president, cabinet members,
lawmakers and their staffs -- to report all trades valued at
$1,000 or more within 30 days. The rule wouldn’t apply to widely
held investment funds.  The measure would block bonuses for executives of  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  while the mortgage-financing agencies remain
in government conservatorship.  Yesterday, the  Gallup poll  released a survey showing that
82 percent of Americans disapprove of the job Congress is doing
while 12 percent approve. The poll was conducted March 8-11.  The public approval rating is “essentially flat,” Gallup
said, compared with the 10 percent approval rating in its
February poll, a record low.  CBS’s “60 Minutes” reported in November that some members
of Congress, including House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, and Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, bought stock in companies while legislation that might
affect those businesses was being debated. Both said they did
nothing wrong.  Republican  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts and New York
Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand introduced Senate bills to ban
congressional insider trading within a week after the “60
Minutes” report. The two measures were folded into the initial
draft of S. 2038.  “It’s kind of a no-brainer for me,” Brown said after the
vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  