-- Siemens Sued Over Cancellation of Alarm Funding IPO
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-22T15:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/siemens-sued-in-n-y-on-behalf-of-alarm-funding-companies.html
Siemens First Capital Commercial
Finance LLC  was sued in New York state court for breach of
contract over the cancellation of an initial public offering for
a security-alarm service business.  The suit, filed yesterday in New York state  Supreme Court 
in  Manhattan , accuses Siemens First Capital of “intentionally
destroying” three related companies that were planning an
initial public offering.  Siemens told Whitecap (US) Fund I LP, the majority owner of
Alarm Funding LLC, the parent of the three companies, in March
2011 that the companies had defaulted on an $85 million loan
because the public offering hadn’t been completed by March 1,
according to the lawsuit.  The companies had never missed a payment on the loan and
had repaid $47 million, the complaint shows. Whitecap and two
related entities filed the suit, which seeks damages of more
than $20 million, on behalf of the companies.  “Siemens was not content with what it was entitled to
under the contract, i.e. repayment in full over time,”
according to the lawsuit. “Instead, Siemens wished to extract
as much money as possible from the alarm funding companies as
quickly as it could.”  Siemens First Capital Commercial Finance is a joint venture
between the U.S. financial services unit of Munich-based
engineering company  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Boca Raton , Florida-based
financial firm First Capital, according to its website. A voice-
mail message left with an outside spokeswoman for the company
wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Whitecap (US) Fund I LP v. Siemens First
Capital Commercial Finance LLC, 650888/2012, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  