-- Slim’s Telmex Targeted in Rules Regulating Lease of Lines
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-22T21:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/slim-s-telmex-targeted-in-rules-regulating-lease-of-lines.html
Mexico’s telecommunications
regulatory agency approved rules implementing price and quality
controls for dedicated lines leased by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
Telefonos de Mexico SAB to competitors.  The rules will go into effect in “the coming days” when
they are released in the official gazette, the agency known as
Cofetel said yesterday in an e-mailed  statement .  Carriers designated as dominant by Mexico’s antitrust
agency will face regulations to prevent them from “engaging in
conduct that hurts the development of equal competition, or hurt
consumers through the fixing of arbitrarily high prices in
services offered,” Cofetel said.  Telmex, as the Mexico City-based unit of  America Movil SAB (AMXL) 
is known, dominates the market for originating, carrying and
completing phone calls as well as leasing lines to rivals, the
antitrust agency found in 2009. The agency declared  America
Movil ’s wireless unit Telcel dominant in the mobile-phone market
the following year.  Telmex is the only company to be designated as dominant by
the antitrust agency in the market for dedicated lines.  The rules tighten the government’s oversight of the phone
carrier controlled by Slim. More rules are coming in other areas
in which the antitrust agency has declared Slim’s companies
dominant, Cofetel President Mony de Swaan said in a January
interview.  America Movil and Telmex are appealing the antitrust
agency’s rulings on their dominance. The companies have 70
percent of wireless customers and almost 80 percent of fixed
lines.  Service Requests  Telmex had no immediate comment, said an official who asked
not to be named because of company policy.  The rules obligate any carrier designated as dominant to
provide competitors using leased lines with quality “that in no
case can be inferior to that which the carrier provides itself
or to its subsidiaries or affiliates.” Service requests must be
attended to “with punctuality,” Cofetel said.  The agency did not specify what prices dominant carriers
can charge for the lease of dedicated lines.  Cofetel is also recommending the Communications and
Transportation Ministry level sanctions against America Movil’s
local wireless unit because it failed to disclose information
about network traffic during service outages, the agency said.  America Movil, which owns about 95 percent of Telmex,
slipped 0.1 percent to 15.30 pesos at the close in  Mexico  City.
Telmex rose 1.6 percent to 10.29 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  