-- Slovakia Seeks to Lose Euro Troublemaker Image, Fico Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-22T16:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/slovakia-seeks-to-lose-euro-troublemaker-image-fico-says.html
Slovakia, which held up approval of
the euro area’s rescue mechanism last year, won’t cause any more
problems for the currency region in its fight to end the
sovereign-debt crisis, Premier-elect  Robert Fico  said.  “We no longer want to be the troublemakers,” Fico said
yesterday in an interview at his party’s headquarters in the
Slovak capital, Bratislava. “Within our means, we will
contribute to all measures and support all decisions aimed at
protecting the euro.”  Slovakia, the second-poorest euro-area country of 5.4
million, unsettled investors in October when it delayed approval
of the euro area’s enhanced rescue fund. Fico, whose Smer party
won a majority in March 10 snap elections, helped push through
the aid mechanism after the previous administration collapsed
over the issue.  European leaders are trying to shore up faith in their
budgetary discipline after the debt crisis forced Greece into
the largest restructuring in history. Fico said that  Slovakia 
will ratify the fiscal compact, agreed on Jan. 30, which
requires balanced-budget rules and speeds up sanctions on
nations exceeding deficit limits.  “The euro region can’t function with a common currency and
different economic and fiscal policies,” Fico said. “What is
wrong with consulting budgets with the European Commission?”  Currency Switch  Plans for stricter fiscal rules, combined with the  European
Central Bank  lending more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
to financial institutions, have curbed yields on government debt
in  Europe  and boosted the euro. The currency traded at 1.3194 to
the dollar as of 5:29 p.m. in Bratislava, compared with the 2012
low of 1.2667 reached on Jan. 16.  As prime minister from 2006 to 2010, Fico oversaw
Slovakia’s switch to the common currency three years ago and
signed on for the country’s participation in the bailout
mechanism after the debt crisis escalated.  Slovakia was the last country to ratify the enhancement of
the European Financial Stability Facility, the temporary bailout
fund, in October. The nation also refused to contribute to the
first loan to  Greece  after former Premier Iveta Radicova assumed
power in July 2010.  Measures taken so far by EU leaders have provided relief to
the euro region, Fico said, adding he was “quite optimistic”
about the prospects for the currency bloc.  Parliamentary Majority  Smer’s majority in parliament implies the eastern European
nation will endorse the early activation of the EFSF’s permanent
successor, the so-called European Stability Mechanism, he said.
The party also backs closer fiscal integration within the EU and
isn’t against harmonization of taxes within the EU, a move
opposed by the previous administration.  The new Cabinet may consider supporting an introduction of
common euro-area bonds once the fiscal union and the permanent
bailout fund are in place, said Fico.  “Membership in the EU and the  euro zone  has been so far so
beneficial for Slovakia, so we also understand that there is
some level of solidarity we have to pay toward the euro,” Fico
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  