-- Small-Town Lockups Without Prisoners Send Bonds Into Default
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/small-town-lockups-without-prisoners-send-bonds-into-default.html
The Irwin County Detention Center
sprawls down Cotton Drive in Ocilla,  Georgia (STOGA1) . The lockup has
1,200 beds and enough prisoners to fill only half of them. It’s
the latest private jail to fail in a small, Southern town.  County (13924MF)  officials issued $55 million of debt in 2007 on
behalf of a real-estate developer turned corrections
entrepreneur in hopes of luring inmates, jobs and prosperity at
no risk to taxpayers. This month, bondholders forced a Chapter
11 bankruptcy days before the county was to sell the jail for
$1.6 million in back property taxes.  Ten similar projects, with bonds totaling more than $365
million, are in trouble, according to the Municipal Market
Advisors research firm. Eight are in default. Most are in places
such as Ocilla, a town of 3,400 surrounded by peanut and cotton
fields in a county criss-crossed by red-dirt roads.  “They’d end up with these huge white elephants,” said
Christopher Taylor, a consultant in Alexandria,  Virginia , who is
former head of the  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board . “You
can’t convert these things to hotels.”  Communities often provided infrastructure for jails that
sit empty and deteriorating, Taylor said in a telephone
interview. The projects were financed with bonds tied to revenue
earned by housing inmates for other agencies, including the U.S.
Marshals Service, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and
state corrections departments.  Wave of Defaults  Irwin County issued bonds in 2007 to help developers double
the size of an existing detention center. The county of about
9,500 that’s 89 miles (143 kilometers) north of the Florida
line, hoped to expand its tax base, County Attorney Warren Mixon
said in an interview there. The jail is Irwin’s biggest private
employer, said Joey Whitley, chairman of its commission.  As jails faced increased competition for prisoners, revenue
didn’t materialize and neither did debt payments.  “We’ve seen a small wave of these over the past 18 months,
and it seems to have gotten faster in the last year,” said Matt Fabian, an analyst for Municipal Markets Advisors, which in
Concord,  Massachusetts .  Individual investors, he said, should beware: “The rule
should be: ‘If it has the word jail in it anywhere, leave it for
somebody else.’”  Five of the 11 distressed projects on the company’s list
are in Texas, which saw a spurt of speculative corrections
building between 2000 and 2008, according to Bob Libal, an
organizer with Grassroots Leadership. The group, based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , says the private prison industry
preys on development-starved towns.  Leaking Roof  Two Texas jails are vacant and have yet to make money, a
third had its head count drop from several hundred to 14, and a
fourth lost a contract worth 75 percent of its revenue last
year, bond documents say.  In Greensboro, Alabama, the roof of an abandoned youth
prison began leaking two years ago, and there’s no money for
repairs, said William Ryan, a retired judge who formed the
nonprofit that owns it. He has tried in vain to find a buyer.  The center succumbed to a change in judicial philosophy,
Ryan said in a phone interview: “They don’t lock up so many
juveniles now.”  The five distressed  Texas  jails and one in Hardin,  Montana ,
that never opened were underwritten by Herbert J. Sims & Co.,
based in Fairfield,  Connecticut .  Bergen Capital of  New Jersey  was the underwriter for a
Macclenny, Florida, project that counted on more immigration
detainees than it got, and the Irwin County jail.  Bedeviled For Decades  Its path to bankruptcy began in 2007.  That year, the county approved $55 million in new bonds for
the private prison that had been in and out of financial trouble
since 1991. The owner by then was a limited partnership formed
by Terry O’Brien, a real-estate broker and property consultant.  O’Brien had formed a property consulting firm in 2002 and
got into the jail business in 2004, when he incorporated
Municipal Corrections LLC in  Las Vegas . The firm’s purpose was
to own the Irwin County lockup, according to bond documents.  The jail had defaulted on 1990 and 1994 bonds and spent
years abandoned, its title held by a trustee, until a group that
included O’Brien bought it in 2004.  It was overflow housing for prisoners from suburban Atlanta
when the owner and operator began pushing to expand it in 2007.
The idea was to market beds to federal justice and immigration
officials.  Character Reference  A bond disclosure that year described O’Brien as a man of
“limited operating history and limited assets.”  Still, the county did as it had before. It extended its
tax-exempt status to bonds for Municipal Corrections, agreeing
to lease the jail back from the company.  “It brings jobs and it brings a business with a tax base,
which is just as important if not more so, and at no cost to
taxpayers,” Mixon said.  The deal obligated the county to pay only what it received
from other governments for housing inmates. Municipal
Corrections was to get between $5,000 and $8,000 a month for its
ownership, according to documents. Another company, Michael
Croft Enterprises, was to operate it for $21,000 per month.  A second O’Brien company, Correctional Center Consultants,
was also hired to provide advice, bond documents said.  Ready to Incarcerate  Bergen Capital underwrote both $14.8 million in bonds that
paid to reopen the closed jail in 2004 and the $55 million in
bonds for expanding it three years later. It earned $716,800 in
fees on the first, and $1.8 million on the second, bond
documents show.  The company, a division of Scott & Stringfellow LLC, was
renamed BB&T Capital Markets in January. O’Brien and BB&T
Capital did not return telephone and e-mail messages requesting
comment.  The expanded jail opened for business in January 2009. Dun-
colored, with metal sides, it resembles a complex of industrial
warehouses, with man-sized fenced outdoor runs along its sides.
It can hold 1,200 prisoners.  The difficulty was finding them.  Larger operators secured contracts more easily, Whitley
said. Corrections Corporation of America and GEO both have
federal detention centers in  Georgia : Between 2006 and 2009, CCA
added enough beds to house 2,254 illegal immigrants, said Steve
Owen, a company spokesman.  ‘Us Country Folk’  The Ocilla jail also failed to get about 200 immigrants
relocated from an  Alabama  center after that state’s
congressional delegation intervened, a bond document said.  Six months after opening, Municipal Corrections replaced
the jail’s operator with  Detention Management LLC , whose website
lists O’Brien as a leader. The new operator touted connections
with government officials and promised to fill the jail in 90
days: “You throw the attorney general’s name around, that’s
impressive to us country folk,” Mixon said.  The time came and went, and cells remained empty. The jail
dipped into reserves.  Last November, with the lockup 58 percent full, the bond
trustee sent a consultant to Ocilla who reported impediments
including bureaucratic delays at ICE, murky authority over
marketing and public budget constraints.  Wearing the Stripes  By 2011, tax-paying farmers were complaining about the
jail’s $1.6 million in back taxes in a county with an annual
budget of just over $400,000, Whitley said. The tax commissioner
foreclosed and was poised to sell the building for what was owed
on March 6 of this year.  Bondholders Hamlin Capital Management LLC of  New York ,
Oppenheimer Rochester National Municipal Funds of New York, and
UMB N.A. of  Minneapolis  and  Kansas City  forced the company into
bankruptcy in  Nevada  on Feb. 29, stopping the sale.  On a sunny day last week, a handful of inmates in stripes
lounged in the jailyard and county officials pondered how to
make their punishment pay.  “We’ve retained counsel in Las Vegas,” Mixon said.
“Whoever would have thought we’d be doing that?”  The case is In re Municipal Corrections LLC, 12-12253,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Ocilla at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  