-- Sony Said to Be Near Agreement to Sell Chemical Business
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-03-22T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sony-said-to-be-near-agreement-to-sell-chemical-business.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will sell its chemical
operations to the  Development Bank of Japan  as the nation’s
largest exporter of consumer electronics reduces its portfolio
of businesses to revive profitability.  Sony and the state-backed bank have signed a non-binding
memorandum of understanding for the sale of chemical businesses
operated by Sony Chemical & Information Device Corp., a wholly
owned unit of the Tokyo-based manufacturer, they said in a joint
statement today. They aim to reach a formal agreement in late
May and complete the sale by the end of this year, according to
the statement, which didn’t specify a price.  The businesses may be sold for as much as 40 billion yen
($480 million), the Nikkei newspaper reported earlier, without
saying where it got the information. The sale excludes Sony
Chemical operations that make optical disk media, magnetic tape,
laminate substrate, the FeliCa smart-card system and medical
print media, according to today’s statement.  The world’s No. 3 TV maker wants to revive profit after
doubling its net-loss forecast to 220 billion yen for the year
ending March 31. Incoming President Kazuo Hirai has pledged to
streamline operations to turn around the maker of Bravia TVs
after the company forecast its fourth consecutive annual loss
this year.  Sony rose 0.5 percent to 1,741 yen as of the 11:30 a.m.
midday break in Tokyo trading, while  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average gained 0.4 percent. The shares have gained 26
percent this year.  Sony Chemical was formed in 1962 and had 5.48 billion yen
of capital as of March 22, according to the statement. It
employed 2,917 people as of March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  