-- South African Inflation Unnexpectedly Slows in February
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-03-22T09:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/south-african-inflation-unnexpectedly-slows-in-february.html
South Africa ’s inflation rate
unexpectedly fell for the first time in a year in February as
food prices dropped and a stronger rand helped curb import costs
in Africa’s biggest economy.  Inflation slowed to 6.1 percent from 6.3 percent in
January, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 6.4 percent. Prices rose 0.6 percent from a month
earlier while food and non-alcoholic beverage costs declined 0.5
percent.  “Food prices are moderating contrary to what the consensus
had expected,” Carmen Nel, a Cape Town-based economist at Rand
Merchant Bank, said in a phone interview. “On the whole I think
it will be neutral for the  Reserve Bank ’s monetary policy
committee.”  Inflation (SACPIYOY)  closer to the top end of the 3 percent to 6
percent target range may ease pressure on the central bank to
raise  interest rates  amid concern a recession in Europe could
reduce demand for exports. The bank has kept benchmark lending
rate at 5.5 percent, the lowest level in more than three
decades, since November 2010.  South African Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  on March 16
said recent data signaled inflation was becoming “more
generalized.”  The rand gained for a third month in February as near-zero
interest rates in Europe and the U.S. bolstered demand for
higher-yielding emerging-market assets. The currency has gained
5.6 percent against the dollar this year, helping to offset a
7.8 percent jump in  oil prices .  Hold for Longer  It weakened after the data was released, falling 0.5
percent to 7.6925 to the dollar at 10:50 a.m. in Johannesburg.
The yield on the R157 government bond, due in 2015, fell 3 basis
points to 6.90 percent.  “Immediate market reaction is likely to be that this
allows the SARB to keep interest rates on hold a while longer,
despite the more hawkish comments we’ve had from Governor Marcus
recently,”  Razia Khan , the London-based head of Africa research
at Standard Chartered Plc, said in an e-mailed note to clients.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee will announce
its next decision on interest rates on March 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  