-- Sovereign Ratings a Lagging Indicator, Stheeman Says
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-22T16:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/sovereign-ratings-a-lagging-indicator-stheeman-says.html
Sovereign-debt ratings are a
lagging indicator, and their effect on  government bonds  can be
overstated, Robert Stheeman, chief executive officer of the
U.K.’s Debt Management Office said.  “The importance of ratings and their impact can
potentially be exaggerated,” Stheeman said at the Bloomberg
Sovereign Debt Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in  Frankfurt 
today. “Rating agencies tend to be lagging rather than leading
indicators, and the market, especially in efficient government
bond markets, if there is such a thing, is most likely to have
discounted significant rating movements long before they’ve
actually occurred.”  U.K. 10-year gilt  yields  have been in a range of 2.30
percent to 2.49 percent since March 15, the day after  Fitch
Ratings  said the nation risked losing its AAA ranking. The
yields fell to a record low 1.92 percent on Jan. 18 as investors
sought refuge from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Italy’s government bonds have returned 12 percent this year
for the best performance among 26 bond indexes tracked by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies even after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the nation’s
rating on Jan. 13 by two steps to BBB+.  Treasury 10-year note  yields  dropped to a record low 1.67
percent a month after the decision of S&P to strip the U.S. of
its AAA rating in August.  Fitch’s View  Fitch changed the outlook on Britain last week to
“negative” from “stable,” indicating a “slightly greater” than
50 percent chance that the AAA rating will be reduced within two
years. The ratings company cited a weak economic recovery, high
debt levels and threats from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The unwinding of the Bank of England’s asset-purchase
program, also known as quantitative easing, isn’t a concern for
the London-based Debt Management Office, which sells debt
securities on behalf of the U.K. Treasury, Stheeman said.  “When rates rise, it is perhaps a signal, not just that
people are concerned about a QE unwind but on the contrary are
much more focused on the fact that the economy itself might
potentially be turning a corner,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  