-- St. Petersburg Crackdown on Homosexuals Makes Putin G-8’s Pariah
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/st-petersburg-crackdown-on-homosexuals-makes-putin-g-8-s-pariah.html
When  Vladimir Putin  returns to the
Group of Eight leaders summit in May, he’ll be alone at the
table in representing a country that’s curbing rather than
expanding the rights of sexual minorities.  Putin’s hometown of St. Petersburg, Europe’s fourth-largest
city,  banned  this month homosexual ”propaganda,” defined as
the distribution of information that could harm “the health and
moral and spiritual development of minors.” Violators face
fines of as much as 500,000 rubles ($17,000).  The clampdown by Governor Georgy Poltavchenko, a Putin ally
and former KGB officer, runs counter to legislative trends in
the developed world. In the U.S., which is hosting the G-8
summit at Camp David,  Maryland , freedom of speech is guaranteed
in the Constitution and same-sex marriage has been approved by
lawmakers in eight states.  Japan , the G-8’s second-largest
economy, has no laws curbing homosexuality and the U.K. repealed
a ban on promoting it a decade ago.  “This is a worrying trend that goes against the grain,”
Hugh Williamson, Europe and Central  Asia  director for  Human
Rights Watch , said by phone on March 21. “In large parts of the
world in the last couple of decades, in Europe, the U.S., part
of Asia, they have moved in a very progressive direction,
becoming more open, accepting and tolerant.”  Putin, Procreation  Putin, who will start his third term as president in May
after serving four years as prime minister, has linked his
position on gay rights to the birth rate in Russia, where the
population shrank to 142.9 million in 2010 from 145.2 million in
2002, according to the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow.  “As for  same-sex marriages , they do not produce offspring,
as you know,” Putin told  CNN ’s Larry King in  December 2010 .
“We are fairly tolerant toward sexual minorities, however we
think that the state should promote reproduction, support
mothers and children.”  That contrasts with movements toward equality for gays in
Europe, where at least 20 countries either allow same-sex
marriages or accept some form of civil partnership.  India 
repealed its colonial-era code criminalizing gay sex between
consenting adults in 2009.  South Africa  became the first country on the continent to
allow same-sex marriage in 2006.  Argentina  did the same last
July, a first in  Latin America , which is predominately Catholic.
 Israel  is the most liberal country in the  Middle East  on gay
rights, extending spousal benefits to partners, allowing same-
sex couples to adopt children and openly gay soldiers in its
military.  ‘Targets of Violence’  In  Poland , which borders  Russia ’s exclave of Kaliningrad,
the government is working on a partnership bill that would give
common-law couples, including gays, rights including
inheritance, hospital visitation and alimony.  St. Petersburg is the fourth administrative district to ban
gay “propaganda” in a country that has been criticized for the
intolerant laws by the U.S. Canada, also in the G-8, issued a
 warning  March 19 to its citizens who plan to travel to St.
Petersburg to avoid “displaying affection in public, as
homosexuals can be targets of violence.”  St. Petersburg, a host city for soccer’s  World Cup  in 2018,
was founded by Peter the Great in 1703 as a window to the west.
The former imperial capital, home to almost 5 million people, is
now Russia’s top tourist destination for foreigners and is
located less than 100 miles (160 kilometers) from  Finland , where
civil unions for same-sex couples were legalized more than a
decade ago.  ‘Negative Reaction  The U.K. Foreign Office warned Russia that the new laws
violate its obligations as a member of the 47-nation Council of
 Europe , a Strasbourg, France-based group representing 800
million people that promotes democracy and human rights.  The U.S. is working with the EU to pressure Russia to
abandon the legislation, which “would severely restrict
freedoms of expression and assembly” for sexual minorities, the
State Department said on its website Feb. 9. “Gay rights are
human rights and human rights are gay rights.”  There are “concerns” that the Russian authorities may opt
to adopt a similar law at a national level, said Human Rights
Watch’s Williamson.  Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov countered in a  radio
interview  March 20, saying western countries are seeking to
impose their cultural values on the rest of the world.  “There are different civilizations, non-European
civilizations, which have their own values,” Lavrov said. Most
Russians follow Orthodox Christian traditions and introducing
foreign moral standards will only provoke a “negative
reaction,” he said.  ‘Is That Propaganda?’  The Russian Orthodox Church, the dominant religious body in
in the world’s largest country by landmass, considers
homosexuality a sin and supports curtailing its promotion.  “There’s lots of criticism from the media community about
this law, but somehow most of the media forgets about this
crucial word -- minors,” said Vladimir Vigilyansky, a spokesman
for the Moscow Patriarchate, by phone. “It’s about propaganda
among minors, not about banning homosexuality itself.”  The biggest problem with the law, though, is that it’s so
vague that almost any gay activity can be interpreted as a
criminal act, said Vitaly Lobok, co-founder of the Blue Oyster
gay bar in  St. Petersburg ’s historic city center.  “We have a rainbow flag outside of the bar -- is that
propaganda for homosexuality?” Lobok said by phone. “Who is
going to decide that?”  About 69 percent of Russians identify themselves as
Orthodox, according to a poll last August by the Moscow-based
Levada center. An even greater majority, though, 74 percent,
believes that homosexuality is a perversion of human nature,
according to a Levada poll conducted in July 2010.  ‘Me, You and Madonna’  Homosexuality was a crime during the Soviet era and wasn’t
decriminalized until 1993. Seventy-six of the 193 members of the
 United Nations  deem it illegal, according to Human Rights Watch.
At least five countries, including  Iran , impose the death
penalty for consensual same-sex relations.  Opponents of the legislation have gained a high-profile
supporter in the pop star Madonna, who told Bloomberg News that
she’ll protest the law when she performs in Russia in August.  “I will come to St. Petersburg to speak up for the gay
community,” Madonna said in an e-mail March 20. “I will speak
during my show about this ridiculous atrocity,” she said. “I’m
a freedom fighter.”  Madonna’s first show in Russia six years ago was marred by
protests by Russian Orthodox activists who objected to her
performance of the song “Live to Tell,” which she sang while
wearing a crown of thorns and dangling from a cross.  If the celebrity does promote homosexuality at her St.
Petersburg concert she’ll probably be fined because at least one
person under the age of 18 will be in attendance, according to
Vitaly Milonov, the local lawmaker from Putin’s United Russia
party who drafted the bill.  “The law is called the law because everyone has to comply
with it,” St. Petersburg Vice Governor Vasily Kichedzhi said by
phone. “Me, you and Madonna.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net 
Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  