-- Student-Loan Debt Reaches Record $1 Trillion, Report Says
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-03-22T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/student-loan-debt-reaches-record-1-trillion-u-s-report-says.html
U.S. student-loan debt reached  the
$1 trillion mark , as young borrowers struggle to keep up with
soaring tuition costs, according to the initial findings of a
government study.  The figure, which is higher than the country’s credit-card
debt, was probably reached “several months ago,” Rohit Chopra
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said in a  posting 
yesterday, excerpted from a speech he made at the  Consumer
Bankers Association  meeting in Austin,  Texas .  “Young consumers are shouldering much of the punishment in
the form of substantial student-loan bills for doing exactly
what they were told would be the key to a better life,” Chopra,
the bureau’s student-loan ombudsman, said in the posting.  More students are taking out loans to pay for college as
tuition increases. Undergraduates are limited by the amount they
can borrow in federally backed loans. Students also take out
private loans, which lack the income-based repayment and
deferment options of federal ones, Chopra said.  Excessive student debt could slow the recovery of the
housing market, as young people repay money for their education
rather than buying homes, said Chopra, who called the results
“sobering.”  ‘So Many Borrowers’  “Federal student-loan debt isn’t growing just with new
originations,” he said. “With so many borrowers unable to keep
up with interest payments, debt is growing even for many who
have left school.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  last month said debt
from educational loans in the U.S. rose to $867 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2011, based on figures from a sample of data
provided by the  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  credit bureau. The New York Fed
also said this month about 10 percent of the outstanding student
loan balance was delinquent in the third quarter.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created by the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act to help consumers understand financial
products including  student loans , mortgages and credit cards. It
plans to release its full report this summer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 