-- U.K. Luxury-Home Tax Increase Sparked Rush to Wrap Up Deals
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-22T17:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-k-luxury-home-tax-increase-sparked-rush-to-finish-deals.html
The British government’s
announcement yesterday that it would raise a tax on luxury-home
purchases as of midnight sparked a last-minute push to wrap up
transactions before the deadline.  Charlie Bubear, an associate director at property broker
 Savills Plc (SVS) , rushed to finish a sale yesterday after hearing
that the tax increase was imminent. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  announced the increase and the deadline in his
budget speech at about 2 p.m.  “We knew that the deal had to be done that day because the
buyer could have reviewed the price” and made a lower offer to
account for the higher tax, Bubear said by phone. “We had about
11 hours to prepare ourselves. We advised our client to get on
with it and do the deal.”  The tax on properties sold for more than 2 million pounds
($3.2 million) rose to 7 percent from 5 percent. The government
will also impose a 15 percent tax on homes with that value that
are bought through companies, Osborne said in his budget speech.  About an hour before the budget announcement, Jonathan
Godfrey, head of valuation at  Hamptons International , had issued
a mortgage assessment of a North London home that was being
purchased for more than 3 million pounds.  Media Rumors  “The instruction came in last week and there seemed to be
no urgency, but due to the rumors in the media yesterday
morning, we were asked to get the report out immediately,”
Godfrey said by e-mail. “If the potential purchaser failed to
exchange by midnight last night, they would have incurred an
increased stamp duty liability of over 60,000 pounds.”  About 1,620 homes worth more than 2 million pounds were
sold in England and  Wales  last year, according to the U.K. Land
Registry. Luxury-home prices in central  London  rose the most in
10 months as overseas buyers seeking the safety of one of the
world’s most resilient property markets, Knight Frank LLP said
in a report today.  After Osborne’s announcement, Bubear jumped into his Audi,
collected his client and sought to find a solicitor in London
who could help rush through the sale of a 4 million-pound, 2,000
square-foot (186 square-meter) property in Kensington.  The threshold for the new tax is now the average asking
price of a home in Kensington and Chelsea, Rightmove Plc said
earlier this week. Average values in the district broke through
the 2 million-pound level for the first time.  Midnight Deadline  By 8:30 p.m., Bubear’s deal was complete. Beating the
deadline saved the buyer around 80,000 pounds, he said.  “We had to have unconditional exchanges by midnight,” he
said. “Because the vendor could physically sit in the office
with the solicitor, we were able to get the deal done within
four and a half hours.”  Knight Frank  helped its clients to complete 23 deals worth
2 million pounds or more yesterday, the broker said in an e-
mail. The transactions had a combined value of 107 million
pounds, compared with 15.2 million pounds on the same day last
year. Savills advised on more than 50 million pounds of luxury-
home transactions yesterday, according to Tracey Hayward, a
spokeswoman for the London-based company.  Overseas buyers purchased three out of every five luxury
homes sold in London’s best neighborhoods in the three months
through Dec., 2011, according to  Liam Bailey , a residential
research director at Knight Frank.  “There’s the potential that it will skew the market more
toward those wealthy overseas purchasers,”  Paul Diggle , a
property economist at  Capital Economics  in London, said by
telephone yesterday. “There’s a large share of people who are
home-grown, well-off residents who this will affect more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 