-- U.K. Retail Sales Decline More Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-22T11:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-k-retail-sales-decline-more-than-economists-forecast-1-.html
U.K.  retail sales  fell more than
economists forecast in February as households curtailed spending
after a weaker-than-estimated increase the previous month.  Sales including fuel fell 0.8 percent from January, the
most in nine months, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent decline,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The increase in January was revised to 0.3 percent from
0.9 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday
that Britain will avoid another recession as he announced an
increase in the threshold before workers begin paying income
tax. Still, inflation that is outpacing wage growth and rising
unemployment may curtail any increase in consumer demand and
weigh on the economy’s recovery from a 0.2 percent drop in  gross
domestic product  in the fourth quarter.  “The data puts a real dent in hopes that the consumer may
be perking up appreciably and tempers hopes that GDP will see a
relatively decent return to growth in the first quarter,”
 Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London,
said in a research note. “The concern is that consumers will be
cautious in their spending for some time to come.”  The pound extended its drop against the dollar after the
data were published, falling 0.2 percent. The currency traded at
$1.5799 as of 10:58 a.m. in London.  Sales Revision  From a year earlier,  retail sales  were up 1 percent in
February, the statistics office said. The annual increase in
January was revised to 1.4 percent from 2 percent, which the
statistics office said was due to the late arrival of data from
smaller stores. In the three months through February, sales were
up 0.7 percent compared with the previous three months.  Excluding fuel,  retail sales  fell 0.8 percent in February
from January and increased 1 percent from a year earlier.  Food sales fell 0.1 percent in February from the previous
month, clothes sales declined 1.2 percent and household goods
sales dropped 1 percent. Sales in the other stores category
plunged 3 percent, driven by specialty stores such as fine arts
and antiques.  Growth Forecasts  The  Office for Budget Responsibility , the government’s
fiscal watchdog, said yesterday it expects Britain’s economy to
grow 0.3 percent in the current quarter.  James Knightley , an economist at ING Group in London, said
the retail-sales data add to evidence that growth expectations
for the first quarter “are probably going to have to be lowered
towards 0.1 percent rather than something closer to 0.2 percent
or 0.3 percent.”  A revival in household spending may be curtailed by
concerns that unemployment may increase.  Jobless claims  rose
more than economists forecast in February, and a broader measure
of unemployment remained at the highest level in 16 years,
according to data released March 14.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
company, reported stronger sales growth on March 20 as customers
sought bargains in the post-holiday clearance. Chief Executive
Officer Michael Sharp said the company is “cautious about the
health of the wider economy and the impact this may have on
consumer behavior.”  Justin King, chief executive officer of supermarket chain
J. Sainsbury Plc, said yesterday that the economic climate is
“likely to remain challenging.”  Economic Risks  The  Bank of England , which increased its bond-purchase
target by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds
in February, kept it at that level on March 8. It said yesterday
there are “significant risks to economic activity” and noted
that higher borrowing costs and oil prices “might make
households less confident.”  Policy makers  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  voted to increase
stimulus this month, saying it was “warranted to reduce the
risk that persistently weak growth would damage the future
supply capacity of the economy.” Others, including  Martin Weale , have pointed to upside risks to inflation in their
argument for not expanding stimulus.  U.K.  consumer-price growth  slowed to a 15-month low of 3.4
percent in February, data this week showed. That’s still above
the central bank’s 2 percent target and compares with annual
wage growth of 1.4 percent in the quarter through January.  The statistics office said the retail-sales deflator, a
measure of annual price changes rose to 2.4 percent in February
from 2.2 percent in January, the first increase in six months.
Excluding auto fuel, the deflator rose to 1.9 percent from 1.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  