-- U.S. February Leading Economic Indicators (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-03-22T14:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-s-february-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.7 percent in February to 95.5 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.2 percent increase in January and a 0.5 percent
increase in December.  Said  Ataman Ozyildirim , economist at The Conference Board:
“Continued broad-based gains in the LEI for the  United States 
confirm a more positive outlook for general economic activity in
the first half of 2012, although still subdued consumer
expectations and the purchasing managers’ index for new orders
held the LEI back in February. The CEI for the United States, a
measure of current economic conditions, has also been rising as
employment, income, and sales data all continue to improve.
Industrial production, however, has not yet picked up strongly.”  Added  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board:
“Recent data reflect an economy that improved this winter. To be
sure, an unseasonably mild winter has contributed to many of the
recent positive economic reports. But the consistent signal for
the leading series suggests that progress on jobs, output, and
incomes may continue through the summer months, if not beyond.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.2 percent in February to 104.0 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.2 percent increase in January and a 0.6 percent
increase in December.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.2
percent in February to 114.1 (2004 = 100), following a 0.5
percent increase in January and a 0.2 percent increase in
December.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance  Manufacturers’ new orders, consumer goods and materials  ISM Index of New Orders  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods
excluding aircraft orders  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Leading Credit Index  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Average consumer expectations for business conditions  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, April 19, 2012 at 10
A.M. ET  SOURCE: The Conference Board 