-- U.S. Welcomes Myanmar Invite to Observe Suu Kyi By-Elections
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-22T06:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-s-welcomes-myanmar-invite-to-observe-suu-kyi-by-elections-1-.html
The U.S. welcomed Myanmar’s
invitation to observe April 1 by-elections that will include
former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi  while cautioning that
the voting process falls short of international standards.  Myanmar this week invited teams from 25 countries and the
European Union to monitor the special elections for 48 seats in
the 664-member Parliament, according to Surin Pitsuwan,
secretary-general of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
The U.S. will coordinate its efforts with other nations, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters.  “This is a good first step,” she said in  Washington 
yesterday, according to a transcript. “Burma hasn’t allowed
international observation before, but it does fall short of
international complete transparency on an election, and we hope
they’ll continue to keep the system open, and open it further.”  U.S. and European Union policy makers are looking to the
April 1 ballot as a test to determine whether to lift sanctions
in place for more than two decades on the country formerly known
as Burma. President Thein Sein has released hundreds of
dissidents, sought peace with ethnic groups and taken steps to
open Myanmar’s economy since taking power a year ago.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon commended
Myanmar’s leaders for allowing international election observers
and offered assistance to provide a credible outcome.  ‘Right Direction’  “This is the right way, toward the right direction,” he
told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today. “I am encouraged by the
recent developments in Myanmar toward greater participation in
democracy and greater freedom of movement and speech.”  Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party is running
for all the seats vacated by parliamentarians who were appointed
to Cabinet posts or other executive positions in Thein Sein’s
government. It boycotted a 2010 election that ended more than
five decades of army rule.  Myanmar invited the Asean secretariat to send five
observers accompanied by three journalists, the bloc said in a
March 20 statement. Other countries would be able to send two
parliamentarians and three reporters, it said.  Myanmar’s move toward greater democracy is “irreversible”
and the government is confident the by-elections will be “free
and fair,” Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin said in a speech
in  New Delhi  on Jan. 25.  ‘Critical Moment’  The U.S., Canada and the U.K. condemned the 2010 elections,
with President Barack Obama saying they “were neither free nor
fair.” Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visited Myanmar in
December and laid out a road map for lifting sanctions.  “We are committed to a free, fair and transparent
process,” U.S. special envoy  Derek Mitchell  told reporters in
Yangon on March 15. “We see this as a critical moment and a
marker toward building trust and confidence on the road toward
democracy.”  U.S. sanctions ban imports, restrict money transfers, curb
aid money, freeze assets and target jewelry with gemstones
originating in Myanmar. The EU has lighter restrictions,
including a ban on weapons sales and imports of minerals.  The sanctions have left Myanmar dependent on neighbors
 India ,  China  and Thailand, which have poured more than $25
billion into ports,  power plants , and oil and gas pipelines.
India last year approved plans for  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp. and
 GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  to invest $1.3 billion in a natural gas project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  