-- U.S. Home Prices Have Smallest Decline in More Than 2 Years
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-03-22T15:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-s-home-prices-fell-0-8-in-january-from-prior-year-fhfa-says.html
U.S. home prices fell 0.8 percent
in January from a year earlier, the smallest decline in more
than two years, as the U.S. property market begins to stabilize.  The region that includes  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut  led
the decline, falling 3.5 percent, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency said today in a report from  Washington . In the area that
encompasses North Dakota and Minnesota, prices jumped 5.2
percent, the only region to show an increase over January 2011.  While demand for homes has increased in recent months,
prices have been slow to follow.  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned U.S.
houses held close to an almost two-year high in February, the
National Association of Realtors said yesterday.  “The market for single-family homes picked up in the
second half of 2011, after being stuck near the bottom for
nearly three years,”  Patrick Newport  and Michelle Valverde,
economists for IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts,
said in a note to clients yesterday. “This pickup is real, but
the road to recovery will be a long one.”  The FHFA’s U.S. House Price Index was 19.2 percent below
its April 2007 peak and roughly the same as the February 2004
level. The year-over-year decline in January was the smallest
since November 2009, when prices fell 0.6 percent.  Prices in January were unchanged from the previous month on
a seasonally adjusted basis, according to the FHFA.  The report measures changes in real estate values using
purchases of properties with mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or
 Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  It doesn’t provide a specific price for houses.  As measured by the National Association of Realtors, the
median home  price  was $154,600 in January. In February, it
climbed to $156,600, the trade group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  