-- U.S. State, Local Tax Revenue Rises 2.1%, Slowest Pace in a Year
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-22T14:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-s-state-local-tax-revenue-rises-2-1-slowest-pace-in-a-year.html
U.S. state and local-government tax
collections grew during the last three months of 2011 at the
slowest pace in a year, marking a step back from gains that
helped ease the strain on public agencies.  The Census Bureau said today that states and local
governments’ tax revenue rose for a ninth-straight quarter,
climbing 2.1 percent from a year earlier to $387.2 billion in
the fourth quarter. The increase was the smallest since the end
of 2010, the data show. Property taxes rose 0.2 percent from a
year before, the second-straight gain.  The pickup in the economy has lifted government tax revenue
since late 2009, after the official end of the recession. The
influx of cash over the past year narrowed budget deficits
facing states and some cities, lessening the need for cuts in
spending and jobs.  State tax collections accounted for the bulk of the fourth-
quarter gains, though the increase was the smallest since the
second quarter of 2010. The Census figures follow a report this
week by the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government
estimating that state collections grew in the fourth quarter at
the slowest pace in 18 months, though the Census figures show a
3.5 percent increase, larger than the 2.7 percent estimated by
the institute.  “The economy is recovering and so are tax revenues, but
there’s still a lot of weakness,” said  Robert Ward , the
institute’s deputy director. “It’s very much a mixed picture.”  The drop in the pace of growth reflects an economy that has
yet to fully rebound, Ward said.  Still Above Projections  Even with the slowdown, the growth in tax collections
toward the end of 2011 outstripped projections when officials
put together their spending plans last year. The total gain for
states compares with revenue increases of 1.6 percent forecast
for the year, which began in July for most states, according to
the  National Association of State Budget Officers .  While states still expect to collect $49 billion less than
they will need in the 2013 budget year, the shortfall is less
than half that faced in the current year, according to the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities .  The Census figures show some stability for cities and
counties hit by the real estate rout. Total property-tax
collections, a portion of which goes to states, rose to $177.2
billion. It was the second-straight increase after three
straight drops that began at the end of 2010. Local governments’
share rose 0.6 percent to $174.1 billion.  Economic Expansion  The change in tax collections came as the economy expanded
at a 3 percent rate during the fourth quarter, the quickest
since mid-2010, as companies rebuilt inventories in anticipation
of growing demand. Economists expect a 2 percent expansion this
quarter, the median estimate of forecasters surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The recent slowdown for states may reflect the rebounds
from a year earlier, when collections were still recovering from
near-recession lows, Chris Mauro, the head of municipal strategy
for  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , said before today’s report.  “You would expect the rate of growth would decline,” he
said. “But more importantly, we’re not seeing enough employment
and income growth to produce a really firm and sustainable
growth in state tax revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  