-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending March 20 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-03-22T12:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-march-20-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Locally heavy rain provided drought relief to the south-central
U.S., while a late-season Pacific storm brought beneficial
precipitation to much of the west.  Unseasonable warmth led to
unseasonably high evapotranspiration rates and crop water
demands across the Midwest and northern Plains.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast: Mostly dry, warm weather prevailed,
with shower activity confined to northern-most portions of the
region.  In southern New England, Moderate Drought (D1) was
introduced to account for 90-day precipitation deficits of 4 to
locally more than 6 inches (less than 50 percent of normal).
Streamflows and well-water levels have likewise declined, and
are in the lowest 2nd and 5th, respectively, in this region.
Abnormal Dryness (D0) was introduced from southern  New York  into
much of  Maryland  and  Virginia , with 60-day rainfall averaging
less than 60 percent of normal (deficits of 3 to 5 inches).
Streamflows have dropped below the 10th percentile in east-
central  Pennsylvania  and much of  New Jersey , and have slipped
below the 30th percentile across Maryland, Virginia, and eastern
West Virginia.  A small section of southern Virginia was left
out of the new D0, where a pair of late-season snow storms
contributed to near- to above-normal precipitation over the past
60 days.  Southeast: Drier- and warmer-than-normal weather prevailed, with
only isolated showers reported.  Precipitation was hit and miss,
and tallied less than 0.5 inch across the region’s primary
drought areas.  Moderate Drought (D1) was expanded in western
 North Carolina  and adjacent portions of South Carolina, with 60-
day precipitation deficits averaging 3 to 5 inches (less than 50
percent of normal). Streamflows across most of the Carolina
drought region were in the lowest 10th percentile, with many
locales reporting values in the lowest 5th percentile.  In
northern Georgia and east-central Alabama, 60-day rainfall has
tallied 2 to 5 inches below seasonal norms (50-70 percent of
normal), which coupled with above-normal temperatures (10-15’F
above normal) led to an increase in drought designation.
Streamflows in southeastern Alabama are near historic lows, and
have dropped to the lowest 20th percentile in the newly expanded
Abnormally Dry (D0) areas of northern Georgia.  The ongoing
dryness has also been accompanied by daytime highs approaching
90’F, which has increased water demands for crops and pastures.
Likewise, long-term drought is evidenced by record- or near-
record low ground water levels across much of southern  Georgia 
and southeastern Alabama. In addition, both the 9 and 12-month
Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) indicated ongoing
Exceptional Drought (D4) from east-central Georgia into
southeastern Alabama. In  Florida , dry, warm conditions
prevailed, with only isolated 1-inch rainfall totals reported in
the central Panhandle and along the far southeastern coast.
Severe Drought (D2) was expanded across the northwestern shores
of Lake Okeechobee, where 90-day precipitation deficits averaged
4 to 6 inches. D2 was also expanded northward from Tampa
northward toward Ocala, with 3-month rainfall in these locales
more than 6 inches shy of normal (less than 50 percent of
normal). In addition, Severe Drought was introduced to the
southwestern peninsula, where 90-day rainfall has averaged 25 to
50 percent of normal.  Delta: No changes were made to the Delta’s drought designation
on the heels of a dry, warm week.  However, locally heavy rain
overspread the Delta shortly after the Tuesday data cutoff for
this week’s drought depiction, which will lead to considerable
drought reduction (improvement) in next week’s US Drought
Monitor.  Early precipitation estimates since 12z Tuesday (7 am,
CDT) are as high as 6 to 12 inches in western portions of
Louisiana.  South-Central U.S.: Locally heavy rain across central and
eastern drought areas contrasted with unfavorably dry, warm
weather in southern-and western-most portions of the region.
Heavy rain (2-6 inches, locally more) fell from south-central
 Texas  (San Antonio and surrounding environs) north and eastward
across Dallas-Fort Worth into southeastern  Oklahoma .  A second
band of equally heavy rain developed from Norman, Oklahoma, into
southeastern  Kansas .  Outside the heaviest rain areas, a soaking
1 to 2 inches of rain was reported, particularly from the
eastern Texas Panhandle northeastward to Wichita, Kansas.  The
rain resulted in widespread drought reduction, with most of
central and eastern Oklahoma as well as central and northeastern
Texas reporting precipitation surpluses of 2 to 8 inches
(locally more) over the past 6 months.   In contrast, warm, dry
conditions persisted in southern Texas (highs eclipsing 90’F)
and from the western Edwards Plateau northward into southeastern
Colorado and western portions of Kansas and Oklahoma. Over the
past 6 months, much of southern Texas has reported less than 60
percent of normal rainfall, with some areas below 50 percent;
coupled with additional assessment from the field,  Severe
Drought  (D3) was expanded across this portion of the state.
Farther north, there were no changes made to the current drought
depiction in northern Texas and western Oklahoma as rain was
overspreading the area as of mid-week.  Central and Northern Plains: Unseasonably warm, dry conditions
prevailed, with temperatures averaging 20 to 25’F above normal
across most of the region. Drought relief was noted in
southeastern Kansas, where 1 to more than 3 inches of rain fell.
In western and northern portions of Kansas, where 90-day
rainfall has totaled less than 50 percent of normal, small
increases in drought were made to reflect the impacts of the
warmth and dryness. Farther north, the latest 3- and 6-month
Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI) as well as input from
the field supported the introduction of Moderate Drought (D1) in
southwestern South Dakota. Likewise, additional assessment led
to a small reduction of Abnormal Dryness (D0) in southern
portions of the state.  Elsewhere, no changes were made to the
region’s drought designation, although the unseasonable warmth
has led to early crop development and increased water demands.  Midwest: Drought areas of the Midwest ‘which extend from
northwestern Iowa into northern portions of Minnesota and
Michigan’s Upper Peninsula ‘ reported record-setting warmth
(temperatures 25 to 30’F, or more, above normal) during the past
week.  Showers were mainly light (0.5 inch or less, although up
to an inch fell in central Wisconsin) and offered little if any
drought relief.  Although no changes were made to the drought
designation in the Midwest this week, the ongoing unseasonable
warmth has highlighted the need for rain over the upcoming weeks
to prevent drought intensification or expansion.  Western U.S.: Late-season storminess provided much-needed
precipitation to many of the region’s primary drought areas.
However, the drier-than-normal wet season has left central and
southern portions of the region in dire need of additional
precipitation to improve bleak spring runoff prospects.  In northern portions of the region, moderate to heavy rain and
mountain snow (2-8 inches liquid equivalent) maintained
favorable spring runoff prospects from the Klamath Mountains
northward into the Cascades. However, the core Moderate Drought
(D1) in central  Washington  received little if any precipitation,
with only minor reductions made to this area. In east-central
 Oregon , precipitation totaled locally more than an inch,
resulting in modest reduction of Moderate Drought (D1).
Additional snow (0.5-2.5 inches liquid equivalent) boosted snow
water equivalents (SWE) in northeastern Washington and led to
the removal of Abnormal Dryness (D0) from this portion of the
state.  Across much of Idaho and southwestern Montana, 1 to 6
inches of rain and snow (liquid equivalent) supported to the
removal of most of the lingering D0; snow water equivalent in
these locales are now mostly above the 40th percentile, with
readings generally at or above 80 percent of normal. Severe
Drought (D2) was also removed from northeastern Utah due to a
fresh snowfall (locally more than 2 inches liquid equivalent)
and assessments from the field.  In southern portions of the region, heavy rain and snow in the
north contrasted with increasingly dry conditions in the
Southwest.  A much-needed, late-season boost to Sierra snowpacks
was evidenced by precipitation estimates of 6 to 14 inches
(liquid equivalent), particularly in northern portions of the
range.  The resultant snow water equivalent ranking jumped above
the 10th percentile, which correlated to 40 to 60 percent of
normal.  Areas which received the heaviest precipitation were
denoted with a 1-category drought improvement, although the
region is still well below seasonal norms. In the southern
Sierra, precipitation was not as heavy (less than 6 inches) and
snow water equivalents remained below the 5th percentile (40
percent of normal or less).  In southern  California , water-year
precipitation has totaled less than 25 percent of normal,
resulting in an expansion of D2 (Severe Drought) in the driest
areas.  While there was no change made to western Arizona’s D3
(Extreme Drought), this region will be assessed further and may
be primed for drought expansion.  In contrast, locally more than
2 inches of precipitation fell in across central Arizona’s
Mogollon Rim, providing a swath of drought relief (Severe
Drought Reduced to D1, or Moderate Drought).  Alaska ,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico: In Alaska, cold conditions
continued, with temperatures averaging 10 to 20’F below normal.
Dry weather prevailed, although the state’s snowpacks remained
at or above seasonal norms.  In Hawaii, D0 (Abnormal Dryness)
was removed from east Oahu, where the water level in Waimanalo
Reservoir continued to increase and is currently at a pre-
drought level.   There were no concerns for drought on Puerto
Rico, with moderate to heavy rain (locally more than 6 inches)
reported across the western half of the island.  Looking Ahead: A slow-moving disturbance will produce locally
heavy rain across the Mississippi River Valley, while light to
moderate showers over the south-central Plains gradually
diminish.  As the system tracks east, beneficial rain will break
out across the Southeast and southern Mid-Atlantic, although
mostly dry conditions will prevail in Florida and the Northeast.
Meanwhile, another round of rain and mountain snow is expected
from southern California northward into the Northwest and
northern Rockies. Some precipitation may reach the central Great
Basin, although amounts are expected to be light. Mostly dry
conditions will persist in the Four Corners Region. The CPC 6-10
day forecast for March 27-31 calls for above-normal temperatures
across most of the nation, with cooler-than-normal conditions
confined to the Pacific Coast states.  Below-normal
precipitation is anticipated from the Mid-Atlantic to the
eastern Gulf Coast, and from the central Rockies into the
Southwest. Conversely, wetter-than-normal weather is expected
from southern Texas into the  Great Lakes  and northern  New
England  and across the Northwest.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  