-- U.S. Commercial Property Deals May Rise 20%, Roberts Says
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-03-22T21:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/u-s-commercial-property-deals-may-rise-20-roberts-says.html
U.S. commercial property deals may
rise 20 percent this year as the technology and energy sectors
lead a “slow, plodding recovery,” said Peter C. Roberts, chief
executive officer for the Americas at  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Sales of apartments, offices, malls and warehouses may
reach $216 billion, up from $180 billion last year and $115
billion in 2010, Roberts said in an interview in San Francisco.
Nationwide, rents are “poised for growth,” with regions such
as San Francisco, Silicon Valley, Houston and Dallas adding jobs
at five times the U.S. rate, he said.  “There were broad-based leasing gains last year, and not
just in  Washington  and  New York ,” Roberts said.  Banks increased lending for property deals in the fourth
quarter for the first time in almost two years, according to
Chandan Economics. Investors in search of core assets in big
cities are “modestly” departing from a risk-averse strategy,
Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF said in a March 20 note. Real estate
investment trusts and private-equity firms will be among the
most active buyers in 2012, with life-insurance companies
continuing to be a primary source of debt, Roberts said.  “REITs will be a big player across all sectors,” Roberts
said, speaking after an event for Jones Lang LaSalle brokers and
clients.  The office-leasing surge in  San Francisco  and Silicon
Valley indicates that there’s “no bubble at all,” as startups
create new products and Internet firms deepen video offerings
and online commerce,  Ron Conway , a financier who founded SV
Angel, said at the event. Office occupancies in the Valley rose
by 2.7 million square feet (251,000 square meters) last year,
the most since 2000, according to broker Cassidy Turley in San
Jose,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  