-- Huajian of China’s Ethiopian Export Zone May Generate $4 Billion
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-03-22T12:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/huajian-of-china-s-ethiopian-export-zone-may-generate-4-billion.html
Huajian Group, a Chinese shoe
maker, plans to build a manufacturing zone in Ethiopia that may
generate $4 billion of exports a year within a decade, Vice
President Helen Hai said.  Construction of the 320-hectare (791-acre) site in Lebu on
the outskirts of the capital,  Addis Ababa , may start before the
rainy season begins in June, Hai said in an interview on March
20 in Dukem, 30 kilometers (18 miles) southwest of the city.  “It should start in May with my own investment,” she said.
“We will own it and we will manage it. The government promised
me in two weeks’ time to finalize the process.”  Huajian Group, based in Dongguan, Gaungdong province,
produces about 20 million pairs of shoes a year for brands
including  Calvin Klein (6625B)  and Guess, according to Hai. Ethiopia
generated $65.8 million from shipments of leather and leather
products in the six months through December, up 62 percent from
a year earlier, according to the Trade Ministry. Total exports
last year were $2.8 billion, it said.  Ethiopia  has the largest livestock population in Africa,
according to the  Intergovernmental Authority on Development , a
seven-nation regional bloc. In 2010, the Ethiopian government
said it planned to license more than 703 billion birr ($40.3
billion) worth of investment projects over five years, helped by
laws that prioritize investment in industries including
manufacturing, leather products and tourism.  World Bank  Ethiopia can maintain its economic growth rate by
developing manufacturing of clothing, leather, metal, wood and
agricultural products,  World Bank  Chief Economist Justin Yifu Lin told reporters in Addis Ababa on March 18 at the launch of
the bank’s Light Manufacturing in Africa book. Ethiopia’s
economy grew 7.5 percent in 2011 compared with 8 percent in
2010, according to International Monetary Fund data.  “Light manufacturing can offer a viable path for Ethiopia
and other sub-Saharan African countries as they transform their
economic structure and strive for productive  job creation ,” Lin
said.  The so-called Ethio-China Light Manufacturing Industrial
Special Economic Zone will require $2 billion of investment over
10 years, according to Hai. Cheaper labor costs, domestic
supplies of leather and preferential access to European and U.S.
markets are the primary attractions for investing in Ethiopia,
she said.  “Several million dollars” has already been invested in Hua
Jian International Shoe City Plc in Dukem, which started
producing shoes for the U.S. market on Jan. 5, three months
after Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi invited the company
to invest, Hai said.  Chinese Workers  The importation of Chinese workers and inputs for the
Ethiopian operation will be phased out as Ethiopians are trained
and domestic leather quality improves, she said.  Huajian’s factory in Dukem, which currently has equal
amounts of Chinese and Ethiopians among its 500 workers
producing 1,000 pairs of shoes a day, will be moved to Huajian’s
Special Economic Zone next year, Hai said.  “Some of the biggest Chinese clothes makes are interested”
in the zone, she said. “The issue in  China  is that rising labor
costs and  exchange rate  are making manufacturing difficult.”  Countries like  Vietnam  that sell $8.2 billion worth of
garments a year outperform Ethiopia, which produces $10 million
annually, because they have lowered transaction costs, Lin said.  Streamlined customs procedures, easier access to foreign
exchange and the construction of an industrial zone near
 Djibouti ’s port, where Ethiopian goods are shipped from, would
solve the “most important trade logistics issues,” according to
the World Bank book.  If these measures are taken “there is no reason they can’t
scale up production to the same level as in Vietnam,” Lin said.  The new zone near the capital will eventually employ
100,000 workers who will be given food, housing and schooling on
site, according to Hai. The China- Africa  Development Fund and
the International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private-
lending arm, are interested in backing the project, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 