-- UBS Hires Bank of America’s Orcel to Co-Run Investment Bank
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-03-22T17:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/ubs-hires-bank-of-america-s-orcel-to-co-run-investment-bank-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  hired  Andrea Orcel , a top
Bank of America Corp. dealmaker, as co-head of its investment
bank to help run a division rocked by key departures and last
year’s $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.  Orcel, 48, the chairman of global banking and markets at
Bank of America, will co-lead the investment bank alongside
Carsten Kengeter, Zurich-based UBS said in a statement today.
His role becomes effective on July 1, UBS said.  “I am pleased that we are adding Andrea’s depth of
experience and skillset to our group executive board,” said UBS
Chief Executive Officer Sergio Ermotti. “Taken together,
Carsten and Andrea’s expertise and proven track record create
very strong impact, and they will co-lead an effective
execution-driven leadership team.”  Ermotti, 51, is seeking to revive the investment bank
after it was shaken by the trading scandal that forced the
departure of his predecessor,  Oswald Gruebel . The bank said last
year it plans to shrink its fixed-income trading business, which
will be less profitable under stricter capital rules, leaving it
more reliant on its equity and investment-banking businesses for
income.  Asia Moves  UBS also said Alex Wilmot-Sitwell, the co-chief executive
of Asia Pacific, will become chairman of the investment bank.
Wilmot-Sitwell will continue to be based in  Hong Kong  and step
down from the group executive board. Chi-Won Yoon will become
sole chief of the Asia-Pacific region, the bank added.  Orcel, a veteran Merrill Lynch dealmaker, became chairman
of global banking and markets after Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America completed the Merrill takeover. The bank
expanded his role in 2010, making him president of  emerging
markets  including Asia.  He joined Merrill Lynch in 1992 as part of its team
advising companies in the financial-services industry. He worked
on some of Europe’s biggest banking deals, including  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s acquisition of Britain’s Abbey National Plc in
2004, UniCredit SpA’s 7.5 billion-euro ($9.9 billion) rights
offering this year and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV.  Orcel received a reported $33.8 million in compensation for
2008, the year when Merrill Lynch had net losses of $27 billion,
prompting criticism from investors as well as former Federal
Reserve chairman Paul Volcker.  Orcel is the second senior departure at Bank of America
this week. Jonathan Moulds, the president of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  in Europe, is preparing to step down after 18 years at the
firm, according to two people with knowledge of situation
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 