-- UN Rights Council Backs U.S. Demand for New Sri Lanka War Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c a s k i l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-22T10:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/un-rights-council-backs-u-s-demand-for-new-sri-lanka-war-probe.html
The  United Nations Human Rights
Council  voted in favor of a U.S.-sponsored resolution calling on
 Sri Lanka  to again investigate alleged abuses during its 26-year
civil war, stepping up pressure on the government in  Colombo .  The resolution that passed in Geneva today by 24 votes in
favor to 15 against, with 8 abstentions, urges the Sri Lankan
government to begin another probe into claims the nation’s army
and Tamil Tiger guerrillas committed war crimes during the
conflict that ended in 2009. India, Sri Lanka’s northern
neighbor and biggest trade partner, backed the resolution, which
had 40 additional co-sponsors, after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  was lobbied by Tamil allies in his government.  Sri Lanka, which in a November report cleared the military
of unlawful activity and said any abuses committed by soldiers
were isolated, opposes UN intervention in what it says is an
internal issue. The island nation’s Foreign Minister G.L. Peiris
led a government delegation to Geneva to lobby diplomats to vote
against the U.S. motion.  “The government’s major fear is that an investigation is
going to open the door for an international  war crimes  trial,”
said Jehan Perera, the executive director of the National Peace
Council in Colombo. “The government should be concerned because
terrible things happened at the end of the war.”  ‘Deeply Flawed’  Sri Lanka’s military and Tamil Tiger fighters probably
committed serious violations of international law in the final
stages of a conflict and caused as many as 40,000 civilian
deaths, an earlier UN report released in April said. The
government’s efforts at bringing accountability for alleged
crimes were “deeply flawed” and “not in accordance with
international standards,” according to the report.  Today’s vote is the culmination of more than two years of
efforts by the U.S. to forge an international consensus and
pressure Sri Lanka to investigate reported abuses. The war
finished with a bloody offensive by the Sri Lankan army that
ended the rebels’ fight for a separate homeland in the north and
east of the island, 30 miles off  India ’s south coast.  Sri Lanka should probe alleged abuses during the closing
stages of the war and will be offered international support and
technical assistance to do so, according to the text of the
resolution passed in Geneva.  “Sri Lanka has had the time and space to develop its own
roadmap for lasting national reconciliation and accountability”
since 2009, Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, the U.S. ambassador to
the council, said before the vote. She described the resolution
as “moderate and balanced” and said it aims to “help the
people of Sri Lanka achieve a lasting and equitable peace.”  Reputational Risk  While sanctions are unlikely should Sri Lanka fail to
announce a new probe, the resolution “generates considerable
reputational risk” for the government of President Mahinda Rajapaksa as it bids to boost the  tourism industry  and stem
depreciation of the rupee, Shamila Chaudhary, an analyst at New
York-based Eurasia Group, said in a March 19 analysis.  Sri Lanka has benefited from a pickup in tourism since the
war ended. Peace has spurred record investment and  government
spending , helping lift expansion in the $50 billion economy,
making it the second-fastest growing of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  As it attempted to ward off today’s vote, the Sri Lankan
government said another inquiry would harm efforts to build
reconciliation between majority Sinhalese and Tamils.  ‘Internal Matter’  “The business community would also like to remind the
international community that this is an internal matter,” Sri
Lanka’s leading business groups, including the National Chamber
of Commerce, said in a March 20 joint statement. “The proposed
resolution at this juncture would not be in the interest of the
reconciliation process.”  Sri Lanka’s government has so far failed to implement
proposals for reconciliation that were suggested by a commission
it set up, Perera said in a March 19 analysis e-mailed to
reporters.  In the latest allegation of human-rights abuses to surface,
a U.K. documentary aired on March 14 alleged that the Sri Lankan
army in 2009 executed a 12-year-old son of the Tamil Tiger
guerrilla leader Velupillai Prabhakaran, who was killed in some
of the war’s last battles.  Channel 4 showed the bullet-riddled body of a boy stripped
to his waist, which it said was Balachandran Prabhakaran. The
video was shot in May 2009 and was taken by the Sri Lankan army
as a trophy video, according to the documentary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  