-- Vale, Rio, BHP to Join China’s Spot Iron Ore Platform
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T09:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/vale-rio-bhp-to-join-china-s-spot-iron-ore-platform-cisa-says.html
Vale SA (VALE3) ,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  will soon sign agreements to sell iron ore through
China’s new spot trading platform, according to the nation’s
steel association.  The world’s three largest exporters will follow  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,  Australia ’s third-largest shipper, in joining
the platform that will officially start operating in the first
half of the year, Zhang Changfu, vice chairman and secretary
general of the China Iron and Steel Association, said today in
an interview in Shanghai.  The agreement will bring steelmakers and producers into a
common system two years after the mining companies broke with a
40-year custom of annual pricing in the face of opposition from
China, the world’s biggest steelmaker. China announced the
creation of the trading platform in Beijing on Jan. 16.  “All of the major suppliers will sign accords soon to
join,” Zhang said. “We expect to create a fair, transparent
environment for spot  iron ore  trading. We’ll set up a minimum
volume of ore that they should sell through the platform.”  The nation set up the platform to strengthen pricing power
and improve transparency, according to the China Beijing
International Mining Exchange, which set up the online platform
along with the association.  BHP Participation  “We are positively studying participation and are in
principle supportive of any platforms that support market
transparency and liquidity,” Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman for
Melbourne-based BHP, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions. “Over the past year, we have actively worked with
customers and other industry participants on such initiatives,
such as GlobalORE and the China spot platform.”  Rio Tinto  isn’t ready to comment on the new platform,
spokeswoman Karen Halbert said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  China  is the largest iron ore importer, accounting for 60
percent of the global trade by volume, the exchange said in
January. The country also has the world’s largest spot iron ore
market. Having major foreign miners involved may solidify the
trading platform’s position to have more influence over the
price of the raw material.  The agreement will require the producers to sell a pledged
volume of ore through the platform, Zhang said, adding that the
country may produce 680 million to 700 million tons of steel
this year.  Platform Members  Chinese steelmakers such as Baosteel Group Corp., Hebei
Iron & Steel Group, Wuhan Iron & Steel Group, Beijing Shougang
Co. and Angang Steel Co., as well as traders such as China
Minmetals Corp. and Sinosteel Corp. agreed to become platform
members in January, according to the exchange.  Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest mining company,
said this week China’s steel production growth is slowing as the
world’s fastest-growing major economy starts to shift to focus
more on consumers than large building projects.  A Chinese manufacturing index indicated a worse contraction
this month, bolstering the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to add
measures to sustain growth even as he prolongs a campaign to
cool property prices.  GlobalORE, with offices in Singapore and  London , is also
seeking to develop a standard contract for iron ore to be traded
on its online platform and will require physical delivery. BHP
said in October it’s supporting development of globalORE and may
become a founding shareholder.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in  Shanghai  at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  