-- Viterra Sale May Raise Competition Concerns, Premier Wall Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-03-22T23:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/viterra-sale-may-raise-competition-concerns-premier-wall-says.html
Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said
Glencore International Plc’s proposed acquisition of  Viterra
Inc. (VT)  raises concerns about reduced competition in the market for
crop inputs such as fertilizer.  While the transaction addresses competition issues in grain
sales and handling, the province needs to study whether there
will be less competition for inputs, Wall said yesterday. He has
set up a working committee to study the deal and make
recommendations to the federal government.  “There are real questions that we need to find out about
the inputs in the fertilizer side because I think there’s
concentration issues there possibly,” Wall said in a telephone
interview from Regina, the provincial capital. “We’ll do our
homework though and come to a decision and make a
recommendation.”  Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodity supplier,
offered C$6.1 billion ($6.1 billion) to buy Viterra,  Canada ’s
biggest grain handler. As part of the transaction, Calgary-based
 Agrium Inc. (AGU)  will acquire about 90 percent of Viterra’s Canadian
retail facilities.  Agrium’s “retail presence” in Western Canada may increase
by 3 to 4 percentage points after the Viterra deal, Richard Downey, an Agrium spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the federal government
reviews foreign acquisitions of companies with assets valued at
more than C$330 million. The C$16.25-a-share offer announced by
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore will also require approval from
Canada’s competition bureau, which said it would be reviewing
the proposed transaction.  ‘Platform’ for Expansion  In its March 20 announcement, Glencore said the company
will use Viterra’s head office in Regina as a “platform” for
its North American agricultural operations and a potential
expansion into the U.S. Glencore also pledged to make additional
investments in Canada and continue with Viterra’s charitable
commitments and funding for local institutions.  “There are other things that we noted in the press release
earlier this week that I would say are interesting to us,” Wall
said.  The federal government rejected a $40 billion hostile bid
by Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010, saying the proposal for the world’s
largest potash miner didn’t provide a “net benefit” for
Canada.  Wall, who led opposition to the Potash bid, said the
Viterra sale is “a lot different” in terms of both scope and
assets involved.  Simon Buerk , a Swiss-based Glencore spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a voicemail or e-mail seeking comment
after normal business hours yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  