-- Volatility Flares Even Before ‘Bondmageddon’: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-22T23:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/volatility-flares-even-before-bondmaggedon-chart-of-the-day.html
Options traders are signaling that
this month’s increase in the pace of swings in  U.S. government
debt  yields is likely to continue even as their advance slows.  The top panel of the CHART OF THE DAY shows that the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch MOVE Index, which measures implied
volatility based on options for Treasuries due in two to 30
years, rose to a 2012 high this week. It climbed as Treasury 10-
year yields, shown in the bottom panel, broke on March 14 above
a range of 1.79 percent to 2.16 percent that had held since Nov.
1 and touched 2.29 percent, then the highest in more than four
months. Option-implied volatility signals traders’ expectations
for fluctuations.  “Although ‘bondmageddon’ is not here yet, the rise in
yield volatility is likely to be a phenomenon that lasts as the
general trajectory of yields is higher,” Thomas Tzitzouris,
vice president of Strategas Research Partners in  Washington ,
said in a telephone interview on March 21. “It’s probably going
to be a choppy move higher. It may seem like the 10-year yield
is not rising very far over a very short time period, but then
over a longer period you’ll see the 10-year yields may have
risen 100 basis points.”  The climb in Treasury yields this month has sparked
speculation they may be poised for an extended surge. The
benchmark 10-year yield increased about 30 basis points in
March, touching 2.4 percent on March 20, the highest since Oct.
28, before slipping to 2.28 percent yesterday. It traded at more
than 4 percent before the financial crisis struck in 2008.  Yields gained after the  Federal Reserve  raised its
assessment of the economy this month, reducing demand for the
relative safety of U.S. government debt. Comments in a statement
after the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on March 13 led
traders to cut bets that the central bank will embark on a third
round of asset purchases under quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  