-- Volcker Rule Delay and Simplification Gains Support in Congress
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-22T22:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/volcker-rule-deadline-may-shift-as-momentum-for-revision-builds.html
A bipartisan group of U.S.
lawmakers is backing a delay in finalizing a ban on proprietary
trading by banks without urging regulators to ease the rule.  Six senators introduced legislation yesterday that would
postpone implementation of the so-called Volcker rule from the
July 21 deadline set by the Dodd-Frank Act and align it with
regulators’ completion of detailed rules for the trading ban.
Meanwhile, Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts
Democrat who co-authored the law that requires regulators to
impose the ban, released a statement urging banking agencies to
complete a simplified version by Sept. 3.  Executives from  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JP Morgan Chase (JPM)  & Co. and
other financial firms have criticized the initial draft of the
Volcker rule as too complex. While Frank’s comments and the
Senate legislation could give the regulators more time to decide
whether the final rule should be scaled back, the efforts on
 Capitol Hill  don’t require the agencies to blunt the measure.  “It’s just a delay,” said  Brian Gardner , the senior vice
president for Washington research at  KBW Inc. (KBW)  “It’s just a
timing issue.”  Still, a delay will give the financial industry more time
to make its case to regulators. Kenneth Bentsen, the executive
vice president of public policy and advocacy at the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, said in a statement
that he was pleased with the Senate proposal.  ‘Thoughtful’ Bipartisanship  “This is a thoughtful bipartisan recognition of the risks
associated with rushing to impose the Volcker rule in such a way
that would impede market-making and reduce liquidity and depth
from our capital markets,” he said.  SIFMA is a Washington-based trade group of banks and
securities firms.  The Senate legislation was proposed by Democrats Mark Warner of Virginia,  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina  and Tom Carper
of Delaware, along with Republicans Mike Crapo of Idaho,  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee.  “By linking the effective date to the regulators
completing their work, Congress will not be arbitrarily
extending the implementation of Dodd-Frank, and financial
institutions and markets will be able to comply with final rules
rather than being forced to guess what those regulations might
be,” the six senators said in a statement yesterday.  In his statement, Frank said regulators should release
guidance by July 21 and agree to a “simplified” final rule by
Labor Day, which is Sept. 3 this year.  ‘Too Complex’  “The agencies tried to accommodate a variety of views on
implementation but the results reflected in the proposed rule
are far too complex and the final rules should be simplified
significantly,” Frank said in the statement.  The current proposal would allow banks to conduct
proprietary trading that is tied to market-making activities or
hedging risk. Those exemptions have been criticized for adding
to the complexity that would make implementing the ban
difficult.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other
regulators have told lawmakers in congressional testimony that
the interagency rule may not be completed by the deadline set in
Dodd-Frank, the financial-rules overhaul enacted in July 2010.  Lawmakers and regulators are considering action on the
timeline for the Volcker rule at the request of the banking
industry, which raised concerns about whether and how to comply
with the statute that, according to law, takes effect on July 21
with or without a final rule.  Potential Disruption  “Without such legislative or regulatory action, there is a
potential for tremendous disruption to the securitization
markets well before July 21, 2012 that may ultimately reduce
critical credit availability to consumers, municipalities and
small, medium and large businesses around the  United States ,”
Tom Deutsch, executive director of the American Securitization
Forum, said in letter to regulators this week.  The bipartisan work on providing clarity is necessary, even
after assurances from Bernanke last month that regulators would
not enforce the law if the rule was not in place, said Karen Shaw Petrou, co-founder and managing partner at Washington-based
Federal Financial Analytics Inc., a regulatory consulting firm.  “I can understand why their lawyers would find this
situation a little uncomfortable,” Petrou said.  Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee yesterday,
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said that because of
concerns from the financial industry and lawmakers, “we
probably need to provide some clarification.”  The rule is named for  Paul Volcker , former Fed chairman and
economic adviser to President Barack Obama. In remarks in  New
York  on March 21, Volcker said that “strong resistance to the
principles involved by affected institutions, each with deep
pockets and phalanxes of lobbyists, shouldn’t be surprising.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  