-- Wall Street Profit Estimates Raised by Analysts After Jefferies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-22T14:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/wall-street-profit-estimates-raised-by-analysts-after-jefferies.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among firms to have first-quarter earnings
estimates raised by analysts after  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) 
announced a surprise jump in fixed-income trading revenue.  Total trading revenue at 10 of the largest investment banks
will probably surge more than 70 percent from the fourth
quarter, Chris Kotowski, an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst, wrote
yesterday.  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities, said in a
note today that fixed-income trading at the five biggest Wall
Street firms may climb 76 percent from last quarter.  Banks are likely to benefit from a rising equity market,
tightening credit spreads and a pickup in bond issuance. The
improved environment comes as  Greece  reached an agreement with
creditors in the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in
history, the U.S. unemployment rate fell and the  European
Central Bank  expanded lending.  Jefferies climbed in New York trading March 20 after
reporting fiscal first-quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates as fixed-income trading climbed 6.6 percent from a
year earlier and more than doubled from the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer Richard Handler said on a conference
call that the firm saw “healthy customer flows and reasonable
bid-ask spreads.”  Jeff Harte, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP,
had predicted Jefferies’s revenue from trading securities such
as bonds would decline from the year-earlier period.  Profit Estimates  Trone raised his first-quarter earnings-per-share estimate
for New York-based Goldman Sachs to $3.22 from $2.81. Kotowski
increased his Goldman Sachs estimate to $3.31 from $2.91 and
boosted his estimate for  Bank of America Corp . 2 cents to 14
cents.  John McDonald , a bank analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., increased his Bank of America estimate to 18 cents a share
from 12 cents, and Citigroup’s to $1.30 from $1.07.  The fourth quarter was the worst for investment banking and
trading revenue at the largest firms since 2008, as concern that
Europe’s debt crisis would lead to a global slowdown crimped
trading activity and deal volumes. Trading revenue this quarter
will probably remain below the levels of last year’s first three
months, Kotowski wrote.  Equities-trading revenue may jump 31 percent from the
fourth quarter, Trone said. Investment-banking fees will
probably climb 16 percent from last quarter, while falling 18
percent from the first quarter of 2011, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 