-- Watch Nasdaq, Bond Ratio for Rotation Signs: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-03-22T21:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/watch-nasdaq-bond-ratio-for-rotation-signs-technical-analysis.html
Investors should look to the
relative performance of technology shares versus U.S. Treasury
bonds for signs of a long-term shift favoring stocks, according
to StockCharts.com Inc.  The  price ratio  between the  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  and 30-
year bonds has climbed to 22.5, more than doubling from its 2009
bottom and close to the 2007 peak of about 25, according to data
from the Redmond, Washington-based firm.  The  Nasdaq  index, in which computer-related companies
contribute 52 percent of the  weight , this week reached its
highest level since November 2000 after Apple Inc. announced its
first dividend in 17 years and said it will buy back $10 billion
of stock.  “The recent upside breakout in the Nasdaq may be signaling
that the long-term outlook for stocks is improving,”  John Murphy , a technical analyst at StockCharts.com, wrote in a note
today. If the Nasdaq-bond ratio is able to exceed its 2007 peak,
“that would be a strong sign that the long-term pendulum has
swung away from bonds and back to stocks.”  The bursting of the technology bubble in 2000 and the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression had prompted
investors to seek safety in fixed-income investments, with
individuals withdrawing money from equity mutual funds for a
fifth year. The rally in bonds sent the 30-year yield to an
almost two-year low of 2.69 percent on Oct. 4, a day after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to its 2011 low.  Stocks, Yields Climb  The  S&P 500  has rallied 11 percent this year as earnings
beat analysts’ estimates for a 12th straight quarter and data on
housing and the labor market boosted optimism about the world’s
largest economy. The  yield  on 30-year bonds climbed to 3.49
percent on March 19, the highest level since September,
according to Bloomberg data.  The benchmark index for American equities tumbled 0.7
percent today to 1,392.78, while Treasuries rose for a third day
as global manufacturing data and a disappointing forecast from
FedEx Corp. undermined confidence in the global economy.  A more-significant shift into stocks may not happen until
the  Federal Reserve  stops purchasing Treasuries to keep yields
“artificially low,” according to Murphy. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has kept the central bank’s benchmark interest rate
near zero since December 2008 and expanded the Fed’s balance
sheet with two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion.  “The Fed is encouraging investors to stay in Treasury
bonds too long,” he wrote. “That’s preventing a rotation out
of bonds and into stocks which normally takes place near the end
of a deflationary period,” he said. “But it may not be too
soon to start planning for that to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  