-- Wendel Says Net Asset Value Climbed on St-Gobain; Debt Falls
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-03-22T13:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/wendel-says-net-asset-value-climbed-on-st-gobain-debt-declines.html
Wendel (MF) ,  France ’s largest publicly
traded investment firm, said the value of its assets climbed as
shares of companies including Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA rose.  Net asset value a share advanced to 98.6 euros as of March
12, from 76.6 euros on Nov. 22, the Paris-based firm said in a
statement late yesterday. The company, the largest investor in
building-material supplier Saint-Gobain, said net income fell to
525.4 million euros ($695.5 million) last year from 1 billion
euros in 2010 after one-time gains weren’t repeated.  “Wendel was even better able to withstand the challenging
monetary and market context since the summer of 2011 in that it
has reduced its debt significantly and the companies in the
Group have adjusted to an economic environment with very limited
visibility,” Chief Executive Officer Frederic Lemoine said in
the statement.  Wendel, which was founded by steel industrialists in France
in the 18th century, has sought to cut debt after its 2007
purchase of a 17 percent stake in Saint-Gobain left it with
little cash for further acquisitions. Lemoine, who became CEO in
April 2009 after Jean-Bernard Lafonta clashed with the firm’s
founding family, has extended debt maturities and sold assets
including shares in  Legrand SA (LR)  to boost cash.  Double Investment  Wendel sold a 14 percent stake in Legrand for 961.5 million
euros in the period, leaving it with a 5.8 percent holding in
the maker of electrical equipment. The company agreed on Nov. 28
to sell connector maker Deutsch Group SAS to TE Connectivity
Ltd. for $2.1 billion. The sale is expected to generate 960
million euros in proceeds, more than double Wendel’s initial
investment, the firm said today.  The firm reduced debt by 1.59 billion euros last year, it
said today. With the sale of Deutsch, net debt will be reduced
to less than 3 billion euros, the company said.  “We’ve decided to maintain our cash between 500 million
euros and 700 million euros,” Lemoine said at a press
conference in Paris today. With the proceeds of the Deutsch
sale, “we’ll have about 1.5 billion euros of cash, which will
allow us to keep reducing debt, albeit at a slower pace, and to
make investments of bigger sizes” than last year, he said.  New investments will be in the range of 200 million to 500
million euros in equity, with possible co-investors, and a
“reasonable” leverage, the Wendel CEO said. That means Wendel
may invest in companies with enterprise values of 200 million
euros to more than 1 billion euros, Lemoine said, adding that
he’s looking at the health-care and unregulated financial
industry.  Pay Dividend  Wendel, which also owns 51 percent of French goods-
inspection company  Bureau Veritas SA (BVI)  and controls building-
material company Materis SA, will pay a dividend of 1.30 euros a
share, up from 1.25 euros a share in 2010. Investors will also
receive one Legrand share for every 50 Wendel shares.  Wendel may also sell a unit of Materis as soon as this year
to help it reduce its debt as it seeks to push back the
reimbursement of some Materis loans, Lemoine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  