-- Westin Plans to Add 30% More Hotels in Asia Eyeing China Growth
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-03-22T00:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/westin-plans-to-add-30-more-hotels-in-asia-eyeing-china-growth.html
Westin Hotels & Resorts, owned by
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , plans to add 30
percent more hotels in  Asia  this year to meet demand from
tourists and business travelers.  Stamford, Connecticut-based Westin, which has 23 hotels in
Asia, plans to add seven to eight more properties as economic
growth in India and  China  boost demand, said Brian Povinelli,
global brand leader for Westin.  “Our most aggressive growth market is Asia,” Connecticut-
based Povinelli said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We
have a heavy emphasis on India and China, where we have
penetrated most of the key cities and now we are in a mode of
going beyond the core cities, especially in China.”  Westin  plans to add 11 new hotels in 2012, with more than
half in the brand’s strongest market of China, as well as new
hotels in Indonesia and  India , Povinelli said. Business and
leisure travel is recovering after companies and consumers cut
spending during the global recession that started in 2008
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Revenue per room in the industry rose 9.8 percent last year
in the Asia-Pacific region and 8.2 percent in the Americas,
according to London-based researcher STR Global.  China Expansion  Westin will add six new hotels in China in 2012, resulting
in a portfolio of 20 properties in this key market by year end,
he said. It will open four more in China by the end of 2013.  It plans to add three hotels in India over the next two
years and a second hotel in  Indonesia  this year. Westin has also
signed deals to debut in Vietnam and Singapore by 2015,
Povinelli said.  Westin is betting on the Chinese market, which has a
projected growth of outbound travelers reaching 100 million by
2015, according to Povinelli. The hotel chain is seeking to
establish a strong foothold in the nation as it plans to capture
both the domestic travelers and those heading overseas, he said.  Westin has doubled its hotels in  Latin America  over the
past 18 months, with 11 of them in countries including Mexico
and  Panama , Povinelli said.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide group also owns the
Sheraton and W brands. Westin Hotels has about 186 hotels and
resorts in 36 countries and territories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  