-- West Brom to Buy Onloan Keeper Foster, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-22T10:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/west-brom-to-buy-onloan-keeper-foster-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  West Brom to Buy Foster  West Bromwich would like to extend a season-long loan
contract with goalkeeper  Ben Foster  into a permanent one after
the season, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Foster, who has been valued at 4 million pounds ($6.3
million), joined the club from Birmingham City after it was
relegated to the Championship.  Clear-Out at Norwich  Norwich players Zak Whitbread, Elliott Ward and Aaron
Wilbraham won’t be offered new deals once their contracts run
out after this season, the  Sun  reported. Striker  Chris Martin ,
who is on loan at Crystal Palace, may also be sold, the
newspaper said.  Henry’s Visit to Fabrice  Former Arsenal player  Thierry Henry  flew in from the U.S.
for a few hours yesterday to see Bolton’s Fabrice Muamba in the
hospital, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Muamba, a former Arsenal mate of the Frenchman, suffered a
cardiac arrest on the pitch during an F.A. Cup quarterfinal
match against Tottenham Hotspur last weekend. Although his heart
had stopped beating for 78 minutes, he’s slowly recovering and
is able to recognize family members and respond to questions.  Kean Warns Hoilett  Blackburn Rovers manager  Steve Kean  has warned Junior
Hoilett that life at a bigger club could be spent on the bench,
the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Canadian forward, whose contract runs out in June, has
attracted interest from Arsenal, Newcastle and Bayern Munich.  “We want him to stay here because he’s playing out of his
skin,” the paper quoted Kean as saying. “Would he play week in
week out if he went to another club? I don’t know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  