-- Wisconsin’s Congressional Redistricting Is Upheld by Judges
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-22T18:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/wisconsin-s-congressional-redistricting-is-upheld-by-judges-1-.html
Wisconsin ’s U.S. congressional
redistricting based on 2010 data was upheld by a three-judge
panel in  Milwaukee  that rejected a constitutional challenge.  Wisconsin’s population grew 323,311 in the decade following
the 2000 Census to 5,686,986, necessitating redrawn federal and
state legislative district lines, the panel said.  The panel, comprising one U.S. appeals court judge and
judges from federal courts in Milwaukee and  Chicago , affirmed
redrawn boundaries for the state’s eight congressional districts
while rejecting two new Milwaukee-area state assembly districts
as diluting the power of Latino voters.  “We cannot turn a blind eye,” the judges said of evidence
which “supports the need for a majority-minority district for
Milwaukee’s Latino community, not just one or two influence
districts.”  Wisconsin’s Government Accountability Board, the agency
responsible for administering state elections, was barred from
implementing the map until the boundaries for those contiguous
districts are moved to create a Latino-majority district.  April 3 Primary  The state’s presidential primary and other electoral
contests are scheduled for April 3.  “We are giving the Legislature the first opportunity to
address this point, but it must act quickly given the impending
elections,” the judges said.  The judges also criticized the Republican-dominated process
that created those districts, calling the proceedings
“needlessly secret,” and “excluding input from the
overwhelming majority of Wisconsin voters.”  “Tempers can flare when people are excluded from the
political process, whether they’re shut out because of their
party affiliation, because of their race, because of their
economic status or because of any other trait,” the judges
said.  Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen issued a statement saying
his office was reviewing the panel’s ruling and that any appeal
would go directly to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Serving on the three-judge panel were U.S. Circuit Judge
 Diane Wood , appointed to the federal bench by President  Bill
Clinton , a Democrat, in 1995; District Judge J.P. Stadtmueller
of Milwaukee, nominated to the bench by Republican President
 Ronald Reagan  in 1987; and District Judge Robert M. Dow of
Chicago, selected by President  George W. Bush , also a
Republican, in 2007.  The case is Baldus v. Baldwin, 11-cv-562, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  