-- Euro Drops as Euro-Area Industry Declines; Yen Rallies on
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-22T21:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/yen-gains-versus-euro-dollar-as-euro-area-industry-declines.html
The yen rose by more than one
percent against all of its 16 most-traded peers tracked by
Bloomberg as weaker factory data in Europe and  China  spurred
concern economic growth was slowing, boosting safety demand.  The yen surged by the most since August against the dollar
after  Japan  reported an unexpected  trade surplus  for last month,
adding to evidence of a rebound in the economy. Australia’s
currency slid to its weakest in two months and Sweden’s krona
dropped by the most among the major currencies after a private
report showed manufacturing may shrink in China for a fifth
month. The dollar rose as jobless claims dropped.  “There was disappointing data out of China and the euro-
zone data was also much weaker than expected, so that’s also a
cause for concern and why we’re seeing a flight to safety
throughout markets,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage. “The weak jobless claims contrasted with worsening
economic news abroad and that’s why we’re seeing the dollar
remain pretty well supported.”  The yen strengthened 1 percent to 82.54 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York, the biggest gain on a closing basis since Aug.
26. The Japanese currency added 1.2 percent against the euro to
108.95. The dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.3201 per euro.  Canada Sales  The Canadian dollar fell for a third day, to as low as
parity, versus the greenback after a report showed January
retail sales grew at less than a third of the rate economists
expected.  Retail sales in  Canada  expanded 0.5 percent in January,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. That was less than the
1.8 percent median projection of 24 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Canada’s dollar fell 0.7 percent to 99.93 Canadian cents
per  U.S. dollar , reaching C$1.0008. It lost 1.7 percent to 82.60
yen.  The yen headed for its first five-day advance in seven
weeks against the dollar after Japan’s finance ministry reported
exports exceeded imports by 32.9 billion yen ($396 million) in
February. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a
shortfall of 120 billion yen. Exports fell by 2.7 percent from a
year earlier, less than the 6.5 percent drop projected.  “The data suggest that Japan’s economy is doing better,”
said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in
 Singapore . “From a fundamental perspective, this is likely to
be positive for the yen.”  Yen Pattern  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said a short-term retracement of yen
declines against the dollar may be due after yesterday’s so-
called “bearish reversal” in which the greenback failed to
advance above a key resistance area.  “We continue to monitor the 82.85/65 support zone for
confirmation of that retracement,”  Niall O’Connor , a New York-
based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to clients
today. A resistance level is an area on a chart where analysts
anticipate orders to sell a currency will be grouped and a
support level is an area where they expect buy orders to be
clustered.  Australia ’s currency dropped for a third day after a
preliminary reading of an index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed Chinese manufacturing may contract. The
gauge fell to 48.1 in March, the lowest level in four months and
compared with a final reading of 49.6 for February. Figures
below 50 indicate contraction.  Aussie, Kiwi  The Australian dollar slid 0.7 percent to $1.0389 after
falling to $1.0336, the lowest since Jan. 17. It fell 1.7
percent to 85.74 yen. New Zealand’s currency declined 0.8
percent to 80.94 U.S. cents and weakened 1.8 percent to 66.80
yen.  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies rose to 10.39 percent after touching 9.91 percent on
March 20, its lowest level since Feb. 27, according to
JPMorgan’s G7  Volatility Index .  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , used to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen and pound, was little
changed at 79.652 after touching 79.315 yesterday, the lowest
level since March 9.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S. dropped
last week to the lowest level in four years, reinforcing signs
the U.S. labor market is picking up. Jobless claims decreased by
5,000 to 348,000 in the week ended March 17, the fewest since
February 2008, Labor Department figures showed today.  Currency Correlation  “In the past six weeks, the new characteristic is that the
dollar has gone up while the U.S. equity market has gone up,”
 Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research in New
York at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and
 Carol Massar . “That’s a reflection that U.S. growth is standing
out if you compare to  Europe  and other Group of 10 economies.”  Since the 2008 financial crisis, the dollar has tended to
weaken during periods of increased economic optimism as the
sentiment spurred risk demand. That relationship is breaking
down, with the 60-day percent-change  correlation  between the
Dollar Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index at minus 44
percent today from as low as minus 85 percent in December. A
reading of minus 100 percent means that the two assets always
move in the opposite direction.  European Economy  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in manufacturing and services dropped to 48.7 from 49.3
in February, London-based Markit Economics said in an initial
estimate today. Economists forecast a gain to 49.6, according to
the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  “The euro-zone data was disappointing in the sense that it
gives maybe the first indication that really the kind of
improvement that we’ve seen in the euro-zone economy is really a
myth,” said  Steven Barrow , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in
 London .  The euro has weakened 3 percent during the past six months
against the currencies of its nine developed-nation
counterparts, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The dollar fell 0.9 percent and the yen lost 10.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  