-- Dollar Pares Decline Against Euro After China PMI Report
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-03-22T06:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/yen-gains-after-japan-posts-unexpected-trade-surplus.html
The euro rose as Asian stocks
gained for the first time in three days before reports forecast
to show German services and factory output expanded this month.  Australia’s currency slid to its weakest in two months
after a private report signaled manufacturing may shrink in
China for a fifth-straight month.  New Zealand ’s dollar sank to a
one-week low after its economy grew less than economists
estimated. The yen advanced earlier after Japan posted an
unexpected trade surplus for February. Declines in the dollar
were limited before a report that may show initial U.S. jobless
claims dropped, damping prospects of further monetary easing.  “The calming of markets in the last few months has come
from policy measures, and the ability of policy makers to
continue delivering supportive packages in large part stems from
the strength of  Germany ,” said  Adrian Foster , head of
financial-markets research for  Asia  at Rabobank Groep NV in  Hong
Kong . “In the near-term the euro may be supported.”  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3239 at 6:55 a.m. in  London 
from yesterday, when it touched $1.3285, the strongest level
since March 8. The shared currency was little changed at 110.28
yen after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent. The yen gained
0.1 percent to 83.29 per dollar, after touching 83.14.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks climbed 0.4 percent.  A measure of  factory output  in Germany climbed to 51 this
month from 50.2 in February while a gauge of services rose to
53.1 from 52.8, according to median projections in Bloomberg
News surveys of economists before the London-based Markit
Economics releases data today.  Central Banks  “We’re seeing a tussle between investors who think this is
a risk-on environment and therefore euro-dollar should go
higher, and those that recognize balance sheet expansion by the
 European Central Bank ” will likely weaken the euro, said  Gareth Berry , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  Singapore . A growing
number of investors are looking at “the relative policy
stance” of the ECB and the  Federal Reserve , he said.  In the U.S., new applications for unemployment insurance
payments probably fell by 1,000 to 350,000 in the period ended
March 17, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before
the Labor Department releases its figures today. That would be
the lowest since March 2008.  The Federal Open Market Committee left policy unchanged
this month, noting improvements in the labor market, where the
 jobless rate  fell to 8.3 percent in February from 9.1 percent in
January 2011.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is bullish on the  U.S. dollar , the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing  Scott Mather , Pimco’s head of
global portfolio management. Mather expects the euro to fall
below $1.15 this year, with a decline to $1 possible, according
to the report. He forecasts  Australia ’s currency will decline to
90 U.S. cents by the end of this year, the newspaper said.  China Manufacturing  Australia’s currency dropped for a third day after a
preliminary reading of an index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed Chinese manufacturing may contract. The
gauge fell to 48.1 in March, the lowest level in four months and
compared with a final reading of 49.6 for February. Figures
below 50 indicate contraction.  The Australian dollar slid 0.5 percent to $1.0408, after
earlier touching $1.0377, the lowest since Jan. 19. New
Zealand’s currency declined 0.7 percent to 80.97 U.S. cents. It
earlier reached 80.64, the weakest since March 15.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  New Zealand’s gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from the previous quarter, when
it increased a revised 0.7 percent, the country’s statistics
bureau said today in Wellington. The median projection by
economists was for growth of 0.6 percent.  Japan ‘Doing Better’  The yen rose against 11 of its 16 most-traded counterparts
after Japan’s exports exceeded imports by 32.9 billion yen ($395
million) in February, according to a finance ministry report
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a
shortfall of 120 billion yen. Exports fell by 2.7 percent from a
year earlier, less than the 6.5 percent drop projected.  “The data suggest that  Japan ’s economy is doing better,”
said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore. “From a fundamental perspective, this is likely to
be positive for the yen.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said a short-term retracement of yen
declines against the dollar may be due after yesterday’s so-
called “bearish reversal” where the greenback failed to
advance above a key resistance area.  “We continue to monitor the 82.85/65 support zone for
confirmation of that retracement,”  Niall O’Connor , a New York-
based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to clients
today. A resistance level is an area on a chart where analysts
anticipate orders to sell a currency will be grouped and a
support level is an area where they expect buy orders to be
clustered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  