-- Yuan Jumps Most in 2012 After Credit Loosened: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-22T10:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/yuan-gains-for-second-day-as-credit-loosening-supports-growth.html
The yuan strengthened the most this
year after the central bank announced measures to free up funds
at banks to spur economic growth.  Asia ’s largest economy boosted rural credit by cutting
reserve-requirement ratios for an additional 379 branches of
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value, the People’s Bank of China said on its
website yesterday. The central bank set the yuan’s reference
rate 0.14 percent stronger at 6.3004 per dollar. The currency
strengthened 0.17 percent in the last 30 minutes of trading.  “China wants funds to stay in the country,” said Stella
Lee, president of Success Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. in
 Hong Kong . “We saw a more aggressive yuan fixing today and the
relaxation on rural banks’ capital.”  The yuan rose 0.37 percent to 6.2997 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That was
the biggest increase since Dec. 30. The currency is allowed to
move as much as 0.5 percent either side of the daily fixing.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was at 2.50 percent from 2.45 percent
yesterday.  “The view for modest appreciation in the yuan still
remains,” said Irene Cheung, a currency strategist in  Singapore 
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group. “In the near term, we
are looking at the potential widening of the yuan trading
band.”  Fine-Tuning  The monetary authority may choose to lower lending rates,
while keeping deposit rates unchanged to ease debt-servicing
pressure on exporters, China Securities Journal said in a
commentary.  The ruling Communist Party has pledged to fine-tune
economic policies as needed as a cooling real-estate market and
faltering export demand limit the nation’s expansion. The
reserve-ratio level for the nation’s largest lenders stands at
20.5 percent after a cut in February.  A Chinese manufacturing index indicated a worse contraction
this month, bolstering the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to add
measures to sustain growth even as he prolongs a campaign to
cool property prices. The preliminary 48.1 reading in a
purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today is the lowest since November and compares with a
final 49.6 in February. Fifty is the dividing line between
contraction and expansion.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.03
percent to 6.3340, a 0.5 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Hong Kong’s
offshore market, the yuan rose 0.13 percent to 6.3168.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  