-- Zedillo Shouldn’t Have to Defend Baseless U.S. Suit
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-03-22T23:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-22/zedillo-shouldn-t-have-to-defend-baseless-u-s-suit.html
A judge in Connecticut will soon
decide whether to allow or dismiss a civil suit against  Ernesto Zedillo ,  Mexico ’s president from 1994 to 2000, accusing him of
responsibility for the Acteal Massacre, which occurred on Dec.
22, 1997, in the southern state of Chiapas and resulted in the
death of 45 villagers.  Reliable inquiries have demonstrated something very
different: The brutal crime was the consequence of local
conflicts that not only preceded Zedillo’s government but
continued beyond it. The accusation is clearly an attempt both
to slander the reputation of a distinguished politician -- who
will go down in history as a great facilitator of Mexican
democracy -- and to destroy his family financially (since the
suit asks for millions of dollars in damages).  The suit was brought in Connecticut because Zedillo is the
director of the Center for the Study of Globalization at  Yale
University , where he has built an international reputation. The
source of the litigation (its sponsors are anonymous), its
reception in Mexico and the accusations it involves deserve
close examination.  The Zapatista uprising in Chiapas, one of the poorest
states in Mexico and with a heavily Indian population, began on
Jan. 1, 1994. It was led by the soon-to-be-famous Subcomandante Marcos during the term of Zedillo’s predecessor, Carlos Salinas de Gortari. After some initial bloodshed, Salinas’s sensible
response wasn’t to order attacks but to pursue a policy of
dialogue and containment. When Zedillo became president, his
government continued that strategy while increasing its social
commitment to the region.  Chiapas Violence  The Zapatistas retained control of parts of Chiapas and
ignored the urging of many of their national supporters (given
the significant public impact of their uprising) to enter the
political process and renounce armed rebellion. In certain
critical areas, tensions were particularly strong between the
Indian groups that favored the government of the  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , known as the PRI, and those that supported
the Zapatistas.  In the small community of Acteal, a dispute over power,
followed by another over ownership of a sand quarry, escalated
into a pattern of violence and mutual attack. It culminated in
the atrocity of the massacre of mostly women and children. The
crime was carried out during a Roman Catholic service and the
killers were part of a local anti-Zapatista faction motivated by
the desire for revenge of a local strong man. The dead were all
connected with a Zapatista group of women known as Las Abejas
(“the Bees”).  The crime horrified the nation but its sources were purely
local and were never linked to any policy initiated by the
federal government. After extensive and complicated trials, a
number of the accused perpetrators were sent to prison, where
many of them remain (in a country with no death penalty).  The attempt to place direct responsibility on Zedillo has
been rejected by Las Abejas themselves, who still operate as a
nongovernmental organization in Chiapas and have stated that
none of their members are plaintiffs in the case.  Supposedly, the plaintiffs are 20 relatives of the murdered
Zapatistas who claim anonymity “for fear of persecution,”
though it is far from clear who might persecute them. Zedillo
(and the PRI) have been out of office for more than a decade and
the former president, at the end of his term, chose to leave the
country and accept the offer of a position at  Yale . That
decision (which has earned the respect of many Mexicans) was
driven by a desire not to become personally involved in the
complex political situation that followed the electoral defeat
of the PRI.  Modest Origins  Zedillo  is a man of modest origins, the son of an
electrician and a secretary who died young. He was educated in
public schools and, through great effort and application,
obtained a doctorate in economics from Yale and then moved up
through important positions in Mexican society and in the
governing PRI.  He was the campaign manager for the designated successor of
Salinas, the reformer  Luis Donaldo Colosio , who was killed in
March 1994. The circumstances of this crime haven’t been fully
elucidated, though the assassin was caught and sentenced.  With elections due in July, Zedillo was chosen as the
replacement candidate. Barely in office, he had to deal with a
grave financial crisis triggered by the economic policies of the
previous administration. He confronted and overcame the crisis
(aided by the impact of the  North American Free Trade Agreement 
concluded by the Salinas government and by substantial support
from the Clinton administration) and exercised his office with
the prudence and sense of reality that are marks of his
character.  Aware of growing national and international pressure,
Zedillo saw the need to open the system toward genuine electoral
democracy. He didn’t create the democratic transition in Mexico,
of course. It had lengthy antecedents in the efforts of various
political groupings, social and civic leaders as well as
intellectuals and artists. But during the seven decades of
political domination by the PRI, a Mexican president held
extraordinary powers.  Though the extent of these powers may not have been as
unrestricted as in the heyday of the party, Zedillo could have
obstructed and significantly delayed the movement toward
democracy. It would have been a direction favored by the more
reactionary and corrupt elements of the party, known as
“dinosaurs.” Instead, for the good of a grateful nation, he
made
a far wiser (and braver) decision. He recognized the need to
limit the powers of the president and to give full autonomy to
the courts. Perhaps most importantly, he consolidated the
autonomy of the Federal Electoral Institute and the Federal
Electoral Tribunal.  PRI Defeat  In the midterm elections of 1997, the PRI lost its majority
in Congress and a candidate from the center-left, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, won the second-most-important elected office in
Mexico: the mayoralty of Mexico City. And in 2000, Vicente Fox,
a candidate of the center-right PAN, would become president,
ending the PRI’s monopoly.  The ordinary Mexican enthusiastically welcomed the sudden
relevance of his or her vote. But there were powerful people in
the country who neither approved of the democratic opening nor
of various other decisions by Zedillo. The suit is very likely
to have originated in such personal rancor. We can only hope
that the judiciary of the state of  Connecticut  will dismiss this
baseless assault against a man of honor.  (Enrique Krauze, the author of “Mexico: Biography of
Power” and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin America ,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights:
 Jonathan Weil  on incorruptible  New Jersey . ( Link. )
 Michael Kinsley  on being too old to hire but to young to retire.
( Link .)
The editors on  North Korea ’s missile madness. ( Link. )
The editors on ending food-stamp junk food. ( Link. )
 Josh Putnam  and John Sides on the Republican primary calendar.
( Link. )  To contact the writer of this article:
 Enrique Krauze  at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  