-- 
Taiwan’s Ma Gets Ruling Party Nomination for January Presidential Election

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-07-02T05:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/taiwan-s-ma-gets-ruling-party-s-nomination.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou
received approval from the ruling  Kuomintang ’s national congress
to run for a second term by pledging to strengthen the economy
and further improve ties with China.  “Give us four more years, I will surely further enhance
Taiwan’s competitive edge, increase the public’s income and cut
unemployment,” Ma told supporters today.  Taiwan’s gross domestic product expanded 10.88 percent last
year to the highest in 24 years. The jobless rate, which in May
stood at a 33-month low or 4.27 percent before adjustment for
seasonal factors, “will be even lower in the future,” the
president said.  The party approved incumbent premier  Wu Den-yih  as Ma’s
running mate for the Jan. 14 election. Ma is standing against
the  Democratic Progressive Party ’s chairwoman, Tsai Ing-wen. The
president’s administration has signed 15 economic agreements
with the Chinese government in a policy that Tsai has derided as
“boxed in a frame set by  China .”  Ma, 60, told the national congress of the KMT he will seek
better ties with China based on the “one China principle”
reached in 1992, under which the two sides agreed to disagree on
the interpretations of the doctrine.  Three ‘No’s  “We will insist on the policy of no unification, no
independence, and no use of force to develop peaceful and
prosperous relations with the mainland,” the president said.  Relations between Taiwan and China are at their warmest in
more than 60 years after Ma abandoned his predecessor’s pro-
independence stance and focused on economic issues.  China, Taiwan’s largest export market, regards the
independently governed island as part of its territory, and has
threatened to attack if it declares formal independence. The two
sides split since Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang, or Nationalists,
fled to the island after being defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s
Communists in 1949.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  