-- 
Asian Stocks Gain a Second Week on Greek Debt, U.S. Optimism

-- B y   S h a n   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-02T00:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/asian-stocks-gain-a-second-week-on-greek-rescue-u-s-economic-recovery.html
Asian stocks rose, driving the
region’s benchmark index up for a second straight week and
paring a quarterly decline, amid optimism  Greece  will avoid
default, and signs a U.S. economic recovery is strengthening,
boosting prospects for Asian exports and bank earnings.
       Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s largest
publicly traded bank, jumped 5.9 percent this week in  Tokyo  on
speculation Greece will avoid a default that might destabilize
the region’s banking system. LG Electronics Inc., which gets 30
percent of its revenue in  North America , rose 2.8 percent in
 Seoul .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company and
 Australia ’s No. 1 oil producer, increased 3.4 percent in Sydney
as oil and metal prices climbed.  “The most negative fears about global growth have been
soothed,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $150 billion. “Events in the
U.S. and Greece were weighing on global growth expectations and
risk appetite, but the U.S. data was reasonable and Greece has
passed a major hurdle.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2.5 percent to 135.53 in
the past five days, closing at the highest level in a month,
having last week snapped its longest series of weekly losses
since 2004.  The gauge sank 0.6 percent in the three months to June 30,
its second straight quarterly decline amid concern earnings in
the Asia-Pacific region would suffer should Greece default on
its sovereign debt, and on signs U.S. growth may be weakening at
the same time as  China ’s anti-inflation measures slow its
economy.  Japan,  South Korea   Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 2 percent this week
and South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 1.7 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index, which was closed for a public holiday July 1,
climbed 1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 1.8
percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.5 percent. An
index of Chinese manufacturing dropped to the lowest level since
February 2009 in June, indicating Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign
to tame inflation has damped growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy.  Stocks rose across the region this week as Euro-area
finance ministers moved closer to giving Greece another aid
payment and German banks agreed to roll over their Greek bond
holdings, giving the country more time to pay its debts.  Shares of financial companies advanced amid speculation
that a Greek rescue would prevent a banking crisis in  Europe  and
lower costs for banks that rely on debt markets for funding.  Boosting Reserves  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest lender by
market value, gained 3.1 percent to A$22.03.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Europe’s biggest bank by market value, gained 0.9 percent to
HK$77.05 in Hong Kong, while Standard Chartered Plc, which makes
most of its revenue in emerging markets, added 3.8 percent to
HK$200.80.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said in a
statement June 25 that banks deemed too big to fail must hold as
much as 2.5 percentage points in additional capital as part of
efforts to avert another financial crisis.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said June 27 that the
capital requirement rules were “positive” for the Japanese
banks they cover because the country’s lenders are well
capitalized already and unlikely to fall into that category.  Mitsubishi UFJ jumped 5.9 percent to 398 yen in Tokyo.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest
publicly traded bank by market value, increased 4.2 percent to
2,500 yen.  ‘Twists, Turns’  “There will still be a lot of twists and turns, but Greece
has been able to avoid a worst-case scenario,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “That makes it easier for investors
to take on risk.”  Japan’s major banks also rose after they were raised to
“overweight” from “market weight” by Deutsche Bank AG, which
said first-quarter earnings may show “good progress” and
concern is receding that lenders will need to raise capital.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has lost 1.6 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 6.5 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and a drop of 0.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.9 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500
and 11.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Exporters climbed this week after a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly improved and confidence among
consumers in the world’s biggest economy rose to the highest
level in 10 weeks.  Fanuc Orders Surge  LG Electronics rose 1.6 percent to 84,900 won in Seoul.
 James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the largest seller of home siding in
the U.S., climbed 4.9 percent to A$5.74 in Sydney.  Fanuc Corp., which gets about 75 percent of its revenue
outside Japan, jumped 9.4 percent to 14,110 yen after a report
by Nomura Holdings Inc. showed that orders surged 14 percent in
the three months ended March 31 compared with the previous
quarter, driven by demand for industrial robots in the U.S. and
Europe.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by market
value, gained 1.5 percent to 3,335 yen in Tokyo, while  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261) , a Japanese carmaker that gets 18 percent of sales
from Europe, surged 5.3 percent to 217 yen.  Commodity stocks advanced as strengthening confidence in a
global recovery drove oil in  New York  and a measure of primary
metals traded in  London  higher.  Mining Stocks  BHP Billiton  increased 3.4 percent to A$43.77 in Sydney.
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company by
sales, climbed 3 percent to A$82.83. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s
biggest producer of the metal, gained 3.4 percent to HK$25.85 in
Hong Kong, while  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , which refines,
produces and trades fuel, increased 3.7 percent to HK$7.83.  Crude rose 4.2 percent in the week, while the London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six metals including copper and
aluminum rose 3.4 percent.  “There’s less anxiety about the issues surrounding
Greece’s debt,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Investors are starting to
move into riskier assets.”  Japanese utilities advanced after Kyodo News reported this
week that the town of Genkai in southwestern Japan will let
Kyushu Electric Power Co. restart reactors, easing concern local
opposition to nuclear power will damage the industry.  Kyushu Electric gained 8.7 percent to 1,460 yen in Tokyo.
Kansai Electric Power Co., a utility that generates 43 percent
of its power from nuclear plants, climbed 6 percent to 1,585 yen.  Nuclear Accident  Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant at the center of the worst nuclear accident in 25 years,
rose 6.5 percent to 328 yen after the utility’s shareholders
voted against abandoning the nuclear power business, defying
growing public opposition to atomic energy in the wake of the
disaster.  Kansai also reinforced the status quo, with shareholders
rejecting a motion to halt reactors. Shareholders of Tohoku
Electric Power Co. and other regional energy providers also
voted down proposals against nuclear power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 