-- 
Bahrain Begins ‘National Dialogue’

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-07-02T08:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/bahrain-begins-national-dialogue-between-opposition-loyalists.html
Bahrain’s opposition and pro-
government groups opened a month of talks today that aim to
bridge the rifts from a crackdown by the Sunni-controlled
government on mainly Shiite protesters this year.  Bahrain’s Sunni Muslim king, Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa,
called for a “national dialogue” in the Gulf Arab country in
May, more than two months after the end of the protests that
were led by Shiites calling for increased civil rights and
democracy. At least 21 people were killed during the crackdown,
according to the Bahrain Human Rights Society. More than 500
people have been detained since February, and almost 2,000
dismissed or suspended from work,  Amnesty International  said on
June 23.  About 300 people have been invited to attend the forum,
which will meet three times a week until the end of July. They
include political parties, civil and non-governmental
organizations, opinion leaders and prominent figures, Parliament
Speaker Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Dhahrani, who is the chairman of
the dialogue, was quoted as saying by state-run Bahrain  News
Agency  on June 21.  “We have a chance to make the dialogue succeed,” al-
Dhahrani said today in an opening speech, according to the news
agency.  Al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite opposition party, yesterday
announced it would participate in the talks. Al-Wefaq’s 18
lawmakers have resigned from parliament to express their
displeasure at the way the protests were handled.  “We are heading toward dialogue, but we will not give up
our demand for a government that represents the will of the
people and a fair system of election,” said Ali Salman, al-
Wefaq’s secretary-general, in a statement yesterday.  ‘Speech Forum’  Al-Wefaq members say their group, which has been assigned
five seats at the talks, is under-represented, and the dialogue
lacks the power to act.  “This is more of a speech forum,” said Hadi al-Mousawi,
one of the lawmakers, in a June 29 telephone interview. “It
would’ve been more beneficial had the dialogue included the
country’s decision-makers.”  Discussions at the forum will revolve around four main
themes: politics, economy, social and legal issues. The
participants’ recommendations will be forwarded to the king, who
will then issue an order to the executive and legislative
authorities to take the necessary action, according to al-
Dhahrani.  A few days before the start of the dialogue, the government
took some steps aimed at helping to defuse the lingering
tensions from the monthlong unrest that began Feb. 14. More than
30 medical personnel and football players arrested in the
aftermath of the conflict were released, and the king announced
the formation of an independent fact-finding commission to
investigate alleged human rights abuses during the crackdown.  Independent Commission  The commission will be headed by Cherif Bassiouni, who has
led United Nations investigations into alleged  war crimes  in
Bosnia and  Libya . Bassiouni expects the investigation to end in
October and its findings will be made public, he said in a June
30 news conference in Manama. His team will visit prisons,
investigate deaths and will have access to the country’s top
officials, he said.  “The appointment of this international commission appears
to represent nothing less than a sea change in Bahrain,” said
Malcolm Smart, director of  Amnesty International ’s  Middle East 
and North Africa program, in a June 30 statement.  “Until now, the government has signally failed to rein in
its security forces, investigate torture allegations and ensure
accountability, while using special military courts to prosecute
its critics,” he said. “This now appears to be changing, and
not a day too soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  