-- 
Chavez Says Cancer to ‘Strengthen’ Him

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-02T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/chavez-says-cancer-to-strengthen-him-optimistic-on-recovery.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who
recently revealed that he’s receiving treatment for cancer in
Cuba, said that the illness will strengthen him and he’s
optimistic he’ll return to full health.  Chavez, speaking in a live telephone call to a Cuban
television program yesterday for the first time since June 12,
said that Fidel Castro, the former Cuban president, detected his
frail health. Castro pushed him to remove a cancerous tumor
after an operation to drain a pelvic abscess.  “No one expected this illness but I’m optimistic and sure
that I’ll emerge from it stronger,” he said. “If it
weren’t for Fidel, who knows what labyrinth I’d be in right
now.”  Until now, Chavez only had been shown in previously
recorded videos and images. Chavez told Venezuelans in a
nationally broadcast speech on June 30 that he was operated on
twice in Cuba and that he won’t hurry his return during
treatment.  The 56-year-old leader, who has run South America’s largest
oil producer since 1999, has vowed to keep ruling from Cuba as
long as it takes, though his political foes have called on Vice
President Elias Jaua to assume his daily activities, citing
articles in the constitution. Chavez had announced his intention
before the illness to seek a third presidential term next year.  Peanut Butter, Lamb  Earlier yesterday, Venezuelan state television broadcast a
45-minute video from June 29 showing Chavez as his followers
have grown accustomed to seeing him over the past decade: making
national policy while telling jokes and humming military marches
from his days as a paratrooper commander. Accompanying him was
his brother, Barinas state Governor Adan Chavez, Foreign
MinisterNicholas Maduro and Henry Rangel Silva, head of the
nation’s military.  In a bid to project an image of normalcy after weeks of
speculation over his health, Chavez told his allies that he’s
recovering favorably and is running his nation’s affairs
from abroad. He said  Fidel Castro  checks in on him almost daily,
bringing peanut butter and small bits of lamb, while at night
he’s reading  Friedrich Nietzsche ’s  “Thus Spoke Zarathustra.”   “I’ve committed mistakes, fundamental mistakes as
Nietzsche would say, and I apologize for it,” said Chavez.
“Sometimes you get swept up in the passion and forget that
you’re just made of flesh and bone and don’t take care of your
health.”  Clout  Yields on the nation’s benchmark bond plunged yesterday as
investors increased bets Chavez may give up a re-election bid,
opening the door for a new government that could reverse
policies fueling the fastest inflation in the world. Jaua would
succeed Chavez if the president resigns or is declared unfit to
govern.  With nobody in the government able to match Chavez’s clout
with the poor, his hold on power may be challenged if he doesn’t
return home soon, said Luis Vicente Leon, director of Caracas-
based pollster Datanalisis.  The prospect of Chavez’s prolonged absence may further
embolden the opposition, which was strengthened after winning
the majority of votes in congressional elections last September.
Support for Chavez fell to near the lowest in eight years in
March as a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar and the fastest
inflation among 78 countries, tracked by Bloomberg, erode the
purchasing power of his working-class base.  Cancer  “There is no chavismo without Chavez,” said  Boris Segura ,
a Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities International
Inc. in an interview yesterday in Caracas. “He hasn’t groomed a
successor on purpose because this is a one-man project.”  The Venezuelan leader may have  colon cancer  that would
require chemotherapy for at least six months to a year, Ramon
Baeza, an oncologist with the IRAM cancer clinic in Santiago,
 Chile , said in a phone interview.  “It’s a common cancer in his age range,” said Baeza, who
has no connection to the case and said he can’t give a medical
opinion based on the information available. Chavez’s chances of
recovery could be low depending on whether the abscess ruptured
and if the cancer spread to the rest of the abdomen, he said.  The self-declared revolutionary socialist said yesterday
that he’s received support from regional leaders, including
cancer survivors Fernando Lugo of  Paraguay  and  Brazil ’s Dilma Rousseff.  Canceled Summit  Leaders of the opposition have criticized the government’s
handling of the political crisis though have also gone to
lengths to wish Chavez a speedy recovery.  “Chavez is still the head of state, but he can’t run the
government’s daily affairs,” said Ramon Guillermo Aveledo,
executive secretary of the Democratic Unity Table alliance.
“The government isn’t functioning normally and they know it.”  Chavez, who canceled a July 5 summit with Latin American
and Caribbean leaders on Margarita Island due to his health,
said that he never had any intention of staying in Cuba so long
and that his cancer was first detected at the tail end of a
regional tour after he arrived on June 8.  “Truly, I was only going to spend two days here,” Chavez
said in the live telephone call last night. “I feel as if I
were in  Venezuela  amid my people. Long live Cuba, and long live
Fidel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  