-- 
Foe Says He Won’t Push Chavez to Cede Power

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-03T01:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/chavez-foe-says-he-won-t-push-for-president-to-give-up-power.html
Venezuela’s leading opposition
presidential candidate said he won’t press for  Hugo Chavez  to
relinquish power while he recovers from cancer, and will
continue with plans to defeat him at the ballot box next year.  Henrique Capriles Radonski, the governor of Miranda state,
is favored in polls to win a February primary to select a
coalition candidate to run against Chavez. Capriles said today
Venezuelan law allows Chavez to remain in Cuba for as long as he
wishes, and he hopes Chavez overcomes his illness. There’s no
need for him to cede power to Vice President Elias Jaua in the
meantime.  “The president has the right to be absent for six months
and can even do so for longer because, according to the
constitution, it’s the National Assembly that decides,”
Capriles said in an interview in Caracas. “I’m not making
calculations based on Chavez’s illness. I hope he comes out of
it and that my rival is able to compete.”  Venezuela ’s opposition has shown restraint since Chavez
announced June 30 that he’s receiving treatment for cancer in
Cuba after having a tumor removed there three weeks ago.  While criticizing the secrecy surrounding Chavez’s illness,
Capriles and others are holding back from calling upon the
socialist leader to step down, fearing it may generate a
backlash among voters and lead to divisions in the opposition
coalition after it won a majority of votes in last year’s
congressional elections.  Not Enough Information  Chavez told Venezuelans in a nationally broadcast speech on
June 30 that he was operated on twice in Cuba and that he won’t
hurry his return during treatment. The 56-year-old leader, who
has run South America’s largest oil producer since 1999, has
vowed to keep ruling from Cuba for as long as it takes.  Capriles, 38, spoke in an interview at a school in his
constituency where he was handing out contracts to health-
industry employees. He said the rumors that have swept the
country in the time Chavez has been gone were the result of the
government not releasing enough information about the
president’s condition.  “The way in which the situation has been handled with
disinformation, lack of clarity gives space for imagining lots
of scenarios,” Capriles said. “Chavez has a right to get sick,
but the country also has a right to know what his health
condition is.”  Recovering Favorably  Capriles called on the government to release information
about what kind of cancer Chavez is suffering from, what kind of
treatment he is receiving and when he is likely to return to
Venezuela.  Venezuelan Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro, who recently
returned from a trip to Cuba to visit Chavez, said in an
interview with Televen that the president continues to recover
well and that the cancerous tumor in the pelvic region was
completely removed and hasn’t spread to other areas.  Venezuela’s state news agency published photos today of
Chavez walking in a track suit in  Havana  yesterday with Maduro
and two of his daughters. Chavez looks thinner and pale in the
 pictures .  Maduro denied a  report  by Barcelona, Spain-based newspaper
El Periodico saying that Chavez has  colon cancer  which infected
his abdomen and may have metastasized.  “The president is following a strict diet and exercise
regime and I can say that he’s in frank recovery,” Maduro said,
without saying when he may return.  Television Address  In a bid to project an image of normalcy after weeks of
speculation over his health, Chavez said on state television
yesterday that he’s recovering favorably and is running his
nation’s affairs from abroad. He said Fidel Castro checks in on
him almost daily, bringing peanut butter and small bits of lamb,
while at night he’s reading  Friedrich Nietzsche ’s “Thus Spoke
Zarathustra.”  In May, Capriles declared his intention to represent the
Justice First Party in a Feb. 12 primary that will select a
single, coalition candidate to run in next year’s election.  Capriles had a 55 percent approval rating in a survey of
2,000 people taken by Consultores 21 from March 11 to March 25.
His closest rival, Leopoldo Lopez, a former mayor of the Caracas
municipality of Chacao, had 49 percent while Chavez had 45
percent, according to the poll, which had a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.24 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  