-- 
Clinton Says Libyan Rebels Strengthening

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-02T11:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/clinton-says-libyan-rebels-strengthening-rejects-qaddafi-threat.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Libyan rebels are gaining momentum and that the
country’s leader,  Muammar Qaddafi , should stop issuing threats
against foreign nations.  “The rebels have been gaining strength and momentum,”
Clinton said. She reaffirmed U.S. commitment to helping Libya’s
people in their struggle against forces loyal to Qaddafi, saying
“We need to see this through and we will.”  Clinton made her remarks in Madrid after meeting Spanish
Foreign Minister Trinidad Jimenez to discuss issues ranging from
Afghanistan, where  Spain  has 1,500 troops, to Middle East peace
and the economy. Clinton stopped in Spain on her way home from a
three-day visit to Hungary and Lithuania, where she attended a
meeting of the  Community of Democracies .  Qaddafi threatened yesterday to attack  Europe  if raids on
Libya continue, telling his supporters via an audio message
aired on state television that “if we decide, we can also
take” the battle to Europe. He also warned his “enemies” of
“an eye for an eye.”  Clinton dismissed the rhetoric. “Instead of issuing
threats, Qaddafi should put the wellbeing and interests of his
own people first,” she said. “He should step down from power
and help facilitate a democratic transition that will meet the
aspirations of the Libyan people.”  Jimenez said that Spain would continue to exert the same
pressure on Libya despite Qaddafi’s threats. “We will stay
until our objectives are met,” she said.  Spanish Soldiers  Spain lost two soldiers in  Afghanistan  last week to an
improvised explosive device that also injured four others.
Clinton expressed condolences for their deaths and thanked Spain
for its contribution to the mission there.  Spain is also part of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s operation in Libya, “Unified Protector,”
allowing use of its Moron Airbase and contributing refueling
aircraft, maritime patrol aircraft, a submarine and a destroyer.  The 53-member African Union, to which Libya belongs, ended
a two-day meeting yesterday with a resolution asking the  United
Nations  to lift a freeze on Libyan assets. The union also
announced that it will not cooperate with a June 27 arrest
warrant from the  International Criminal Court  for Qaddafi, his
son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military intelligence chief
Abdullah al-Senussi.  ‘Some Disagreement’  Clinton said that the three African nations on the UN
Security Council, Nigeria, Gabon and  South Africa , had approved
the warrant when they voted on the resolution that imposed a
“no-fly zone” over  Libya  and authorized countries to take all
necessary measures to protect civilians under threat.  “There may be some disagreement by a few, but I think the
overall support of what we’re attempting to do within  Africa  is
strong and growing,” Clinton said.  Clinton also indirectly criticized  China , which hosted
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir this week, saying “we’ve made
our views clear that countries should not be welcoming the
Sudanese president because of the outstanding charges against
him from the International Criminal Court.”  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navanethem Pillay,
criticized China for not arresting Bashir during the visit.
China, a major Sudanese ally, rejected the criticisms and said
it had doubts about the charges against Bashir.  Clinton urged other countries to push  Sudan  to fulfill its
responsibilities under the comprehensive peace agreement “to
make sure that as South Sudan becomes an independent nation next
week, that the grounds for a positive relationship between north
and south will be established.”  Jimenez said she and Clinton discussed efforts to restart
negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. She said they
are working “most intensely” on getting both sides back to
talks through the Quartet, which consists of the U.S., UN,
European Union and  Russia . The two also discussed strengthening
their cooperation on Haiti, Jimenez said.  Clinton also meets with Spanish King Juan Carlos, Prime
Minister Jose Zapatero and Popular Party leader Mariano Rajoy,
the leading opposition figure in the lead-up to next year’s
election. She returns to the U.S. after this stop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Madrid  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  