-- 
Dozens of Yemeni Soldiers Dead or Missing; Factions in Bahrain Plan Talks

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-02T21:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/dozens-of-yemeni-soldiers-dead-or-missing-factions-in-bahrain-plan-talks.html
Dozens of Yemeni soldiers were dead
or missing after clashes with Islamic militants suspected of
ties to the al-Qaeda terrorist network, according to media
outlets in the  Middle East .  In the southern city of Zinjibar, 15 Yemeni soldiers died
and 50 were reported missing since Thursday, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing an anonymous military official.  Eight members of the Islamic militant group, Ansar al-
Sharia, were killed in the fighting, the official told AP. He
requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with
the press.  The soldiers were guarding a stadium when they were
attacked by the militants in the increasingly troubled southern
part of the country, a witness said earlier this week.  The militants have been making advances as Yemeni President
Ali Abdullah Saleh, under pressure from within and without the
country to step down, remains ill and out of sight, according to
news reports. Saleh was injured in an assassination attempt in
June.  Dozens of military officials were arrested Friday by
Saleh’s son for suspected disloyalty, AP reported.  Fighting continued in other parts of the country, with four
soldiers reported dead in Taiz, Yemen’s second-largest city,
according to wire reports.  Syria   In Syria, President Bashar Assad dismissed the governor of
the city of Hama following protests against Assad’s regime, AP
reported. Assad fired Ahmed Abdul-Aziz because the governor
failed to call in security forces to suppress the protests,
Bassam Jaara, a Syrian opposition writer in  London , told the
news agency.  According to the AP, an estimated 300,000 people joined the
protests in Hama. Activists such as Jaara are hoping the
demonstrations will revive opposition to Assad’s regime.  The late Hafez al-Assad, Bashar’s father and predecessor a
as president, used the Syrian army in 1982 to crush an uprising
in Hama led by the Muslim Brotherhood movement. Thousands of
people were killed as a result.  In Bahrain, opposition and pro-government groups convened
what is expected to be a monthlong “national dialogue” to
bridge the divide created when the Sunni-controlled government
cracked down earlier this year on protesters, many of them
Shiite.  Bahrain Talks  Some 300 people have been invited to the talks, the state-
run Bahrain  News Agency  said on June 21, citing Parliament
Speaker Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Dhahrani. They include
representatives from political parties and civil and non-
governmental organizations, as well as opinion leaders and
prominent figures, the news agency said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  “welcomes” the start of the
talks, according to a release issued Saturday by the White
House’s Office of the Press Secretary. In the release, Obama
commended both sides for entering into a dialogue.  Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood expressed readiness to talk with
the U.S. following Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s
announcement that the U.S. is “re-engaging” with the group.  “We are ready for dialogue with the U.S. administration,
if it so decides, within a framework of mutual respect,”
Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, said in
an e-mailed statement. The statement also said “no dialogue”
has taken placed between the two sides, although the Muslim
Brotherhood did have “contact” previously with the U.S.
Embassy in Cairo.  The U.S. is relaxing the criteria for interaction with the
Egyptian group, permitting diplomats to deal directly with low-
level officials at the Muslim Brotherhood, Clinton said on June
30. In the past, the U.S. government restricted such
communications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  