-- 
Euro-Area Ministers Back Greek Aid Payment, Shift Focus to Second Bailout

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-07-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/euro-area-ministers-back-greek-aid-payment-shift-focus-to-second-bailout.html
The euro area approved its share of a
12 billion-euro ($17.4 billion) aid payment for  Greece  and
pledged to complete work in the coming weeks on a second rescue
package for the cash-strapped nation to prevent a default.  Finance ministers agreed to disburse 8.7 billion euros of
loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout by July 15,
rewarding Greek Premier  George Papandreou  for pushing an extra
austerity plan through parliament. The  International Monetary
Fund  is due to provide the rest of the July aid installment, the
fifth under the 2010 package.  The spotlight now turns to a second bailout to which banks
and insurers plan to contribute following German demands for
taxpayer relief. Euro-area governments and investors will
provide 70 percent of new aid that may total as much as 85
billion euros, with the IMF offering the rest, Thomas Wieser, an
Austrian Finance Ministry official, said on June 30.  “The Greek authorities provided a strong commitment to
adhere to the agreed fiscal adjustment path,” the 17 euro-area
finance chiefs said in an e-mailed statement yesterday
after a conference call that was joined by the IMF’s acting
chief,  John Lipsky , and  European Central Bank  President Jean-
Claude Trichet. “The precise modalities and scale of private-
sector involvement and additional funding from official sources
will be determined in the coming weeks.”  Papandreou’s Victory  Bonds of Europe’s most indebted nations rebounded this past
week after Papandreou’s victory in parliament eased concerns
about an imminent Greek default. Stocks and the euro rose.
Greece’s bonds advanced for a second week and Italian 10-year
securities gained for the first week in three, while the Spanish
10-year yield declined the most in five months. The two-year
Greek yield dropped more than 150 basis points.  The euro rose 2.4 percent against the dollar, its first
weekly gain in four weeks, and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
snapped a string of eight straight weeks of losses. The MSCI
World Index posted its biggest weekly advance in almost two
years.  Europe is trying to draw a line under a debt crisis that
Greece sparked more than a year ago and that threatens the 12-
year-old monetary union. Ireland and  Portugal  sought emergency
aid totaling 146 billion euros after the initial bailout of
Greece in May 2010 and investors remain concerned about the
vulnerability of some bigger euro nations including  Spain .  Greek Lawmakers  The political mood in Europe has complicated the task, with
a German-led group of richer nations reluctant to offer more aid
and opposition to austerity mounting in Greece. Papandreou
shuffled his cabinet last month to fend off a rebellion by his
Socialist party and faced demonstrations and strikes this past
week as Greek lawmakers approved a 78 billion-euro package of
tax increases and asset sales.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the
decision by his euro-area counterparts to release the fifth loan
payment bolstered the country’s international credibility.  “What is now critical is the prompt and effective
implementation of the decisions of parliament,” Venizelos said
in an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based  Finance Ministry .  The IMF signaled a readiness to approve its 3.3 billion-
euro share of the next aid installment for Greece. “We look
forward to continue working with the Greek authorities and the
European partners in support of the economic program that will
contribute to restoring fiscal sustainability,” the Washington-
based fund said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Standstill’  The European Union and the IMF prodded Papandreou into
action with a June report that said Greek economic-policy
changes to which aid is tied had come to a “standstill.” The
lack of progress helped derail the country’s plan to return to
bond markets next year and prompted work on a second aid
package.  In May, the EU warned that Greece had slipped off its
course to narrow its  budget deficit  to 7.4 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 10.5 percent of GDP in 2010,
saying this year’s shortfall would be 9.5 percent. The nation’s
debt will rise to 158 percent of GDP this year from 143 percent
in 2010, according to EU forecasts.  As Papandreou’s legislative victory in parliament eased
concerns about a Greek default, European governments reported
progress in talks with investors over their contribution to a
new aid package through a rollover of Greek debt.  Biggest Holders  “Consultations with Greece’s creditors are under way in
order to define the modalities for voluntary private-sector
involvement with a view to achieving a substantial reduction in
Greece’s year-by-year financing needs, while avoiding selective
default,” the euro-area finance chiefs said in their statement.
The so-called eurogroup, led by Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , is due to meet next on July 11 in Brussels.  German and French banks, the biggest holders of Greek debt,
stepped up discussions on a rollover that officials say should
amount to as much as 30 billion euros. Deutsche Bank AG Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  predicted on June 29 that
financial companies would contribute to help avert a
“meltdown.”  Under a French proposal, bondholders would agree to roll
over 70 percent of their debt maturing through mid-2014 into new
30-year Greek bonds with the principal on the new debt
guaranteed through Greece investing in zero-coupon bonds of
similar maturity. Under a second option, investors would roll
over 90 percent of their debt into new five-year bonds with no
guarantee.  ECB Governing Council member  Christian Noyer  said the
French proposal is “very good” and may make Greece’s rescue
program more credible. It is in the interest of all the
financial institutions who could participate in a Greek support
plan, Noyer told Athens-based newspaper Proto Thema in an
interview due to be published today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  