-- 
Google Hires 12 Lobbying Firms Amid FTC’s Review of Business

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/google-hires-12-lobbying-firms-amid-ftc-s-review-of-business.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet-search company, hired 12 lobbying firms after the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission began a review of its business
practices.  The company has enlisted Akin Gump, Bingham, Capitol
Legislative Strategies, Chesapeake Group, Crossroad Strategies,
Gephardt Group, Holland & Knight, Normandy Group, Prime Policy,
the First Group, the Madison Group and the Raben Group,
according to an e-mail from Google.  The  Mountain View , California-based company received a
subpoena on June 23 “relating to a review by the FTC of its
business practices, including search and advertising,”
according to a regulatory filing last week. Google said it is
cooperating with the probe.  Regulators across the U.S. and in  Europe  are stepping up
their scrutiny of Google, which has the largest share of the
Web-search market. The company, much like  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the
1990s, may be forced to spend years defending itself against a
probe into whether Google uses its lead to keep out competitors
and harm consumers.  The FTC alerted technology companies of plans to gather
information from them for the probe, three people familiar with
the matter said in April. The agency is likely to examine
whether Google is using its position in Internet search to
subdue rivals in adjacent markets with threats and jacked-up
advertising rates, lawyers have said. The company’s conduct in
new sectors, such as mobile devices, also will probably be a
focus, they said.  New York and  California  are in the early stages of an
antitrust investigation of Google, along with Texas and Ohio,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who didn’t
want to be identified because the probe isn’t public.  Officials at the European Union have also started
investigations into Google’s dominance of the Internet-search
industry.  Google shares have declined 12 percent this year. The stock
climbed $14.65 to $521.03 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  