-- 
Libyan Rebels Reject African Union Peace Talks After Qaddafi Warrant Snub

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 
2011-07-03T03:46:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/libyan-rebels-accept-african-union-peace-talk-plan-that-excludes-qaddafi.html
Libya’s opposition leaders appeared
to reverse position on a plan for peace talks after  African
Union  countries said they wouldn’t honor an international
warrant for the arrest of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  In an interview on Al Jazeera television, Abdel Hafiz Ghoga,
vice president of the Libyan National Transition Council, said
the council has decided to reject the plan.  “It doesn’t include the departure of Qaddafi from power,”
Ghoga said in the interview, which was broadcast on the network
early today. Ghoga denied reports that the plan had earlier been
welcomed by the council.  During its meeting in Equatorial Guinea, the African Union
called on member states to disregard a warrant for Qaddafi’s
arrest that was issued by the  International Criminal Court , the
 Associated Press  reported yesterday.  The Libyan government welcomes the AU’s offer of
negotiations to end the conflict,  Al Jazeera  cited Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman, as saying today. There are no plans for
Qaddafi to leave the country, he said.  “We need to keep him safe to lead us through this
difficult time,” Al Jazeera cited him as saying.  The 53-member African Union announced a plan on July 1 for
a cease-fire between Libya’s warring parties, coupled with
negotiations in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , to forge a
transitional administration and outline a plan for new elections.
The proposal excludes Qaddafi from the talks.  “Not being part of the negotiations means that he’s not
going to be part of the future of Libya,” Mansour Sayf Al-Nasr,
the NTC’s representative to  France , told reporters in Malabo,
Equatorial Guinea.  NATO Support  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has supported
Libya’s rebels since March by bombing Qaddafi’s forces, who it
said were targeting the North African nation’s civilian
population. Tens of thousands of refugees have fled the fighting,
and the price of crude oil soared because of the conflict in the
country with Africa’s biggest oil reserves.  The AU proposal, which came at the end of a two-day summit
in Malabo, also called for international peacekeepers to monitor
the cease-fire and asked the United Nations Security Council to
lift a freeze on Libyan assets.  Slamming the ICC warrants as discriminatory against
Africans, AU members agreed not to enforce them and demanded the
 Security Council  annul them. An amnesty law should also be part
of the Libyan transition, they said.  The TNC, whose representatives were granted access to the
AU conference, will need to assess under what conditions they
can start pulling their fighters back, Al-Nasr said.  “Surely we won’t have a cease-fire before certain
conditions are met,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Malabo at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  