-- 
Tiger Airways’ Australian Flights Grounded by Regulator on Safety Concerns

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-02T07:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/tiger-airways-australian-flights-grounded-by-regulator-on-safety-concerns.html
Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) , the
Singapore-based budget carrier, was ordered to ground Australian
domestic flights for a week on air safety concerns.  The carrier, part-owned by Singapore Airlines Ltd., has
been barred from flying until July 9 while the Civil Aviation
Safety Authority investigates two operational incidents, Tiger
said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The safety agency has been
undertaking surveillance on the airline this year and earlier
imposed conditions, including improving pilot proficiency and
maintenance control, CASA said in a separate  statement .  “CASA believes permitting the airline to continue to fly
poses a serious and imminent risk to air safety,” the regulator
said in the statement. “CASA no longer has confidence in the
ability of Tiger Airways  Australia  to satisfactorily address the
safety issues that have been identified.”  The grounding will affect 35,000 passengers this week
including 7,000 who were due to fly on Tiger today, according to
Transport Minister Anthony Albanese. It is a further disruption
for Australian travelers who have grappled with flight
cancellations since the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex
in Southern Chile erupted on June 4, sending an ash cloud
billowing around the globe.  Melbourne, Adelaide  Tiger began domestic Australian flights in November 2007
and has hubs in Melbourne and Adelaide. The airline has kept
costs and fares down since entering the market through steps
including charging extra for food, airport check-in and reserved
seating.  With a  fleet  of 10 Airbus SAS A320 planes in Australia,
it’s the smallest of three airline groups flying domestic routes.  Virgin Australia  operates  86 aircraft while  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest airline, and its budget carrier
Jetstar had 252 planes and operated about 5,600 domestic flights
per week as of September, their websites show.  Qantas, Jetstar and Virgin Australia added additional
flights to their schedules to cater for Tiger passengers. Qantas
engineers today canceled industrial action scheduled for next
week, said airline spokeswoman Emma Kearns. The stoppages would
have affected a “small number” of domestic flights, Qantas
said July 1.  Singapore Airlines owned 32.9 percent of Tiger as of March
31, according to the Tiger website. The Capital Group Companies
Inc. held an 8.1 percent stake while Dahlia Investments Pte had
7.4 percent.  “We are not involved in any way in their operations and
their management,”  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman for Singapore
Airlines, said by phone today.  Extend Grounding  CASA may apply to the Federal Court to extend the Tiger
grounding, to give it more time to investigate the safety
concerns, according to the regulator’s statement.  “Tiger Airways continues to cooperate fully with the
industry regulator and safety underpins our operations at all
times,” the airline said in its statement.  Two Tiger flights dropped below the minimum safe altitude
while coming in to land in the past month, the Sydney Morning
Herald newspaper  reported  on its website today, without saying
where it got the information.  Tiger’s shares have slumped 36 percent in Singapore trading
this year as its profit plunged in the first quarter on tax
charges and a slowdown in demand at its Australian unit.  Tiger’s net income fell to S$1.3 million ($1.1 million) in
the three months ended March 31 from S$22.3 million a year
earlier, the carrier said in May.  Qantas delayed flights between Sydney,  Buenos Aires  and
Johannesburg today due to the  ash cloud , while domestic routes
are operating as scheduled, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 