-- 
Brazil’s Franco, President Who Tamed Inflation, Dies

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-03T15:31:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/itamar-franco-former-brazilian-president-who-introduced-real-dies-at-81.html
(Corrects Franco’s party affiliation in the last paragraph
of a story published July 2.)  Itamar Franco, who in the early 1990s
conquered hyperinflation in Brazil after being thrust into the
presidency when his predecessor resigned, died of leukemia
today. He was 81.  His death was reported today on the  website  of Brazil’s
Senate, of which he was a member.  Franco was vice president in 1992 when President Fernando Collor, facing impeachment on corruption charges, resigned.
Franco was relatively unknown to many Brazilians when he took
office amid one of the country’s most severe economic crises,
when annual inflation was running at more than 1,000 percent.  To bring down prices, he selected Fernando Henrique Cardoso
to become his finance minister. The duo went on to introduce the
so-called Plano Real that replaced the country’s currency, the
cruzeiro. With the real’s introduction in 1994, and a commitment
by the government to reduce spending, inflation was 22 percent
by 1995.  The taming of inflation helped consolidate  Brazil ’s
transformation to a democracy from a military government, and
made possible the country’s subsequent success, said Edmar Bacha, a former president of the country’s development bank and
one of the architects of Plano Real.  “Itamar’s place in Brazilian history is very safe,” Bacha
said, speaking by phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “There are two
Brazils: one before and one after stabilization.”  Franco served as president until 1994. Last year, he was
elected to the Senate from his home state of  Minas Gerais .  Franco had been in intensive care at the Hospital Israelita
Albert Einstein in  Sao Paulo , where he was receiving treatment
for leukemia. He was a member of the Popular Socialist Party,
which opposes President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  