-- 
Kvitova Beats Sharapova to Win First Wimbledon

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-02T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/kvitova-defeats-sharapova-6-3-6-4-to-win-wimbledon-her-first-grand-slam.html
Petra Kvitova won her first major
tennis title by beating former champion and tournament favorite
 Maria Sharapova  in the Wimbledon final.  Kvitova won 6-3, 6-4 yesterday on Centre Court at the All
England Club in southwest London. The 21-year-old, who sunk to
her knees after ending the match with an ace, is the first Czech
woman to win Wimbledon since Jana Novotna took the title in
1998. Novotna watched from the royal box.  “It’s hard to find some words, standing here with the
trophy and see some of the great players in the royal box”
Kvitova said in a court-side interview. “Of course I was
nervous, but I felt I could win Wimbledon.”  Spain ’s  Rafael Nadal  attempts to defend his men’s title
when he faces Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  today. Djokovic, who will
take the No. 1 ranking on the men’s ATP World Tour after the
tournament, has beaten Nadal in four finals already this year,
but has never defeated him in five previous Grand Slam meetings.  Kvitova’s path to her first major championship had been
cleared when defending champion  Serena Williams  and five-time
winner  Venus Williams  both lost in the fourth round. Serena had
beaten Kvitova in the semifinals last year. The Williams
sisters, who before today had taken nine of the past 11 singles
titles at the All England Club, had only played one tournament
before Wimbledon after long injury-related lay-offs.  Kim Clijsters , the reigning U.S. Open and Australian Open champion
from  Belgium , was forced to pull out of Wimbledon with an
injury.  Focused  “I was surprised how I was feeling on the court because I
was focused only on the point and on the game and not on the
final and the medal,” Kvitova said in a news conference.  “She was hitting really powerful and hitting winners from
all over the court,” Sharapova told reporters. “She made a
defensive shot into an offensive one. I just kind of laid on a
lot of those shots. She was just more aggressive than I was, hit
deeper and harder, and got the advantage in the points.”  Sharapova, 24, had been trying to add a second Wimbledon
championship to the one she captured as a 17-year-old seven
years ago, before a shoulder injury threatened the career that
has made her the best-paid woman in sports.  “Besides the fact that I lost, this is a big step for me,
being here in the final,” Sharapova said. “I’m improving this
year. That gives me a tremendous amount of confidence for the
rest of the year.”  Opening Game  Kvitova lost her opening service game, then immediately
broke back. In the third game, Sharapova had another break
point, but the Czech took it back and won the game with a
forehand. With Kvitova leading 3-2, the Russian had two double
faults in a row to lose the game. She continued to struggle with
her serve and Kvitova had a set point at 5-2 before Sharapova
held. Kvitova then won the set by converting the first of three
set points.  Sharapova opened the second set on serve, and double
faulted to give a break point that Kvitova took with a forehand
on the line. She won her service game before Sharapova held to
break a streak of six straight games for Kvitova.  Sharapova broke back with a lob to even the set at 2-2. The
Russian couldn’t hold her own serve, but Kvitova missed two
ground strokes into open court to allow her back in at 3-3. With
two break points, Kvitova lost one on a backhand in the net
before Sharapova hit a forehand long.  Kvitova then held, forcing Sharapova to serve to stay in
the match. After the righthander held at love, the Czech got
three match points when Sharapova hit a backhand into the net.
She then won with her first ace of the match.  Ranked 62nd  Kvitova produced 19 winners, while Sharapova had 10. The
Czech made 13 unforced errors, one more than the Russian.
Sharapova hit six double faults, two more than Kvitova.  Kvitova had begun the year ranked 62nd on the WTA Tour
rankings and has climbed to eighth by winning three tournaments
and reaching the quarterfinals of the Australian Open at the
start of the season. She’ll be No. 7 after Wimbledon.  Sharapova, a three-time Grand Slam champion and former
world No. 1, had been the 4-7 favorite to win the title at U.K.
bookmaker William Hill Plc. That means a successful $7 bet would
have returned $4 plus the original wager. Kvitova was at 6-4.  Kvitova is the first left-handed player to reach the
Wimbledon championship match since nine-time winner  Martina Navratilova , a former Czech and her idol growing up, made the
1994 finals.  Fourth Woman  Kvitova, who trains in the same tennis club as last year’s
men’s finalist,  Tomas Berdych , in Prostejov, is the fourth
Czech-born woman to reach the Wimbledon final. Novotna and
Navratilova both won the title, while Hana Mandlikova was a
runnerup twice.  Kvitova’s win marks the first time since 2008 that three
different women have won the year’s first three majors.
Clijsters won in  Melbourne  in January, while  Li Na  became the
first player from  China  to win a major singles title at the
 French Open  last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  