-- 
New York Yankees Defeat Crosstown Rival Mets 5-1 in Interleague Series

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-02T04:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/new-york-yankees-defeat-cross-town-rival-mets-5-1-in-inter-league-series.html
The  New York Yankees  defeated the New
York Mets 5-1 in the first of three games in an inter-league
series between the  Major League Baseball  cross-town rivals.  The win at Citi Field last night gave the Yankees (49-31),
who have won a season-high six straight, their third straight
victory over the Mets (41-41) after they took the final two of a
three-game series May 20-22 at Yankee Stadium.  Mark Teixeira  doubled to right in the first inning to score
 Brett Gardner  and  Curtis Granderson . Robinson Cano followed with
a double to send Teixeira home, giving the Yankees a 3-0 lead.  Eduardo Nunez  hit a run-scoring single to center in the
eighth, and Alex Rodriguez capped the Yankees’ scoring in the
ninth by driving home Granderson with a double.  Nunez has replaced shortstop  Derek Jeter , who has spent the
past two weeks on the disabled list with a calf strain. Jeter is
expected to play two rehabilitation games with the Double-A
Trenton Thunder this weekend before returning to the Yankees’
active roster against the Cleveland Indians on July 4.  “I know he’s coming back,” Nunez said of Jeter. “Play
hard, and one time my moment is coming for playing every day.
These two weeks is a big opportunity for me to show my manager,
myself that I could play every day.”  ‘Good Job’  Nunez, who played all 16 games that Jeter missed, is
hitting .309 with six runs batted in during that period.  “He’s done a good job of just trying to be himself,”
manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters last night. “I’ve been very
pleased with the way he’s played in Derek’s absence.”  Ruben Tejada hit a scoring single in the second inning for
the Mets only run.  Ivan Nova (8-4), one of seven pitchers used by the Yankees,
gave up seven hits and one run in five innings, while striking
out three for the win. Jonathon Niese (7-7) went six innings and
took the loss for the Mets, allowing nine hits and three runs
and striking out seven.  Mets manager Terry Collins was ejected by home plate umpire
Jerry Layne for arguing a call at third base in the seventh
inning.  In other inter-league games last night, it was the Chicago
White Sox 6, the Chicago Cubs 4; Philadelphia 7, Toronto 6;
Cleveland 8, Cincinnati 2; Atlanta 4, Baltimore 0; Boston 7,
Houston 5; Colorado 9, Kansas City 0; San Francisco 4, Detroit
3; Texas 15, Florida 5; and St. Louis 5, Tampa Bay 3.  In the National League,  Washington  beat Pittsburgh 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  