-- 
Djokovic Seeks First Grand Slam Win Over Nadal

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-02T23:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/new-no-1-djokovic-seeking-first-win-against-nadal-in-tennis-grand-slam.html
Novak Djokovic may have taken the top
spot in men’s tennis away from defending Wimbledon champion
 Rafael Nadal . He’s yet to beat the 10-time Grand Slam winner in
a major tournament.  Djokovic, who will become the new No. 1 on the ATP World
Tour after Wimbledon, will have his chance today when he plays
the Spaniard in the finals at the All England Club in London.  Czech Petra Kvitova yesterday won her first Grand Slam
title by beating tournament favorite and former champion Maria Sharapova 6-3, 6-4 on Centre Court.  Although Djokovic, a two-time Australian Open winner, has
gotten the better of Nadal in four finals this season, he hasn't
been able to beat the lefthander in a Grand Slam event on five
occasions.  “It is quite different playing Nadal in a Grand Slam
because it’s a best-of-five,” the Serb said yesterday in a news
conference. The men play the majority of their matches on the
ATP World Tour in a best-of-three set format.  Nadal beat Djokovic in their only Grand Slam final, at last
year’s  U.S. Open . He’s twice retired against Nadal in a major,
at the 2006 French Open and at 2007 Wimbledon.  “Physically we all know that he’s superior and he’s the
strongest player around, the most prepared,” said Djokovic, who
has only lost one match this year. “So I’m ready for long
rallies and long points. I need to be physically ready, which I
am. I feel fit in this moment, and mentally, obviously
motivated. It’s my first Wimbledon final.”  Nadal, who defeated Britain’s  Andy Murray  in the last four,
is trying to match  Bjorn Borg ’s record of winning the French
Open and Wimbledon in the same year on three occasions. Borg did
it in 1978, 1979 and 1980.  Aggressive  “I have to play aggressive,” Nadal said in a news
conference after he beat Murray. “I have to play with
intensity, with rhythm.”  The Spaniard said Djokovic may have the edge because he’s
beaten him in four finals this season. Twice on hard courts, in
 Indian Wells  and Miami, and twice on Nadal’s favorite clay
surface in Madrid and  Rome .  “His mental position over me is probably a little bit
better because he won the last four finals against me,” Nadal
said.  Gambling companies disagree.  “The vast majority of our customers expect Nadal to
outlast Djokovic in the Wimbledon final but we expect a
marathon,” said Rupert Adams of U.K. bookmaker William Hill
Plc.  Odds  Nadal is the 8-13 favorite to win his eleventh major
singles title at William Hill. That means a successful $13 bet
would return $8 plus the original wager. Djokovic is at 6-5.  Nadal hasn’t been beaten at Wimbledon since 2007, when he
was defeated by six-time champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland 
in the final. He won the title in 2008, and then missed the
following year’s tournament because of a knee injury. He won
last year’s title by beating Tomas Berdych of the  Czech
Republic .  Djokovic said experience of playing on the big stage has
made him a better player.  “The last couple years has been a great experience for me
playing on the top level,” he said. “I was losing most of the
matches against Nadal and Federer in the major events. Now I
feel that I can win against those guys in big matches, big
events. I matured as a player, and I feel that on the court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  