-- 
Obama Says Cutting Budget Deficit Requires ‘Tough Decisions’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-07-02T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/obama-says-cutting-budget-deficit-requires-tough-decisions-.html
President  Barack Obama  said cutting
the federal budget deficit by trillions of dollars over the next
decade is going to require “tough decisions” and cooperation
between Democrats and Republicans.  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , the president
said that negotiators should focus on tax loopholes that benefit
few people and that nothing can be off limits.  “That means looking at every program and tax break in the
budget,” he said. “We’ll have to make tough decisions and
scale back worthy programs.”  The administration is negotiating with Congress on reducing
the long-term budget deficit as part of a plan to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit before Aug. 2, the date the
Treasury has projected that U.S. borrowing authority under the
current ceiling will expire.  Democrats and Republicans are at an impasse over how to
proceed, with Republicans demanding large spending cuts and no
tax increases and Democrats saying that higher  tax revenue  must
be part of a “balanced” plan.  “The president and Democrats in Congress must recognize
that their game plan is not working,”  Indiana  Senator  Dan Coats 
said in the  Republican address . “It’s time to acknowledge that
more government and higher taxes is not the answer to our
problem.”  Obama has advocated higher taxes for “millionaires and
billionaires” and an end to tax breaks related to hedge funds,
corporate jet ownership and oil and gas exploration, while
maintaining spending in “education, research and technology.”  “We can live within our means while still investing in our
future,” he said.  Indiana’s Example  Coats said the U.S. should follow the example of his home
state, Indiana, which erased a $200 million  budget deficit 
without raising taxes.  “The spend-less, borrow-less and tax-less model in Indiana
has resulted in balanced budgets,  job creation  and a triple-A
 credit rating ,” he said. “In contrast, the spend-more, borrow-
more and tax-more approach of the president has resulted in
fewer jobs, higher debt and a threatened downgrade from credit
agencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  