-- 
Saudi Shares Advance After U.S. Rally, Greek Debt Progress, Paced by Rajhi

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-07-02T13:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/saudi-shares-advance-after-u-s-sees-biggest-rally-in-two-years.html
Saudi shares rose for a third day,
led by petrochemical companies and banks, after U.S. stocks
posted the biggest weekly rally in two years after Greece took
action to avoid a default.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker, and Al Rajhi Bank paced the gains. Saudi
Arabian Mining Co., also known as Ma’aden, rose for the fifth
day after announcing financing for an aluminum project the
company is developing in a joint venture with Alcoa Inc.  The 146-company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 1.2 percent to
6,653.68 at the close in Riyadh today, its highest closing level
since June 6. The largest bourse by market value in the  Middle
East  has gained 0.5 percent this year.  “There is market optimism after Greece avoided a default
on its debt,” Mohammad Ali Shah, a senior financial analyst at
Global Investment House, said in an interview from  Riyadh .
“Following the global markets, Saudi Arabia has seen an upside
as well.”  U.S. and European stocks rose this week after Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou on June 29 clinched enough votes to
pass the first part of an austerity plan aimed at meeting
European Union aid requirements and staving off default for his
debt-laden nation. Lawmakers backed a bill on June 30 to
authorize the measure.  The  S&P 500  surged 5.6 percent to 1,339.67. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 5.4 percent to 12,582.77 this week.
Both indexes rose all five days for the biggest weekly gains
since July 2009.  Saudi shares are also being helped by “the expectations
for positive second-quarter results,” Shah said. Saudi
companies will start to release quarterly earnings results later
this month.  Sabic, Ma’aden Gain  Sabic advanced 1.9 percent to 106 riyals, the highest level
since June 1.  Fitch Ratings  affirmed on June 30 Sabic’s long-
term issuer default rating at A+, citing the company’s “strong
business profile and moderate leverage.”  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s largest lender by market value, gained 1.4 percent to
74 riyals, the highest since June 13.  Ma’aden shares gained 1.8 percent to 27.7 riyals, the
highest value since May 30. The company said today it received
commitments for $1 billion in commercial loans to finance the
second phase of an aluminum project being developed in a joint
venture with Alcoa Inc.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  