-- 
Shriver Files for Divorce From Schwarzenegger After He Disclosed an Affair

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-02T09:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/shriver-files-for-divorce-from-schwarzenegger-after-he-disclosed-an-affair.html
Maria Shriver filed for divorce from
former California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  after 25 years,
following his admission this year that he fathered a child with
a family housekeeper.  Shriver, who gave up her career as a newscaster when
Schwarzenegger entered politics, cited irreconcilable
differences in a petition filed in Los Angeles Superior Court
yesterday.  Matthew DiGirolamo, a spokesman for Shriver, said she had
no comment. Daniel Ketchell, a spokesman for the former
governor, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Shriver, 55, announced on May 9 that she had separated from
Schwarzenegger, a movie star and onetime Mr. Universe. A week
later, the Los Angeles Times reported that Schwarzenegger, 63,
had fathered a child with the family’s former housekeeper.  “After leaving the governor’s office I told my wife about
this event, which occurred over a decade ago,” Schwarzenegger
said in a statement then. “There are no excuses and I take full
responsibility for the hurt I have caused. I have apologized to
Maria, my children and my family. I am truly sorry.”  Schwarzenegger, who campaigned for governor saying he would
tear up the state’s credit card and later almost tripled
 California ’s debt, put several entertainment projects on hold
May 19, including “Cry Macho,” a film by Albert Ruddy,
producer of “The Godfather.”  Schwarzenegger’s lawyer, Patrick Knapp, said in a statement
then that the former governor was “focusing on personal
matters.”  Last month he spoke about environmental issues at an energy
conference sponsored by the  United Nations  in Vienna, according
to a video of the speech on  YouTube .  Shriver said on her website that she would be in  Greece  for
the Special Olympics World Summer Games, which end July 4. Her
mother, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, founded the organization, a
sports competition for children and adults with intellectual
disabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  