-- 
South American Flights Disrupted on Ash

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-02T15:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/south-american-flights-disrupted-on-ash.html
Volcanic ash from an eruption in
southern Chile has disrupted air travel in Buenos Aires as well
as Montevideo, Uruguay and Asuncion, Paraguay as Argentina hosts
the opening weekend of  Latin America ’s Copa America soccer
tournament.  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , the region’s biggest airline by market
value, suspended air travel to and from Buenos Aires and
Montevideo yesterday, it said in a statement on its website.
Aerolineas Argentinas SA, the country’s biggest carrier,
canceled domestic flights and is rescheduling international
trips, it said in an e-mailed statement. Both airlines are
resuming some Buenos Aires flights today, the carriers said on
their websites.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA,  Brazil ’s second-biggest
airline by market value, canceled flights in the two cities plus
Asuncion, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. Lan said
it would increase the number of flights on July 2 to accommodate
passengers whose travel plans were disrupted the previous day.  “Lan is constantly monitoring events,” the airline said
in the statement.  The Argentinean airports of Ezeiza and Aeroparque in Buenos
Aires resumed some operations after weather conditions improved,
El Clarin newspaper  reported  on its website, without citing
anyone.  Airport Operations  Seismic activity at the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic
complex, which erupted June 4, is decreasing,  Chile ’s geological
and mining authority known as Sernageomin said in a  statement  on
its website June 30. Authorities are characterizing eruptions as
“minor” and don’t rule out an increase in intensity, it said.  Airports in southern Chile are operating normally, the
country’s aeronautical authority known as DGAC said in an e-
mailed response to questions
yesterday.  The ash has also disrupted travel in  Australia  and  New
Zealand . Aerolineas Argentinas’s Auckland and Sydney routes have
been forced to run on an “irregular” schedule, the airline
said yesterday. Lan Airlines on July 3 will operate a special
flight to Sydney via Tahiti, “climatic conditions permitting,”
it said.  Argentina is hosting the  Copa America , or America’s Cup,
 soccer tournament , which is starting with the first round of
matches this weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  