-- 
Statement by Euro-Area Finance Ministers on Aid Payment to Greece: Text

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-02T19:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/statement-by-euro-area-ministers-on-greek-aid-payment-text.html
Following is a statement issued today
by euro-area finance ministers after a conference call on aid to
 Greece .  Communiqué (02.07.2011)  DÉCLARATION DE L’EUROGROUPE SUR LA GRECE  Ministers welcomed the progress made by the Greek authorities in
implementing the policy understandings reached with the European
Commission, in liaison with the ECB, and the IMF. In particular,
Ministers noted with satisfaction the adoption of key laws on
the fiscal strategy and privatisation by the Greek Parliament.
Ministers therefore endorsed the Commission’s Compliance Report
and the signing of the updated Memorandum of Understanding.  The Greek authorities provided a strong commitment to adhere to
the agreed fiscal adjustment path and to the growth-enhancing
structural reform agenda, which are essential components of our
strategy to restore fiscal sustainability and safeguard
financial stability. Ministers call on all political parties in
Greece to support the programme’s main objectives and key policy
measures in order to ensure a rigorous and swift implementation.  In line with the 24 June European Council conclusions,
consultations with Greece’s creditors are underway in order to
define the modalities for voluntary private sector involvement
with a view to achieving a substantial reduction in Greece’s
year-by-year financing needs, while avoiding selective default.
Ministers took note of the statement issued by the  Institute of
International Finance  on behalf of its members as well as of the
commitments that have been made by financial market participants
in some Member States. The precise modalities and scale of
private sector involvement and additional funding from official
sources will be determined in the coming weeks so as to ensure
that, inter alia, required program financing is in place. This
financing strategy is intended to form the basis for launching a
new medium-term programme to support Greece’s adjustment efforts  Ministers agreed that the main parameters of a multi-year
adjustment programme for Greece will revolve around a continued
strong commitment to implementing fiscal consolidation measures
as well as ambitious and concrete structural reform and
privatisation plans. It will be supplemented by large-scale
technical assistance, provided by the Commission and Member
States.  Against this background and on the basis of the debt
sustainability analysis by the Commission and the IMF, Ministers
approve the disbursement of the fifth tranche of the current
Greek Loan Facility by 15 July following approval by the IMF
Board, as originally envisaged.  Communiqué par le président de l’Eurogroupe  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at +32-2-285-4312 or  jhayden1@bloomberg.net 
