-- 
U.S. Stocks Surge Most Since July 2009 on Greece, Manufacturing

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/u-s-stocks-surge-most-since-july-2009-on-greece-manufacturing.html
U.S. stocks posted the biggest weekly
rally in two years, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rising
648 points, after Greece took action to avoid a default,  Nike
Inc. (NKE) ’s earnings topped analyst estimates and U.S. manufacturing
growth rebounded.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  3M Co. (MMM) 
jumped at least 6.3 percent, pacing gains among companies most-
dependent on economic growth. Nike, the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, climbed 13 percent.  Visa Inc. (V)  surged 20
percent, the most in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the
 Federal Reserve  moved to set a less-severe limit on debit-card
swipe fees than previously proposed.  The S&P 500 surged 5.6 percent to 1,339.67. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average advanced 5.4 percent to 12,582.77 this week.
Both indexes rose all five days for the biggest weekly gains
since July 2009.  “It’s a week of major reversal,” said Stephen Lieber,
chief investment officer of Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC,
which manages about $7 billion, in Purchase,  New York . “As soon
as you got the first manufacturing indexes that began to turn
positive and then culminated by the Chicago manufacturing index
above estimates, it shifted confidence very positively.”  The gain helped the  S&P 500  erase about 75 percent of the
decline suffered since reaching its high for the year on April
29. Through June 24, U.S. equities had fallen for seven of the
previous eight weeks on concern the European debt crisis would
spread and the  U.S. economy  slow. The index is up 6.5 percent
for the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Greece’s New Financing  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, also
known as the VIX, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against declines in the S&P 500, tumbled 25 percent
this week, the biggest weekly drop since March.  The advance in equities marked a partial reversal of
returns that had favored companies and industries that are less
sensitive to economic growth. Since the S&P 500 slipped to its
low for the year on March 16, drugmakers, phone companies,
utilities and household-products producers have gained the most,
rising at least 9.7 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The biggest gains in last week’s rally were among so-called
cyclical stocks. Energy companies climbed 7.2 percent, computer
and software makers increased 6.8 percent, a group of retailers,
hoteliers and automakers added 6.6 percent and industrials rose
6.4 percent, the data show.  Greek Austerity  Stocks rose this week after Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou on June 29 clinched enough votes to pass the first
part of an austerity plan aimed at meeting European Union aid
requirements and staving off default for his debt-laden nation.
Lawmakers backed a bill on June 30 to authorize the measure.  Greece  may receive as much as 85 billion euros ($124
billion) in new financing, including a contribution from private
investors, in a second bailout aimed at preventing default and
ending the euro-region’s debt crisis, an Austrian Finance
Ministry official said.  “The major issue that was weighing down the market in the
prior five or six weeks was the issue in Greece,” said John Canally, investment strategist at Boston-based LPL Financial
Corp., which manages $330 billion in advisory and brokerage
assets. “Now that’s cleared up, the market’s got a little more
clarity. The move of this week in markets is pricing in a
sizable bounce in economic activity.”  Manufacturing Expands  Stocks extended gains after a report yesterday showed that
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in
June, a sign the industry is rebounding after shortages of parts
and components from  Japan  slowed production. The Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index rose to 55.3 last month from
53.5 in May. Economists estimated the index would drop to 52,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  The ISM report was a positive surprise, according to
investors, at a time when manufacturing growth is slowing from
 China  to  Europe , creating a dilemma for central bankers
considering higher  interest rates  to combat inflation. China’s
factory index fell to the lowest level since February 2009,
while in the 17-nation euro area, a gauge slipped to an 18-month
low. German manufacturing expanded at the weakest pace in 17
months, while Italy, Ireland, Spain and Greece contracted.  Business Expansion  Another report on June 30 showed businesses in the U.S.
unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in June. The Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business barometer
climbed to 61.1 this month from 56.6 in May. Economists called
for the index to drop to 54, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey. Figures greater than 50 signal
expansion. Consumer confidence rose to the highest level in 10
weeks, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed June 30.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index added 6.6 percent as all
of its 30 stocks gained. The Dow Jones Transportation Average of
20 stocks, a proxy for economic growth, rose 6.4 percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, surged 8.6 percent, the most in the Dow, to $108.62.
Jet engine maker United Technologies added 6.9 percent to
$90.13. 3M, the maker of Post-It Notes and films to brighten TV
screens, climbed 6.4 percent to $96.67.  Nike, Visa  Nike rallied 13 percent to $91.82, the highest price since
December, after posting better-than-expected profit projections
on June 28. Nike Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker has boosted
sales and reduced marketing costs from a year earlier, when Nike
promoted around the World Cup, to fight rising costs for cotton,
labor and transportation that have reduced profitability in the
apparel industry this year.  Visa jumped 20 percent to $87.97, its highest price in more
than a year, after the Fed moved to cap debit-card transaction
fees at 21 cents.  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  gained 15 percent reaching its
highest price since June 2008, $314.47.  An index of energy shares in the S&P 500 rose 7.2 percent,
the most among 10 groups as crude for August delivery settled at
$94.94 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Marathon Petroleum Corp., which replaced  RadioShack Corp. (RSH) 
in the S&P 500, increased 1.6 percent to $42.06 in its first day
of trading after the second-largest independent U.S. oil refiner
was spun off by Marathon Oil Corp.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s
second-largest oilfield services provider, advanced 12 percent
to $51.29 for the week.  Investors “are buying in front of the quarterly earnings
estimates that are going to be coming out,” said Michael Vogelzang, chief investment officer at Boston Advisors LLC,
which manages $1.9 billion. “It probably says something about
expectations for quarterly earnings.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first Dow-average company to report second-
quarter earnings, will give its results on July 11. Earnings at
S&P 500 companies rose 13 percent in the second quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Net income will
rise 19 percent in 2011, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  