-- 
U.S. 2-Year Notes Snap Longest Win Streak Since 1984 on Greece, U.S. Data

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-02T04:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/u-s-2-year-notes-snap-longest-win-streak-since-1984-on-greece-u-s-data.html
Treasury two-year notes snapped their
longest winning streak since 1984 after Greek lawmakers reduced
the risk of default by approving austerity measures and U.S.
reports showed signs of economic resilience.  Government offerings of $99 billion in notes this week drew
poor demand as the  Federal Reserve  conducted the final debt
purchases under its $600 billion second round of quantitative
easing. Yields on benchmark 10-year securities rose the most in
almost two years before next week’s U.S. payrolls report,
forecast to show employers added more jobs in June.  “We’re back to levels that are more justifiable,” said
Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “This whole flight-to-quality bid with  Greece  has
dissipated. The data on the week were better than expected,
perhaps showing signs that this was just a soft patch in the
road and the second half of 2011 will be better.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, to 3.19 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent securities
maturing in May 2021 fell 2 29/32, or $27.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 15/32  The 10-year note yields advanced yesterday to 3.22 percent,
the highest level since May 19. Their increase this week is the
biggest since they climbed 37 basis points during the five days
ended Aug. 7, 2009.  Two-Year Yields  Two-year note yields rose 15 basis points this week after
dropping for 11 straight weeks. That was the longest stretch of
decreases since September through November 1984, when the Fed
had switched to cutting from raising  interest rates .  Treasuries returned 2.4 percent in the second quarter after
losing 0.1 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The $35 billion offering of seven-year notes held three
days ago produced the lowest participation in more than two
years from a class of investors including foreign central banks.
The $35 billion government offering of five-year securities on
June 28 drew the lowest auction demand in a year. A record low
yield of 0.395 percent at the $35 billion sale of two-year notes
a day before that drew the weakest demand from the group
including central banks since February 2008.  Treasuries also fell this week as the Fed completed on June
30 its $600 billion program of debt buying, which was carried
out to cap borrowing costs. The central bank said after its June
21-22 policy meeting that it would maintain its policy of
reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings.  ‘Swift Repricing’  “There is definitely demand for 10-year Treasuries at 3.50
percent or 3.60 percent, but is there demand at 3.20 percent,
where they are now?” asked Amitabh Arora, an interest-rate
strategist in  New York  at Citigroup Inc., a primary dealer.
“There should be a fairly swift repricing.”  Bonds fell yesterday after a report showed manufacturing
unexpectedly grew at a faster pace. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing index increased to 55.3 in June, from
53.5 in the previous month. The median forecast of 77 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a drop to 52. Figures greater
than 50 signal expansion.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. reported
this week that its purchasing managers’ index climbed to 61.1
from 56.6 in May. The median forecast was for a drop to 54.  U.S. employers added 89,000 jobs in June after an increase
of 54,000 in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of 50 economists. The  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent, the Labor Department’s payrolls report may show.  Greece Aid  Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros ($124
billion) in new financing, including a contribution from private
investors, in a second bailout aimed at preventing default and
ending the euro-region’s debt crisis, Thomas Wieser, head of the
Austrian Finance ministry’s economic policy and financial
markets department, said this week in Vienna.  Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  secured passage
of 78 billion euros of additional budget cuts and revenue
measures needed to meet the targets of the original bailout.  President  Barack Obama  is trying to reach a compromise with
Republican lawmakers who are seeking spending cuts before they
agree to raise the nation’s borrowing limit, currently capped at
$14.3 trillion. The Treasury Department has said it has until
Aug. 2 before its ability to pay the  U.S. debt  expires.  “There are lots of uncertainties, whether it’s Greece, the
 U.S. economy , the debt ceiling,” said Eric Stein, a  money
manager  at Eaton Vance Management in  Boston . “We’re in a risk-
on, risk-off world where policy actions are definitely driving
markets.”  Geithner’s Tenure  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s potential
departure from the administration would force Obama to assemble
a new economic team as he enters a re-election campaign that’s
likely to be dominated by voter concern over jobs.  Geithner has told Obama that he’s considering leaving the
administration after the president reaches an agreement on the
debt limit, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “I live for this work,” Geithner said June 30 at the
Clinton Global Initiative in  Chicago . “It’s the only thing I’ve
ever done. I believe in it. We have a lot of challenges as a
country. I’m going to be doing it for the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  