-- 
Yankees Own 2-0 Lead in Interleague Series Against Cross-town Rival Mets

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-03T04:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-02/yankees-win-season-high-7th-straight-game-5-2-over-interleague-rival-mets.html
The  New York Yankees  won 5-2 last
night for their season-best seventh straight victory and a two
games to none lead over the  New York Mets  in the away set of 
their interleague cross-town series.  The Yankees (50-31) have taken four straight against the
Mets (41-42) after losing the first of three games at Yankee
Stadium in May, and the initial two meetings at Citi Field.  “You’ve got to feel good with where we are right now,”
Yankee first baseman Mark Teixeira said.  Curtis Granderson  hit his 22nd home run of this season to
start the Yankees’ four-run sixth inning. Robinson Cano tripled
to send home Teixeira and  Alex Rodriguez , then scored on Nick Swisher’s sacrifice fly to left field.  Eduardo Nunez , who replaced the injured  Derek Jeter  two
weeks ago, hit his third home run of the season in the ninth
inning to pad the Yankees’ lead.  “I feel great right now. I feel better when I play every
day,” Nunez told reporters. “But we can make adjustments. When
Jeter is coming back, I have to make adjustments.”  The Yankees are 14-3 since Jeter, 37, went on the disabled
list June 14 with a strained right calf. Nunez, 24, has started
all 17 games, batting .339 with two homers, five doubles and
seven RBIs.  Colon Wins No. 6  Bartolo Colon (6-3) allowed five hits and no runs while
striking out six in six innings for the Yankees. The Mets were
held scoreless until the bottom of the ninth, when they scored
twice on groundouts by  Jason Bay  and Lucas Duda off Yankee
relief pitcher Sergio Mitre.  Mets pitcher Dillon Gee (8-2) surrendered seven hits and
four runs in seven innings.  Mets shortstop  Jose Reyes  left the game in the third inning
with a tight left hamstring.  In other interleague games, it was Colorado 9, Kansas City
6; Florida 9, Texas 5; Tampa Bay 5, St. Louis 1; Los Angeles
Angels 7, Los Angeles Dodgers 1; Arizona 4, Oakland 2; Boston 10,
Houston 4; Milwaukee 8, Minnesota 7; Cleveland 3, Cincinnati 1;
Atlanta 5, Baltimore 4; Philadelphia 5, Toronto 3; and the
Chicago White Sox 1, the Chicago Cubs 0.  In the National League, it was Pittsburgh 5, Washington 3
in the first game of a doubleheader, and Washington 4,
Pittsburgh 3 in the nightcap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  