-- ‘Spending Cuts’ Lose Something in Translation
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-12-19T23:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/-spending-cuts-lose-something-in-translation.html
Oh for those halcyon days when Bill Clinton was in the White House, Republicans controlled both
houses of Congress, the economy was booming, unemployment was
low, the peace dividend was working its magic and the  federal
budget  was in surplus. (OK, so I omitted the tech bubble.)  If we could just restore those Clinton-era tax rates on top
earners, why, happy days would be here again!  Not exactly. The $1.2 trillion of revenue President  Barack Obama  hopes to generate by raising taxes on the rich, revised
from an initial $1.6 trillion, represents only a small down
payment on a budget solution. By minimizing the real source of
the problem, which is  runaway growth in entitlements , especially
health care, Obama isn’t doing the country any favors.  Let’s look at some of the numbers. In 1998, the first time
the federal government ran a  surplus  in three decades, outlays
totaled $1.65 trillion compared with receipts of $1.7 trillion.
For fiscal 2012, which ended Sept. 30, the respective numbers
were $3.5 trillion and $2.4 trillion.  Yes,  tax receipts  have been depressed as a result of five
years of recession and slow growth. But even if they were to
revert to their historical average of 18 percent of gross
domestic product, the dollar amount would be $2.8 trillion, 14
percent more than actual 2012 revenue.  Meanwhile, spending has more than doubled since 1998, a
result of two wars, new entitlements, the worst recession since
the Great Depression, multiple bailouts and a White House
occupied in succession by a compassionate conservative
(Republican George W. Bush) and an even more compassionate
liberal (Democrat Obama).  Cutting Antonyms  Looking at projections under what most analysts view as a
draconian, recession-inducing scenario -- the $600 billion
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases --
total spending continues to rise, according to the Congressional
Budget Office’s  10-year budget outlook .  Even with $1.2 trillion of discretionary spending cuts over
10 years as mandated by the  Budget Control Act of 2011 , outlays
would reach $5.5 trillion in 2022, 22.3 percent of GDP, the same
result as Obama’s proposed budget fix. If Congress were to
extend all the Bush-era tax cuts and other special perks,
government spending would hit $6 trillion in 2022.  Even someone following the budget negotiations closely
might be surprised to learn that there are no real cuts on the
table in the way normal people think of them. That goes for
Republican proposals, too. For example, households may decide to
reduce their holiday spending this year from $750 to $500 and
forgo the summer family vacation because times are tough. Those
are spending cuts.  Washington  is the only place where a cut isn’t a cut.
Instead, so-called spending cuts are reductions in the growth
rate of outlays as prescribed under current law. Nothing is cut.  Starting from current levels, if future spending were to
grow at the rate of inflation plus the rate of population
growth, 2022 outlays would be $4.8 trillion, according to
Michael Tanner, a senior fellow at the libertarian Cato
Institute in Washington. In other words, less than the feared
fiscal-cliff outcome.  For all of Obama’s insistence on raising  top tax rates , the
additional revenue he seeks doesn’t begin to solve the nation’s
fiscal problems. By 2022, just three programs -- Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security -- will consume 54 percent of the
 federal budget , up from 44 percent now, Tanner said. And “the
real explosion of entitlement costs takes place just outside the
10-year budget window.”  The Democrats’ talk of “cuts” to these programs, which
provide a social safety net for many Americans, is also
misleading. Again, these are cuts in the accelerating growth
rate of these programs. And if the projected savings from
Obamacare don’t materialize, the outlook is even worse.  Budget Lingo  A glance at the historical budget tables published by the
White House Office of Management and Budget puts all the talk
about spending cuts in perspective.  Nominal federal outlays  fell
by $61 billion, or 1.7 percent, in 2012, the first outright
reduction since the huge post-World War II declines in 1946-
1948.  Inflation-adjusted spending  has shown only a handful of
year-to-year declines, all small, in the decades since the post-
war demobilization.  As Tanner noted, inflation and population growth argue for
nominal spending increases. But outlays topped 24 percent of GDP
in each of the last four years, the highest by far since World
War II and well above the 20 percent historical average.  Ever since the election, the president has campaigned to
raise taxes on the rich, or families making more than $250,000 a
year. He has encouraged audiences to write to their
representative in Congress in support of what he says is his
election mandate.  Obama needs to ask something more. First, he should explain
that there’s a wide gap between the benefits to which Americans
have become accustomed, especially those for the elderly, and
the tax revenue needed to pay for those services. In other
words, Medicare as we know it isn’t an option.  Then the president should ask the question: What do you
want, and how much are you willing to pay for it? It’s something
Americans are going to have to decide in the not-too-distant
future, so we better start thinking about it now.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 