-- MTA Chief Lhota Plans to Quit, Clearing Path to City Hall
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/mta-chief-lhota-plans-to-quit-clearing-path-to-city-hall.html
Joseph Lhota, who led the New York
subways’ return to service days after Sandy’s floodwaters
inflicted the worst damage in the system’s 108-year history, has
told associates he’ll resign Dec. 21 as the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority chairman.  Lhota’s resignation would clear a path legally for him to
pursue a campaign for mayor next year, if he so chooses. Lhota,
a Republican, won’t announce his candidacy when he resigns, said
an associate from his days in  City Hall  as a deputy to former
Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani . The associate asked to remain anonymous
because he wasn’t authorized to speak about it publicly.  Lhota, 58, a former municipal-finance banker who was named
chairman of the MTA a year ago by Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a
Democrat, is barred by state law from political participation.
He would have to step down in order to campaign for mayor.  Advocates for his candidacy have sought to present their
case to New York City Republican activists, including party
chairmen in each of the five boroughs, friends said in
interviews last month. One said yesterday that Lhota has
informed Cuomo staff members of his intentions.  Some Republican county chairmen said they were interested.  “Joe Lhota’s candidacy would be one worth seriously
considering, and frankly I would like to see him get involved,”
said Robert Scamardella, who leads the  Republican Party  on
 Staten Island .  Republicans Outnumbered  Democratic voters outnumber Republicans in the city by
about 6 to 1, a fact that hasn’t stopped non-Democrats from
getting elected since 1993, when Giuliani first won the office.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  was first elected in 2001 as a
Republican, and ran on the party’s ballot line to win three
terms, although he dropped his formal affiliation and declared
himself an independent in 2007. Bloomberg, the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred
legally from running for a fourth term.  Lhota won bipartisan praise for providing steady leadership
last month in reviving a storm-paralyzed system that’s now
almost fully restored. Sandy struck New York on Oct. 29 with
hurricane-force winds and a tidal surge that inundated rail
stations and tunnels. It coated electrical and communications
equipment in the subways with corrosive saltwater, leaving
almost $5 billion in damage.  Quinn’s Praise  One measure of Lhota’s popularity became evident Nov. 13,
when sustained applause from business executives met City
Council Speaker Christine Quinn’s praise of his performance,
during a speech before the  Association for a Better New York , a
civic group. Quinn is a Democratic mayoral hopeful. The election
is set for Nov. 5.  In  Brooklyn , Republican County Chairman Craig Eaton said he
received two calls before the Thanksgiving holiday from high-
level Republicans who asked him to attend a meeting early next
week to discuss a candidate they said they weren’t able to name.
They provided enough information for him to assume they meant
Lhota, Eaton said.  Eaton said that at the time, he supported Adolfo Carrion,
51, a former Democratic Bronx Borough President and urban policy
adviser to President  Barack Obama . Carrion has given up his
party affiliation and expressed interest in running as a
Republican.  Other former Democrats whom the county chairmen have been
considering as potential mayoral candidates include George McDonald, 68, president of the  Doe Fund , a nonprofit job-
training program for the homeless; Tom Allon, 50, a newspaper
publisher; and  John Catsimatidis , 64, the billionaire leader of
companies including the Red Apple and Gristede’s supermarket
chains, Eaton said.  $13 Billion Budget  The MTA, with a proposed fiscal 2013 budget of about $13
billion, runs the city’s subways, buses and commuter trains,
including Metro-North and the Long Island Rail Road, carrying
8.5 million riders a day. It also operates several bridges and
tunnels, including the link between Brooklyn and  Lower
Manhattan , where Lhota ventured during Sandy’s peak.  Lhota started the job October 2011, replacing  Jay Walder ,
who had run the agency since 2009 and left to become the chief
executive officer of  MTR Corp. (66) ,  Hong Kong ’s urban rail operator.  The son of a New York City police officer, Lhota was a
municipal-finance banker at  Credit Suisse First Boston  before
joining the Giuliani administration in 1994 as finance
commissioner.  As deputy mayor for operations on Sept. 11, 2001, Lhota
helped coordinate the city’s response after two hijacked jets
slammed into the World Trade Center in the worst attack on U.S.
territory since  Pearl Harbor . He set up an emergency center on a
pier where agencies relocated and managed volunteer efforts and
interagency communications after the Twin Towers fell.  He was at the Hugh L. Carey Brooklyn-Battery tunnel the
night of Oct. 29 as Sandy’s storm surge produced record tides
that carried water from the Hudson and East Rivers over barriers
in Lower Manhattan, converging in a torrent that flooded
underground roadways and poured into several subway entrances
scattered throughout the 600-mile (965-kilometer) network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  