-- Absa Tanzania Unit to Boost Capital as Banks’ Bad Loans Grow
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-12-20T12:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/absa-s-tanzania-unit-to-boost-capital-as-banks-bad-loans-grow.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said shareholders are in talks
to boost capital at its Tanzanian unit to help it grow amid an
increase in bad debts and regulatory changes.  The National Bank of Commerce Ltd. in Tanzania remains well
capitalized, Johannesburg-based Absa said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. A plan to raise funds in the first
quarter of next year would support the lender’s growth
opportunities, Absa said.  NBC is considering boosting the capital it’s required to
hold against deposits by 4 percent by raising funds
“internally” and a decision will be made next month, Managing
Director Lawrence Mafuru said in an interview in the commercial
capital, Dar es Salaam. Absa owns 55 percent of NBC.  While lenders including  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  and  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI)  have expanded in the East African nation, bad
debts increased at four of Tanzania’s top six banks by assets in
the three months through September, according to Serengeti
Advisors Ltd., a Dar es Salaam-based research group. Impairments
at NBC, the fourth-largest lender, grew to 14.7 percent of total
loans in the third quarter, compared with 11.1 percent three
months earlier, it said.  Federal Bank of the Middle East Ltd.’s Tanzanian unit, the
country’s biggest lender, also reported increased bad debts
along with  National Microfinance Bank Ltd. (NMB)  and Standard
Chartered Bank Tanzania Ltd., Serengeti said.  Agricultural Loans  “We need the funds to allow the bank to face the market
with a lot more strength,” Mafuru said yesterday. “The money
will help the bank remain within regulatory requirements of
capital adequacy, as we increase lending and invest in
technology.”  Impairments have increased partly because of the failure by
borrowers in the agriculture industry to repay debts because of
lower cotton prices, Mafuru said.  About a quarter of all loans in Tanzania go to the
agriculture industry, with about 10 percent going to cotton
farmers, according to Mafuru. The fiber is Tanzania’s second-
biggest export commodity, after gold, he said.  The average ratio of non-performing loans to total loans
for all 45 banks that operate in Tanzania was 8.1 percent in
June, having risen from 7.5 percent in March and 6.7 percent
December 2011, according to the Bank of Tanzania.  Tanzanian lenders have the highest level of impairments in
the five-nation East African Community, said Abubakar Ukhotya,
operations manager at the central bank’s directorate of banking
supervision.  Tanzanian Growth  “Our desirable levels of NPL ratio to the loan book is 5
percent,” he said in an interview. The ratio in  Kenya , East
Africa’s biggest economy, is 5.4 percent, and 2.5 percent in
Uganda, according to World Bank data.  Tanzanian banks’ assets may grow as much as 15 percent next
year, spurred by an accelerating economy, increased electricity
output and expanding manufacturing and construction industries,
said Mafuru, who also heads the Tanzania Bankers Association.
Growth this year was 10 percent, according to Serengeti.  In the “medium term,” banks in Tanzania stand to benefit
from increased business from the discovery of 33 trillion cubic
feet of gas off its coast by companies including  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
and  Statoil ASA (STL) , it said.  “The hydrocarbon discoveries present significant
opportunity for domestic banks to support prospective local
suppliers of goods and services to the large firms carrying out
exploration and production activities in the gas sector,”
Serengeti analyst Aidan Eyakuze said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “I anticipate further banking asset growth to be
driven from these activities in the medium term.”  Tanzania, East Africa’s second-biggest economy, may grow
6.8 percent in 2013 compared with an estimated 6.5 percent this
year, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Tanzania’s government owns 30 percent of NBC, while the
International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private-lending
arm, holds 15 percent.  NBC last month reported net income fell by almost half to
4.2 billion shillings ($2.6 million) in the third quarter, from
8.2 billion shillings a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  