-- Accenture Falls as Longer Consulting Projects Crimp Revenue
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-20T21:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/accenture-sales-miss-estimates-as-customers-delay-spending.html
Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-
largest technology-consulting company, fell the most in more
than a month on a decline in first-quarter sales of its advice.  Revenue from  consulting , the company’s biggest unit, fell 3
percent from a year earlier to $3.96 billion, declining for the
third straight quarter. Total sales climbed 2.1 percent to $7.22
billion, compared with the $7.3 billion average estimate of 19
analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Clients of Accenture are choosing contracts over longer
periods that don’t produce revenue as quickly, Chief Financial
Officer Pamela Craig said yesterday on a conference call. She
said the pattern will continue into the second quarter, with
customers awaiting signs of  Europe ’s emergence from its credit
crisis, before revenue recovers in the second half of the year.  “The root cause of the revenue weakness is clients showing
a slow spending pace on small and mid-sized consulting deals,”
said Rod Bourgeois, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
 New York , in an e-mail. “Large-scale consulting deals -- where
Accenture is especially distinctive -- are experiencing healthy
demand.” He has the equivalent of a buy rating on the shares.  Accenture, incorporated in Dublin,  fell  2 percent to $69.02
at the close in New York, the biggest decline since Nov. 7. The
shares have risen 30 percent this year.  Sales Forecast  Sales in the fiscal second quarter will be $6.9 billion to
$7.15 billion, Accenture said, compared with the $7.14 billion
average estimate of analysts. Growth rates in outsourcing will
be higher than in consulting, which will be little changed in
the first half and then begin to show gains compared with 2012,
Craig said.  Net income  for the first quarter, which ended Nov. 30, rose
to $698.8 million, or $1.06 a share, from $642.1 million, or 96
cents a share, a year earlier, the company said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts predicted $1.05 a share.  Accenture boosted its forecast for 2013 earnings to a range
of $4.24 to $4.32 a share, compared with the $4.27 average
estimate of analysts. Accenture is able to make the forecast
with certainty because of contracts it already knows it will be
able to record, Chief Executive Officer Pierre Nanterme said.  After a slowdown in revenue, “the fact that we are
contracting on longer-term consulting will make all the final
business more resilient with more visibility over time,” he
said.  Outsourcing Gains  Outsourcing sales rose 9 percent to $3.26 billion as more
customers hired Accenture to cut costs by shifting work
overseas.  A lower  tax rate  helped boost profits, said Jamie Friedman,
an analyst at Susquehanna International Group in New York.
Investors were surprised that Accenture booked negative  cash
flow , the result of a $500 million pension contribution, he
said.  “It’s rare to see negative cash flow from Accenture,”
said Friedman, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on the
shares, in an e-mail.  The company trails only International Business Machines
Corp. in technology-consulting sales. IBM, based in Armonk, New
York, is scheduled to report quarterly earnings next month for
the period ending in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  