-- ACLU Sues Michigan Over Licenses for Illegal Immigrants
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-19T21:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/aclu-sues-michigan-over-licenses-for-illegal-immigrants.html
The  American Civil Liberties Union 
sued  Michigan  Secretary of State Ruth Johnson for refusing to
issue drivers’ licenses and identification cards to illegal
immigrants covered by President  Barack Obama ’s “deferred
action” directive.  Announced in June, that initiative lets those who came to
the U.S. illegally before age 16, have been in the country for
at least five years, have no criminal record and are in either
school or have completed a high school education, remain and to
obtain a work permit.  Johnson’s refusal to issue documents to those qualified for
the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program violates the
federal constitutional principle that the nation’s laws are
supreme over those of the states, the ACLU alleged in a
complaint filed today at the U.S. court in  Detroit .  “Defendant’s position is that although the federal
government has authorized DACA recipients to work in the  United
States , it has not authorized them to be present,” the civil
rights group said in its filing. “This position not only
violates common sense, it also violates federal law.”  Judge’s Declaration  The ACLU filed its complaint on behalf of the immigrant-
rights organization One Michigan and four individuals. They are
seeking a federal judge’s declaration that the deferred-action
directive allows those covered to be legally present in the U.S.
and that Johnson’s position is invalid.  They also seek a court order enjoining Johnson and her
staff from denying licenses and IDs to people covered by DACA.  Gisgie Davila Gendreau, a spokeswoman for the secretary of
state, said today in a phone interview that Michigan law bars
the issuance of a driver’s license to anyone who isn’t legally
in the U.S.  The federal government has said deferred action doesn’t
make those it covers legal residents, Davila Gendreau said, “so
we are not able to issue driver’s licenses to DACA participants
under Michigan law.”  About 800,000 undocumented immigrants would be covered by
the plan, the president said in June.  The case is One Michigan v. Johnson, 12cv15551, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  