-- ADIB Drops on Bets Bank Dividend to Disappoint: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-19T11:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/adib-drops-on-bets-bank-dividend-to-disappoint-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB)  fell the
most in eight months on speculation the United Arab Emirates’
second-biggest shariah-compliant lender may recommend a full-
year dividend that’s below expectations.  The stock retreated 3.1 percent, the biggest drop since
April 12, to 3.08 dirhams at the close in the U.A.E. capital.
About 2.56 million shares were traded today, more than 13 times
the three-month daily average. Abu Dhabi Islamic was the  biggest
decliner  in percentage terms on the benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) ,
which rose less than 0.1 percent.  The lender last month raised $1 billion from the sale of
Tier-1 perpetual sukuk, which don’t mature, paying a coupon of
6.375 percent. The notes, which can be treated as equity, come
as Abu Dhabi Islamic seeks to boost its Tier-1 capital ratio to
more than 15 percent from 13.7 percent at the end of September
as part of plans to expand lending. The lender paid a 0.2442
dirham  cash dividend  for 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are worried the 2012 dividend won’t meet
expectations,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based
Al Fajer Securities. “This is especially after the increasing
interest payment on new debt acquired.”  Abu Dhabi Islamic, whose shares have dropped 2.5 percent
this year, reported a 3 percent advance in  third-quarter profit .
Tier 1 capital, which guards against business losses, includes
common stock, retained earnings, and perpetual preferred stock
and debt.  One analyst recommends investors  buy the shares  of Abu
Dhabi Islamic, while three have a hold rating on the stock and
one advises selling it, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  