-- Madoff Victim to Speak at Brother’s Sentencing, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-19T21:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/madoff-victim-to-speak-at-brother-s-sentencing-u-s-says.html
More than 20 victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s fraud wrote to the court about its impact on their
lives in advance of tomorrow’s sentencing of the confidence
man’s brother, Peter, who pleaded guilty in June.  Peter Madoff , 67, who worked for Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC for four decades, pleaded guilty in
June to helping his brother pull off the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in
history. He also denied knowing about the fraud and in court
papers said he was also a “victim” of his brother’s scheme.  As part of an agreement with prosecutors, Peter Madoff
agreed not to seek less than the maximum 10-year prison term
allowed by law and to forfeit his assets up to $143 billion. He
asked the court to let him attend the bat mitzvah of his
granddaughter before his prison term begins.  Michael DeVita, who said he and his wife, Emma, were
victims of the Madoff fraud, has asked to address the court and
wrote that Peter Madoff had to know about the fraud as it
occurred “right under his nose.”  “It is beyond belief that Madoff alone carried out a crime
lasting decades, involving hundreds of feeder fund money
raisers, tens of thousands of investors and printing hundreds of
thousands of stock confirmations and monthly statements,”
DeVita wrote.  Own Account  DeVita wrote that Peter Madoff had admitted depositing just
over $32,000 in his own personal BLMIS investment account and
withdrawing more than $16 million.  “I ask that you show the same degree of compassion for
Peter Madoff that he showed for us -- none!” DeVita wrote in
his letter to U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in
 Manhattan . “You have an opportunity to give an enhanced degree
of justice to Peter’s victims and at the same time send  Wall
Street  a message that the white collar crime of defrauding
investors will result in much more than a fine or slap on the
wrist.”  Wendy Olsen Clancy, a victim witness coordinator with the
Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office, in a Dec. 17 letter to the
judge that was made public today, said DeVita has asked to speak
at the sentencing.  Peter Madoff’s guilty plea to two criminal charges came
three years to the day after his brother was sentenced to 150
years in prison. During his plea hearing, Peter Madoff told the
court he had no knowledge of Bernard Madoff’s scheme until Dec.
9, 2008, the night his brother confessed to him that the
investment business was a sham.  Bernard Madoff  was arrested and
confessed to authorities two days later, on Dec. 11.  Peter Madoff pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and
one count of falsifying records of an  investment adviser . Both
offenses carry maximum sentences of five years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  