-- Venezuela Court Could Rule on Chavez Inauguration, Officials Say
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-20T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/maduro-says-high-court-can-decide-issue-of-chavez-taking-office.html
Top Venezuelan officials have left
open the possibility that cancer-stricken President  Hugo Chavez 
may not have to be sworn-in Jan. 10 to start a new six-year
term, as stipulated in the country’s constitution.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said yesterday that while
he’s praying for the president’s recovery in Cuba, the country’s
constitutional court “has a great capacity to interpret the
constitution” with respect to the swearing-in date. National
Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  told reporters on Dec. 18
that there are precedents for delaying inaugurations in
Venezuela, El Nacional reported.  The comments alarmed an opposition concerned that the
government may try to delay the ceremony, and subsequent
national elections, if Chavez is too ill to take office.  “The president should present himself on January 10 and
take his oath,” opposition alliance secretary Ramon Jose Medina
said in a statement yesterday. “The date is constitutionally
set and can’t be changed for personal opinions or political
convenience.”  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before Jan. 10,
Maduro would see out the rest of the current term and then hand
over power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30
days. If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10 but does
not step down, the National Assembly president must determine if
the absence is temporary or absolute.  Both Cabello and Maduro have made conflicting statements on
the issue. Calls to Cabello’s office by Bloomberg weren’t
answered. An official at the presidential press office, who
asked not to be named because of ministry policy, said yesterday
that he could not immediately provide clarification on Maduro’s
comments.  ‘Constitutional Advantage’  “We have a constitutional advantage,” Maduro said in
statements broadcast on state television. “For any issue that
needs to be settled, we’ve got the  Constitutional Court , which
has a great capacity to interpret the constitution. If needed,
the court is a judicial and moral reserve of the republic.”  Cabello said it is up to the  Supreme Court  to decide
whether or not to change the date of the inauguration, according
to El Nacional, which cited comments he made to journalists
after a nationally televised address in which he dismissed
speculation that any such change was being considered by
Chavez’s United Socialist Party of Venezuela.  Cabello added that in his personal opinion it’s unfair to
disregard the views of 8 million people who voted for Chavez in
presidential elections in October by not allowing him to take
office if he’s not back by the scheduled inauguration date, the
Caracas-based newspaper reported.  Conflicting Statements  “We don’t have any other scenarios,” Cabello said on
state television on Dec. 18. “There is a date established in
the constitution. We want the president to recover and be
healthy, and God willing, that’s how it will be.”  Chavez, 58, suffered a respiratory infection this week
after having his fourth cancer-related surgery in Cuba last
week, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said in a national
address on Dec. 18. Chavez is in stable condition, Villegas
said.  Maduro said yesterday that Chavez’s health is improving
with each day and that he hoped the President would recover in
time for the Jan. 10 inauguration.  “We have a very complete constitution, and we will
continue to follow it,” Maduro said. “It wouldn’t be good to
start speculation. We’re certain that we’re heading toward the
best scenario and we will work for that.”  The former paratrooper first told Venezuelans he had cancer
in June 2011 after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an
abscess from his pelvic area. During the surgery, doctors
discovered a baseball-sized tumor in the same area, he said.  Chavez said Dec. 9 that Venezuelans should elect Maduro as
his successor if he is prevented from completing the third, six-
year term he won in elections in October. Chavez may not be well
again in time to be sworn in for a third term on the scheduled
inauguration date, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said on
Dec. 12.  Power Vacuum  “If the absence is temporary, the president of the
National Assembly should assume the presidency so there’s no
power vacuum and then swear in the president-elect when the
temporary absence ends,” Jorge Pabon, a constitutional lawyer
and former dean of the law school at the Central University of
 Venezuela , said yesterday in a telephone interview. “If the
absence is absolute, he must call an election and take office in
that period.”  Maduro said the government remains united behind Chavez.  “We have sworn loyalty to Chavez and to building a
profound brotherhood among us, to preempt intrigues and
accompany Chavez in his recovery,” Maduro said yesterday.
“It’s superior to the political issue, it’s a spiritual
union.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  