-- Agnico-Eagle Outperforms Peers After Arctic Gold Rebound
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-12-19T21:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/agnico-eagle-outperforms-peers-after-arctic-gold-rebound.html
Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., Canada’s
fifth-biggest gold producer, is outperforming global competitors
including  Barrick (ABX)  Gold Corp. after overcoming weather conditions
at its Arctic mine that sent costs soaring.  Agnico has  surged  37 percent in 2012, the biggest gain
among 17 gold miners larger than $7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company beat  earnings estimates  for
three straight quarters and now trades at a peer-leading price-
to-earnings ratio of 32 times.  The company ’s performance is at odds with the rest of the
gold industry. The S&P/TSX Global Gold Sector  Index (SPTSGD)  of 55
companies has slumped 19 percent this year while gold prices are
up 6.6 percent in New York. Barrick and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  are
among miners saddled with cost inflation that outpaces the price
of the metal.  Agnico is “able to manage the startup of new mines, and
new mines never get started up smoothly,” said John Ing, chief
executive officer and a gold analyst at Toronto-based brokerage
Maison Placements  Canada  Inc., which doesn’t own Agnico shares.
“But unlike a lot of their peers, they are able to look at it
and straighten things out. That attests to their mining
skills.”  Improved Production  The Toronto-based company’s successes can be attributed
partly to improved production and lowered costs at Meadowbank,
Canada’s most northerly gold mine. Output at the operation, now
Agnico’s top producer, reached a record in the third quarter, 42
percent higher than a year earlier, while costs fell 29 percent.  Dominique Girard, Meadowbank’s general manager, said the
company had to adapt to the challenges of Meadowbank’s
remoteness and climate.  On an early-September afternoon, 17 of the mine’s 21 haul
trucks were available to carry waste rock and ore out of the
pit.  That made it a “good day,” said Girard, sitting in a
pick-up truck watching the mining vehicles crawl up and down the
sides of the 2-kilometer (1.2-mile) long pit. Just 19 months
earlier on an icy February morning, not one piece of loading
equipment was ready for use.  “It was a nightmare,” Girard, 36, said in an interview.
“Everything was parked, everything was frozen. How do you
produce when you don’t have equipment?”  Small Window  The operation 70 kilometers from Baker Lake, Nunavut
territory, which started production in 2010, relies on a 10-week
shipping window for most supplies of food, equipment and
materials before winter returns. That means that a small
miscalculation or broken part can have massive consequences,
Girard said. Equipment needs to be kept running year-round in
temperatures that can drop to minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58
Fahrenheit).  After a review, managers drew up procedures that bar
workers from loading equipment to full capacity when the
temperature descends to minus 38 Celsius, Girard said.  Equipment breakdowns were a big problem in  2011 (AEM) , Agnico CEO
Sean Boyd said in a telephone interview yesterday from Toronto.  “We brought in new people and a new program on the
maintenance side,” Boyd said. As a result, “we were able to
move the waste we needed to move and we were also able to get
the tons to the plant in volumes that were higher than what we
had in our budget.”  Operational Successes  Boyd links the operational successes at Meadowbank with the
company’s  share gain .  “I think three-quarters of the performance this year was
basically just executing, doing what we said we were going to
do,” Boyd said.  Meadowbank’s operators also had to figure out why processed
ore initially was lower grade than expected, inflating costs. By
using cameras, they realized the blast holes used to extract
rock were freezing and started to close up before they could be
filled with the proper amount of explosives.  Agnico, which  fell  0.6 percent to C$50.90 at the close
today in Toronto, lost 52 percent of its value in 2011. A fire
in March that year destroyed Meadowbank’s kitchen facilities and
helped lead to the company lowering its 2011 production
forecast. In October of that year, Agnico said it would suspend
output indefinitely at the Goldex mine in  Quebec  because of
ground instability and flooding.  Given its gains this year, the company may have limited
potential to rise further, with 17 of 25  analysts recommending 
investors hold the company’s shares, versus seven buys.  ‘Up There’  “I think that it’s up there as far as its value goes,”
David West, a Vancouver-based analyst at Salman Partners Inc.,
said by phone last week. “It’s at or very close to where it
pretty much should be.” West rates Agnico a hold.  Barrick, based in Toronto, is the top Canadian gold miner
by trailing 12-month revenue, followed by  Goldcorp Inc. (G) ,  Kinross
Gold Corp. (K)  and  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)   Barrick’s  earnings  have missed analysts’ average estimates
for four consecutive quarters and the company raised its
forecast for total cash costs Nov. 1 to a range of $575 to $585
an ounce in 2012, up from $550 to $575 previously. Barrick also
increased the cost forecast for Pascua-Lama, a mine it’s
building in the Andes.  Newmont, the largest U.S. gold company, said the same day
that attributable production in 2012 would be at the low end of
its forecast of 5 million to 5.1 million ounces and that it
expects gold costs per ounce will be at the high end of a
narrower range of $650 to $675.  Raised Forecast  In comparison, Agnico raised its total production forecast
twice this year, and in October lowered its 2012 cost projection
to $660, from $690 previously.  Agnico has succeeded because it set targets it could
achieve, while other producers have disappointed and been forced
to cut forecasts, said Greg Orrell, president of Orrell Capital
Management in Livermore,  California , which manages about $200
million including Agnico shares.  “They were ahead of the curve in terms of bringing their
guidance down to the levels they could meet,” Orrell said
yesterday by phone.  Meadowbank produced 110,988 ounces of gold in the third
quarter, at a per-ounce cost of $734. The costs, which improved
from $1,033 a year earlier, still were higher than Agnico’s
average of $556 in the quarter.  Agnico operates mines in Canada,  Finland  and  Mexico  and
announced Sept. 4 it approved construction at another operation
in Mexico’s Sonora state.  While Meadowbank will probably always be a relatively high-
cost producer because of its location, Agnico’s management has
done well to improve operations, Maison Placements’ Ing said
yesterday in a phone interview.  “They looked at Meadowbank with different eyeglasses, from
a different point of view,” Ing said. “Gold-mining steering is
like moving a super tanker; they were able to do that in a few
quarters, and to their credit have recaptured their premium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  