-- Hague Urged to Publish U.K. Legal Advice on Syria Strikes
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-12-19T15:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/hague-urged-to-publish-u-k-legal-advice-on-syria-strikes.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague
should make public any legal advice he has had on possible
military strikes against  Syria , the chairman of a cross-party
panel of lawmakers said.  Richard Ottaway, the chairman of the House of Commons
Foreign Affairs Committee, wrote to Hague yesterday expressing
concern over rhetoric that he said points toward western
intervention in the Syrian civil war. The letter was distributed
to reporters in London today.  “Developments and statements on Syria have caused the
committee to become increasingly concerned that momentum is
building toward some form of Western-backed military action and
that the government is considering becoming involved in such
action imminently, without consulting Parliament,” Ottaway
wrote. “The background and circumstances of the conflict are
very different to those that were present before the 2011
coalition intervention in Libya, which had the backing of a UN
resolution.”  Almost 44,000 people have died in the conflict, according
to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Prime
Minister David Cameron and fellow European Union leaders agreed
last week to look at all options to help Syria’s opposition
remove the “illegitimate regime” of President Bashar al-Assad.
EU foreign ministers will discuss revising an arms embargo next
month to allow for possible military support.  That move, along with U.K. recognition of the opposition
and Hague’s warning that the Syrian regime should not
“miscalculate how we would react to any use of chemical or
biological weapons” were cited by Ottaway as examples of a
drift to military action.  “We strongly condemn the Assad regime for its unacceptable
repression of its own people,” Ottaway wrote. “However, grave
concerns have been expressed by some members of the house about
the value, legitimacy and legality of Western intervention in
Syria.”  Hague should follow the precedent of the action in Libya
and publish a summary of his legal advice, and there should be a
debate in Parliament before the U.K. become involved in military
action, Ottaway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  