-- Thai Editor Detained 20 Months for Royal Insult May Face Verdict
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-12-19T01:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/thai-editor-detained-20-months-for-royal-insult-may-face-verdict.html
Thai editor and labor activist
Somyot Pruksakasemsuk, who has been detained since April 2011 on
charges of insulting the royal family, may face a verdict as
early as today, according to his lawyer.  Bangkok’s Criminal Court may either set a date for the
verdict or make a ruling when Somyot appears at a hearing today,
lawyer Karom Polthaklang said by phone. Somyot, who maintains
his innocence, has been denied bail 10 times since his arrest,
which came five days after a group he’s involved with started a
campaign to review the law that he’s charged with breaching.  The cases of Somyot and others charged with insulting the
royal family have generated concern from the United Nations as
calls grow within  Thailand  to change the lese-majeste law, which
falls under the criminal code’s Article 112. It mandates jail
sentences as long as 15 years for defaming, insulting or
threatening the king, queen, heir apparent or regent.  “According to the constitution, the accused must be
treated as innocent until the final ruling,” Karom said by
phone. “But the court didn’t look at it that way. How can his
bail be rejected 10 times? He never had a bad record and he
never had an intention to flee.”  King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 85, assumed the throne in 1946 and
serves as head of state. Thailand’s constitution says the king
“shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall
not be violated.”  Magazine Articles  Somyot faces a lese-majeste charge for allowing the
publication of two magazine articles that make negative
references to the monarchy, according to the  112 Family Network ,
a support group for those detained because of royal insults.
Somyot is among seven people known to be currently imprisoned on
lese majeste charges, the group said.  In August, the U.N. Working Group on Arbitrary Detention
 said  that Somyot’s detention contravened the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which was ratified by
Thailand in 1996. It called for the government to release
Somyot, noting that all public figures, including heads of
state, are subject to criticism and political opposition.  “Thailand never has human rights,” Karom said. “We may
say it in the book, but we never respect it. It’s just the way
people use the law to benefit them politically. Our system is
still underdeveloped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  