-- Taiwan Holds Rate for Sixth Meeting as Economy Starts to Rebound
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-12-19T09:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/taiwan-holds-rate-for-sixth-meeting-as-economy-starts-to-rebound.html
Taiwan kept  interest rates  unchanged
for the sixth straight meeting amid signs the island’s growth is
gathering pace and inflation has stabilized.  The central bank held the  discount rate  on 10-day loans to
banks at 1.875 percent, it said in a statement in Taipei today.
The decision was predicted by all 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The monetary authority has refrained from adjusting
borrowing costs since June 2011.  Taiwan follows Asian nations including  South Korea  and
 India  in refraining from cutting rates as data from China and
the U.S. show the global economy may be rebounding. The island
last month raised its  growth  estimates for 2012 and 2013 as
inflation slowed from a four-year peak in August.  “ Taiwan ’s economy is recovering, it’s past the point of a
rate cut,” Sylvia Chiu, an economist at SinoPac Financial
Holdings Co. in Taipei, said before the decision. “Although
rises in consumer prices had been quite rapid, they have
subsided.”  The  Taiwan dollar  closed little changed at NT$29.102
against its U.S. counterpart before the rate decision. It is
among the best performers this year of the 11 most-widely traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, having gained more than 4
percent. The benchmark Taiex Index advanced 0.4 percent.  The currency is headed for a fourth annual gain,
undermining the profit potential of companies including Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and HTC Corp. The central bank
has stepped into the  currency market  to slow appreciation.  China Demand  Exports, which make up about 60 percent of gross domestic
product, have fallen for eight months in 2012, and the
statistics bureau estimates shipments will contract 2.16 percent
this year. Still, overseas sales climbed 0.9 percent in November
from a year earlier as demand from China improved.  The slowdown in the Chinese economy appears to have
bottomed out, the  World Bank  said today. Taiwan’s largest
trading partner has set its initial target for economic growth
at 7.5 percent for a second year, two bank executives and a
regulatory official said this month, asking not to be named as
they weren’t authorized to disclose the details.  Closer ties between  China  and Taiwan through trade and
investment relations, as well as a currency clearance agreement,
can boost the island’s domestic consumption, according to Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based regional economist at Barclays Plc.  “The main catalyst for domestic demand is the evolution of
cross-strait ties,” Leong said in a note. These are “awakening
the exportable services engines of the economy -- in tourism-
related services and real estate -- creating new job and
investment opportunities.”  Selective Controls  Taiwan’s  unemployment rate  held at 4.3 percent in October,
the highest in more than a year. President Ma Ying-jeou’s
approval rating is at a record-low 13 percent, according to a
November poll by Taiwan cable news network TVBS.  The island’s monetary authority imposed selective credit
controls on luxury housing from June, and has scaled back open-
market operations to pump money into the market. The  outstanding
amount  of certificates of deposits have dropped to NT$6.6
trillion ($227 billion) from this year’s peak of NT$7 trillion
in March. The central bank auctions 30-, 91-, and 182-day bills
every day to control liquidity in the financial system.  The economy may expand 1.13 percent this year and 3.15
percent next year, the government said last month. Inflation is
forecast at 1.93 percent in 2012 and 1.27 percent in 2013.  Inflation slowed for a third month in November, with the
 consumer price index  climbing 1.59 percent from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in seven months. A planned electricity price
increase has been postponed to next year.  “Inflation has eased but at the same time we haven’t seen
the economy really improve,” said Tobby Lin, a fixed-income
trader at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. “It doesn’t seem
like the right time for the central bank to increase or lower
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  