-- Majorities Favor Bans on Assault Weapons and Clips, Poll Shows
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-19T23:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/majorities-favor-bans-on-assault-weapons-and-clips-poll-shows.html
More than 6 in 10 Americans support
a ban on assault rifles and high-ammunition magazines, according
a poll conducted after last week’s mass shootings in Newtown,
 Connecticut .  The  CNN/ORC International survey  showed 62 percent of
respondents back such restrictions, while 37 percent oppose both
the assault-weapons ban and the prohibition on the high-
ammunition clips.  Also in the poll, 95 percent favor background checks on all
gun purchasers and 92 percent approve banning felons and those
with mental health problems from owning weapons. Fifteen percent
said gun ownership should be illegal except for police and other
authorized personnel, while 37 percent supported major
restrictions on having a firearm and 33 percent backed minor
restrictions. Opposing any restrictions were 13 percent.  Following the Dec. 14 shootings at an elementary school in
Newtown by Adam Lanza that killed 20 children and 6 adults, 43
percent of respondents said they were more likely to support
stricter gun-control laws. Seven percent said they would be less
likely to support such legislation, while 50 percent said their
positions hadn’t changed.  The poll was released shortly after House Democrats called
on Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , to allow a vote in
the chamber before the end of the year on legislation to ban the
high-ammunition magazines, which have been used in recent mass
shootings.  ‘Reasonable Step’  A sponsor of the bill, Representative  Diana DeGette  of
 Colorado , called it “a first and reasonable step” toward
addressing the problem of gun violence. Without the magazines, a
shooter would have to stop and reload, making him vulnerable.  “We can probably never stop a disturbed individual
completely,” said DeGette, whose congressional district
includes Aurora, where 12 people died in a shooting at a movie
theater in July. “But we can give those victims a fighting
chance.”  Representative Carolyn McCarthy of  New York , elected to the
House in 1996 after her husband was killed and son injured in a
mass shooting on the Long Island Railroad, said the Connecticut
murders changed the tone of the debate over  gun control . A ban
on assault weapons, enacted in 1994, was allowed to expire a
decade later with no move to renew it.  “This time it is different and we all know it,” McCarthy
said at a news conference held by House Democrats today in
Washington. “That is mainly because of the victims.”  She added that the government “can protect the Second
Amendment rights but we can also protect our communities,”
referring to the part of the U.S. Constitution giving citizens
the right to bear firearms.  Obama’s Call  President  Barack Obama  today urged Congress to vote early
next year on restricting military-style weapons and high-
capacity ammunition clips. He said Vice President  Joe Biden 
would lead an effort to draft proposals to address mental health
and cultural issues contributing to gun violence, in addition to
offering legislation on ownership.  A House Democratic task force announced by Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi  of  California  also will look at issues such as
mental health and violence in society in addition to gun laws.
The group will be led by Representative Mike Thompson, a
California Democrat and Vietnam veteran who also is a former co-
chairman of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus.  For the most part, congressional Republicans have embraced
examining mental health and societal issues such as violent
video games, though not new restrictions on gun ownership.  “You had an issue with someone who had documented mental
health problems,” said Representative Charles Boustany Jr., a
Louisiana Republican, referring to Lanza. “Approaching this
from a gun-law standpoint doesn’t address these problems.”  “What we have is a violent culture separate from guns,”
said Representative Tim Griffin, an Arkansas Republican.  The CNN survey taken Dec. 17-18 of 620 adults had a margin
of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 