-- Allstate Bets on Home Insurance as Stock Rally Withstands Sandy
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/allstate-bets-on-home-insurance-as-stock-rally-withstands-sandy.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  Chief Executive
Officer Tom Wilson is poised to expand the homeowners’ insurance
business that he shrunk by more than a million policies in the
last four years to reduce risk and boost shareholder returns.  Wilson, 55, is working to improve customer loyalty after a
consolidation of Allstate agencies and rate increases led to
defections in recent years. He’s also seeking to differentiate
the insurer from other carriers by focusing on  customer service .  “We’re on the glide path to get that business to where it
earns a decent return,” Wilson said in an interview this month
in his office in Northbrook,  Illinois , where Allstate is based.
“I haven’t declared victory yet, but I think we’re about
ready” to stop shrinking and expand again.  Allstate has been buying reinsurance, raising prices and
limiting sales in vulnerable areas to guard against higher
claims costs from severe weather. That strategy helped the
insurer cushion losses from Sandy, the October storm that
battered the U.S. Northeast. It’s also helped fuel a 51 percent
rally in the stock price this year and is leading the company to
its biggest  profit  since 2007.  “Sandy made management look very good” to investors, Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said in a
phone interview. “The loss was a lot less than what it could
have been historically.”  The storm and other natural disasters in October cost
Allstate $1.08 billion before taxes and after reinsurance
recoveries. That compares with  $857 million  for Hurricane Ike in
2008, which led to  $12.5 billion  in industry losses.
Industrywide, Sandy could cost twice as much, according to
catastrophe modeler Risk Management Solutions Inc.  Sandy Response  Allstate’s customers complained to regulators in half of
one percent of the more than 78,000 claims the insurer has
logged in New York since Sandy through Dec. 13, according to
data compiled by the Department of Financial Services. That
ranks the insurer 15th among 24 companies tracked by the state.  Allstate had about  6 million  policyholders for its namesake
brand of homeowners’ coverage at the end of September compared
with  7.3 million  four years earlier, according to data on its
website. In New York and  New Jersey , two of the states hardest-
hit by Sandy, the policy count dropped by  more than 20 percent 
since the middle of 2006.  “We’ve done the  risk reduction  for the most part already”
and now are thinking about how to “shift into growth mode,”
said Matt Winter, who leads the unit that sells the insurer’s
namesake brand of auto and home coverage.  Car Insurance  The shrinking homeowners’ business has put pressure on
Allstate’s more-profitable car-insurance segment. As the insurer
stopped protecting some homes, customers who had bundled both
types of coverage chose to buy their auto policies elsewhere,
Wilson has said.  “When you tell 1.2 million customers, ‘We’re sorry, we
can’t provide you insurance anymore,’ if they have their auto
insurance with you, they typically are not happy about it,”
Wilson said this month at an investor conference.  Sandy also presents challenges.  The storm flooded the garage and basement in Debra and
Billy Dong’s home in the Gerritsen Beach neighborhood of
 Brooklyn , destroying the boiler, washer, dryer and years of
Christmas decorations.  The couple estimates damage is at least $50,000. Allstate
sent them a check for about $7,600 to cover damage to their
roof, garage door, windows and other parts of the home, they
said. They don’t have flood insurance, which is typically
underwritten by the federal government rather than companies
like Allstate.  Repeated Calls  Three separate adjusters have been assigned to their claim
since the storm, they said, and repeated calls to their agent’s
office weren’t answered. The couple said they wouldn’t choose
Allstate again after paying the insurer for three decades,
including the latest annual premium of almost $2,000.  “If I’d put that money in an account, I’d be sitting
pretty,” Debra Dong, a public school teacher, said this month
in an interview at her home.  Wilson praised the company’s response to Sandy and said
that Allstate representatives were among the first to arrive in
affected areas after the storm and are proactive about asking
customers if they have claims. At the same time, the insurer
can’t be responsible for paying for flood damage that it doesn’t
cover, he said.  Allstate has had fewer complaints as a percentage of claims
than some competitors, including State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co.,  Hartford (HIG)  Financial Services Group Inc. and
 Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the New York Department of Financial Services
data show. The measure for the three companies is below 0.6
percent of claims.  Allstate’s Record  Wilson’s company spent on average 8.7 days between when a
claim is reported and an inspection in New York, compared with
10.4 days for Travelers, 12.7 for Hartford and 18.8 for State
Farm, DFS data show. Reporting companies have different mixes of
business, which can affect response times. Allstate has closed
68 percent of claims in New York, compared with 53 percent for
Hartford, 59 percent for State Farm and 77 percent for
Travelers, the regulator’s data show.  “You tend to polarize your customer base” after large
events like Sandy, said Newsome, the Sandler O’Neill analyst.
“If you pay a claim well in a disaster, then people are
immensely grateful and tend to be extremely loyal.” Companies
can also alienate clients who feel they are mistreated, he said.  Investors missed that Allstate’s efforts to mitigate risk
were already in place last year because the industry losses from
 Hurricane Irene , tornadoes and other severe weather were so
large, said Josh Shanker, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. Sandy
helped reinforce that the company was less exposed, said
Shanker, who raised his rating on the company to buy last year
when it was trading for less than $27 a share.  Earnings Outlook  The insurer’s earnings will probably more than double to
$1.86 billion this year from last, according to the average
 estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock had
climbed 86 percent to $41.35 through yesterday from a three-year
low in September 2011. It closed at $40.15 in New York on Oct.
26 before Sandy struck.  “There’s not as much upside as there was 15 months ago,”
said Shanker. “But it feels a whole lot less risky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  