-- Allscripts Fires CEO as Company Says It Won’t Pursue Sale
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-12-20T21:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/allscripts-fires-ceo-as-company-says-it-won-t-pursue-sale.html
Allscripts Health Solutions Inc. (MDRX) ’s
new chief executive officer said the provider of electronic
health records should rebound now that it’s no longer up for
sale. The shares fell the most in about eight months.  Paul Black, named CEO yesterday in a management shakeup,
said he wanted to move quickly to improve operations at the
Chicago-based software maker and make the company more
responsive to clients. He said he’d also maintain research and
development spending at current levels.  “We’re going to benefit from having clarity,” Black, 54,
told analysts on a conference call today. “There’s been a lot
of disruption in the marketplace from people wanting to
understand what this company was going to look like by the end
of the year, a lot of people who were hesitant about making a
decision. I think that’s a very big piece of the missteps during
the course of the year.”  Allscripts tumbled 14 percent to $9.14 at the close in New
York, its biggest single-day decline since April 27. The company
has  dropped  52 percent this year.  Allscripts yesterday fired former CEO Glen Tullman, who had
led the company since it first sold shares to the public in July
1999. The company also said in a regulatory filing that it would
end a process of considering “strategic alternatives,”
including a sale, that began earlier this year.  “I fully understand that this is an important time in the
company’s history,” said Black, a current Allscripts board
member and former chief operating officer of  Cerner Corp. (CERN) , a
competing health-care information company. “What’s clear to me
is that we have a good strategy, a robust set of solutions to
offer” to doctors and hospitals.  Unhappy Clients  Still, he said, “Right now I don’t think all our clients
are happy. We’ve got a lot of work to do in that space.”  The shares will face “significant pressure” as investors
who had piled into the stock waiting for a deal “crowd out the
door,” said  David Windley , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in
Nashville,  Tennessee , in a note to clients.  While Allscripts’ third-quarter results showed
“deteriorating fundamentals,” the company introduced new
software products in the fourth quarter that give some hope for
a turnaround, Windley wrote. “Unfortunately, though, these
likely won’t contribute much in the way of bookings or revenue”
until next year’s first quarter.  Board Upheaval  Allscripts began seeking a sale after a board upheaval and
a shareholder lawsuit earlier this year that questioned its
leadership. In September, the company lost a bid for a $302
million contract from New York City’s public hospitals and last
month reported third-quarter revenue declined.  The company, with a market value of about $1.9 billion
before today’s trading, had received bids from private equity
firms, including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and
Silver Lake Management LLC, Bloomberg News reported Oct. 8.
Allscripts said it hired Citigroup Inc. to advise it.  “The board concluded, however, that the best course at
this time is to develop Allscripts’ long-term potential under
the direction of our new management team,” Dennis Chookaszian,
the board chairman, said yesterday in a company statement
announcing the changes.  Allscripts has struggled since its acquisition of Eclipsys
Corp. in 2010, a purchase intended to bolster the sale of
technology to hospitals. The combination promised to take
advantage of the 2009 U.S. economic stimulus law allotting $27.4
million to help health-care providers buy electronic records
systems.  Delayed Commitments  Instead, Allscripts said in April that customers had
delayed commitments during the merger, waiting for new releases
of the company’s software. On April 26, the company revealed a
board dispute that led to the firing of its then-chairman, Phil Pead, and the departure of three directors.  In addition to Tullman’s departure, Allscripts said Lee Shapiro, the company president, was fired and will serve as a
consultant to Black for as long as six months.  Black worked at Cerner, a Kansas City, Missouri-based
health-care information technology company, for more than 12
years. He was recently an operating executive with Genstar
Capital LLC, a private equity firm, responsible for its health-
care and software practices, Allscripts said in the statement.  “Paul possesses a unique blend of operational, health-care
and IT sector expertise, and we are pleased that he has agreed
to lead the company at this critical juncture,” Chookaszian
said.  Black said one of his priorities would be enticing
Allscripts clients to use a wider variety of the company’s
products, which help with administration as well medical
records. On its  website , Allscripts said its network includes
180,000 physicians at 50,000 practices and 1,500 hospitals.  “It’s hard to go out and build the install base like this
company possesses,” he said. “I see that as kind of the mother
lode upon which you want to build and expand the organization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  