-- Almunia Says EU Analyzing CEZ’s Offer to End Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-19T10:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/almunia-says-eu-analyzing-cez-s-offer-to-end-antitrust-probe.html
European Union regulators are still
analyzing an offer by  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest power
producer, to sell power plants to resolve an antitrust probe
over hindering rivals.  “No agreement” has been reached between CEZ and the
European Commission, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said in a written answer to a question from an EU lawmaker
published online on Dec. 18. “The process of negotiating the
remedies is not over.”  Regulators are investigating several energy companies in
central and eastern  Europe  to help “foster a more competitive
energy environment” in the region, Almunia said in  September .
The European Commission said last year that CEZ may have
prevented competitors from entering the market by hoarding
capacity in the transmission network.  CEZ said in October it would sell its Detmarovice coal-
fired plant to reach a settlement with regulators that would
allay antitrust concerns. Almunia said yesterday that the EU
received seven responses when it sent CEZ’s proposed commitments
to rivals and customers for comments. Five of the responses
didn’t question the sale of Detmarovice as a suitable remedy, he
said.  Barbora Pulpanova, a spokeswoman for CEZ, said the company
is still waiting for the EU’s final decision on the
investigation, which it didn’t expect this year.  She declined to comment on the sale of specific plants,
saying several were “in play” beyond Detmarovice.  An EU settlement allows regulators to end an investigation
without imposing a fine or declaring whether a company violated
competition rules. Companies can be fined as much as 10 percent
of their yearly revenue if they break the terms of a settlement.  State-run CEZ and its coal-mining subsidiary  Severoceske
Doly AS  were among companies raided by EU officials in November
2009, the companies said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 