-- American Airlines Judge Approves New Contract With Pilots
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-19T21:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/american-airlines-judge-approves-new-contract-with-pilots.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines won
court approval for a new contract with its pilots union, a deal
that cuts labor costs and boosts the airline’s effort to exit
bankruptcy protection.  The agreement, approved at a hearing today by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in New York, comes after American
secured new contracts with unions representing flight attendants
and mechanics as part of its restructuring.  Lane said the agreement with the Allied Pilots Association
is a significant step to resolving the bankruptcy case that
began more than a year ago and helps achieve “long-term
viability” for the airline.  “There is no doubt pilots represented by the APA are
vitally important to the debtor’s business enterprise and thus
crucial to any successful reorganization,” the judge said.  Stephen Karotkin, an attorney for Fort Worth, Texas-based
American, told Lane that the pilot agreement ensures the savings
the airline needs and avoids labor unrest.  The six-year agreement provides $315 million in annual cost
savings and gives the union 13.5 percent of the equity in the
reorganized company issued to unsecured creditors, according to
court papers.  Extension Granted  Separately, Lane also granted the airline’s request for
more time to develop its bankruptcy plan, extending to March 11
American’s exclusive right to file a plan in court. The approval
blocks competing plans from being proposed.  The extension comes as American’s bankruptcy exit as a
standalone company is being weighed against a merger with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  The pilots union backs a merger.  The review of strategic alternatives continues and is in
“the final lap,” Jack Butler, an attorney for creditors, told
Lane.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  