-- Amgen Plea Deal Accepted by Judge in Aranesp Misbranding
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-19T21:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/amgen-plea-deal-in-aranesp-misbranding-case-accepted-by-judge.html
A federal judge accepted  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ’s plea agreement on a charge that it misbranded its anemia
drug Aranesp, putting to rest a five-year probe of the company’s
marketing practices.  U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson in  Brooklyn , New York,
signed off today on the agreement with prosecutors, which will
cost the company $150 million in criminal penalties. Amgen will
also pay $612 million to settle civil claims by states and
whistle-blowers alleging the company also illegally marketed
other drugs.  The company’s guilty plea and resolution of civil cases
“demonstrate our vigilance in protecting American’s health-care
consumers and pursuing any corporation that seeks to profit by
violating U.S. law,” Marshall L. Miller, head of the criminal
division for the Brooklyn U.S. Attorney’s office, said in a
statement.  Prosecutors alleged the company promoted Aranesp for uses
not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration from about
2001 through March 2007 to compete with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
anemia treatment, Procrit. The company pleaded guilty yesterday
to a single misdemeanor misbranding charge over the allegations.  Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,  California , was estimated to
have reaped about $85 million in gains from misbranding Aranesp,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Roger Burlingame said during today’s
hearing.  Aranesp Revenue  U.S. revenue from Aranesp totaled more than $11 billion
from 2001 through 2008, with about $6 billion coming from
health-care programs Medicaid and Medicare, according to a
complaint in a lawsuit unsealed today that was filed by a former
Amgen employee.  Pharmaceutical companies aren’t permitted to market drugs
for uses not approved by the FDA. Doctors may write
prescriptions for off-label purposes as they see fit.  In lawsuits unsealed today, whistle-blowers alleged the
company engaged in illegal promotion of other drugs including
psoriasis medication Enbrel and Neulasta, a drug used to
increase white blood cells in patients receiving chemotherapy.
Plaintiffs in some of the suits alleged Amgen paid kickbacks to
doctors who prescribed the drugs for off-label uses.  Two of the whistle-blowers, former Amgen sales
representatives Elena Ferrante and Marc Engelman, alleged they
were directed by management to promote Enbrel for mild psoriasis
even though it had been approved only for more severe forms of
the skin condition, New Jersey lawyer  Lydia Cotz , who is
representing the whistle-blowers, said in a phone interview.  Records Reviewed  The sales reps were also instructed to cull patients’
medical records and give the information to Amgen in violation
of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, she
said.  “They resisted these type of illegal marketing tactics and
they were both retaliated against,” Cotz said of Ferrante and
Engelman. Ferrante was terminated in August 2005 and Engelman
was terminated in April 2007, Cotz said.  Another whistle-blower, former Amgen marketing
representative Jill Osiecki, gathered evidence for federal
investigators after reporting her concerns to the government
about the company’s marketing practices in August 2004,
according to her attorneys, Brian Kenney and Tavy Deming.
Osiecki made secret recordings at 13 sales and marketing
meetings for the company, according to her attorneys.  ‘Personal Risk’  “We know of the many hundreds of hours she devoted at
personal risk to advance this investigation and her years of
hiding in plain sight as the government investigated all the
Amgen allegations,” Deming said in a statement.  As part of the guilty plea and civil settlements, Amgen
agreed to sign a corporate integrity agreement under which it
must regularly report to the government on its compliance with
drug marketing regulations, according to prosecutors.  Regarding the whistle-blower claims, Amgen spokeswoman
Ashleigh Koss said in an interview today that the company
doesn’t discuss personnel issues involving specific employees.  Yesterday, Johnson declined to accept Amgen’s plea to the
criminal charge of misbranding Aranesp, saying it was a “very
important case” and the plea deal had been “dumped” on him.
He also declined to rule during the hearing today, waiting until
the afternoon to issue his decision.  The case is U.S. v. Amgen Inc., 1:12-cr-00760, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  