-- AMR Said to Take Steps Nearing Merger With US Airways
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-12-20T21:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/amr-said-to-take-steps-nearing-merger-with-us-airways.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
and  US Airways  Group Inc. are moving closer to a merger, and a
decision could come early next month, people familiar with the
matter said.  Teams from each carrier are discussing how to combine
departments, including personnel, compensation and severance,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because details
are private. AMR’s  board  will meet Jan. 9 to decide whether to
go ahead, with an announcement possible within days, said the
people. The talks may yet be scuttled or delayed, they said.  The push follows AMR’s efforts to reorganize in  bankruptcy
court  before a merger and US Airways’s quest to lead a takeover
creating the world’s largest airline. The chief unsettled issues
pending with AMR’s unsecured creditors committee, which must
approve any exit plan, are how to divide the equity in a new
company and who would run it, three people said.  “It sounds like things are certainly getting close to a
resolution,”  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC analyst,
said in an interview. “It does seem like there is an
inevitability about a merger, with the main issue whether they
do it in bankruptcy or out.”  Derchin, based in Stamford,  Connecticut , recommends buying
US Airways.  US Airways President Scott Kirby and Denise Lynn, senior
vice president for people at American, have been involved in
talks with pilots from each carrier, along with  Jack Butler , the
attorney for the creditors’ panel, two people said.  Agreement Near  An agreement may be completed this week on work rules for
each pilot group until a joint contract is negotiated with a
merged carrier, one person said. Kirby is leading the merger
analysis for US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker,
people familiar with his role have said.  AMR is “actively taking part in ongoing discussions” with
its pilots, US Airways and the smaller airline’s pilots,  Michael Trevino , a spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions
about department-level planning, the board and a possible merger
announcement by the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier.  US Airways declined to comment about meetings with AMR,
said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based
airline.  Parker, Kirby and Butler met yesterday with the board of
the US Airline Pilots Association, which represents US Airways
pilots, in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said James Ray, a union
spokesman. He declined to comment on the substance of the talks.
Lehmacher also declined to comment.  Shares, Bonds  US Airways rose 0.4 percent to $13.54 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The shares have more than doubled this year on merger
speculation to lead gains in the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. (BUSAIRL)   Investor optimism about a merger also has helped fuel a
rally in AMR debt. The $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible
notes due October 2014 climbed 2.4 percent to 86.75 cents on the
dollar at 1:48 p.m, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes
traded at 17.75 cents just after AMR filed for bankruptcy on
Nov. 29, 2011.  AMR CEO  Tom Horton  has said the company’s future should be
resolved “soon,” after completing contract changes that
provided $1.06 billion in labor savings, and that he hasn’t
ruled out a merger. In the past he backed a stand-alone
bankruptcy exit, with tie-ups to be considered after that.  Pilot Board  He met last week with the Allied Pilots Association board
to discuss AMR’s progress in bankruptcy and plans for the future
that include adding about 550 new jets to replace aging planes
and increasing international service to attract more business
fliers.  After becoming CEO when AMR filed for bankruptcy, Horton
focused first on the idea of remaining independent. US Airways
began pursuing a merger in January and said in April that its
bid was backed by unions for American’s pilots, flight
attendants and mechanics and baggage handlers.  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways would surpass  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  as the world’s largest airline, based on passenger traffic.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  