-- Anhanguera Falls as Brazil Criticizes Courses: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-19T21:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/anhanguera-falls-as-brazil-criticizes-courses-sao-paulo-mover.html
Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes
SA (AEDU3) ,  Brazil ’s second-largest education company by market value,
fell after the government said it may bar students from
enrolling in courses it determined to be low performing.  Shares fell 2.5 percent to 34.50 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, the steepest decline since Dec. 3.
Competitor  Estacio Participacoes SA (ESTC3)  lost 1.2 percent to 40 reais
and  Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3)  rose 0.2 percent to 46.50 reais after
earlier falling as much as 2.9 percent. The Bovespa Small Cap
index rose 0.4 percent.  Brazil’s Ministry of Education released today a list of 672
courses it deemed “unsatisfying” and ordered administrators to
improve the quality within six months or stop offering them.
Universities that offer those courses, including Anhanguera,
Estacio and Kroton, had to sign documents committing to improve
the level of education, and students can’t get loans for the
ones on the government list of poor performers.  Anhanguera said in an e-mailed statement that “the courses
mentioned in that list are concentrated in institutions that
were recently acquired by the company, therefore, reflect
previous management results.” Anhanguera acquired 12
institutions between December 2010 and September 2011 and had 18
courses included in the government list.  Kroton, which had three courses in the list, said in an e-
mailed statement that it “is making efforts to improve
results.” Estacio’s press office didn’t respond to a phone call
seeking comment.  Anhanguera has jumped 72 percent this year while the
Bovespa Small Cap index gained 27 percent in that same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  