-- Aquino Trumps Catholic Church, Big Tobacco With Twin Laws
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-12-20T06:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/aquino-trumps-church-big-tobacco-with-twin-laws-southeast-asia.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
defeated the Catholic Church and the tobacco lobby by using his
popularity to push through twin laws to provide free condoms to
the poor and boost taxes on cigarette and liquor.  Lawmakers yesterday ratified a reproductive health bill
that had been introduced and blocked repeatedly since 1998, and
the legislation will be signed into law before the end of the
year, Aquino said. The extra revenue from the so-called sin tax
will help the country win an investment grade credit rating, Tax
Commissioner  Kim Henares  said today.  Aquino, 52, endured the possibility of excommunication from
the church and criticism from boxing champion  Manny Pacquiao  and
former first lady  Imelda Marcos  to win support for the health
bill. His approval rating is the highest for a president since
actor  Joseph Estrada  in 1999, buoyed by efforts to fight
corruption and tackle an entrenched culture of  tax evasion .  “Aquino managed to resurrect and rally support for
controversial measures in which his predecessors had failed,”
said  Ramon Casiple , executive director of the Manila-based
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform. “His advocacy of
these bills was personal and more than ministerial. He made good
on his promises and proved that he’s reform-oriented.”  Aquino signed the sin tax bill today, touting its health-
care benefits and criticizing opponents of the new law.  “Many thought it was impossible to pass the sin tax,”
said Aquino, who is a smoker himself. “The enemy was strong,
noisy, organized. Those who were against it had deep pockets.”  Sex Education  The reproductive health bill calls for mandatory sex
education and requires the government to pay for contraceptives
and family planning services for poor people. The  United Nations 
has said it will help reduce poverty among the fifth of the
nation’s  104 million  people who live in slum conditions.  The contraceptives bill had been refiled and blocked in
each three-year congressional term since it was introduced 14
years ago amid opposition from Catholics, the faith of at least
80 percent of Filipinos.  “Logic and reason won,” said Carlos Celdran, an activist
who was jailed for a day after staging a protest at a 2010
meeting of bishops in the city’s cathedral. “It shows that the
 Philippines  is moving into the 21st century and is progressing
mentally. It has broken the shackles of the Catholic Church,
which no longer wields the same power it had in the past.”  Protesting Priests  In August, more than 9,000 nuns, priests and churchgoers
dressed in red held rallies in  Manila  in an attempt to derail
the legislation. The protesters described themselves as pro-life
and distributed pamphlets that also denounced divorce and same-
sex marriage in addition to the bill.  “Whether or not an individual should live in this world
should not be placed in the hands of his fellow men,” boxing
champ Pacquiao said during a Congressional debate Dec. 12.
“Only God has power over this.”  Imelda Marcos, a Congresswoman and the widow of the late
dictator  Ferdinand Marcos , said during the same debate that
“any law against natural law, the fundamental law of God, is
against God.”  One in five women of reproductive age in the Philippines
has an unmet family planning need, the UN Population Fund says,
leading to unintended pregnancies. The population is growing 1.7
percent a year, compared with 0.9 percent in the Asia-Pacific
region, according to a 2011 UN Population Fund  report .  The bill “is unfortunate and tragic,” Manila Archbishop
Luis Antonio Tagle  said  after last week’s second reading. “We
do not take it as a defeat of truth, for truth shall prevail,
especially the truth about human life, marriage and the
family.”  Sin Tax  While the church rallied opponents of the reproductive
health bill, some of the nation’s wealthiest businessmen were
assailing Aquino’s efforts to pass the sin tax, which will raise
levies on wine and spirits and calls for twice-yearly tax
increases on cigarettes.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , which controls 90 percent of the nation’s
beer market, Asia Brewery Inc. and the Philippine Tobacco
Institute ran separate advertisements saying the law will hurt
sales and put jobs at risk. Aquino’s uncle, Eduardo Cojuangco,
is chairman of  San Miguel , while Asia Brewery, Philip Morris
Philippines Manufacturing Inc. and Fortune Tobacco Corp. are
controlled by billionaire Lucio Tan.  Seven of the 10 leading causes of death in the Philippines,
where 28 percent of people aged 15 and older smoke, are diseases
related to tobacco consumption, according to data from the
 Department of Health .  ‘Powerful’ Tool  “Higher tobacco taxes will save lives,” the  World Health
Organization  said today by e-mail. “Tax increases that raise
the price of tobacco products are the most powerful policy tool
to reduce tobacco use and the single most effective
intervention.”  The measure may reduce the number of smokers by 170,000 a
year, or to 15.6 million by the end of Aquino’s term in 2016,
the UN group said. The bill will index tobacco and liquor tax
rates by 4 percent yearly to discourage their use, Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said.  “It’s the best piece of legislation that this
administration has passed,” said Modesto Llamas, president of
the Philippine Medical Association, which represents 68,000
doctors. Doctors are more divided over the reproductive health
bill, “such as on the issue of when does life begin,” he said.  Debt Rating  While the WHO said the sin tax is “primarily a health
measure,” it also will provide an important boost to the
country’s finances, said Henares, the tax chief.  “The  credit rating agencies  want to see that we are
willing to do what needs to be done to put our fiscal house in
order,” she said in an interview today, adding that the sin tax
law languished in Congress for more than a decade. “It’s
convincing them that we are willing to make hard decisions and
can take hard action and implement it.”  Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard &
Poor’s  rate the Philippines a step below investment grade with a
stable outlook. A higher rating may help bolster Aquino’s plan
to attract $16 billion of investments in roads and airports to
spur economic growth to as fast as 7 percent in 2013.  The president’s performance rating after two years in
office remained steady at 78 percent last month, according to a
poll of 1,200 adults by Pulse Asia Inc. on Nov. 23 to 29.  “Nowadays, no politician would want to be identified as
Aquino’s enemy,” Casiple, the political analyst, said. “In
next year’s national and local elections, a candidate’s
endorsement by the president will be a decisive factor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  