-- Architect-Billing Index in U.S. Increases to Five-Year High
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/architect-billing-index-in-u-s-increases-to-five-year-high.html
Billings by U.S. architecture firms
increased in November at the fastest pace in five years, a sign
construction will pick up next year as businesses invest in
commercial projects.  The American Institute of Architects Billings Index climbed
to 53.2 last month, the highest level since November 2007, from
52.8 in October, the Washington-based group said today. Readings
above 50 signal an increase in activity. The gauge has advanced
for six consecutive months, the longest winning streak in its
17-year  history .  Billings tend to lead construction by nine to 12 months,
according to AIA chief economist Kermit Baker. The value of all
U.S. construction projects climbed in October to an $872.1
billion annual rate, the fastest since September 2009, Commerce
Department data show.  “There appears to be some new life generated in the
construction sector of the economy, which has been pretty much
dormant since the recession,” Bernard Baumohl, chief global
economist at Economic Outlook Group LLC, a Princeton New Jersey-
based forecasting firm, said before the report.  AIA researchers produce the report by surveying about 700
U.S.-based firms, including Skidmore Owings & Merrill LLP and
HOK Architects Corp., on whether billings rose, fell, or
remained the same in the past month. Firms reporting  inquiries 
about designing new projects also rose for a sixth straight
month, climbing to a nine-month high of 59.6 from 59.4 in
October.  “It’s indicative of confidence,” Rodd Merchant, a senior
vice president at JE Dunn Co., a  Kansas City , Missouri-based
building contractor, said before the report. “A lot of that
work on the private side is driven by corporations investing in
their operations, whether office or industrial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  