-- Argentina Debt War Lawyers Spend Decade Before Judge
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-12-19T05:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/argentina-debt-war-lawyers-spend-decade-before-judge.html
Two lawyers have spent much of the
past decade defending  Argentina  in front of the same U.S. judge
in dozens of lawsuits arising from the South American country’s
2001 default on $95 billion in sovereign debt.  Jonathan Blackman and Carmine Boccuzzi, partners at  New
York ’s  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton LLP, have represented
Argentina in litigation that began in 2002. The two share a
history with U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa, the  Manhattan 
jurist who has presided over the fate of billions of dollars of
Argentine debt over the same period.  The work, on behalf of a government that has criticized and
ignored Griesa, has put the lawyers in a difficult position with
the 82-year-old judge who oversees litigation over the defaulted
bonds. Their conflict with opposing counsel and even the judge
may only intensify as the landmark case heads toward a dramatic
hearing before a federal appeals court early in the new year.  At a Nov. 9 court conference, Griesa asked Boccuzzi about
press statements by Argentine President Cristina Fernandez De Kirchner and Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino that the Republic
wouldn’t pay what it called the “vulture funds” that are
trying to collect on the defaulted bonds.  “Is that the position of the president of the Republic?”
Griesa asked. “Is that the position of the economic minister,
Mr. Boccuzzi?”  Argentina’s Defiance  Boccuzzi made several attempts to argue that Argentina’s
officials weren’t publicly announcing their defiance of Griesa’s
court and the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York. After
questioning Boccuzzi for several minutes, Griesa gave up.  “I don’t think there is any utility in me going back and
forth with Mr. Boccuzzi further,” he said. “Obviously, Mr.
Boccuzzi does not really want to say that the Republic is saying
what is reported in the press.”  A spokeswoman for Cleary Gottlieb didn’t respond to voice-
mail messages seeking interviews with Blackman and Boccuzzi.  The litigation also has drawn in Ted Olson, a former U.S.
solicitor general, and  David Boies , who represented the U.S.
government in its antitrust case against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Olson
and Boies opposed each other in the litigation that decided the
2000  U.S. presidential election  -- Olson for Republican  George W. Bush  and Boies for Democrat  Al Gore . More recently they
joined forces to challenge California Proposition 8, the voter-
approved measure that banned gay marriage in that state and is
now before the U.S. Supreme Court.  NML Capital  Olson represents Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital
Ltd., which is trying to collect on its defaulted bonds in a
case involving $1.3 billion of debt and interest. Boies
represents a group of investors who traded their defaulted bonds
for new ones, at a discount, when Argentina restructured its
debt.  Argentina issued the bonds beginning in 1994. Since the
2001 default, its government has refused to make any payments on
principal or interest.  In 2005 and 2010, Argentina offered an exchange to holders
of the defaulted bonds. The investors could trade for new
exchange bonds, at a discount of as much as 75 percent. Holders
of more than 91 percent of Argentina’s defaulted debt
participated, according to the appeals court. Argentina has made
all required payments on the exchange bonds while continuing to
refuse payment to the holdout bondholders.  Some of the holders of the defaulted bonds bought them
before they were repudiated by Argentina and have held them
since. Others, including  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management and
Aurelius Capital Management, bought the bonds later, as
distressed debt. They are the investors Argentina’s officials
call “vultures.”  Court’s Order  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York on Oct. 26 ruled that
Argentina must pay the holdouts if it goes forward with
scheduled payments to holders of the exchange bonds, affirming
rulings by Griesa. The appeals court noted Argentina’s
“continual disregard” of the rights of its creditors and the
authority of the U.S. courts considering the litigation. The
court sent the case back to Griesa to clarify two issues.  The case is now back in front of the appeals court, which
is set on Feb. 27 to hear arguments over how the defaulted
bondholders are to be paid and how the Oct. 26 ruling will be
applied to third parties, including banks.  Griesa’s Nov. 21 ruling that Argentina had to pay $1.3
billion into an escrow account if it went ahead with the 
scheduled payments of about $3 billion sparked a rout in 
Argentine bonds and prompted Fitch to cut ratings on the 
country’s debt.  Nixon Appointee  Griesa was appointed to the bench in 1972 by President
 Richard Nixon , a Republican. In New York, he’s one of about 40
judges in the federal courthouse in Manhattan. In Argentina,
he’s famous for his rulings in the case.  In 2010, when Griesa refused to block an $18.3 billion bond
swap, he was portrayed as a hero in Buenos Aires newspapers.
Later, when he ruled in favor of a bid by NML Capital to seize
$105 million in Argentine assets held in New York, an Argentine
business daily printed a caricature of him with a vulture on his
shoulder.  Boccuzzi and Blackman are experts on laws that give foreign
countries immunity from being sued in the U.S. under some
circumstances, a key defense for Argentina. While many investors
have won judgments for the money they claim the country owes
them on their bonds, they’ve had much less success in trying to
collect on the government’s assets located in the U.S. and
elsewhere.  Boccuzzi, who received his undergraduate and law degrees
from  Yale University , joined Cleary Gottlieb in 1994 and became
a partner nine years later. Blackman, with a bachelor’s and a
law degree from  Harvard University , has been a Cleary Gottlieb
partner since 1985.  ‘Intention to Defy’  Griesa’s courtroom experience with Argentina has
complicated the job of Blackman and Boccuzzi, at least in his
most recent rulings.  “I have had some modest amount of experience, and that is
that the Republic will not comply with the judgments which have
been entered against it,” he said in the Nov. 9 court
conference. In the rulings Argentina is appealing, Griesa cited
the country’s “intention to defy any money judgment issued by
this court.”  Lawyers from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, led by partner Joseph Neuhaus, also have some history with the litigation. Neuhaus,
who earlier represented Argentina’s central bank, now represents
the Clearing House Payments Co. LLC, which operates a cross-
border and domestic wire-transfer system. The Clearing House
Interbank Payment System, known as Chips, handles almost $2
trillion of transactions daily, according to its website. In-
house lawyers Paul Saltzman and Joseph Alexander are also
working on the case.  Marc Dreier  Representing NML Capital with Olsen is  Robert Cohen  of
Dechert LLP. Joining Boies in representing the exchange
bondholders is Sean O’Shea of New York’s O’Shea Partners.  A key lawyer early in the bond litigation was  Marc Dreier ,
who in 2003 tried unsuccessfully to get Griesa to certify a
class action on behalf of debt-holders. Dreier, formerly of New
York’s Dreier LLP, is serving a 20-year prison sentence for
selling phony promissory notes to hedge funds, including Elliott
Management.  Hundreds of Italian pensioners who invested in Argentine
bonds at face value years ago and didn’t agree to exchange them
in the restructuring are also involved in the litigation.
Initially, they were represented by Dreier’s firm. When that
firm imploded after its founder’s arrest, some of the pensioners
hired  Michael Spencer  of Milberg LLP while others turned to
Rudolph DiMassa of Duane Morris LLP.  Clients Hurt  Spencer said that Argentina owes his clients “in the range
of $525 million” not including post-judgment interest.  While DiMassa’s clients weren’t parties in the case in the
district court, they expect to file a friend-of-the-court brief
in the appeal case. DiMassa has said his clients have been hurt
financially and reputationally.  “Argentina for so long has said that all of the debt
holdouts are vulture funds and speculators,” he said. His
clients, like Spencer’s, are individuals who “all paid 100
cents on the dollar for their bonds,” DiMassa said.  One of DiMassa’s clients, Sabrina Parodi, said in a letter,
“We are not rich people and we are not speculators, we are just
workers who are trying to save and invest our money to allow us
to be comfortable in our old age, and to ensure a good start to
the future of our children.”  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  