-- Markel to Buy Alterra for $3.1 Billion to Add Reinsurance
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-19T21:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/markel-to-buy-alterra-for-3-1-billion-to-add-reinsurance-1-.html
Markel Corp. (MKL) , the seller of
property-casualty coverage, agreed to buy  Alterra Capital
Holdings Ltd. (ALTE)  for about $3.13 billion in cash and stock to
expand in reinsurance.  Investors in Bermuda-based Alterra will get 0.043 Markel
share and $10 in cash for each share they own, the companies
said in a statement today. Based on Markel’s closing price
yesterday of $486.05, the deal values Alterra at about $30.97 a
share. That’s 34 percent more than Alterra’s close yesterday of
$23.15.  Markel, the company founded by a pioneer in insuring  jitney 
buses, is adding to its main business of underwriting risk as
its stock heads for a fourth straight  annual gain . The Glen
Allen, Virginia-based company provides coverage for businesses
such as farms and railroads.  “Alterra’s reinsurance and large-account insurance
 portfolios  will serve to diversify and strengthen Markel’s
current book of specialty insurance business,” said Steven Markel, vice chairman of the buyer, in the statement.  Markel fell 10 percent to $436.24 at 4 p.m. in New York.
The company had climbed 17 percent this year through yesterday.
Alterra surged 22 percent to $28.18.  “Our initial reaction to the deal is negative,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a
research note. “We have enormous respect for Markel’s
underwriting and investing expertise, but we think its M&A track
record is frankly less impressive,” he said, citing the
purchase in 2000 of Terra Nova Bermuda Holdings Ltd. and using
the abbreviation for mergers and acquisitions.  Montpelier, Greenlight  Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. (AXS)  was among Alterra’s Bermuda-
based reinsurance rivals that advanced in New York trading,
climbing 2.4 percent.  Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd. (MRH)  and  Everest Re
Group Ltd. (RE)  also gained, as did Cayman Islands-based  Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the reinsurer that counts hedge-fund manager
David Einhorn as its chairman.  Markel’s shareholders will own 69 percent of the combined
company upon the completion of the deal, which is expected in
the first half of next year, according to the statement. The
combined company will be domiciled in the U.S., which may limit
tax benefits for Alterra.  The transaction has support from the seller’s  two largest
shareholders , insurer Chubb Corp. and the Trident Funds managed
by Stephen Friedman’s Stone Point Capital LLC, Steven Markel
said today on a call with analysts. Those investors controlled
about 16 percent of the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Alleghany, Transatlantic  Mid-sized reinsurers have been combining or joining with
larger companies to diversify risk and gain scale to take on
bigger accounts from primary carriers.  Alleghany Corp. (Y)  last year
agreed to buy Transatlantic Holdings Inc., the reinsurer
previously owned by American International Group Inc., for more
than $3 billion.  Alterra was formed in 2010 through the merger of Louis Moore Bacon’s Max Capital Group Ltd. and Harbor Point Ltd. The
company provides protection against natural disasters and offers
professional and product-liability coverage. Both Alterra and
Markel get about three-quarters of their premiums in North
America.  Superstorm Sandy, which hit the U.S. in October, may
support prices charged by reinsurers, Alterra said last month.
The storm cost the company $90 million to $120 million before
tax, Alterra said in a regulatory filing today.  Dredging, Baking  Alterra Chief Executive Officer Marty Becker is expected to
leave after the deal is completed, according to the statement.
Two directors designated by Alterra will join Markel’s board.  Markel has averaged a 16 percent annual return on its
investment portfolio in the last two decades by seeking out
undervalued assets. The insurer has also acquired companies that
make dredging and baking equipment. The deal with Alterra will
increase the funds that the buyer manages to $16.4 billion from
$9.2 billion, according to a  presentation  on Alterra’s website.  Markel plans to reallocate part of the combined investment
portfolio toward equity in public and private companies, the
insurer said today on the conference call. The merged firm would
have equity investments of about 40 percent of book value, a
measure of assets minus liabilities. That compares with about 60
percent at Markel as of Sept. 30.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was Markel’s bank on the deal, and Debevoise
& Plimpton LLP and Appleby provided legal advice.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  assisted Alterra, which was represented by Akin
Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP and Conyers Dill & Pearman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  