-- Martha Stewart Living CEO Stepping Down
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-12-19T14:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/martha-stewart-living-ceo-stepping-down.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO) , the company founded by home-decor guru Martha Stewart,
said Chief Executive Officer Lisa Gersh will step down, part of
an effort to bolster its merchandising business.  A search is under way for a successor, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Gersh, who was only named to
the CEO job five months ago, will retain the position during the
transition period.  After sluggish advertising sales in its media business
contributed to four straight years of losses and declining
revenue, Martha Stewart Living is focusing more on selling
merchandise through retailers. The company entered an agreement
in late 2011 with J.C. Penney Co., a deal that will start
boosting revenue by early 2013, according to the statement.  “We are now increasing our capabilities in merchandising
and plan to take full advantage of that opportunity for the
benefit of our shareholders,” Stewart, who serves as non-
executive chairman, said in the statement.  The company said earlier this year that it would shut down
its Whole Living magazine and turn its Everyday Food title into
an online publication. It’s also cutting jobs as part of a plan
to save $45 million to $47 million annually. In addition to the
print changes, Martha Stewart Living is revamping its broadcast
division to focus more on Internet services, including  AOL Inc. (AOL) 
and Hulu LLC.  The shares fell 5 percent to $2.45 at 9:55 a.m. in New
York. The stock had tumbled 41 percent this year through
yesterday.  Fourth-quarter merchandising revenue is expected to 15
percent higher than a year earlier, the company said. That
business brings adjusted profit margins of about 70 percent,
excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Martha
Stewart Living said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  