-- Billionaire Scion at Tata Helm Is Backed by Bond Market
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2012-12-20T06:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/tata-succession-backed-by-market-seeking-debt-cuts-india-credit.html
The  bond market  is showing
confidence in Cyrus P. Mistry’s ability to maintain growth and
rein in debt at India’s biggest business group when he takes
over as the Tata Group’s chairman next week.  Contracts insuring Tata Motors Ltd.’s debt against non-
payment slid 28 basis points since Nov. 30 to a nine-month low
of 373, according to data provider CMA. Tata Steel Ltd.’s 2014
convertible bonds rose 1.9 percent, lowering the yield 101 basis
points to 3.49 percent, Elara Capital Plc prices show. Ratan Tata, who led takeovers of Jaguar Land Rover, Corus Plc and
Tetley Group Plc, will retire on Dec. 28.  The 32 listed Tata firms will be able to scale back costs
of almost $35 billion in combined debt as BNP Paribas SA and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predict  India ’s central bank will cut
 Asia ’s highest  interest rates  next month. They will also benefit
from a rebound in global consumption as policy makers from the
U.S.,  Europe ,  Japan  and  China  pump cash into their economies.  “We aren’t concerned at all about the group’s prospects
and repayment ability,” Hemant Dharnidharka, Bangalore-based
head of credit research at SJS Markets Ltd., said in an
interview. “If it has payouts of $12 billion in the next three
years, then it also has consolidated revenues of over $100
billion. The new chairman is the single largest shareholder. He
is as invested and interested in it as anybody else.”  Largest Shareholder  Mistry’s father Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry ranks 90th among
the world’s richest men, with an estimated wealth of $11.3
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. He, along with sons
Shapoor and Cyrus Mistry, owns 18 percent in Tata Sons Ltd., the
largest single stake in the conglomerate’s holding company.  Tata Sons needs to redeem a total $2.83 billion in bonds
and loans in the next three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tata Steel (TATA) , India’s largest producer of the alloy,
must repay $4.69 billion and Tata Motors faces payments of $2.09
billion. Tata Power Co. and  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  have $1
billion each coming due.  The group needs to lower its debt to a “more manageable
level,” outgoing Chairman Tata said in an interview with
Financial Times published on the newspaper’s website on Dec. 6.
Tata Sons has nothing to add to the chairman’s recent comments
on the need to reduce liabilities, Mumbai-based spokesman
Debasis Ray said in an e-mail on Dec. 13.  The holding firm had cash and equivalents of 19.6 billion
rupees ($359 million) as of March 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A similar gauge was at 237 billion rupees for
 Tata Motors (TTMT)  on Sept. 30 and 95.9 billion rupees for Tata Steel.  Jaguar Turnaround  The yield on the 8.125 percent pound-denominated bonds due
2018 of Tata Motors fell 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage
point, this month to 5.82 percent as the automaker reported
retail sales of its Jaguar Land Rover unit climbed to a record
in November, helped by demand in China. That’s the lowest level
since the notes were issued in May 2011.  The extra amount investors seek on the securities over
comparable government debt tumbled 562 basis points this year to
3.43 percent. Retail deliveries at the luxury carmaker rose 14
percent last month, as sales of Land Rover vehicles surged 43
percent in China, the automaker said in a statement on Dec. 12.  “Tata Motors’ JLR operations have turned around and can
comfortably repay debt,” Rajeev Radhakrishnan, head of fixed
income in Mumbai at SBI Funds Management Pvt., a unit of India’s
largest lender that holds the 2015 bonds of Tata Sons, said in
an interview on Dec. 17. For Tata Sons, investor “comfort comes
from their ownership of all the Tata companies. Diversified
operations are their biggest strength.”  Improving Outlook  The world economy will expand 3.6 percent in 2013, faster
than an estimated 3.3 percent this year, according to forecasts
from the  International Monetary Fund  published in October.
India’s growth will rebound to 6.7 percent in the year through
March 2014 from an estimated 5.5 percent in the current fiscal
year, according to Goldman.  Tata Motors introduced the Nano in 2009, the world’s
cheapest car with prices starting from near $2,500, as an
upgrade option for millions of Indian motorcycle owners. Sales
fell to a record low in November 2010 after at least three cars
caught fire, and have since trailed pricier models even after
the company said the fires were isolated incidents. In an
interview with Bloomberg TV India in August, Tata said that he
wants “another push to make the Nano what it can be.”  ‘Difficult Market’  Tata Steel posted an unexpected loss in the three months
ended Sept. 30 as prices fell amid economic slowdowns in Europe
and China. The average cost of the global benchmark hot-rolled
coil that the company produces fell 19 percent in the quarter.  The steelmaker plans to restructure its U.K. business,
cutting 900 jobs and closing 12 sites, it said in a statement on
Nov. 23. The cuts will include the loss of 580 jobs and the
closing of its Tafarnaubach and Cross Keys plants in South
Wales, according to the statement. ArcelorMittal, the world’s
biggest producer, reported the lowest quarterly profit in almost
three years in October and is moving output to cheaper sites and
idling plants.  “Tata Steel operates in a difficult global steel market
with a weak economy, excess capacity and lower demand,” Koen Vanderauwera, a bond-fund manager at KBC Asset Management SA in
Luxembourg who holds the debt of the steelmaker and Tata Power,
said in an interview on Dec. 17. Tata Steel’s debt “will weigh
on my mind. I look at the payout in 2015 and I say wow.”  ‘Get Wary’  International investors are more wary about buying Indian
corporate debt after firms including Suzlon Energy Ltd. and
Sterling Biotech Ltd. defaulted on convertible bond repayments
this year, according to Daniel Gonzenbach, a portfolio manager
at Zurich-based Holinger Asset Management AG.  “Indian companies are in focus right now for reasons that
are a combination of concerns regarding corporate governance and
debt,” Gonzenbach, who holds Tata Steel bonds, said in an
interview on Dec. 17. “People who would like to be invested and
involved get wary.”  Tata Steel is planning to raise loans of about 260 billion
rupees to fund its first new plant in a century, two people with
direct knowledge of the deal said in August, asking not to be
identified as the information is private.  “The current yield on Tata Steel’s bonds already
incorporates” the slower sales in Europe, said SJS’s
Dharnidharka. The company’s European operations are a “small
part of the entire picture” for  Tata Group , he said.  The yield on Tata Steel’s 10.2 percent rupee-denominated
debt due 2015 fell to 9.32 percent this month from this year’s
peak of 10.30 percent in May, prices from the Fixed Income Money
Market and Derivatives Association of India show.  Rupee Yields  India’s 10-year government bond  yields  slid 42 basis points
this year as the central bank added more than 2.7 trillion
rupees to the banking system by lowering  reserve requirements 
for lenders and buying debt at open-market auctions. A similar
measure in China rose 15 basis points to 3.59 percent.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government debt due June 2022
fell one basis point to 8.15 percent in Mumbai today, offering
an  extra  637 basis points over Treasuries, while the rupee lost
0.6 percent to 54.875 per dollar.  Dollar bond risk for Indian companies fell this year. The
average cost of five-year credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment by seven local issuers dropped 215 basis points to
246, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets.  “Mistry has been known to succeed  Ratan Tata  for a year,”
said SBI Funds’ Radhakrishnan. “He has worked alongside the
incumbent in the meantime and so the transition has been very
smooth. Expectations are always a big issue in leadership
transitions. There’s an upswing in their global automobile
business and a downswing in their steel units. We’ll have to see
how the overseas operations stabilize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  