-- Aussie Falls 3rd Day Amid Growth Concern; Kiwi Declines
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-19T05:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/australian-dollar-holds-gains-against-yen-before-boj.html
Australia ’s dollar declined for a
third day against its U.S. counterpart on concern the South
Pacific nation’s economy is slowing and may be in store for
further interest-rate cuts by the central bank.  The so-called Aussie fell against most of its 16 major
peers after  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  was
reported to have said there may not be a seamless “handover”
from mining to other drivers of growth.  New Zealand ’s dollar
slid after Auckland-based  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the
world’s largest dairy exporter, said whole-milk prices fell for
a fourth-straight auction and before data tomorrow forecast to
show a moderation in the nation’s growth.  “ Governor Stevens  has always been worried about the output
gap and what is going to fill the void when mining investment
slows,” said Hans Kunnen, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
in Sydney. “The fact that the RBA has come out and said
economic growth in Australia would be slower may have dampened
enthusiasm toward the Australian dollar.”  The Aussie declined 0.2 percent to $1.0515 as of 4:11 p.m.
in Sydney, having fallen 0.3 percent in the previous two days.
The currency slid 0.1 percent to 88.62  yen . New Zealand’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, dropped 0.3 percent to 83.94 U.S.
cents. It depreciated 0.2 percent to 70.74 yen.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government  debt  rose as
much as three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.41
percent, the highest since Sept. 17.  Seamless Handover  “We’re not going to be able to absolutely guarantee
seamlessly every handover from one source of demand to
another,” Stevens said in an interview published today on the
Australian Financial Review’s website.  The RBA cut its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 3
percent this month, matching a half century low.  Interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders are pricing in a
58 percent chance the central bank will lower its benchmark to a
record 2.75 percent at its next meeting in February.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the Melbourne Institute said in a
statement today their gauge of future economic growth in
Australia rose 0.1 percent to 285.7 in October from the previous
month, when it increased 0.6 percent.  Whole-milk powder for February delivery fell 1 percent,
according to a trade-weighted index on Fonterra’s
GlobalDairyTrade website.  New Zealand’s  gross domestic product  probably rose 0.4
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the previous
quarter when it expanded 0.6 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
data is released tomorrow.  The kiwi has risen 5.3 percent this year, the sharpest
advance among 10 developed market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Australian dollar
has fallen 0.1 percent in 2012.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  