-- Hawks Reborn in Ankara as Yield Jumps on Surprise: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-19T15:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/hawks-reborn-in-ankara-as-yield-jumps-on-surprise-turkey-credit.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci’s unexpectedly hawkish turn yesterday sent government note
 yields  up by the most in almost two weeks even as he cut the
benchmark  interest rate  for the first time in 16 months.  Basci kept his  overnight borrowing  rate, the rate that
banks earn for money they deposit at the central bank, at 5
percent, defying expectations for a reduction from six out of
seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. He cut the benchmark
 one-week  repo rate 25 basis points to 5.5 percent, in line with
the median of eight estimates. Yields on two-year notes rose 17
basis points over the past two days, paring this year’s biggest
drop in  emerging markets , as JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Basci
probably wouldn’t cut the repo rate again for another year.  Investors viewed the move as hawkish because it upended
expectations that Basci would focus on  growth  after the $800
billion economy’s expansion slowed to 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, the slowest pace since a 2009 contraction. The bank
said in a statement it was monitoring  inflation  and an increase
in domestic demand reflected in loan growth. The decision also
defied calls from industry lobbies and Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan for a more significant cut to borrowing costs.  “Today’s decision was more hawkish than expected,”  Inan Demir , chief economist for Finansbank AS, the unit of National
Bank of  Greece  in Turkey, said in an e-mailed report from
Istanbul yesterday. “Further policy rate cuts are unlikely.”  Funding Cost  Basci has used a weighted average of three rates to set
monetary policy since October 2011. These are the overnight
lending rate, kept at 9 percent, the one-week repo rate and the
overnight borrowing rate. The  average cost  of central bank
funding to the market fell to 5.59 percent yesterday from 11.9
percent in January as Basci used the lower rates more often this
year.  The Chamber of Industry in Ankara attacked his refusal to
cut further, saying it showed “extreme caution” and didn’t
meet expectations of businesses or the market. Chairman Nurettin Ozdebir was cited by state-run Anatolia news agency as saying he
had been expecting a bigger cut or a narrowing of the rates
corridor, which Basci uses to target the lira, growth, capital
inflows or inflation depending on economic conditions. The same
press service reported Caglayan, the chamber’s former chairman,
as saying earlier in the day he expected the bank to “open the
way” for the economy.  Note Yield  “The central bank is once again being more gradual than
what’s expected by markets,”  Luis Costa , a strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in e-mailed comments yesterday.
“Basci still seems to be unwilling to rock the boat.”  Yields on Turkish two-year notes rose 10 basis points today
to 5.91 percent, the biggest jump in more than three months and
up from a record low of 5.73 percent on Dec. 4. That pared this
year’s drop to 510 basis points, or 5.1 percentage points.
Turkish yields have fallen below those for India and  Russia  this
year as slower growth coincided with a deceleration in the pace
of new loans, reduction in the  current-account deficit  and
slower inflation.  Yesterday’s move will probably “improve the central bank’s
credibility further,”  Yarkin Cebeci , a JPMorgan economist in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report. Inflation at 6.4 percent
in November was above the bank’s target of 5 percent. The
current-account deficit will end this year at 7.2 percent of
gross domestic product, according to the average of 15 economist
estimates on Bloomberg, down from 9.9 percent last year.  Ratings Outlook  “While the bank sees scope for one or more cuts in the
lower band of the rates corridor, there is no plan to play with
the policy rate anytime soon,” Cebeci said. “We see the policy
rate unchanged at 5.5 percent throughout next year.  Ercan Erguzel, an economist at Denizbank AS in Istanbul,
said the bank may be merely postponing more aggressive rate
cuts, rather than discounting them entirely. Policy makers may
be waiting to see whether Turkey gets promoted to investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service, he said.  ‘‘With an upgrade by Moody’s, demand for Turkish assets
will increase,” Erguzel said in e-mailed comments yesterday.
“It looks like they’re putting off a move until then.”  Moody’s rates Turkey one level below investment grade,
while  Standard & Poor’s  puts the country a step lower. Turkey
was raised to the lowest investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  on
Nov. 5, the country’s first such rating in 18 years.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey were little
changed at 123 today. That compared with 128 for Russia, 78 for
 Poland  and 145 for  South Africa . Rising prices show worsening
perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness while falling costs
show an improvement. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkish debt
denominated in dollars rather than U.S. Treasuries rose four
basis points to 180, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.
The premium compares with 385 at the end of last year, and 162
for Russia.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7817 per dollar at 5:19
p.m. in Istanbul, paring this year’s gains to 6.1 percent.  Basci said at a press conference in Antalya on Dec. 11 that
monetary policy would focus on the lira’s value measured against
a currency basket of  Turkey ’s main trading partners. The bank
will respond if it sees the lira “overvalued” against that
measure, he said.  “They are sort of hedging against capital inflows,”
Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market strategist at Nordea Bank
AB in Copenhagen, said by e-mail yesterday. “They are careful,
but the pressure is increasing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
NI TURCREDIT
NI EXCLUSIVE
NI TUECO
NI CEN
NI BNK
NI MDEST
NI FIN
NI BON
NI ECO
NI INF
NI TURKEY
NI CEN
NI FRX
NI DRV
NI CM 