-- BAE Systems Says Earnings May Suffer as Saudi Jet Talks Drag
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-19T16:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bae-systems-says-earnings-may-suffer-as-saudi-fighter-talks-drag.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said its full-year
earnings may be reduced by about 3 pence a share if talks with
Saudi Arabia over the pricing of Eurofighter Typhoon combat jets
don’t conclude this year.  “Whilst progress has been made through the course of these
negotiations, issues remain to be resolved before contract
pricing, acceptable to all parties, can be agreed,” London-
based BAE said in a  statement . Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predict  full-year earnings  of 34 pence a share, based on 13
estimates.  BAE has delivered 24 of 72 Typhoons ordered as part of the
government-to-government contract between the U.K. and Saudi
Arabia under the so-called Salam program.  Europe ’s biggest
weapons maker builds the model in cooperation with allies
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., parent of Airbus SAS,
and  Italy ’s  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   “We are not surprised to see the Salam delay given the
complexity of the program and unpredictable timing for defense
export contracts,” Robert Stallard, a London-based analyst for
RBC Capital said today. The warning is “an earnings neutral
event” although the development is “unhelpful, especially with
BAE’s U.S. business likely to see further U.S. Department of
Defense budget cuts,” he said.  BAE fell  as much as 2.4 percent and was trading 0.9 percent
lower at 342.90 pence as of 3:27 p.m. in London. The stock has
advanced 20 percent so far this year.  “All parties remain committed to the program,” said BAE,
which has the role of prime contractor to the U.K. government.
Discussions concern “acceptable pricing” rather than the
timing of the settlement, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  