-- BAE Said Ready to Seal Typhoon Combat Jet Order From Oman
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-19T15:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bae-systems-said-ready-to-seal-omani-typhoon-combat-jet-order.html
  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  will sell 12
Eurofighter Typhoon combat jets to Oman in a deal to be
announced this week, two people familiar with the talks said.  The contract is set to be announced Dec. 21 in Oman, said
one person who asked not to be named because the plans are
private. The deal is valued at more than $1 billion.  Middle East sales are critical to BAE as defense spending
slumps in its two largest markets, the U.S. and U.K. BAE, which
is working to win a follow-on Typhoon contract in Saudi Arabia,
said today earnings could be hurt because of delays in
concluding price negotiations with the kingdom over a contract
for the combat jet first signed in 2007.  In the aftermath of the botched  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  merger, BAE pledged to conclude the Omani
contract before 2013. Talks slowed earlier this year because
Oman was dissatisfied with progress on a delayed naval vessel
contract and recently centered on resolving differences over
support conditions for the fighter.  BAE, in an e-mailed statement, said it has had “positive”
discussions with Oman, though a contract has yet to be signed.  Oman, which is also buying F-16 combat jets from Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , will purchase the latest
version of the Typhoon, one of the people said.  The Middle East order would come after setbacks for the
Eurofighter consortium in India, Japan and  Switzerland  where it
lost competitions to rivals from  France , the U.S. and  Sweden .
Production of Typhoons could end this decade without further
commitments.  International Losses  The Typhoon purchase was not open to competition, leaving
the Eurofighter consortium, which includes EADS and  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC) , still looking for its first competitive win in more than a
decade. Austria chose the Typhoon over rivals in 2002 in a deal
led by EADS which is now being investigated by the Austrian
government over allegations of kickbacks.  Exports are becoming increasingly important for U.S. and
European defense companies as their domestic buyers scale back
spending. Fighter competitions to be decided next year include
the battle between Typhoon, the Lockheed Martin F-35 and  Boeing
Co. (BA)  F-15 in  South Korea  and a pending contest in Malaysia.  BAE said it expects to resume deliveries of Typhoons to
Saudi Arabia next year even as discussions over pricing of the
combat aircraft continue. The company, which had hoped to
conclude those talks this year, said today discussions over
“acceptable pricing” may not be completed in 2012, reducing
full-year earnings per share by 3 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  