-- Bank of America Delinquent Loans Mean Losses: Mortgages
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-12-19T16:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bank-of-america-delinquent-loans-mean-losses-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp.  has amassed
$64 billion of mortgages that are at least six months delinquent
and have yet to enter  foreclosure , more than twice the amount
held by its four largest competitors combined.  The loans are monitored as part of February’s $25 billion
settlement between the top five U.S. lenders and state  attorneys
general  over allegations of abusive foreclosure practices. Bank
of America’s stockpile of deteriorating debt is mostly from its
2008 acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp., once the
nation’s largest mortgage provider.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
biggest U.S. servicer, has $15.3 billion of such unpaid loans.  The  data , published last month by the monitor of the
settlement, highlight Bank of America’s vast backlog of
delinquencies, and the years it will take to work through them
as borrowers fall further behind and losses mount for investors
in mortgage-backed securities. While the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank has begun modifications for many of its
275,000 homeowners at least 180 days behind as of Sept. 30, some
will join the already clogged U.S. foreclosure  pipeline .  “There’s just a long tail to work out all of these loans,
which are severely delinquent at this point,” said  Marty Mosby ,
an analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .
“It just shows the amount of work that’s still left to do.”  Delays in processing the loans add to the expenses borne by
investors because maintenance, property taxes and other costs
add up. While rising prices may make the mortgage-backed
securities more valuable, servicers can be forced to come up
with cash to cover interest payments from the delinquent loans
and modifications become more difficult to accomplish as the
borrower’s unpaid debt grows.  930,000 Loans  Bank of America ’s portfolio of loans that are at least six
months old and not in foreclosure accounts for 3.3 percent of
all of the mortgages it services.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  has 1.1 percent
of its loans in that category and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , Wells
Fargo and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  each have less than 1 percent.  Bank of America has about 930,000 loans that are at least
60 days delinquent, down from 1.5 million from the peak in
January 2010, Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, 53, said
during a Dec. 14 event at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  Loan Modifications  The company’s large share in part reflects an agreement
made in conjunction with the mortgage settlement to delay home
seizures while attempting to modify loans, as well as with other
temporary moratoriums the bank implemented since 2008, said Eric Telljohann, a senior vice president in the mortgage-servicing
division, which employs about 50,000 people.  Bank of America postponed foreclosure sales for more than
200,000 delinquent borrowers who may be eligible for principal
reductions, and a portion of those loans were not yet in
foreclosure, according to Telljohann. Most of the homeowners
have been contacted, and about 40,000 of them are in trial
modification plans, he said.  The bank also has a large portion of delinquent Federal
Housing Authority mortgages, which require servicers to follow a
more time-consuming process to assess borrowers for loan
workouts, Telljohann said.  “We are definitely in a very thoughtful and deliberate
manner trying to work the number delinquent loans down,” he
said.  Record Lateness  Mortgages on U.S. homes at the time the borrower lost the
property averaged a record 728 days late in October, up from 661
days a year earlier, according to Lender Processing Services
Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida . The U.S. average was 367 days in
December 2008, before President  Barack Obama  took office and
started programs to help struggling homeowners keep their
residences.  While processing delays have given borrowers time to
negotiate loan workouts, large lenders often lose documents and
ask borrowers to resubmit them repeatedly, said  Alan White , a
professor who teaches consumer law at the  City University  of New
York.  “With delinquent mortgages you want to triage them, work
out ones that can be worked out and foreclose the ones that
can’t,” he said. “But if the only outcome is no outcome, it’s
not helping any of the parties affected, including the
economy.”  Bank of America, which has been criticized by housing
advocates for delaying loan workouts, has already spent more
than $40 billion to clean up the loans inherited from
Countrywide and faces a federal lawsuit seeking $1 billion over
a program to allegedly sell defective mortgages, called the
Hustle.  The firm is relying in part on falling costs from servicing
bad loans to help improve profitability. Moynihan said Nov. 13
that expenses for the unit handling bad loans were peaking and
should start to decline next year.  Countrywide Loans  About 85 percent of Bank of America’s loans that are more
than 60 days delinquent are Countrywide loans, according to  Dan Frahm , a spokesman.  “No mortgage servicer has ever had to address the scale of
delinquent loans that Bank of America has as a result of the
Countrywide acquisition,” Frahm said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve met that challenge by modifying more loans than any
other servicer. We’ve participated in every available program to
meet the needs of our customers and developed our own programs
beyond that.”  Bank of America, “by choice or otherwise,” appears to be
moving loans to foreclosure more slowly than other banks,  Mark
Kaufman , commissioner of the Maryland Office of Financial
Regulation, wrote in a column published on Nov. 20 in  American
Banker , opposing a proposal to increase mortgage fees in states
with long foreclosure timelines.  Maryland Homeowners  Maryland homeowners who received notices of intent to
foreclose from Bank of America were on average more than 500
days delinquent, Kaufman wrote. By contrast, notices filed by
the three next-largest servicers averaged 180 days late. The
letters can be sent as soon as 45 days after delinquency, he
said.  “This data suggests that a major statistical driver of
time is not the law, but who services your mortgage,” he wrote.  The top five lenders slowed the pace of  foreclosures 
starting in October 2010 as they negotiated with attorneys
general over allegations of faulty and fraudulent paperwork used
to repossess homes. The settlement directs $17 billion to
writing down debt and restricts banks from foreclosing on
borrowers while they’re negotiating loan modifications.  Anecdotal Reports  The data on delinquent loans not in foreclosure “seems to
confirm anecdotal reports that Bank of America has been much
slower than other servicers in dealing with problem loans,”
said Thomas Lawler, a former  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  economist who’s now a
housing consultant in Leesburg, Virginia.  Bank of America customers waited as long as two years to be
told whether they qualified for the Obama Administration’s Home
Affordable Modification Program, according to testimony from
Ryan Quinn, a former employee. Quinn, a customer-service
representative on the company’s loan-modification team from
April 2010 to March 2011, testified after being subpoenaed last
year by the Nevada attorney general as part of a lawsuit against
the bank.  Employees were given minimal training, didn’t have computer
passwords to find documents, and were discouraged from spending
more than seven minutes speaking to borrowers, he said. Eighty
percent of the calls Quinn took were about delays, he said.  The bank “wanted to make it take as long as possible,”
Quinn told investigators. Frahm declined to comment on that.  Paperwork Delays  Delays are also occurring because Countrywide loans are
getting scrutinized in foreclosure cases for documentation
problems such as missing promissory notes and chain-of-title
discrepancies, said  Tony Plath , a professor of finance at the
University of  North Carolina  in Charlotte who follows Bank of
America.  “Bank of America knows that whenever possible, defendants
are likely to mount a judicial challenge at foreclosure
hearings, so before they can initiate the foreclosure process
they have to make sure the loans in question can withstand
judicial challenge in court,” Plath said. “The large number of
180-day delinquencies relative to the other big servicers give a
good indication of the magnitude of the problems that face BAC
as it tries to clean up the Countrywide mess.”  The company has a “strong process in place to proceed with
foreclosure when other options are exhausted” for its
delinquent portfolio, Frahm said.  While Bank of America was handicapped by the Countrywide
portfolio when the foreclosure crisis began, it should be better
at processing loan modifications more quickly now, said Diane
Thompson, an attorney with the National Consumer Law Center, a
Boston-based advocacy group for low-income borrowers.  “What this is reflecting is Bank of America’s huge
bureaucratic difficulties,” Thompson said. “Even five years
into the crisis, Bank of America still doesn’t have a handle on
how to process loan modifications in a timely matter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  