-- Barcelona Coach Vilanova to Have Surgery for Cancer Relapse
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-12-19T20:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/barcelona-coach-vilanova-suffers-cancer-relapse-el-pais-says.html
Barcelona coach Tito Vilanova has
suffered a relapse after cancer treatment last year and will
have surgery tomorrow, the four-time European champion soccer
team said.  Vilanova had a tumor removed from a throat gland in
November 2011 when he was assistant coach to Pep Guardiola,
returning to work two weeks later. He’s had a “parotid ailment
relapse,” Barcelona said  on its website .  He will remain in the hospital for “three to four days”
before undergoing about six weeks of chemotherapy and radiation
treatment, Barcelona said.  “During this time, and depending on how well he recovers,
Vilanova’s treatment may be compatible with his work life,” the
team said in a statement.  His assistant Jordi Roura will lead the team for its next
game at Real Valladolid on Dec. 22, Barcelona President  Sandro
Rosell  told reporters.  Vilanova, 44, is four months into his stint as Barcelona
coach and has overseen its most successful start to a league
season, with 15 wins and a draw in 16 games.  Barcelona leads the league by nine points over  Atletico
Madrid  with defending champion Real  Madrid  four points further
back in third. Barcelona is also through to this season’s round
of 16 in the  Champions League  and is scheduled to find out its
opponent tomorrow.  Vilanova was promoted after Guardiola left his post in May
to take a sabbatical from soccer. Guardiola led Barcelona to two
of its four European titles to become the most successful coach
in the team’s history.  Former Midfielder  Vilanova was a midfielder in Barcelona’s youth squad,
although never played a league match for the first team. He
represented clubs including Celta Vigo.  Tennis player  Rafael Nadal  and soccer player  David Silva 
were among those to voice support for Vilanova today on social
networking site Twitter.  “All my support and best wishes to Tito and all of the
people in the world fighting every day against cancer,”
 Manchester City ’s Silva said. “Be strong.”  Real Madrid issued a statement offering “love and
support” for the Barcelona coach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  