-- BBC Replaces Newsnight Editors Amid Savile Sex Scandal
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-12-19T13:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bbc-replaces-newsnight-editors-amid-savile-sex-abuse-scandal.html
The British Broadcasting Corp. will
replace the senior editorial team of its current-affairs program
“Newsnight” because of errors in investigative reports into
child sex abuse allegations.  The editors “fell short of what was expected” first in
canceling a probe into abuse claims against the late Jimmy Savile, an entertainer who had worked at the  BBC  for decades,
and again when it published an erroneous report implying that
retired U.K. politician Alistair McAlpine had molested a child,
the BBC executive board said today.  The shakeup is the BBC’s reaction to a two-month probe, led
by former  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  head of news Nick
Pollard, that said problems with the BBC’s “rigid” management
structure and sharing information contributed to a breakdown in
decision making. The report also said that no undue pressure was
put on editors to drop the investigation into Savile, which
would have aired last year.  “The most worrying aspect of the Jimmy Savile story for
the BBC was not the decision to drop the story itself,” the
report said. “It was the complete inability to deal with the
events that followed.”  Risk List  Pollard’s team interviewed journalists who worked on the
program as well as former BBC director generals George Entwistle
and  Mark Thompson  over the last two months. Entwistle resigned
in November after less than two months on the job. The BBC is
also investigating whether Savile had accomplices.  Thompson, who still worked at the BBC when the first
“Newsnight” segment in question was canceled, has said he had
no involvement in the investigation into Savile or the decision
to cut the program. He took over as chief executive officer of
the  New York  Times Co. on Nov. 12.  Chris Patten , chairman of the BBC Trust, said today that he
has “no reason for disbelieving” Thompson’s version of events.  The BBC is taking disciplinary action against a number of
individuals, acting director general Tim Davie said today,
adding that  Stephen Mitchell , deputy head of news, has resigned.
He declined to comment further.  Mitchell was the editor who decided to take the Savile
story off of the broadcaster’s Managed Risk Programs List, a
program that flags controversial stories to management, in
November 2011. According to the probe, Mitchell offered “no
convincing reason” why he’d done it, suggesting that the risk
of reputational harm to the BBC was not a compelling reason to
list a story on the list and that it was “too early” to put
Savile on it.  `Very Relevant'  Pollard rejected these explanations and said that other
managers, including Patten and Helen Boaden, head of news, said
reputational damage was a “very relevant” factor for a story’s
inclusion on the list. Furthermore, other projects that were
months away from publication, had been included in the list.  “The report raises serious questions around editorial and
management issues at the BBC,” U.K. Culture Secretary Maria Miller said.   The Pollard probe also said some people within the BBC had
suspicions about Savile’s activities.  When Savile became ill in May 2010, BBC head of events Nick
Vaughan-Barratt sent a message to Entwistle, who was then the
BBC’s controller of knowledge commissioning, about an obituary.  “I’d feel v queasy about an obit. I saw the real
truth!!!” Vaughan-Barratt said in an e-mail, according to the
probe.  Opened E-Mail  After Savile had died, commissioning editor  Jan
Younghusband  sent an e-mail to Entwistle that said “I gather we
didn’t prepare an obit because of the darker side of the story.
So something celebrating a particular part of his TV career is
probably better than the life story as there are aspects of this
which are hard to tell.”  Entwistle said that he didn’t remember reading the e-mail.
Still, a check of his account showed that the message had been
opened, according to the report.  The “Newsnight” program was canceled by editor  Peter
Rippon , who has stepped away from his duties while the BBC
investigates. The BBC in October corrected the journalist’s
previous explanation on a blog for why he dropped the
investigation.  While Rippon had said that “Newsnight” had no evidence
against the BBC, there were some allegations of abusive conduct
on the broadcaster’s premises, the broadcaster said that staff
at the Duncroft school for girls, where Savile volunteered, may
have also known about abuse, contrary to Rippon’s earlier
statement.  ‘Completely Incapable’  Rippon had also had said there was no new evidence that
would have helped  law enforcement  investigate. The BBC then said
that police may not have been aware of all of the allegations.
The BBC has said it will decide on any potential disciplinary
action against Rippon after the probes.  “When the full force of the affair broke in October 2012,
the BBC’s management system proved completely incapable of
dealing with it,” the report said today. “The efforts to get
to the truth behind the Savile story proved beyond the combined
efforts of the senior management, legal department,
communications team and anyone else for well over a month.
Leadership and organization seemed to be in short supply.”  Childcare Homes  The BBC on Dec. 18  agreed to pay  Alistair McAlpine  185,000
pounds ($300,000) for an erroneous report on “Newsnight”
linking the former Conservative party treasurer to abuse claims
at childcare homes in  Wales  in the 1970s and 1980s.  A separate probe at the BBC, led by former Court of Appeal
judge Janet Smith, is examining the culture and practices at the
broadcaster during the years Savile worked there. That report is
expected to take at least six months to complete.  The BBC has named Tony Hall as its next director general.
Hall, currently the head of the Royal Opera House, previously
worked at the BBC for 28 years and will start in March. The BBC
controls the most popular television and radio channels in the
U.K. and is funded by license fees from TV households in the
country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  