-- Best Buy's Digital President Resigns to Join Symantec
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-12-19T22:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/best-buy-s-digital-president-resigns-to-join-symantec.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, said Stephen Gillett, president
of its digital arm, will depart to take a “senior role” at
 Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , a security software maker.  Gillett, who also held the title of executive vice
president, will “pursue other career opportunities” at
Symantec, where he already is a board member, Best Buy said in a
statement today. Symantec said in a separate statement that
Gillett has been appointed as executive vice president and chief
operating officer. He will take up his role on Dec. 21, the
Mountain View, California-based company said.  Gillett’s exit is the latest in a series of senior
departures this year. Founder Richard Schulze resigned in June
after an investigation found he failed to tell the board’s audit
committee about allegations former Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn was having an inappropriate relationship with an employee.
Dunn resigned in April and Hubert Joly, the current CEO, took
charge in September.  As Joly works to improve service as customers defect to
Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , former chairman
Schulze is seeking to take the company private.  Best Buy said last week it extended until February a
deadline for Schulze and his partners to make a proposal to buy
the company. Schulze, 71, has been working with three private-
equity firms, including Cerberus Capital Management LP, on a
takeover of the electronics chain he founded more than four
decades ago, according to people familiar with the matter.  Gillett’s duties have been reassigned to other senior
executives, including Chief Administrative and Chief Financial
Officer Sharon McCollam, President of Online and Global E-
Commerce Scott Durchslag and Shawn Score, senior vice president
of U.S. Retail, the company said.    The shares fell 1.8 percent to $11.90 at the close in New
York. Best Buy, based in Richfield,  Minnesota , has fallen 49
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  