-- Bid-Rig Judge Says Firms Have Right to Work Together
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bid-rig-judge-says-firms-have-right-to-work-together.html
Private-equity firms have a “right
to work together,” a judge told lawyers for investors who claim
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bain Capital Partners LLC and other
companies conspired to rig bids on takeovers.  U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington also said at a
hearing in  Boston  yesterday that the plaintiffs’ case would be
stronger if they had testimony from an insider at the firms.
After presiding over a two-day hearing on motions by the
financial companies to dismiss the shareholders’ antitrust
lawsuit, he said he would rule within 60 days.  The defendants, which also include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
 Carlyle Group , KKR & Co.,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , argued that the investors provided no
evidence of an “overarching conspiracy” among private-equity
firms and their bankers to rig bids. They also said the
transactions represented legitimate business practices.  “What’s bothering me is they have a right to work together
and there’s no requirement that they have to compete,”
Harrington told a plaintiffs’ lawyer. “It’s difficult to get a
conspiracy case without some insider testifying. You have to
admit it makes your case tougher.”  Individuals and pension funds that held shares in companies
including Freescale Semiconductor Ltd., Neiman Marcus Group Inc.
and  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  sued in 2007 and 2008, claiming “a
conspiracy among private-equity firms to rig bids, restrict the
supply of private-equity financing, fix transaction prices and
divide up the market for private-equity services for leveraged
buyouts.” They are seeking a jury trial and money damages. The
deals amounted to $250 billion, according to court testimony.  ‘Stand-Down Agreement’  “The glue that keeps those deals together is the stand-
down agreement to not go above the bid,” Patrick Coughlin, an
attorney for the plaintiffs at Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP,
told the judge. “We think we’ve presented enough evidence that
we should get to the jury on all of the deals.”  Lawyers for the private-equity firms and banks argued that
there was no pattern of winning and losing bids that would
indicate collusion.  “Such a sprawling conspiracy claimed in the complaint is
not possible,” Joseph Tringali, an attorney at Simpson Thacher
& Bartlett LLP, argued for the defendants. “We don’t control
the process. The target company in a bid situation often decides
who they are going to allow to bid.”  Potential Buyouts  In October, an amended complaint was unsealed, disclosing
e-mails between private-equity executives about potential
buyouts. In an e-mail referring to a Freescale deal, Blackstone
Group President  Tony James  told KKR co-founder  George Roberts ,
“Together we can be unstoppable but in opposition we can cost
each other a lot of money.”  James later told reporters the lawsuit was a “complete
fabrication.”  Plaintiff Kirk Dahl said he and others in the proposed
class of investors owned shares in Freescale in 2006 when the
chipmaker announced a buyout by firms including Carlyle and
Blackstone for $17.5 billion. HCA was purchased by companies
including KKR and Bain for $32.1 billion. The judge indicated
yesterday that the HCA deal might be a stronger case for the
plaintiffs than other deals.  Buyout prices were at least 10 percent lower than they
could have been without collusion, Coughlin said in an
interview. “All the major pension funds were impacted, as well
as thousands of individual shareholders.”  ‘Bidding Clubs’  The firms allegedly formed “bidding clubs” that rigged
bids, limited competitive offers and depressed prices, according
to the complaint. Firms that weren’t part of the winning club
would get minority stakes in the acquired companies or fees as
advisers, the investors said.  In court papers, the firms called such joint bidding
“central to the proper functioning of a well-regulated capital
markets system.”  The plaintiffs claim that managers of the targeted
companies were offered incentives including new equity to limit
the number of bids.  After a company was acquired, the new owners would often
sell bonds to fund a dividend for themselves, allowing the
private-equity firms to recoup as much as 35 percent of their
investment quickly and the banks to reap fees for the debt
sales, according to the plaintiffs. Later, the firms would sell
the companies in public stock offerings, reaping more returns
and fees, the plaintiffs allege.  2003 to 2007  The deals in question occurred from 2003 to 2007. Two
lawsuits were consolidated by the judge, who denied a request by
the defendants to move the case to federal court in  New York .  The original complaint listed seven leveraged buyouts:
Freescale, Aramark,  Neiman Marcus , PanAmSat Corp., SunGard Data
Systems Inc., Kinder Morgan Inc. and HCA. The judge in 2010
allowed a second phase of fact-gathering for eight additional
transactions, involving  Loews Corp. (L) ,  NXP Semiconductor NV (NXPI) ,
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ,  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , Nalco Holding Co.,
Cablecom Holdings, Susquehanna Media and Warner Music Group
Corp. The lawsuit now seeks damages on 17 leveraged buyouts and
eight related transactions.  About a dozen financial companies filed motions on July 23
for summary judgment, seeking a ruling from the judge instead of
a trial. The companies also include Providence Equity Partners
Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Silver Lake Technology
Management and TPG Capital.  Banks’ Lawyers  Lawyers for the banks Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan argued in
court that they shouldn’t be part of this lawsuit.  “Goldman’s economic incentives are contrary to any
conspiracy to suppress the price of LBOs,” Richard Pepperman, a
lawyer for Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, told the judge.  JPMorgan’s lawyer said it’s not a private-equity firm.  “They’re not in the private equity business and it’s as
nonsensical as this overarching theory is in general,” James Carroll, a lawyer with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP,
said in court.  The plaintiffs, who also include the police and fire
department pension funds of Detroit and Omaha,  Nebraska , said
they will file a motion for class certification, depending on
the outcome of the summary judgment motions.  The judge called the case “overwhelming” and said he
would “reconsider everything” before making a ruling.  “The plaintiffs have to realize that if this case were to
go to trial it would be a circus,” Harrington said. “It’s
almost too gigantic to get your arms around.”  The cases are Dahl v.  Bain Capital , 08-10254, and Klein v.
Bain Capital, 07-12388, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  