-- Big Kindle, Wii U, 4G Camera Make Last-Minute Gifts
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-12-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/big-kindle-wii-u-4g-camera-make-last-minute-gifts.html
Holiday shoppers aren’t the only
ones who sometimes wait until the last minute. Whether by design
or delay, some gadgets don’t show up until fairly late in the
season.  So, in addition to all the suggestions in our  annual
holiday gift guide , here are last-minute looks at new offerings
from Amazon, Samsung and Nintendo.  The best thing: All three should be readily available for
local purchase or express online delivery before Dec. 25.  Kindle Fire HD 8.9  The larger (and later-arriving) of  Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s newest
color tablets, the Fire HD 8.9 has many of the virtues of its
smaller sibling. It also has many of its shortcomings.  The screen makes the new Kindle something of a tweener:
larger than  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPad mini and  Google (GOOG)  Nexus 7, but smaller
than the full-size iPad and Nexus 10. Its price tag is very
attractive, starting at $299 for a model with 16 gigabytes of
storage, as long as you’re willing to look at ads.  It is also seamlessly integrated with Amazon’s enormous
library of e-books, movies and music -- and becomes even
sweeter, with features like the Kindle Lending Library, if
you’re already a member of the extra-cost Amazon Prime service.  The $499 and $599 models with built-in access to  AT&T (T) ’s
fast 4G LTE network offer a minimalist, rock-bottom first-year
data plan: A one-time $50 payment buys you 250 megabytes a month
for 12 months.  The downside is that the device itself is, at best, ho-hum.
The display is nice enough, but the controls are hard to use,
and the twin stereo speakers are located just where your hands
naturally rest when you’re holding the tablet in landscape mode.  The software -- a heavily customized version of Google’s
Android operating system -- is sometimes sluggish. And there
aren’t many applications for it, compared to the vast numbers of
iPad and off-the-shelf Android apps.  With its low cost and extensive parental controls, this is
a good tablet for families -- especially families with not-too-
demanding users.  Galaxy Camera  We’re all used to smartphones with cameras built in. Now
 Samsung (005930)  has taken a camera -- and built in a smartphone.  It’s the new Galaxy Camera point-and-shoot, and it’s being
sold by Verizon and AT&T.  Several manufacturers, including Samsung, already make Wi-
Fi-enabled models that let you upload your photos to Instagram,
Facebook and the like once you come within range of a network.
For other cameras,  Eye-Fi  makes an SD card that both stores and
sends pictures.  But the Galaxy Camera goes one better by untethering the
camera from Wi-Fi hotspots and allowing you to upload your
photos and videos on the spot.  It is, essentially, an Android smartphone, minus the voice
but including a 16-megapixel sensor, 21x optical zoom, and the
ability to play “Angry Birds” on the 4.8-inch touch screen
that also functions as the viewfinder.  The Galaxy Camera is hefty for a point-and-shoot, but
proved pleasingly idiot-proof for this not-great photographer. A
more accomplished one to whom I lent it came back raving.  The big drawback is its cost: $500 from AT&T or $550 from
 Verizon (VZ) , plus a month-to-month $5 to $10 data charge, depending
on your wireless plan and carrier. It’s a nice camera, though
that seems like a high price to pay for impatience.  Wii U  With its handheld Remote controller, Nintendo’s original
Wii introduced something new to the world of console gaming: the
ability to get up and move around.  The new Wii U again brings innovation to the table: a
wireless controller called the GamePad that has its own 6.2-inch
color touch screen. The screen can mirror what’s on the TV
screen, or display something else, such as a different
perspective on the game being played. It even has the ability to
play a game entirely on its screen while the TV is being used to
watch a show.  It’s a neat idea, but the execution is, at least for now,
cumbersome. Games take a long time to load, battery life on the
GamePad isn’t great, and while the Wii U is the first  Nintendo (7974) 
with full high-definition graphics, the benefit is lost on the
tablet.  The new Wii, which remains the family-friendliest of the
major game consoles, is $300; a much better value is the
“deluxe” bundle for $350 with expanded storage and an included
game.  Given the increasingly long periods between new gaming
consoles -- this is the first since 2006 -- Nintendo will have a
while to work out the kinks. Still,  Sony (6758)  and  Microsoft (MSFT)  are
developing new versions of the Playstation and Xbox.  We’ll have to see how smart the Wii U still looks in a year
or so.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and  Jason
Harper  on  cars .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 