-- Bill Seeks Study of Violent Video Games After Shootings
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-20T00:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bill-seeks-study-of-violent-video-games-after-shootings.html
The U.S.  National Academy of
Sciences  would investigate how violent video games and programs
affect children under a bill introduced in Congress in the wake
of the deadly school shooting in Newtown,  Connecticut .  The measure from  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat
who is chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, responds to
the Dec. 14 killing of 20 children and six adults.  “Major corporations, including the video game industry,
make billions on marketing and selling violent content to
children,” Rockefeller said in an e-mailed statement. “They
have a responsibility to protect our children. If they do not,
you can count on the Congress to take a more aggressive role.”  Under the measure, the National Academy of Sciences, a
Washington-based nonprofit organization that advises the
government on science policy, would study whether violent video
games and programs cause children to act aggressively, according
to a news release from Rockefeller’s office.  The measure also calls on the U.S. Federal Trade Commission
and and Federal Communications Commission, which have studied
video games in the past, to expand their work.  “We need to gather the scientific evidence to better
determine what impacts immersive shoot-em-up interactive games
have shaping the psycho-social development of our children,
including whether they become desensitized to violence,”
 Jeffrey Chester , executive director of the Center for Digital
Democracy, a Washington-based group, said in an e-mail.  ‘Vivid’ Violence  The National Academy of Sciences would examine “whether
current or emerging aspects of games, like their interactive
nature and the personal and vivid way violence is portrayed,
have a unique impact on kids,” according to the news release
from Rockefeller’s office.  The academy would submit a report on its investigation
within 18 months to Congress, the FTC and FCC.  “While to date we’ve seen studies that touch on the
correlation between video-game violence and aggression, more
conclusive research from objective sources is desperately needed
to fully understand these effects,” said James Steyer, chief
executive officer and founder of Common Sense Media, a San
Francisco-based nonprofit advocacy group focused on children and
media.  This is needed “especially as the video  game industry 
continues to market this content to young children during
daytime TV and other family viewing times,” Steyer said in an
e-mail.  The Entertainment Software Association, which represents
companies that publish computer and video games, said the
industry “mourns the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School”
and extends its condolences to the Newtown community.  “The search for meaningful solutions must consider the
broad range of actual factors that may have contributed to this
tragedy,” the Washington-based group said in an e-mailed
statement. “Any such study needs to include the years of
extensive research that has shown no connection between
entertainment and real-life violence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  