-- BOE Voted 8-1 to Leave QE Unchanged as Euro Risks Receded
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-19T10:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/boe-voted-8-1-to-leave-qe-unchanged-as-euro-risks-receded-1-.html
Bank of England  policy makers voted
8-1 to leave their bond-purchase program on hold this month as
immediate dangers from the euro-area crisis receded and near-
term inflation risks persisted.  David Miles  dissented and voted to increase the target for
purchases by 25 billion pounds ($41 billion) to 400 billion
pounds, according to the minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s Dec. 5-6 meeting, published in London today. All
nine members, including Governor  Mervyn King , voted to keep the
 benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent, a record low.  “The immediate risks emanating from the euro area seemed
less pressing than they had in the summer, and financial-market
sentiment had improved,” the MPC said. It added that inflation
will probably remain above the central bank’s 2 percent target
for the “next year or so.”  The Bank of England halted  bond purchases  in November and
is relying on its so-called Funding for Lending Scheme to aid
the recovery. While the MPC said early signs of the FLS were
“encouraging,” it warned that the economy may shrink this
quarter and that surveys pointed to “broadly flat underlying
output” in the near term.  The MPC said preliminary analysis of the fiscal measures
announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on Dec.
5 “suggested that their impact on the outlook for growth over
the committee’s forecast horizon was likely to be small.”  Coupon Communication  The MPC also commented on the chancellor’s arrangement with
the BOE to transfer gilt coupon income from the Asset Purchase
Facility to the government. It said the government’s decision to
reduce treasury-bill issuance this fiscal year rather than gilt
issuance “implied slightly less of an easing in monetary
conditions in the very short term.”  The MPC said that an “early understanding of the
government’s gilt issuance plans for the 2013-2014 financial
year would be helpful for its monetary-policy decisions.”  On inflation, the MPC said it should slow to its target in
the medium term, though it noted “substantial risks” to that
outlook, including from “continuing adverse weather” that
could disrupt harvests and push up food prices. Data yesterday
showed  consumer-price growth  remained at 2.7 percent in
November. Upward pressure on inflation came mostly from food and
utilities.  Not as Dovish  “These weren’t quite as dovish a set of minutes as some of
the comments from MPC members in recent times might have
implied,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas in
London, who forecasts no change to QE next year. “There is
clearly a risk the committee will come back to QE, but it will
take a pronounced weakening in the survey data flow over the
first quarter.”  The pound rose to $1.6307 today, the highest in almost
three months, and was at $1.6295 as of 10:30 a.m. in London.
It’s risen 2.4 percent against the dollar in the past month.  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London, said the MPC’s “broadly neutral policy
position” remains firmly in place. He expects no change to
stimulus through 2013.  In the minutes, the BOE said most MPC members “agreed that
developments on the month had done little to alter the balance
of arguments between maintaining and increasing” stimulus. The
current level of quantitative easing “seemed appropriate for
the present,” it said.  For Miles, the case for more stimulus was “strong.” In
his view, the outlook for growth “seemed a little weaker” and
the level of spare capacity meant more stimulus could “achieve
higher output growth without causing any material inflationary
pressure.”  In the minutes, the MPC noted that the “drag from fiscal
consolidation and rebalancing in the periphery was likely to
continue into the medium term.” Recent data pointed to a
“continuing contraction in the euro area, but a stabilization
in global growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  