-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Inflation Exceeds Forecast; Real Gains
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-12-19T18:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-inflation-exceeds-forecast-real-gains.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose to the
highest level in two weeks after a report showed inflation
accelerated more than forecast, spurring speculation the central
bank will boost borrowing costs.  Swap rates due in January 2015 climbed four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.69 percent at 3:50 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, the highest since Dec. 3 on a closing basis. The real
advanced for a second day, appreciating 0.9 percent to 2.0696
per dollar, the biggest gain since Dec. 5.  Consumer prices as measured by the  IPCA-15 price index  rose
0.69 percent in the month through mid-December, the fastest pace
in 19 months, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast of 41 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
0.64 percent increase. Annual inflation accelerated to 5.78
percent, compared with the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central
bank’s target range.  “While inflation may not be out of control, it’s
stabilizing at a very high level that is far from the target,”
Thiago Carlos, an economist at Link Investimentos, said in a
phone interview. The Sao Paulo-based brokerage raised its
forecast for annual inflation this year to 5.8 percent from 5.7
percent following today’s data.  The real advanced a day after the central bank eased
reserve requirements for bets against the dollar to boost the
local currency.  Financial institutions will be required to collect reserve
requirements on short dollar positions above $3 billion starting
Dec. 20 instead of the previous $1 billion level. A short is a
bet an asset will lose value.  ‘It’s Cautious’  “The government would like a weaker real, but the central
bank is showing it’s cautious with any impact on inflation,”
Flavio Serrano, an economist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The
central bank is taking back some of the barriers it has imposed
on the currency.”  Policy makers have swung this year between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from depreciating too quickly and
offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping
the real from strengthening.  The central bank sold $2.1 billion in currency swaps on
Dec. 3 and $1.6 billion on Nov. 23 to stem the real’s declines.
From August through October, the bank sold reverse currency
swaps to keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar.  Real’s Decline  The real has fallen 10 percent in 2012, the worst
performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
weakness in the exchange rate is inflating interest payments for
Brazilian borrowers that have doubled dollar debt since 2009 and
sapping profit at companies with expenses in U.S. currency such
as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA.  Policy makers left the  target lending rate  at a record low
7.25 percent last month following 10 straight reductions.
Traders use  interest-rate swaps  to bet on the direction of
borrowing costs.  Brazil will “certainly” raise gasoline prices in 2013,
and state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA will announce the
increase at the right time, Finance Minister Guido Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia today. Mantega is the company’s chairman.  Any fuel price increase will probably be less than 5
percent at the pump, Link’s Carlos said.  The central bank auctioned credit lines in dollars for a
third straight day to boost liquidity as trading slumps at the
close of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  