-- Brazil Consumer Default Rate Falls for First Time Since June
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-19T13:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/brazil-consumer-default-rate-falls-for-first-time-since-june-1-.html
Brazil ’s consumer-loan default rate
fell in November for the first time in five months as the
government pushes banks to reduce interest rates.  The consumer default rate fell to 7.8 percent from 7.9
percent in October, the central bank said in a report
distributed today in Brasilia. Interest rates to consumers fell
to a record 34.8 percent.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has sought to
spark consumption amid faltering growth by reducing the
benchmark interest rate to a record low, urging banks to reduce
borrowing cost to clients and pushing state-owned financial
institutions to boost credit. Policy makers announced this month
plans to further cut interest rates on loans from the national
state development bank.  State-owned Caixa Economica Federal will increase housing
financing by 20 percent next year, CEO Jorge Hereda said in a
Dec. 4 interview. The bank will have 85 billion reais ($41
billion) in financing for low-income homes through 2014, he
said.  Brazil’s average rate on loans fell to 28.9 percent in
November from revised 29.4 percent in October. Rates on
corporate loans fell to 21.7 percent from 22.1 percent.  Outstanding credit rose 1.5 percent in November to 2.3
trillion reais, the central bank said today.  Slowing Growth  Brazil’s economy  expanded  0.6 percent in the third quarter,
half the pace forecast by economists, the national statistics
agency said Nov. 30.  More recent economic reports suggest that economic activity
is picking up. Brazil’s  economic activity index , a proxy for
gross domestic product, rebounded more than analysts expected in
October. Retail sales in October rose at the fastest pace in
three months, as consumers increased purchases of computers,
furniture and appliances.  Brazil is creating conditions necessary to grow at least 4
percent next year, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said earlier
this month. Brazil’s economy is forecast to grow 1 percent this
year and 3.4 percent in 2013, according to a central bank survey
published this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  