-- Brazil Wants 20 Largest Airport Operators to Bid on Galeao
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-12-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/brazil-wants-20-largest-airport-operators-to-bid-on-galeao.html
Brazil  wants the world’s 20 biggest
airport operators to bid for the operating license for the
country’s second-biggest airport as part of efforts to modernize
infrastructure ahead of the 2014  World Cup , said a government
official familiar with the plan.  To prevent smaller companies from taking over the
operations of the Rio de Janeiro-based Galeao International
Airport, the government will require that bidders have
experience managing at least 35 million passengers a year, said
the official, who asked not to be named because the announcement
will be made by President  Dilma Rousseff  tomorrow. The
government in February sold licenses for the Guarulhos, Brasilia
and Viracopos airports to consortiums with experience managing
airports with 5 million passengers a year.  Inadequate roadways, rail transport and airport
infrastructure has limited Brazil’s  growth  potential as the
country prepares to host the World Cup soccer tournament and the
2016  Olympic Games . Brazil will seek 54.2 billion reais ($26
billion) of investment in ports through 2017 and 133 billion
reais in roads and railroads over the next 30 years.  Fraport AG, Flughafen Munchen GmbH, Changi Airport Group
and  Aeroports de Paris  are some of the operators that Rousseff’s
administration has met in the past months, the official said.  Rousseff will also announce plans to sell rights to operate
the Confins airport, in  Minas Gerais , this week, the official
said. Galeao and Confins would be auctioned in the first half of
next year, he said.  Argentine airport operator Corporacion America, Paris-based
airport operator Egis Avia and Johannesburg-based Airports Co.
 South Africa , the winners of the previous auction, wouldn’t meet
the minimum requirements that will be set by the government for
the new licenses, the official said.  The government also plans to invest more than 4 billion
reais for the expansion of 800 regional and private airports
with money raised from the auctions, the official said.  In February, Brazil’s government sold operating licenses to
Brasilia, Viracopos and Guarulhos for 24 billion reais. In
August 2011, Consorcio Inframerica paid 170 million reais for
Sao Goncalo do Amarante airport, in  Rio Grande  do Norte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  