-- Brazilian Tax Cuts Seek to Tame Inflation and Buoy Retailers
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-12-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/brazil-s-inflation-quickens-more-than-forecast-in-december-1-.html
Brazil  extended tax cuts on various
 consumer goods  and provided a payroll tax cut for retailers in a
bid to avoid price increases that would further stoke inflation,
which quickened more than forecast by analysts in each of the
past six months.  The government yesterday extended cuts to the IPI excise
tax for automobiles, appliances, furniture and other goods,
which had been scheduled to expire at the end of the year,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said. The government will also
reduce the PIS/COFINS federal taxes on sales in 2013.  “Our philosophy is lowering taxes to reduce companies’
costs,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has lowered
taxes, boosted spending and freed up credit to prop up Brazil’s
economy, which is growing slower than the U.S. and all other
major  emerging markets .  Dozens of industries have already received payroll tax
cuts, and retailers benefiting from the new cut include sellers
of everything from sporting goods to perfume, though not
supermarkets. Mantega said the government does not currently
plan to reduce its tax on financial transactions such as
currency derivatives, known as the IOF tax.  The IPI tax cuts increased sales of white line appliances
by 30-40 percent in 2012, Mantega said. Auto  sales  reached a
record 420,080 units in August, according to data from Brazil’s
car manufacturer association known as Anfavea. Sales have since
fallen to 311,772 units in November even as  consumer confidence 
hit a nearly two-year  high .  ‘Non-Linear’  Prices of new automobiles fell 5.8 percent this month,
according to yesterday’s inflation report from the national
statistics institute.  Overall consumer prices jumped the most in 19 months,
adding pressure on the central bank to raise  interest rates  next
year to control  inflation  that’s quickening faster than
economists have forecast.  Prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.69 percent
in the month through mid-December. The median  estimate  was for a
0.64 percent increase, according to 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual inflation, which has remained above the bank’s
4.5 percent target since 2010, accelerated to 5.78 percent.  The central bank last month kept the overnight rate
unchanged after cutting borrowing costs by 5.25 percentage
points since August 2011 --- the most among the Group of 20
nations -- as it eyes a “non-linear” convergence of inflation
to its 4.5 percent target. The bank said it would keep rates at
their all-time low for a “prolonged” period to stimulate
growth.  “The so-called non-linear convergence to target isn’t
taking place, it’s showing a divergence,” said  Jankiel Santos ,
chief economist at  Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA .
“Even though the central bank has said it will not undertake
any increase in interest rates in the next year in order to
guarantee the economy’s recovery, under an inflationary regime
it will be forced to respond.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  