-- Brazil Congress Approves Rousseff’s Plan to Reduce Energy Price
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-12-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/brazil-congress-approves-rousseff-s-plan-to-reduce-energy-price.html
Brazil ’s Congress concluded voting
yesterday on a decree that offers an early renewal of power
license contracts in exchange of a reduction in energy prices.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration will offer as
much as 30 billion reais ($ 14.4 billion) in compensation to
utilities companies that have agreed to renew contracts expiring
in 2015-2017 under lower tariffs. The government seeks to cut
energy bills by 20 percent on average next year as part of a
plan to reduce productivity costs and fight inflation.  “This is one of the most important measures in Dilma’s
government, without a doubt,” said Eduardo Braga, the leader of
the government coalition in the Senate. “It benefits all
consumers and it’s part of a strategy to stimulate the Brazilian
economy,” he told reporters in Brasilia yesterday.  State-controlled Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, or
Eletrobras, Brazil’s largest power company, has tumbled 48
percent since Sept. 10, the day before Rousseff said she wanted
to cut power costs by as much as 28 percent to aid
manufacturers.  Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais , or Cemig, opted not to
renew concessions to operate three hydroelectric dams because
the company expected to be granted an automatic renewal under
old rules, Chief Executive Officer Djalma Morais said Nov. 26.  Cia Energetica de Sao Paulo , or Cesp, as Brazil’s second-
biggest power generator is known, has gained six percent this
month after saying it won’t renew contracts accounting for 70
percent of its revenue under new rules proposed by the
president.  As part of the decree, Congress has authorized large
consumers, such as industrial companies, to re-sell energy in
case of surplus. It has also reduced to 0.4% from 0.5% a fee
charged from utilities for service and operational oversight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at  