-- Brian Baker, Vestor Capital Founder, Dies in Fall at 58
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-12-19T00:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/brian-baker-vestor-capital-founder-dies-in-fall-at-58.html
Brian Baker , whose Chicago-based
investment advisory firm, Vestor Capital Partners LLC, was
acquired two months ago by Focus Financial Partners LLC, has
died. He was 58.  He died on Dec. 16 of injuries sustained in an apparent
accident at his home in Wilmette, Illinois, police said.  Emergency responders found him “bleeding severely after
falling backwards on a glass coffee table,” according to a
press release from the Wilmette Police Department. Fire
department personnel took him to Evanston Hospital, where he was
pronounced dead at 12:47 a.m.  Focus, based in  New York  City, describes itself as the
largest partnership of independent wealth-management firms, with
more than $52 billion in combined assets. It  announced  on Oct.
11 that it had acquired Vestor, which had client assets of more
than $500 million. No price was disclosed.  Brian C. Baker was born on Sept. 14, 1954. An attorney and
certified public accountant, he founded Vestor, a fee-based
investment advisory firm and brokerage, in 1984 and served as
president and chief investment officer, according to the firm’s
 website .  In the news release announcing the acquisition, Baker said,
“We have set our sights on growing our business by extending
our services to more clients and recruiting like-minded advisers
to join us.”  Baker earned a bachelor of science degree in business
administration, accounting and finance from  Georgetown
University , in  Washington , and his law degree from  Notre Dame 
University, in  South Bend ,  Indiana .  Before starting Vestor, he was vice president for
acquisitions at Balcor Corp., the real-estate division that
American Express Inc. liquidated in the early 1990s. He also
worked in the audit and tax departments at Arthur Andersen & Co.  With his wife, the former Linda Wolf, he had four children,
Brian Jr., Matthew, Carolyn and Katherine, according to a  death
notice  on the website of Donnellan Family Funeral Services in
Skokie, Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  