-- Bumi Rebuffs Rothschild Plan as U.K. Regulator Starts New Probe
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-12-19T18:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/bumi-says-rothschild-s-proposal-for-company-is-undeliverable-.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the company at the center
of a dispute between  Nathaniel Rothschild  and Indonesia’s Bakrie
Group, said a proposal from the financier regarding the fate of
the $1.1 billion company’s coal assets was rejected.  The offer from Rothschild’s NR Investments lacks support
from major shareholders PT Borneo Lumbung, owner of 23.8
percent, and PT Bukit Mutiara, 9.8 percent, Bumi said yesterday
in a statement. A rival plan from the Bakrie Group has only
partial backing, Bumi Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Julian Horn-Smith said.  Bumi was founded by Rothschild and the Bakries, a family-
owned empire with investments in  palm oil  to property, in a $3
billion deal in 2010 that grouped stakes in two Indonesian coal
producers. Boardroom infighting and financial probes have since
prompted moves by both parties to unwind their collaboration,
and Rothschild has sought support for a plan to remove the
Bakries as shareholders of Bumi.  The board of London-listed Bumi is unanimous in pursuing a
separation from the Bakrie Group and  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , in which
the coal company holds a 29 percent stake, and will put this to
shareholders “as soon as possible” in 2013, Horn-Smith said.  The U.K. Takeover Panel  ruled  yesterday that the Bakrie
Group and Bukit Mutiara, which together control 50.3 percent of
the  voting rights  in Bumi Plc, are regarded as “acting in
concert.” They must reduce those rights to less than 30 percent
by disposing of shares, the panel said in a statement.  Starting Probe  The panel is also starting a separate probe into “why it
was not previously made aware of the existence of the concert
party,” and why a waiver was not sought, the statement shows.  At the time of the acquisition of the Indonesian coal
assets, Vallar Plc, the precursor to Bumi that was founded by
Rothschild, wasn’t made aware of any parties acting in concert,
NR Investment said in an e-mailed statement.  Bukit Mutiara is indirectly controlled by Rosan Roeslani, a
Bumi director, the panel ruled, saying its decision had been
accepted by the Bakrie Group, Mutiara, Bumi and Rothschild.  Roeslani has resigned from Bumi’s board, the coal producer
said in its statement. Following his departure, and that of Ari Hudaya, Rothschild and Indra Bakrie, who represented the
founding shareholders, the majority of Bumi’s directors are
independent, the company said.  PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal (BORN) , controlled by Bumi
Chairman Samin Tan, said Dec. 18 it rejected a proposal from
Rothschild to sell its stake in Bumi and is not in any talks
with the financier or his advisers regarding the proposal. It’s
seeking to meet with key shareholders for talks on the company.  Recover Investment  Tan’s Borneo  acquired  a 23.8 percent stake in Bumi Plc in
January from the Bakries for $1 billion. At current market
prices that stake is now worth about 153 million pounds ($249
million). Borneo expects to recover as much as possible of its
investment in Bumi, Alexander Ramlie, president director of
Borneo, said Oct. 25.  Borneo Lumbung fell 1.8 percent to 560 rupiah by the close
of trading in Jakarta. Bumi, which has slumped 69 percent this
year in London, fell 0.7 percent to 268.6 pence.  Rothschild made his proposal after the Bakrie Group in
October offered $1.2 billion to buy all of Bumi’s assets -- the
stake in Bumi Resources and an 85 percent holding in  PT Berau
Coal Energy. (BRAU)  Bumi said yesterday it has no intention of
disposing of Berau Coal.  The Bakries welcomed the Takeover Panel’s findings and said
they were caught in an “unjust situation,” where holders of 57
percent of the equity in Bumi Plc were restricted to only 29.9
percent of the votes.  ‘Serious Step’  They also took the “serious step” of making a formal
complaint to the Takeover Panel on Dec. 14 “in relation to the
conduct of Mr. Rothschild with respect to the original reverse
takeover.” The family repeated a demand for Rothschild to
return the 14 million bonus shares, or 6 percent of the
company’s stock, that he was awarded at the time the original
deal was struck in 2010.  Rothschild has 14.7 percent of the votes after subscribing
to 3.16 percent of the initial public offering of Vallar Plc,
the precursor to Bumi, the group said in a statement.  Rothschild, who’s being advised by Morgan Stanley, said in
an e-mailed statement he would continue to pursue talks with the
Bakrie Group, Borneo Lumbung and Bukit Mutiara to seek “a
consensual solution that will be in the interest of all Bumi Plc
shareholders.”  By Christmas  The Bakrie Group has offered to swap its 23.8 percent stake
in London-listed Bumi for 10.3 percent of Bumi Resources, Bumi
Plc said in October. The Bakries proposed to buy back the
remaining 18.9 percent in Bumi Resources by Christmas and to
make an offer for Bumi Plc’s 84.7 percent stake in Berau Coal
within six months.  Rothschild’s five-step proposal includes issuing new shares
equal to 25 percent of the current share capital at the
prevailing Bumi share price, according to a Dec. 12 statement.
That would help fund an offer to purchase the 23.8 percent stake
in Bumi held by Borneo Lumbung and a 9.8 percent holding of
Bukit Mutiara for the same price. His offer to unwind the
Bakrie’s investment is identical to the Bakrie family’s own
proposal, according to the statement.  The competing proposals follow infighting that has seen
Rothschild, who controls about 12 percent of Bumi Plc voting
stock, and Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie resign. Investigators in
 London  and Indonesia are probing possible financial anomalies.  Rothschild has made repeated demands for Tan and Roeslani
to resign and said last week that he may seek to remove the
board of the coal venture.  Institutions’ Backing  Rothschild has said his proposal has the support of Bumi
Plc’s top institutional  shareholders , including Abu Dhabi
Investment Council, Schroders Investment Management Ltd.,
Standard Life Investments, Taube Hodson Stonex LLP and Artemis
Investment Management LLP.  Bumi announced Sept. 24 an inquiry into “potential
financial and other irregularities” at its Indonesian
operations. The company has received a near-final version of a
report by law firm Macfarlanes LLP, which is handling the probe,
it said last week.  Borneo yesterday said Rothschild obtained “certain
confidential documents” of the company’s that were then given
to Bumi’s non-executive directors and used by Macfarlanes in the
investigation. It’s investigating the incident and intends
“pursuing remedies and reporting any wrongdoing to relevant
authorities, including to the police in the U.K. and  Indonesia .  In a separate statement, Bumi confirmed that the
allegations that underpinned the Macfarlanes probe were first
passed to one of its independent directors by Rothschild.  ‘‘Rothschild has told the company that the material was
offered to him on an unsolicited basis and that he is not in a
position to provide details as to the origin of the material or
to speak as to how it was originally obtained,’’ Bumi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  