-- California Teachers’ Fund Hunting for Gun Holdings, Ailman Says
-- B y   E r i k   S h a t z k e r ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-12-19T17:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/california-teachers-fund-hunting-for-gun-holdings-ailman-says.html
The  California  State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-biggest U.S. public pension, will
examine its holdings to see whether it’s invested in gunmakers
such as the one that manufactured the weapon used in the
Connecticut school shooting, the fund’s chief investment officer
said.  “We will look for all the other companies in the U.S. and
internationally, particularly the gun manufacturers and the
products they make, and look at the mix of what are banned in
California and whether there is a civil valuable use to their
products,” Chris Ailman, the fund’s chief investment officer,
said during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.”  Calstrs, as the $155 billion fund is known, said it had
invested in Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private equity
firm that owns Freedom Group, the maker of the Bushmaster .223-
caliber semiautomatic rifle that police said was the primary
weapon in the Dec. 14 shootings that killed 20 elementary-school
children and six adults in Newtown,  Connecticut .  Cerberus announced yesterday it would put that company up
for sale.  California Treasurer Bill Lockyer has said he’ll propose
that the state’s public pension funds, the two largest in the
U.S., divest investments in firearm manufacturers that make guns
prohibited under state law. Lockyer is a board member of both
Calstrs and the $246 billion California Public Employees’
Retirement System.  The teachers’ pension has policies requiring it to evaluate
the investment risks “associated with products that pose
significant threats to human well-being” though those rules
were put in place in 2008, after the fund bought into Cerberus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  