-- Cameron Said Willing to Restore Mitchell to Government
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-19T13:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cameron-said-willing-to-restore-mitchell-to-government.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  may
restore  Andrew Mitchell , the U.K. minister who resigned over
alleged insults to police, to office if new evidence exonerates
him, a person familiar with the premier’s thinking said.  Mitchell quit his job as the Tory party’s chief whip on
Oct. 19 after weeks of pressure over a verbal attack on police.
The opposition  Labour Party  led calls for him to resign after
The Sun newspaper reported Sept. 21 that he called Metropolitan
Police officers outside the premier’s Downing Street office in
London “plebs” and said they should “learn their place”
because they refused to let him cycle through the main gate.  A  report by Channel 4 News  televised last night said a
police officer had posed as a member of the public and falsely
claimed to have witnessed the events in an e-mail to his
lawmaker. A Diplomatic Protection Squad officer was arrested on
Dec. 15 by police investigating how national newspapers were
able to publish their records of the incident. Mitchell denied
using the word “plebs,” while admitting he lost his temper and
swore at officers.  “A police officer posing as a member of the public and
sending an e-mail potentially to blacken the name of a Cabinet
minister is a very serious issue and does need to be seriously
investigated,” Cameron told lawmakers today.  The Channel 4 report casts doubt over the police’s account
of the incident. The person familiar with the premier’s thinking
said there is more to the story than meets the eye and that if
Mitchell is cleared, the path is open for him to return to the
government.  ‘Really Shocked’  Mitchell told Channel 4 he was “really shocked” to learn
of the alleged falsification of evidence against him.  “I always knew that the e-mails were false, although
extremely convincing,” Mitchell said. “If you’d told me on
Sept. 19 that the experience I have had since then, the
revelations that have since come to light, could take place in
Britain today, I simply would not have believed you. And it’s
certainly shaken my lifelong support and confidence in the
police.”  Cameron “was urged repeatedly to set up a proper
investigation to get to the facts and refused to do so, and it
is incredible that three months on we still don’t have clarity
about what happened,” Labour’s home affairs spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , said in an e-mailed statement.  Drinks Reception  The premier spent weeks answering questions about why he
was reluctant to fire Mitchell over the incident as the police
piled pressure on the Conservative leader. Cameron left a drinks
reception for journalists in Downing Street before the end last
night to examine the Channel 4 allegations.  “The prime minister’s view remains that he hopes in time
Mr. Mitchell will be able to return to public life,” Cameron’s
spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in London today.  “About five days into it, there was a clear presumption in
the public’s mind, in the media mind, in a lot of politicians’
mind that there were saints and sinners in this -- that the
police were saints and Mr. Mitchell was a sinner,” Conservative
lawmaker  David Davis  told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program.
Mitchell “should be returned to high office; he was a fantastic
international development secretary. He probably will not become
chief whip again but I think the injustice should be put
right.”  ‘Posh Boys’  “Pleb” is an abbreviation of the word “plebeian,” an
insult directed at one’s perceived inferior. The incident was
particularly toxic for Cameron, as a distant descendant of
royalty, and for Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
heir to a hereditary title, who have been labeled “posh boys”
by lawmakers from both main parties.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  said in a statement that
the allegation “goes to the very heart of the public’s trust in
the police service. It said the force “is conducting a thorough
and well-resourced investigation to get to the truth of the
matter as quickly as possible.”  The  Police Federation , which represents rank-and-file
police officers, said in an e-mail today it is “concerned”
about the arrest of a serving police officer.  “However, this remains a separate issue to the original
claims made by Metropolitan police officers as to their
treatment by a serving MP,” the statement said. “It is
disappointing that all information and evidence regarding the
original incident was not revealed at the time -- if that had
occurred perhaps we would not be in the situation we now find
ourselves in as a police service.”  Conservative lawmaker Jacob Rees-Mogg said today that the
Police Federation “had an interest in damaging the reputation”
of the Tories and there’s “a lot of tension” between them.  “The Police Federation are in difficult negotiations with
the government over their pensions,” he told BBC Radio 5.  “I
don’t think it’s difficult to see the motive but it isn’t yet
proved that that is the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  