-- Canada October Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-12-19T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/canada-october-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment insurance report for Oct. released
by  Statistics Canada .  Following a small decline in September, the number of
people receiving regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits in
October edged up 4,600 (+0.9%) to 535,000.  The number of beneficiaries increased slightly in  Alberta ,
 New Brunswick , Ontario, Manitoba and Quebec, while it edged down
in British Columbia.  Claims unchanged in October  To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a
claim. The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  Nationally, the number of initial and renewal claims was
virtually unchanged in October at 231,700.  Claims increased 6.9% in Saskatchewan and 5.7% in Alberta.
At the same time, they fell by 2.1% in  Quebec . There was little
change in the other provinces.  Slight increase in beneficiaries in five provinces  The number of people receiving regular benefits in October
rose slightly in five provinces.  In Alberta, the number of people receiving benefits was up
1.7%, the third increase in four months.  In New Brunswick, the number increased 1.5%, continuing an
upward trend that began last May.  The number of beneficiaries rose 1.4% in Ontario,
offsetting a decline of similar magnitude the month before.  Manitoba also experienced a 1.4% increase, continuing an
upward trend that began last May.  In Quebec, the number of beneficiaries edged up 1.3% in
October, the second increase in three months.  The number of beneficiaries fell 1.4% in British Columbia,
following a similar decline in September.  There was virtually no change in the number of
beneficiaries for Newfoundland and Labrador, Prince  Edward
Island ,  Nova Scotia  and Saskatchewan.  Note to readers  Employment Insurance (EI) regular benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the
number of regular beneficiaries reflects various situations,
including people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to
work, and people exhausting their regular benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted unless
otherwise specified. For more information on seasonal adjustment,
see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=eng) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service Canada and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. A recent example is the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/cgi -
bin/relocate.cgi?l=E&amp;loc= http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/ 
ei/information/wwc.shtml),” which was introduced on August 5,
2012.  The number of regular beneficiaries and the number of
claims received for the current and previous month are subject
to revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from October 7 to 13. This period coincides
with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey (LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits. 