-- Cargill CEO Sees Rain Averting Mississippi ‘Catastrophe’
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-12-19T21:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cargill-ceo-sees-rain-averting-mississippi-catastrophe-.html
Actions by the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers and an improved rain forecast may avert a
“catastrophe” of closing the  Mississippi River  to barge
traffic, Cargill Inc.’s top executive said.  Gregory Page, chairman and chief executive officer of the
Minneapolis-based grain exporter, said the Corps’ removal of
rocks near Thebes,  Illinois , and a release of water from the
Kaskaskia River -- along with an improved weather forecast --
may keep traffic moving through the winter.  “The greatest catastrophe, the actual closing of the
river, seems to have been averted,” Page said at a  U.S. Chamber
of Commerce  forum on agriculture in Washington today. “It looks
like we’ll be able to soldier through.”  The Army Corps’ contractors are using an aquatic jackhammer
to break up rock pinnacles, formations of bedrock that can snag
long strings of barges that pass through that stretch of the
 Mississippi ’s narrow channel. Earlier plans to blow up the rocks
near Thebes with explosives are on hold.  The hydrological forecast for the Mississippi is improving,
according to  National Weather Service data  released today. River
levels in St. Louis on Dec. 26 now are forecast to be about 18
inches higher than previously projected. Longer term, the
weather service forecasts the river could fall another two feet
by Jan. 16, a level at which barge traffic could be stymied.  Rock Removal  Dredging at 21 spots between St. Louis and Cairo, Illinois,
and rock removal will add 1.5 feet of depth in the river’s
navigable channel, Joseph Kellett, the Army Corps’ top civilian
engineer in  St. Louis , said Dec. 7. That will mean barges will
continue to operate when the St. Louis gage reads as low as
minus 7 feet, he said. Water was at minus 3 feet today.  The U.S. government appears to be taking seriously
Cargill’s top policy request of doing whatever it takes to keep
nine feet of water in the river’s navigation channel, Page said.
It’s clear the U.S. is focused on the river now, he said.  The company is planning for scenarios of the river being
kept open or closed, Page said. Whether the river remains open
still depends more on the weather than anything else, he said.  The U.S. inland river system moves 60 percent of U.S. grain
exports between October and March, Page said, with more than
400,000 tons of fertilizer also traveling by water. Much of the
potential harm from low water already has been done, with
companies loading barges with smaller cargoes at higher cost, he
said.  “The drought can be prolonged and we’ll have to make other
decisions,” Page said. “The belief is the natural resources to
keep nine feet at St. Louis are available today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  