-- Carney to Get $407,000 Housing Allowance as BOE Governor
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-12-19T16:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/carney-to-get-407-000-housing-allowance-in-bank-of-england-job.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
will receive an annual housing allowance of 250,000 pounds
($407,000) a year when he takes over from  Mervyn King  at the
helm of  Bank of England  next year.  The allowance, which will be taxed at the top rate of 45
percent, will be in addition to a salary of 480,000 pounds,
according to a statement today from the Bank of England’s non-
executive directors. After tax and social-insurance
contributions of 2 percent, the allowance means Carney will have
about 11,000 pounds a month to spend on a property.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  named Carney as
King’s successor on Nov. 26, saying his “fresh perspective”
made him the best choice to run the 318-year-old central bank.
Carney’s basic salary is about 57 percent higher than King’s,
while he also gets an allowance of 30 percent of salary in lieu
of access to a  pension plan  that is now closed.  “He’s universally acknowledged as one of the world’s
preeminent central bankers and could have got multiples of that
in the private sector,” said  John Purcell , chief executive
officer of Purcell & Co., a London executive-search firm. “If
you compare it to the size of the job he’s been asked to do,
it’s fairly small beer so long as he gets it right.”  London Rents  Average rents in the U.K. were at 969 pounds a month in the
third quarter, according to property service company Move With
Us. The average in London was 2,273 pounds. While Carney’s
housing allowance is almost five times that, he has four
children and that sum on its own may not cover a suitably-sized
property in London’s most expensive locations.  “A five-bedroom house will always start at 3,500 pounds a
week, and four-beds are always 2,000 pounds and above” to rent
in the Knightsbridge and Chelsea area of London, said Charlie
Woods, a real-estate agent at a WA Ellis office in that area of
the capital.  The average asking price for a home in London was 464,398
pounds this month, according to property website Rightmove Plc.
Kensington and Chelsea was the most expensive district, at 2.15
million pounds, followed by Westminster at 1.41 million pounds.  Carney, 47, will become the first foreigner to lead the
central bank and his appointment ended the bids of candidates
including Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and Financial Services
Authority Chairman  Adair Turner .  ‘Uphill Climb’  In a Financial Times article published on Dec. 1, former
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said Carney’s salary
means he may have to work harder to win public support.  “Anyone who needed to be wooed with promises of a 60
percent salary rise over his predecessor’s, as well as London
living expenses in order to have the honor of serving as
governor, will have an uphill climb to be perceived as a British
public servant rather than a globe-trotting corporate free
agent,” said Posen, an American who served on the Monetary
Policy Committee until August.  The Bank of England is in the second year of a pay freeze
that’s due to run until March. It said in its annual report in
July that it will review its approach to pay after highlighting
the struggle to hire and retain staff.  Explaining Carney’s pay, the BOE non-executive directors
said that although it is “considerably higher than the salary
of the current governor -- 305,000 pounds -- the cost to the
bank of enrolling him in the now closed pension scheme
previously available to the governor and deputy governors would
approximate to more than 100 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  