-- Cayman Islands Premier Bush Ousted Following Arrest
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-12-19T18:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cayman-islands-premier-bush-removed-from-office-after-arrest.html
Cayman Islands  Premier McKeeva Bush
was removed from office by the British territory’s governor
following his arrest last week for misuse of government funds.  Bush was forced to step down and has been replaced by
deputy Premier Julianna O’Connor-Connolly, who will also serve
as finance minister, according to an e-mailed statement from
U.K. Governor Duncan Taylor. Four other ministers were also
confirmed today, after lawmakers voted 11-3 yesterday to support
a “no-confidence” motion against Bush.  Bush, who took office in 2009 and is known as the “Father
of the House” for his almost three decades of service in the
country’s parliament, was arrested on Dec. 11 for misuse of a
government credit card, conflicts of interest and importing
explosive substances, according to police. Bush has maintained
his innocence and remains on bail until February while police
continue their investigation.  The Cayman Islands, a British Overseas Territory, has the
highest number of  hedge funds  in the Caribbean and has
historically attracted companies such as Bain Capital LLC and
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  looking to lower their tax burden. The nation was
home to 10,979 funds as of Sept. 30, up from 9,258 in 2011,
according to the country’s monetary authority.  In a statement yesterday, the Cayman Finance trade
association said it supported an investigation of the charges
and that the political debate wouldn’t affect their industry.  “The financial services industry operates independently of
the political arm of the legislature and any potential criminal
charges against an individual do not impact the ongoing
effective functioning of the government or the Cayman Islands
Monetary Authority,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  