-- Central Banks Fighting Bubbles in Nordics Get Regulatory Relief
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-12-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/central-banks-fighting-bubbles-in-nordics-get-regulatory-relief.html
As central bankers in  Sweden  and
Norway look for ways to fight consumer debt bubbles without
losing sight of their inflation mandates, the latest regulatory
onslaught is helping ease their dilemma.  Sweden’s Riksbank this week cut its main  interest rate ,
while Oslo-based Norges Bank a day later stuck to a plan to
shelve tightening until March next year at the earliest. Both
central banks have warned of the risk of household debt growth
destabilizing their economies, signaling a need for higher rates
even as inflation hovers well below their targets.  Their dilemma has spurred debate on the extent to which
monetary policy should target asset bubbles, or whether interest
rates are too blunt a tool to steer property values and debt
growth. Now, Sweden and Norway are attacking credit growth via
stricter regulation. Central banks are also being drawn deeper
into the regulatory process, allowing them to address imbalances
without compromising their rate policy.  “There is a necessity for a common analytical
background,” Jan F. Qvigstad, the deputy governor of  Norway ’s
central bank, said in an interview yesterday. “In that sense it
will make it easier because we have two jobs to advise on macro
prudential measures and set interest rates.”  Norges Bank, which yesterday left its main rate at 1.5
percent, will start advising the  Finance Ministry  on how much
extra capital banks need to hold in their counter-cyclical
buffers. That follows a proposal by the Finance Ministry to
triple minimum risk weights on banks’ mortgage assets to 35
percent. A separate proposal also seeks to limit the use of
covered bonds.  Less Pressure  “Once implemented, this will take away some pressure from
monetary policy in relation to potential financial imbalances,”
said Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at SEB AB in Oslo.  In Sweden, the country’s four biggest banks need to meet
stricter  capital requirements  than lenders elsewhere. The
country’s financial regulator is also pushing for risk weights
on mortgage assets to be tripled to 15 percent.  The monetary policy relief provided by the extra regulatory
measures would allow central bankers in the two countries to
turn their attention to chronic below-target inflation.  Sweden’s central bank on Dec. 18 said consumer price growth
will average only 0.3 percent in 2013, falling well short of its
2 percent target. In Norway,  headline inflation  held at 1.1
percent last month, and has remained below the central bank’s
2.5 percent target since January last year.  Absent Inflation  Though inflation pressures have been hard to identify,
growing private debt burdens have tied central bankers’ hands.
In Norway, the world’s fourth-richest nation per capita,
 household debt  will swell to more than 200 percent of disposable
incomes next year, while Sweden’s debt load hit a record 173
percent this year, the countries’ central banks estimate.  Swedish central bank Governor Stefan Ingves, who is also
the chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , has
argued in favor of central banks tracking risks associated with
household indebtedness. Still, interest rates may not be the
best tool for the job, he said, after his bank cut its main rate
a quarter point to 1 percent this week.  “If we can’t do it because here monetary policy is a blunt
instrument then others will have to do other things,” Ingves
said in an interview. Imbalances can be eased “by increasing
capital charges on banks, by keeping a close eye on the loan-to-
value ratio, maybe look more into loan-to-income and issues of
that nature,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  