-- Banks Lead Longest Czech Stock Rally in Four Years: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-12-19T16:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cez-erste-propel-czech-shares-to-15-month-high-prague-mover.html
Czech shares climbed for a seventh
day, the longest rally in almost four years, as  Erste Group Bank
AG (RBAG) , Komercni Banka AS and  New World Resources Plc (NWR)  jumped after
business confidence in  Germany  improved.  The  PX (PX)  gauge of 13 equities rose 1 percent to 1,041.29 in
 Prague , the highest close in more than 15 months and the longest
stretch of gains since March 2009. Austria’s Erste, which has a
28 percent weighting in the index, added 1 percent.  Lenders led gains for European stocks on optimism U.S.
lawmakers will reach a budget agreement and after Standard &
Poor’s raised Greece’s credit rating. The Ifo institute’s
business climate index for Europe’s biggest economy increased to
102.4 in December from 101.4 a month earlier, it said today.  “Germany’s Ifo index was a positive surprise,”  Josef Nemy , an analyst at Komercni Banka in Prague, wrote in a report
to clients today. The PX index’s “seventh day of straight gains
was fueled mainly by financial stocks, which benefited from a
good mood in western European markets,” he said.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the country’s biggest utility, rose 0.4 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the shares.
The U.S. bank raised its recommendation from neutral in a report
to clients dated yesterday, citing expectations for a rebound in
electricity prices and planned sales of CEZ’s unit in Albania
and a coal-fired plant in the Czech Republic.  ‘Generally Supportive’  “We expect further clarity on these issues over the next
month and expect this visibility to be generally supportive for
the shares,” Deborah Wilkens, an analyst at Goldman in  London ,
said in the report. “CEZ stands out in a sector context owing
to its solid balance sheet and exposure to the German power
market, which we forecast to improve medium term.”  Losses from CEZ’s investment in Albania may be lower than
Moody’s Investors Service’s estimate last month for write-offs
of as much as 202 million euros ($268 million), Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Benes said in an interview published today by
Hospodarske Noviny. CEZ seeks to leave the Balkan country to
“minimize potential losses,” he told the newspaper.  “Benes’s comment about Albania may be taken as slightly
positive,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at Cyrrus brokerage in
Brno, Czech Republic, wrote in a report to clients today.  New World Resources (NWR) , the biggest Czech producer of coking
coal, surged 5.5 percent to 95.50 koruna, its highest in almost
four months. Europe’s benchmark coal contracts had their longest
gaining streak in five months in the Netherlands, rising for a
fifth day to $96.75 a metric ton.  NWR was the best performer in the PX index today, and the
most traded stock, with turnover at three-times its daily
average over the past three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  