-- Chaebol Founder Dismantles Life’s Work as Slump Deepens: Freight
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-12-20T09:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/chaebol-founder-dismantles-life-s-work-as-slump-deepens-freight.html
Kang Duk Soo spent eleven years
turning a failing ship-engine maker into a conglomerate with $23
billion in assets. He is now dismantling it.  His STX Group put the controlling stake of its shipping
unit up for sale last week as it tries to raise 2.5 trillion won
($2.3 billion) to pay off debt. It’s already spent nearly a year
looking for a buyer for its affiliated offshore-vessel maker.  Kang, 62, was dubbed the ‘legendary salaryman’ in  South
Korea  after he used his life savings in 2001 to found his own
chaebol, the business groupings that dominate the country’s
economy. An expansion into  China  right before the collapse of
the shipping market in 2008 crippled his ability to raise funds.
His three main companies now have $1.4 billion of bond and loan
due next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Kang really doesn’t have much choice,” said Shin Ji Yoon,
an analyst at KTB Securities Co. in Seoul. “Investors have lost
confidence in the group.”  STX also said last week that it is holding discussions with
potential strategic investors for its Dalian, China shipyard. It
had previously planned to hold an initial public offering for
the yard, one of the two biggest overseas investments by Korean
shipbuilders.  Improving Finances  The group is “firm on our plan to improve our finances”
by selling shipping unit STX  Pan Ocean (028670)  Co., it said in a Dec. 12
statement. “We also hope this will help to regain market
confidence.”  STX, which also builds  cruise ships ,  wind turbines  and
apartment blocks, declined to comment further when contacted by
 Bloomberg News . Kang wasn’t available for an interview, it said.  Kang has already sold a stake in an energy unit for 360
billion won and he will merge two engine-making units as he
seeks to cut costs and pay debts. Talks on the sale of a stake
in offshore-vessel maker  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH)  are nearing
completion, the group said last week.  OSV rose 1.1 percent to S$1.40 in Singapore trading today.
Pan Ocean closed unchanged at 4,230 won in Seoul.  The opening of the Chinese yard in 2008 marked the pinnacle
of Kang’s business empire, which he built after a 27-year career
at Ssangyong Group. Kang founded STX in 2001 when he used his 2
billion won life savings to buy a former Ssangyong engine-making
business.  Korean Chaebols  Kang renamed the company  STX Corp. (011810) , derived from Systems,
Technology and Excellency, and subsequently turned it into South
Korea’s 13th biggest business group, according to a government
ranking. STX’s companies, like other chaebols, are linked
together through a web of cross-shareholdings.  Kang partly built STX by buying financially struggling
companies. In 2001, he bought Daedong Shipbuilding Co., then-
South Korea’s eighth-largest shipbuilder, which had just exited
court protection. He renamed it STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co.
Three years later, Kang bought Pan Ocean Shipping Co., which was
then in  bankruptcy protection .  The two companies both benefited from China’s surging
demand for  iron ore , coal and the vessels to carry them. Korean
shipbuilders posted five years of record orders through 2008,
which prompted STX to build the yard in Dalian. Pan Ocean’s
earnings jumped as Chinese shipping demand helped cargo rates
more than double in four years.  Bubble Burst  The bubble burst as Chinese shipyards churned out new
vessels, helped by government support, causing a glut of
capacity. The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , which tracks dry-bulk shipping
rates, has plunged more than 90 percent from its record close in
May 2008. Chinese shipyards’ vessel orders tumbled 47 percent
from a year earlier in the January-November period to the least
since 2003, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  The market plunge has left STX companies struggling to make
money. The holding company that oversees the group’s
shipbuilding and offshore operations in China had a loss of 10.7
billion won last year on sales of 2.39 trillion won. The Dalian
yard has won $1.2 billion of orders this year, surpassing last
year’s tally of $300 million. The group said in 2008 that the
yard would post annual sales of $3.8 billion by 2010.  Other shipping and shipbuilding groups have also suffered
in the market slump. Ship operator Korea Line Corp. has been in
court receivership for almost two years as new investors are
sought. Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.,
the world’s largest shipbuilder, has offered early-retirement
programs demand withers.  “Kang is very serious about trying to improve the group’s
finances,” said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities
Co. in  Seoul . “But things can’t really improve until the
shipping and shipbuilding industries recover, and that’s
something he has no control over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  