-- Chelsea Will Sell Sturridge to Liverpool in January: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-19T06:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/chelsea-will-sell-sturridge-to-liverpool-in-january-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sturridge Sale  Chelsea will sell striker Daniel Sturridge to Liverpool for
about 12 million pounds ($19.5 million) next month as interim
manager Rafael Benitez seeks to reshape and strengthen the
Blues’ squad, the  Guardian reported .  Benitez, who has not used Sturridge since taking over, will
discuss transfer targets with club owner Roman Abramovich and
technical director Michael Emenalo after today’s League Cup
quarterfinal at Leeds United, the Guardian added.  The sale of Sturridge will prepare the way for a spending
spree that may include an attempt to sign Atletico Madrid
striker Radamel Falcao, the  Independent reported .  Arsenal Agreements  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has held “peace talks” with
Theo Walcott over a new contract and secured deals to re-sign
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Aaron Ramsey,  Kieran Gibbs  and  Jack Wilshere , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Wenger spoke with Walcott last week to try to resolve the
forward’s future and played him as a central striker in the next
match in a bid to persuade him to re-open negotiations, the
newspaper said. Oxlade-Chamberlain, Ramsey and Gibbs all agreed
to new contracts while Wilshere has said he will sign a new
five-year agreement, the Mirror added.  Pep Talk  Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson met with former
Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola this week in New York, where they
both have apartments, with the Spaniard still undecided about
his future plans, the  Sun reported .  It’s not clear whether Ferguson, 70, will extend his 26-
year tenure as United’s manager beyond this season and Guardiola
is available and the club’s preferred option to take over when
Ferguson leaves, the newspaper added.  Manchester Pursuit  United and Premier League champion Manchester City are
vying to sign Brazilian playmaker Fernandinho from Shakhtar
Donetsk, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The 27-year-old Fernandinho, who’s valued at 20 million
euros ($26.5 million), is keen to move after eight seasons in
Ukraine, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  