-- Chelsea Faces Swansea in Cup Semifinal After Routing Leeds
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-20T12:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/chelsea-routs-leeds-5-1-to-reach-league-cup-soccer-semifinals.html
Chelsea scored five second-half
goals to rout host Leeds United 5-1 and advance to a League Cup
soccer semifinal against Premier League rival Swansea City.  Juan Mata, Branislav Ivanovic, Victor Moses, Eden Hazard
and Fernando Torres scored at Elland Road last night after
Luciano Becchio put Leeds ahead in the 37th minute. The Blues
have now scored 16 goals in three matches in  England ’s second-
tier cup competition this season.  Chelsea’s victory came three days after the European
champions lost 1-0 to  Brazil ’s Corinthians in the FIFA Club
World Cup final in  Japan . The Blues secured the last of their
four League Cup titles in 2007.  “Coming back from Japan with the jetlag, we haven’t slept
too much,” Chelsea interim manager Rafael Benitez said on his
team’s website. “The players are tired, but the second half was
fantastic. To have this reaction, mentally, and after working so
hard, I am really pleased with them.”  The other semifinal features five-time winner Aston Villa
against Bradford City, which plays in England’s fourth tier. The
competition winner secures a spot in next season’s Europa
League.  Trailing 1-0 at halftime, Chelsea hit back with goals from
Mata, Ivanovic and Moses in a 20-minute span. Hazard and Torres
scored in the last nine minutes as Chelsea got five goals or
more for the third straight League Cup game.  Chelsea and Bradford, which upset Arsenal in the
quarterfinals, will host the semifinal openers.  “When you go to a semifinal any team will be difficult,”
Benitez added. “Swansea is a good team who try to play
football, and because we are so close to the final their
motivation will be there.”  Semifinal dates:
1st legs: Jan. 8:  Bradford vs Aston Villa  Jan. 9:  Chelsea vs Swansea  2nd legs: Jan. 22: Aston Villa v Bradford;  Jan. 23: Swansea v Chelsea.  Final:    Feb. 24  at Wembley Stadium in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  