-- Chevron, YPF Sign Venture to Develop Argentine Shale Oil
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-12-19T20:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/chevron-ypf-sign-venture-to-develop-argentine-shale-oil.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  signed a deal with  YPF
SA, (YPFD)  Argentina’s largest energy company, which paves the way for
it to become the first major  oil company  to partner with the
Buenos Aires-based producer since its nationalization in April.  According to the agreement signed today by Miguel Galuccio,
chief executive officer of YPF, and  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s head
of  Latin America , Middle East and Africa, the  San Ramon ,
California-based company gets an exclusive right for four months
to negotiate final terms for YPF to transfer a 50 percent
interest in Loma de la Lata Norte and Loma Campana, YPF said in
an  SEC filing . The fields comprise an area of 290 square
kilometers (180 miles) in southwestern Argentina, YPF said.  “Chevron is committed to make the expenditures in
accordance with a development program, for an estimated 100
wells, in these areas during a 12-month period,” YPF said in
the filing.  The pilot program in Neuquen Province would cost $1 billion
and may eventually expand to an estimated 2,000 wells at a
pricetag of about $15 billion,Galuccio said in a
videoconference from Houston withMoshiri.  The companies plan to identify additional exploration
blocks in an estimated 600-square kilometer area, where Chevron
will pay for the investments, YPF said in the filing. In
exchange, YPF said it will give Chevron 50 percent interest in
the blocks.  ‘Irrelevant’ Lawsuit  The final agreement, if signed, will be the first YPF
reaches with a foreign oil company to invest in Argentina since
the government  nationalized  51 percent of the company by seizing
shares from  Repsol SA (REP)  in April.  In August, Chevron and YPF signed a memorandum of
understanding, the first step toward a development partnership.  Repsol, based in Madrid, filed a complaint Dec. 4 in a
federal court in Manhattan accusing Chevron of improperly
obtaining rights to develop Argentine shale and natural gas
resources.  Repsol’s lawsuit against Chevron for partnering with YPF is
“irrelevant,” Moshiri said.  “Our goal is to start as soon as possible and the only
thing we need is to push our teams to put a definitive agreement
together as soon as possible,” he said.  Dead Cow  Vaca Muerta, which means “dead cow” in Spanish, holds at
least 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to a
report by independent auditor Ryder Scott released in February
by YPF. Argentina holds the world’s third-largest shale gas
reserves, according to US Energy Administration data.  Galuccio said the signing of the preliminary deal marks “a
very important day for YPF.” In August, he said that to boost
output YPF needs to invest $37.2 billion in the next five years,
$2.5 billion of which is to come from strategic partners, $5
billion from bond sales and bank loans, while the remainder
should come from its own cashflow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  