-- China to Make Regional Adjustments for Solar Power Incentives
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-19T11:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/china-to-make-regional-adjustments-for-solar-power-incentives.html
China , the biggest manufacturer of
solar panels, will make regional adjustments to the feed-in
tariffs supporting solar power based on local “resource
conditions,” the latest step to support the industry.  The nation also will offer photovoltaic projects
preferential value-added tax policies similar to those made for
wind farms, according to a  statement  today on the central
government’s website, which cited a State Council meeting led by
Premier  Wen Jiabao .  The changes are the latest effort by the government to help
the industry cope with plunging prices and profit margins caused
by a solar panel supply glut. Feed-in tariffs are above-market
prices paid for electricity for renewable energy projects. The
government is working to stimulate domestic demand for the
technology to help mop up some excess inventories.  “The feed-in tariffs may vary according to local
irradiation conditions,” said Wang Xiaoting, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Beijing. “It is less likely
that the current tariff of 1  yuan  (16 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-
hour will be cut for western regions by 2014, while the rate for
less sunny locations may get higher for utility applications.”  China set the electricity rates for solar projects last
year to encourage developers to shift to cleaner-burning energy
sources. The country has given higher power prices for wind
farms in less windier regions since 2009.  The government also has said it will encourage mergers and
acquisitions in the solar industry.  The government said it plans to subsidize distributed solar
power projects based on their electricity power generation. Such
projects would ideally have less than 6 megawatts of capacity
and would be connected to grids with voltage of as much as 10
kilovolts.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  