-- China Consumer Staples Lead Gains for CSI 300; Gold Drops
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-12-19T08:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/china-consumer-staples-stocks-rise-property-developers-decline.html
Chinese  consumer-staples  producers
and energy companies led gains in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , while gold
producers sent a gauge of material stocks to its first decline
in four days.  Kweichow Moutai Co. rose 2.3 percent, pacing an advance for
liquor makers. China Shenhua Energy Co. climbed to the highest
in six months after BOCOM International upgraded the Hong Kong-
traded shares. Shandong Gold Mining Co. declined 2.3 percent
after bullion prices dropped in New York yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped less than 0.1 percent
to 2,162.24 at the close, with gainers and decliners almost
equal. The CSI 300 rose 0.1 percent to 2,371.11.  Shanghai 
trading volumes were up 30 percent from the 30-day average. The
measure has rebounded 10 percent from an almost four-year low on
Dec. 3.  China  will promote economic reforms through measures
such as tax cuts, the Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 16.  “There will be a lot of fluctuations in the short-term,”
Deng Wenyuan, an analyst at Soochow Securities Co., said by
phone today from Suzhou. “However, the uptrend will remain. The
Shanghai Composite has fallen too much and for too long this
year. There are expectations of economic reforms and valuations
are cheap.”  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 1.7 percent this year,
heading for a third straight annual loss. The measure trades at
12 times  reported earnings , the highest since July, after
valuations fell to 10.8 this month, the lowest level since at
least 1997, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index advanced 0.8 percent today. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index gained 1 percent in New York yesterday.  Economic Outlook  China’s economy may grow faster next year, the World Bank
said in a report today. More investors than ever say they are
bullish about the growth outlook, a Bank of America Corp.
monthly survey showed. Corporate earnings are set to climb as
much as 10 percent next year, Russell Investments said.  “There’s more acknowledgement that the economy is
recovering and investors think company earnings may rise,” Shi
Wei, a fund manager at Bank of Communication Schroder Fun
Management Co., said in a phone interview today from Shanghai.  Moutai, the biggest maker of baijiu liquor, rose 2 percent
to 218.86  yuan , extending gains for a fourth day. Moutai’s
parent may steadily raise its stake in the company, the Shanghai
Securities News reported Dec. 13, citing Chairman Yuan Renguo.
The stock dropped 13 percent last month after some products made
by liquor maker JiuGuiJiu Co. were reported to have contained
excessive levels of plasticizer. Rival Wuliangye Yibin Co. added
2.1 percent to 27.77 yuan today.  Shenhua, Shandong  China Shenhua, the nation’s biggest coal producer, gained
0.8 percent to 23.59 yuan. The Hong Kong shares jumped 2.9
percent in Hong Kong today after they were raised to Long-term
Buy from Neutral at BOCOM. Global coal demand will rise 2.6
percent annually in the next six years and challenge oil as the
top energy source, according to the International Energy Agency.  A gauge of  material producers  in the CSI 300 dropped 0.6
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Shandong Gold, the
second-largest Chinese producer, declined 2.3 percent to 36.53
yuan. Zijin Mining Group Co., the largest, fell 1 percent to
3.74 yuan.  The gold price fell to $1,661.10 yesterday, the lowest
since Aug. 31, as optimism that a U.S. budget deal may be
reached boosted equities and pared demand for the metal as an
alternative asset.  The Shanghai index’s 14-day  relative strength index  is at
68.6 after reaching 70 yesterday, which some traders use as a
signal to sell.  Bottoming Growth  China’s economy may grow 7.9 percent in 2012, compared with
9.3 percent in 2011, the World Bank said. Asia’s largest economy
may expand 8.4 percent next year, and the country’s slowdown
“appears to now have bottomed out,” it said.  More investors than ever say they are bullish about China’s
growth outlook, a Bank of America Corp. monthly survey showed.
A net 67 percent of money managers, who together oversee $503
billion, predicted that the economy will grow at a faster
rate next year, the Bank of America monthly survey showed. This
is the highest reading since the survey data started in 2003.  Corporate earnings are set to climb as the economy emerges
from its slowdown and more people move to cities, Russell
Investments said. Chinese companies that can benefit from an
increase in domestic consumption may post even greater growth,
Gustavo Galindo, who helps manage $8 billion of emerging-market
equities for Russell in New York, said in a phone interview
yesterday.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission has suspended
initial public offerings since late October as investors’
appetite for new stocks waned amid falling share prices.  IPO Selling  China’s IPOs have rewarded corporate insiders for selling
shares on the first trading day while penalizing longer-term
holders, a trend that’s pressuring regulators to curb insider
advantages.  Mainland investors had an average gain of 23 percent if
they sold IPO shares after one day of trading, while losing an
average 42 percent if they held for a year, according to data
compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG. Hong Kong IPO holders had a
6 percent gain if they sold on the first day and a 15 percent
loss after a year, the data show.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.5 percent to a nine-
month high of $39.54, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  came closer
to closing a deal on the  federal budget  with Republican House
Speaker John Boehner.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  