-- China Repo Rate Rises Toward 1-Week High on Year-End Cash Demand
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-12-19T03:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/china-repo-rate-rises-toward-1-week-high-on-year-end-cash-demand.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose toward a one-week high on speculation banks are hoarding
cash to meet year-end requirements and holiday withdrawals.  Lenders need to raise funds to shore up capital-adequacy
ratios as a combined 360 billion  yuan  ($58 billion) of the
central bank’s reverse-repurchase agreements mature this month,
draining money from the financial system, said Liu Li-Gang,
chief China economist in  Hong Kong  at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for
an offer of seven- and 14-day reverse-repo contracts tomorrow,
said a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the sales.  “There’s a seasonal reason for rising money-market
rates,” said Jeffrey Yap, the Hong Kong-based head of Asia
fixed-income trading at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “Over the
course of the year-end, liquidity dries up as banks try to fund
across the New-Year period and money-market rates get tight.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, rose four basis points to 3.04 percent at 10:47
a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 3.05 percent
earlier, approaching a one-week high of 3.07 percent reached on
Dec. 17. The rate declined 256 basis points, or 2.56 percentage
points, this year.  China’s economy  will grow about 8.1 percent in 2013,
slightly faster than this year as export gains quicken and
consumption remains stable, Xinhua08.com reported yesterday,
citing Sun Xuegong, an analyst at the National Development and
Reform Commission’s research institute. The economy will expand
7.7 percent in 2012, the least since 1999, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, rose two basis points to 3.36 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate climbed 44
basis points this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  