-- Cigarette Health Warnings on Packages to Grow Under EU Proposal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-19T11:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cigarette-health-warnings-on-packages-to-grow-under-eu-proposal.html
European Union regulators proposed
stricter health warnings on cigarettes in the latest bid to curb
smoking in  Europe , where tobacco-related illnesses are estimated
to kill one person every minute.  The European Commission drafted legislation to require that
all cigarette packages feature a combined pictorial and text
alert covering three-quarters of the front and back. Under
current EU rules, anti-smoking images on packages are optional
while text warnings are mandatory.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm, also
proposed to ban the sale of cigarettes, roll-your-own tobacco
and smokeless tobacco with characterizing flavors. In addition,
nicotine-containing products like electronic cigarettes would be
curbed under the proposal, which needs the support of EU
governments and the European Parliament to become law.  “Tobacco kills half of its users and is highly
addictive,” EU Health Commissioner Tonio Borg said in a
statement today in Brussels. “This proposal ensures that
attractive packaging and flavorings are not used as a marketing
strategy.”  Tobacco kills as many as 695,000 people a year in the EU,
or one person every 45 seconds, according to the  commission ,
which says a third of Europeans still smoke. Smoking is the
largest avoidable health risk in Europe, causing more problems
than alcohol, drugs, high blood pressure, high cholesterol or
obesity, according to the commission.  Cancers as well as cardiovascular and respiratory diseases
are linked to tobacco use. Saying that 70 percent of smokers
start before the age of 18, the commission described the goal of
the draft legislation as to make tobacco goods less attractive
to young people.  Under the new proposal, which would revise a 2001 EU law,
cigarette packages would also have to include an information
message on the side that tobacco smoke contains more than 70
cancer-causing substances. A current EU ban on oral tobacco,
along with an exemption for  Sweden , would remain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  