-- Cigarette Makers Agree With 17 States on Cash Release Terms
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-19T01:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cigarette-makers-agree-with-17-states-on-cash-release-terms-1-.html
Philip Morris USA said it and other
cigarette makers will release to 17 states, the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico their portions of more than $4 billion
in payments held back from a 1998 settlement agreement.  That 14-year-old, 46-state accord required the tobacco
companies to pay $206 billion to resolve their liability in
health-care cost litigation. A dispute later arose over more
than $7 billion due under the deal for the years 2003 to 2012,
stemming from claims that market-share erosion reduced the
amount of the companies’ obligation.  In exchange for the release of funds, Philip Morris,
 Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  said today they would
receive credit against future payments.  “This agreement resolves disputes with a large group of
states on financial terms that are fair to the parties and in a
way that we believe will lead to a better method for resolving
these issues in the future,” Denise Keane, general counsel to
 Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the parent of Philip Morris, said today in a
statement.  Philip Morris’ credit against future payments is worth an
estimated $450 million, according to its press statement.
Greensboro, North Carolina-based Lorillard said its credit is
worth about $198 million over the next five years.  $1 Billion  Reynolds American said its five year credit could be worth
more than  $1 billion .  Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for California Attorney
General Kamala Harris, confirmed that state’s participation in
the accord in a phone interview today.  Amy Rezzonico, a spokeswoman for  Arizona  Attorney General
Tom Horne, didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking
confirmation of the agreement and comment on it.  Wyoming Attorney General Gregory Phillips also didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment.  Other states joining in the agreement include Alabama,
 Arkansas , Georgia, Kansas,  Louisiana , Michigan,  Nebraska ,
Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, Tennessee,
Virginia and West Virginia.  States participating in the 1998 accord have already
received more than $85 billion, according to the statement
issued by Richmond, Virginia-based Altria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  