-- Citycon Buys Biggest Mall to Boost Shopping Presence in Sweden
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-12-19T12:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/citycon-buys-biggest-mall-to-boost-shopping-presence-in-sweden.html
Citycon Oyj (CTY1S) , Finland’s second-
largest real estate company, and the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board agreed to buy a shopping mall outside  Stockholm 
for 4.6 billion kronor ($704 million).  Kista Galleria, a property with leasable space of 90,000
square meters (969,000 square feet), was sold by DNB
Livsforsikring, a unit of  DNB ASA (DNB) , according to a statement to
the Helsinki exchange today. The purchasers will each own half
of the mall.  “This strategic acquisition offers us a unique opportunity
to increase our relevance in the eyes of international
retailers,” Marcel Kokkeel, chief executive officer of Citycon
said in the statement. It will also “increase the quality of
our portfolio and at the same time substantially strengthen our
position and market share in  Sweden .”  Sweden’s economy has  averted  a recession even as the euro
area, its main trade partner, contracts. Even so, the decline in
trade is costing jobs in the Nordic region’s biggest economy,
causing  consumer confidence  to decline for the fifth month.  Citycon expects the first-year net yield to reach about 5.5
percent. The occupancy rate at the mall is 98 percent, with
tenants including  Europe ’s second-biggest clothing retailer
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and department store Aahlens. The mall had
about 18.1 million visitors last year.  Biggest Mall  The mall is bigger than any of the properties in Citycon’s
portfolio, which includes 38 shopping centers and 40 other
retail properties. Net rental income from Sweden will account
for 40 percent of the total after the acquisition, compared with
25 percent before, Citycon said.  Citycon shares fell 1.2 percent to 2.58 euros at 1:30 p.m.
in Helsinki.  Half of the purchase price will be financed jointly by
Citycon and CPPIB using a stand-alone asset-backed five-year
loan. Citycon will use cash and existing credit lines to pay the
rest of its share, and is considering refinancing 50 percent of
its investment by issuing new equity.  “The involvement of CPPIB adds a seal of quality to this
acquisition and also to Citycon as a professional manager of
shopping centers in the Nordics,” said Nils Styf, Citycon’s
chief investment officer. “Both parties see potential in
partnering also for other investment opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  