-- Clariant Said to Be Poised for Asset Sales by January End
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-12-19T15:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/clariant-said-to-be-poised-for-asset-sales-by-end-of-january.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  may sell three out of
five businesses put up for disposal by the end of January,
beating a deadline set for the end of 2013, according to people
with knowledge of the situation.  A shortlist of potential buyers for the units making
chemicals and additives for textiles, paper and emulsions has
been drawn up, with private equity firms and strategic buyers in
the running for one or more units, said two of the people, who
asked not to be identified because details are private. The
deadline for second-round offers was Dec. 10.  Progress with disposals would be a signal that Chief
Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann can push ahead with a planned
revamp and overcome weakened European markets and a strong
franc. The five units are expected to generate 600 million
francs ($658 million) in proceeds and free Clariant from its
commodity-chemical past, Martin Schreiber, an analyst at
Zuercher Kantonalbank, said in a note.  Clariant will kick off a second round of asset sales with
auctions for the leather chemicals and detergents and
intermediates business units in the first quarter of next year,
the company said Nov. 14.  Clariant’s textiles unit, based in  Singapore , makes dyes
and chemicals for the clothing industry and has estimated 2012
sales of 660 million francs, according to Zuercher
Kantonalbank’s Schreiber. The paper-chemicals business,
headquartered in Reinach, Switzerland, has estimated sales of
310 million francs, he said. The emulsions business, based in
Sao Paulo, has estimated sales of 170 million francs.  The Swiss company is “well on track” and confident of
meeting disposal goals set last year, spokesman Kai Rolker said.  Shares of Clariant rose 1.6 percent to 11.83 francs as of
4:55 p.m. in Zurich, bolstered by the possibility of disposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  