-- Cocoa to Rice Woos Kuwait to Asia’s $2 Trillion: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-12-19T15:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/cocoa-to-rice-woos-kuwait-to-asia-s-2-trillion-islamic-finance.html
Kuwait China Investment Co. (KCIC) , part
owned by the  Persian Gulf  nation’s sovereign-wealth fund, wants
to tap what it says is  Asia ’s $2 trillion trade finance market
with an Islamic fund to give commodity producers access to cash.  The fund, set up this month with Singapore-based EuroFin
Asia Group, will help fill a gap left by European banks that
scaled back their business in Asia, Managing Director Ahmad al- Hamad said in an interview. Producers and traders of
agricultural and energy products in  India ,  Singapore ,  Malaysia ,
 Indonesia  and  Thailand  can draw on the facility, he said.  Asian trade finance “is a significantly sized market”
with plenty of growth potential, Hamad said in his office in
Kuwait City. “The main players who control about 80 percent of
it were French and German banks, and with the pressure on them
to retrench to their home markets, they’ve left a funding gap,
which we’re trying to target.”  Kuwait  China , also known as Asiya Investments, is seeking
to capitalize on growing demand for Shariah-compliant finance as
 Standard & Poor’s  forecasts the industry’s assets will double by
2015 to as much as $3 trillion. Trade between Asia and the
 Middle East  also doubled in the five years to 2011, as the
Persian Gulf’s oil exporters shipped fuel to Asian customers and
imported cars, textiles, raw materials and food, according to
World Trade Organization data.  ‘Massive Shift’  Asiya’s fund is open-ended and aims to offer investors
annual returns of between 5 percent to 6 percent, Hamad said.
Islamic bonds have returned 9.5 percent this year, HSBC/Nasdaq
Dubai’s U.S. Dollar Sukuk Index shows.  The fund offers an alternative to sukuk investments at a
time when “there’s been a massive shift toward” financing that
complies with principles of Shariah, Hamad said. The  Kuwait
Investment Authority , which manages about $296 billion of assets
according to Las Vegas-based Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute,
owns 15 percent of Asiya.  Global sales of sukuk reached a record $45 billion this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Demand for the
securities sent their average yield tumbling 117 basis points,
or 1.17 percentage points, to 2.83 percent yesterday,
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai data show. The difference in borrowing costs
between Malaysia’s sukuk and Dubai’s 6.396 percent November 2014
notes is 78 basis points, a record low.  “Currently, the only kinds of instruments that cater to
the industry are sukuks, which are still very illiquid and is a
deep market,” Hamad said. “On the other hand, trade finance is
very easy to understand and is a very straight forward exercise
for investors who like the Islamic side.”  Limited Offerings  Islamic credit relies on the principle of wakalah, under
which a bank acts as an agent and is paid fees and commissions
in the place of interest. Islamic law prohibits non-Islamic
trade financing, which typically involves loans and the payment
of interest.  Most Shariah-compliant banks, with the exception of those
in Malaysia, have limited offerings of trade finance products,
said Badlisyah Abdul Ghani, chief executive officer of Kuala
Lumpur-based  CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd (CIMB) , the second-biggest arranger
of Islamic bonds this year. The products include letters of
credit, guarantees issued by banks that the importer has
sufficient funds to pay for the shipment.  “Islamic trade finance is very much an untapped market,”
Abdul Ghani said. “At the moment, many Islamic banks are not
rated internationally, as a result of which there is less
visibility in international markets and it makes it difficult
for counter parties to accept their letters of credit.”  CIMB relies on the investment-grade rating of its parent,
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd, for Islamic trade services, he said.  Soaring Trade  Still, Shariah-compliant trade finance may reach as much as
$800 billion a year should Islamic banks strengthen cooperation
with financial institutions in other countries, the Accounting &
Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions, a
Bahrain-based regulator, said last year.  The opportunity for growth has expanded as European banks
outside Britain, under pressure from the region’s sovereign debt
crisis, reduced claims on the Asia-Pacific region by more than
$75 billion since a peak in the second quarter of 2011,
according to a Bloomberg Industries report last month.  Asia is the Middle East’s biggest trading partner,
accounting for 53 percent of its exports, WTO data show. The
region’s merchandise exports to Asia rose to $660 billion in
2011 from $340 billion in 2006, while Asian exports to the
region more than doubled in the same period to $242 billion.  Asiya Investments, which opened offices in Dubai and  Hong
Kong  this year, manages investments in publicly traded shares
and private equity assets in 11 Asian markets including  Taiwan ,
 Philippines ,  Korea . The company is seeking to double to $1
billion the amount of funds it manages in the next two years by
persuading Arab sovereign funds and wealthy families to boost
investments in Asia, its Dubai unit said in June.  “The Asian trade finance market is a $2 trillion market
with a funding gap which we’re targeting to fill,” Hamad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  