-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Increase on Fiscal Cliff Impasse
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-12-19T22:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-little-changed-at-three-month-low.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose from the lowest level in three months as  federal
budget  negotiations foundered.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.8
basis point to 89.9 basis points at 5:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure reached
87.7 basis points yesterday, the lowest intraday level since the
latest version of the index started trading on Sept. 20.  The index rose as White House Communications Director  Dan
Pfeiffer  said House Speaker  John Boehner ’s “Plan B” budget
proposal would put “too big a burden on the middle class” and
President  Barack Obama  would veto it, fueling concern that
negotiations were deteriorating. Failure to reach a compromise
would trigger more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases next month.  “The bah-humbug routine in Washington has been slowly
relegated from its status as major global growth threat to
little more than a fist fight in which onlookers sense will end
with the referee calling a draw but not before both contenders
end up with a bloody nose,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an e-
mailed note.  Business Confidence  Germany’s Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 102.4 from 101.4 in
November. That’s the second straight increase after sentiment
dropped to a 2 1/2-year low in October. Economists predicted a
reading of 102, according to the median of 43 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The credit swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Yields on junk debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , reached a
record low 6.68 percent yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 5.9 basis points to 457.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  