-- Corruption Allegations Against Brazil’s Lula to Be Probed
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-12-19T19:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/corruption-allegations-against-brazil-s-lula-to-be-probed.html
Brazil ’s Attorney General said the
country’s judiciary will investigate allegations that former
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva took part in a cash-for-
votes scheme that toppled several of his closest aides.  Last month, the Supreme Court handed down lengthy prison
terms several top Lula aides for their role in the so-called
“mensalao” scandal, Portuguese for the “big monthly
payments” paid to lawmakers to vote with the government between
2003 and 2005.  The main conduit in the scheme, advertising executive
Marcos Valerio, said in sworn testimony in September that he
twice transferred funds for Lula’s personal expenses. Lula, in
Paris last week when the testimony was leaked to the media,
called the accusations “a lie.”  “Valerio often makes reference to declarations that he
considers bombastic and, when we investigate them in depth,
that’s not the case,” Attorney General Roberto Gurgel told
reporters in Brasilia today. “But we are going to see what
there is in the testimony that could prompt future
investigations.”  While Lula’s former cabinet chief and one-time head of his
Workers’ Party were convicted by the Supreme Court in the recent
trial, the former president has so far remained above the fray.
When the scandal broke in 2005, Lula went on national television
to say he had been betrayed by his aides and had no knowledge of
their wrongdoing. A year later, after being re-elected, he
blamed the opposition for inventing the charges in a bid to
topple his government.  No Immunity  Gurgel said that Lula lost his immunity to prosecution when
he left office in 2011 and that it would be up to a prosecutor
in a lower level court to investigate the case.  “I repudiate all attempts -- and this would not be the
first -- to take away the immense respect the Brazilian people
have for” Lula, President Dilma Rousseff told reporters in
Paris last week.  In the wake of the latest accusations, the Social Democracy
Party, or PSDB, Brazil’s biggest opposition party, asked federal
prosecutors to open an investigation into Lula’s involvement and
want Valerio to testify in Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  