-- Danish Euro Skepticism at Highest Since Currency’s 1999 Debut
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-12-19T08:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/danish-euro-skepticism-at-highest-since-currency-s-1999-debut.html
Danish voters now regard the euro
with more scepticism than at any time since the single
currency’s introduction in 1999 as the crisis in southern Europe
enters its fourth year.  Only 12.3 percent of voters would definitely support euro
adoption, while 15.7 percent said they might support a switch,
according to a poll published today by Danske Bank A/S. Almost
70 percent of Danes want to keep the krone, according to the
poll, which was conducted by  Statistics Denmark .  “This is the lowest ‘Yes’ score polled since we launched
our Economic and Monetary Union survey in 1999,”  Steen Bocian ,
Danske Bank chief economist in Copenhagen, said in a statement.  Denmark ’s government estimates the economy will contract
0.4 percent this year, matching a slump in the 17-member euro
area. Still, a public debt load that’s less than half the
average of the single-currency bloc has allowed Denmark to
emerge as a haven from the turmoil further south. The government
of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt pays about 26 basis
points less than  Germany  to borrow over 10 years, while
investors pay Denmark to hold its two-year debt.  “The  European debt crisis  grabbing the headlines since
late summer 2011 has no doubt made Danes very sceptical about
full EMU membership,” Bocian said. “Our latest survey
indicates that it will take a lot to eliminate this
scepticism.”  Rates Declining  That’s helped drive down  mortgage rates , with refinancing
auctions for the bonds backing Danes’ home loans resulting in
record-low yields this month.  The central bank, which uses monetary policy to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro, cut its deposit rate to an
unprecedented minus 0.2 percent in July as a capital influx
threatened to strengthen the Danish currency.  Danes last went to the polls to vote on the euro in 2000,
53 percent rejected the single currency. The government hasn’t
set a date for the next referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  