-- Deutsche Bank Worker Freed as Germany Probes CO2 Trading
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-19T11:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/deutsche-bank-worker-freed-as-germany-probes-co2-trading.html
German prosecutors released one of
four  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees jailed last week as part of a
probe into suspected  tax fraud  on carbon trading that prompted a
police raid on the lender’s headquarters.  There is no longer the risk that the person will tamper
with evidence, Guenter Wittig, a spokesman for the Frankfurt
General Prosecutor’s office, said by telephone today. He
declined to identify the employee. Christian Streckert, a
Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to comment.  Prosecutors are looking into possible irregularities over
the trading of carbon-emission certificates at Deutsche Bank,
Europe’s largest lender by assets, in a probe that includes co-
Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and Chief Financial
Officer  Stefan Krause , who signed tax returns. The bank is
grappling with escalating regulatory investigations and
litigation stretching from alleged rigging of interbank lending
rates to misrepresentation of products tied to U.S. mortgages.  The released employee is responsible for fighting and
preventing  money laundering , Bild-Zeitung newspaper reported,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. Those held
in custody, who are suspected of obstructing justice, included
the head of litigation at the bank and another member of the
legal department.  Tax Filing  The difference between the tax returns submitted on the CO2
certificates and a corrected version that Deutsche Bank filed
later was about 150 million euros ($200 million), Handelsblatt
said last week, citing an interview with Fitschen.  Prosecutors are continuing to question witnesses and the
jailed employees this week, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Deutsche Bank said Dec. 16 that it will investigate
prosecutors’ allegations that its employees deleted e-mails
requested as part of the tax probe.  Fitschen came under fire from politicians across Germany’s
political spectrum after  Der Spiegel  reported Dec. 16 that he
complained about the police raids to Volker Bouffier, the prime
minister of the state of Hesse, where Frankfurt is located.
Fitschen didn’t mean to interfere with police action and was
concerned how the raids might be interpreted abroad, he said in
an interview with  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  