-- Dictator Daughter Elected Korean Leader Vowing to Heal Scars
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-20T04:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/dictator-s-daughter-takes-korean-presidency-vowing-to-heal-scars.html
Park Geun Hye first lived in  South
Korea ’s presidential mansion as a child, after her father seized
power in a coup. Fifty years later, she returns as the country’s
first female leader, vowing to heal the wounds of his legacy.  Park yesterday defeated opposition candidate Moon Jae In,
culminating a 14 year-career as a lawmaker, during which she
earned the nickname “Queen of Elections” for engineering
victories as chairwoman of her party. After losing both her
parents to assassinations, she has wounds of her own -- in 2006,
a man slashed her face with a box cutter at a rally.  As she begins her single five-year term, Park must honor
the support of older South Koreans who yearn for a return to the
average 10.3 percent  annual growth  of her father’s last nine
years, while persuading younger South Koreans that she’s left
the shadow of his dictatorial 18-year regime. Her policy
challenges include a newly emboldened North  Korea  and pressure
to tame the business conglomerates known as chaebol that her
father helped create.  “She has recanted some of her father’s excesses but we
have to see how she treads on particular issues,” said Hahm
Chai Bong, president of the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in
 Seoul . “She’s a very principled woman and is known for sticking
to her position despite all opposition and odds. If she wants
something, she’ll go after it.”  Park, 60, became South Korea’s first lady at age 22, after
her mother was slain in a 1974 attempt on the life of her
father, Park Chung Hee, and temporarily left public life when he
was killed in 1979. While  per capita income  expanded more than
six-fold during his rule, he also used torture, censorship and
public executions to crack down on dissent.  ‘Lasting Value’  “I will end the history of division and conflict through
reconciliation and fairness,” Park said at a press conference
today in Seoul. In September, Park apologized to the families of
victims of her father’s regime and said she wanted to heal those
scars.  “I understand that the end does not justify the means, and
this should be a lasting value for democracy,” Park said then.  During her campaign, Park, who has never been married and
has no children, portrayed herself as a daughter of South
Korea’s history. She worked to counter claims by her opponent
Moon Jae In that her cloistered upbringing in the Blue House
compound left her out of touch, an image that earned her the
nicknames “Princess Geun Hye” and  Snow White .  A campaign advertisement told of how she dedicated the rest
of her life to South Korea’s people after she was hospitalized
in the 2006 knife attack by a man who said he had been  falsely
imprisoned  for 15 years.  ‘Only Family’  “I don’t have a family to care for or children to pass my
wealth to,” Park, the oldest of three children, said in a Dec.
16 debate. “My only family is you -- the people.”  Spending so much of her life steeped in South Korea’s
politics may help Park as the first woman leader in a country
dominated by men, said Oh Suk Tae, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank Korea.  South Korea ranks 108th among 135 countries surveyed in the
 World Economic Forum ’s annual Global Gender Gap Report, and none
of South Korea’s top 20 business groups is led by a woman. Just
6.2 percent of executives in companies with more than 1,000
employees are women.  Park has said she would offer incentives to companies to
increase the number of women in management roles, and triple
child-support subsidies for single-parent homes to 150,000 won
($140) per month. She also wants to create a “Women Talent
Academy” to nurture future female leaders in business and
government.  Unique Figure  “Park is a unique, strong figure,” Oh said. “Her
background, family and experience gives her the kind of charisma
that no other politicians have and make it impossible to compare
her to other  women politicians .”  After disappearing from public view following her father’s
death and as South Korea moved toward democracy in the late
1980s, Park became a legislator in 1998 and lifted the  Grand
National Party  at the ballot box in the 2000s, when it was in
the opposition. She lost the party’s nomination for president to
the outgoing leader,  Lee Myung Bak , in 2007.  The party, which changed its name to  New Frontier  last
year, retained its majority in the National Assembly in April.
The next elections are in 2016.  That support may help Park make good on her promises to
expand social welfare and close a widening income gap. She will
also seek to revive an economy forecast by the central bank to
grow 2.4 percent in 2012, the weakest since 2009.  Chaebol Power  Park says she also wants to scale back power granted to the
chaebol business conglomerates including  Samsung Group (102780)  that make
up more than half the total value of the 1,779 companies on the
Korea Stock Exchange. Park’s father provided chaebol with
subsidies including unlimited cheap credit, protection from
foreign competition and tax breaks.  She said during her campaign that she wants to increase
fines for conglomerates that violate fair-trade laws to as much
as 10 times the incurred damage and wants to ban new cross-
shareholdings. Following through on those policy promises will
pose a major challenge, said Standard Chartered Bank’s Oh.  “She will have a hard time fighting the chaebol in the end
because they’re the ones growing the economy,” Oh said. “Let’s
face it. Korea’s chaebol are beyond anyone’s control.”  Better Ties  Park pledged to seek better ties with  North Korea , after
Lee abandoned his predecessors’ “Sunshine Policy” of
engagement, arguing that it only encouraged the North’s
bellicosity. While both candidates said they were willing to
hold summit talks with Kim Jong Un, Park was more cautious,
emphasizing the importance of national security and “dialogue
based on trust.”  “I would be so unhappy if this country ends up giving more
to North Koreans only to help them attack us again,” Kim Jong
Geun, 65, said after voting for Park in Seoul. “At least Park
doesn’t say she will help North Korea on unconditional terms.
We’ve got to protect ourselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  