-- Dollar-Funding Stresses Mixed, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-19T14:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/dollar-funding-stresses-mixed-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market indicators signaled
short-term dollar funding stresses were mixed.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
which represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to
borrow from another,  rose  to 0.31 percent after reaching 0.308
percent on Dec. 13, the lowest since August 2011, according to
the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge
of banks’ reluctance to lend, rose to 15.4 basis points from
15.1 basis points yesterday.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 19.3 basis points from 19.6
basis points yesterday, according to the second rolling three-
month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 11.9 basis points. The gap is a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk, as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $13.8 billion to $1.0493 trillion in the week ended Dec.
12, according to Fed data.  Euribor-OIS  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollar-based funding via the cross currency
swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 23.4 basis points below Euribor, from 22.9 basis points
below yesterday.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, widened. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 12.1
basis points compared with 11.1 basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.25 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.238 percent yesterday,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was little changed from
the day before. The rate was at 0.127 percent at the start of
the year.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.17 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.18 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Fed Bank of  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  