-- The Benghazi Report’s Big Holes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-19T23:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/the-benghazi-report-s-big-holes.html
The unclassified  report  from the
independent investigation into the attacks on Sept. 11 at the
U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya , provides a bracing anatomy of a
tragedy. It would be a mistake, however, to accept it as a
blueprint for reform of security at U.S. facilities overseas.  Consider the black-ops elephant in the room: The site where
U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and communications officer
Sean Smith lost their lives was a special mission, not a
consulate, and was yoked to a facility identified in the report
as “the Annex,” known to be a Central Intelligence Agency
compound with far more personnel.  Some of the egregious confusion about who was in charge of
security can be attributed to this hybrid structure, which left
the special mission a bureaucratic stepchild with inadequate
resources -- witness the report’s veiled recommendation that
“all State Department and other government agencies’ facilities
should be collocated when they are in the same metropolitan
area.”  The secrecy surrounding the CIA site will, for now, prevent
a fuller public accounting: Unlike a previous Accountability
Review Board  report  on the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in
Kenya and Tanzania, for example, this one doesn’t provide a list
of those interviewed. One also wonders if the classified
version, delivered only to Congress, has details that better
explain the sudden resignations of three high-ranking State
Department officials and, if so, why the information is being
kept from the public.  Nonetheless, Ambassador Thomas Pickering, one of the most
seasoned American diplomats, and Admiral  Michael Mullen , the
former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have shed much-
needed light on the events of that night, and knocked down at
least one outlandish conspiracy theory -- the idea that a rapid
response team was prevented from quickly going to the aid of
those under attack. And you don’t have to read between the lines
of this report to get a good shock.  For starters, the report makes clear that the deaths of
Stevens, Smith and two other Americans, and the torching of two
U.S. compounds, were as much an intelligence as a security
failure. The report’s last page contains this matter-of-fact
stunner: “Board members found that there was little
understanding of militias in Benghazi and the threat they posed
to U.S. interests.” Just what exactly was this CIA facility
doing that it couldn’t find out what was happening in its own
backyard?  Even allowing for the CIA-State Department bureaucratic
divide, the catalog of missteps makes for disturbing reading. It
includes repeated refusals by the State Department to improve
full-time security, despite a timeline of threats and incidents
-- including two attacks on the compound with homemade bombs --
that looks ominous in hindsight.  On the night of Sept. 11, security in Benghazi consisted of
three armed members of a Libyan militia involved in a pay
dispute with the Americans, five poorly trained and unarmed
security contractors, and five U.S. security officers on
temporary duty. Most of the Americans didn’t speak Arabic, and
they had no local staff interpreter. Although some security
upgrades had been made, the post wasn’t up to standards; in one
representative detail, additional surveillance cameras that
might have given more notice of the attack were still in boxes,
awaiting the arrival of a technical team.  The report addresses these shortcomings with a mix of
nostrums that would seem familiar to readers of the postmortems
on the 1998 embassy bombings (which were also characterized by
poor intelligence, ignored pleas for upgraded security and
lackluster local defense). We don’t think that another redrawing
of the organization chart will necessarily help. Why, for
example, does a new list of high-threat posts, to be supervised
by a new senior position in diplomatic security,  include  six
where foreign service officers currently receive no danger pay?  The continued use of local guard forces only makes sense if
the State Department is able to train and supervise them -- one
more reason for it to rectify its continuing failure to fill its
foreign-language positions. One 2009 report by the Government
Accountability Office  found  that 43 percent of those in Arabic
language slots don’t meet proficiency requirements.  We support devoting more money to improving facilities
security: the $45 billion that the Pentagon is spending on mine-
resistant ambush protected vehicles makes the report’s
recommendation to spend $2.2 billion on building or upgrading
high-threat, high risk posts seem like a bargain.  But within reason: Diplomacy is a dangerous business, and
no amount of construction can eliminate its risks. Given the
choice between more bunkers or more intrepid, Arabic-speaking
ambassadors like Chris Stevens, we would err on the side of the
latter.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 