-- The Capital-Gains Tax: A Tragedy in Two Acts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-12-19T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/the-capital-gains-tax-a-tragedy-in-two-acts.html
(Corrects ninth paragraph because reference is to taxes on
dividends, not interest.)  Critics of the  capital-gains  tax are
absolutely correct when they say that a tax on capital hurts our
economy by reducing the incentive to save and invest. They say
the same thing about the tax on investment interest, and they’re
right about that, too.  Unfortunately, this is true of every method of taxing
capital, just as any tax on labor reduces everybody’s incentive
to get up in the morning and go to work. When you tax something,
you discourage whatever it is you’re taxing. That is the tragic
nature of taxation.  But you have to tax something if you want to spend on
something else. You wouldn’t know this from listening to
liberals in the current debate, protecting every penny of
current entitlements. You wouldn’t know it from conservatives as
they defend past tax cuts and argue for more. Nor would you know
it from listening to conservatives and liberals as they defend
the loopholes and special rules that litter the  tax code . Even
if you borrow instead of taxing today, you’ll have to tax
tomorrow to pay for that borrowing.  Recently, after an untold number of editorials endorsing
austerity and calling for  tax reform  that closes loopholes and
lowers tax rates, the  New York  Times ran  an editorial  saying, in
effect: “Of course, we don’t mean messing with the deduction
for state and local taxes. That’s different.” Sadly, everyone
has a favorite deduction that’s “different”: Charitable
contributions, anyone? Home mortgages?  Taxing Sin  So, given that all taxes are disincentives, what kinds of
taxes do we want? The answer is that most of the time, if we
believe in free-market capitalism, we want taxes that affect
behavior as little as possible. Or, to put it another way, we
want a tax system that replicates the incentives of a world with
no taxes.  Sometimes we do want to affect behavior. That is the
explanation for “sin taxes” such as the heavy taxes on
cigarettes. But attempting to affect the general economy’s
behavior by playing games with tax rates is a fool’s errand,
like an individual trying to beat the stock market.  Or at least, this is what you ought to believe if you
believe in free markets. So what kinds of taxes affect behavior
the least? My  favorite economist , Henry George (1839-1897),
wanted a tax on the ownership of land, because -- unlike almost
any other good in our economy -- you can’t make more of it, and
you can’t make less of it. If you own some, you’re at the mercy
of the tax collector, and have nowhere to hide.  A good tax -- one that has minimal effect on behavior --has
two qualities. First, it is as low as possible. Second, it is as
consistent as possible.  Sure, a tax of 15 percent -- the current, scandalously low
ceiling on the tax on both capital gains and dividends -- would
be less distortive than a tax of 35 percent, which was the
theoretical top rate under President  Bill Clinton .  But the real distortion comes in a tax system that might
take 15 percent and might take 35 percent, depending on the
situation.  Tax-cut  obsessives can always show you that, say, a
tax cut for people named “Trump” had led to a 73 percent
increase in the number of people named Trump. But that’s because
lots of people decided to change their names, not because being
named Trump magically turns you into a productivity machine.  Please notice that the argument so far has said nothing
about fairness. It has all been about efficiency. So throw
fairness into the equation: The capital-gains tax is paid by
people who trade stocks and bonds, or buy and sell real estate
or whole companies. The ordinary income tax is paid by people
who work for a living.  Taxing Virtue  Yes, yes, people with capital gains work too. They may even
work hard. And they take risks. But it’s still a heckuva lot
easier to watch your stock go up than it is to work on the
assembly line, and a tax differential really adds insult to
injury.  Capital gains are favored by the tax system in various
ways, most of which aren’t even under discussion. The biggest is
that you don’t pay any taxes at all until an investment is
traded or cashed in. If your stock portfolio doubles in value,
you still owe no taxes unless you sold any of it. And when you
die, all those profits on unsold assets disappear for tax
purposes. The meter goes back to zero for your heirs. Capital
gains are also exempt from Social Security and Medicare taxes,
which start at the first dollar of ordinary income.  It’s sometimes said that capital gains are “taxed twice.”
First they tax your wage income, and then they tax the return on
anything you manage to save out of it. In reality, much of the
income of the very rich is not taxed on either occasion.  Mitt Romney  was embarrassed when the world discovered that he had
 paid taxes  of only about 13 percent on his income in recent
years. But that’s on realized income. What percentage of his
total lifetime fortune will have been through the tax mill when
he dies?  Anyway, what’s so terrible about “double taxation”? There
are two economic decisions going on: work versus sloth, and
saving versus spending. True, you want to encourage work and
saving, while discouraging sloth and spending. Just as true: You
must tax something. So it makes sense, or so it seems to me, to
tax all of these activities equally at the lowest responsible
rate. Right now we are violating this principle in every
possible way.  Like tuning the piano, reforming the tax code isn’t
something you can do just once and then forget about it. You’ve
got to do it and then do it again, forever. Even if we blow it
this time, we’ll probably get another chance in 2036.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or  @michaelkinsley  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 