-- The Worst Commissioner in Professional Sports
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-12-19T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/the-worst-commissioner-in-professional-sports.html
In case you missed the latest news -
- the  National Hockey League  has a hard enough time getting
people to pay attention when games are actually being played --
Commissioner Gary Bettman went nuclear last week, filing a
 lawsuit  against his own players.  The suit was intended in part to affirm the legality of the
NHL’s ongoing lockout. We’ll have to wait for a federal judge to
rule on that. What we can safely say now, with his league about
to lose its second full season in less than a decade, is that
Bettman is the most inept commissioner in North American
professional sports.  Bettman wants to eliminate signing bonuses, cut the salary
cap, increase time in the league required before free agency and
set the maximum duration of contracts at five years. By  one
economist ’s estimate, these proposals would reduce the average
player’s wages by 15 percent to 20 percent.  This get-tough approach was no doubt inspired by Bettman’s
mentor, the National Basketball Association Commissioner  David Stern , who put a big dent in player compensation with last
year’s lockout and was never made to pay for betraying his fans:
Even after shortening its regular season by 16 games, the league
went on to set records for television viewership.  Not Donuts  The NHL, however, is not the NBA. It’s a badly broken
league, and much of the damage has been inflicted by its own
commissioner. By pushing teams into unnatural markets -- ice
hockey doesn’t belong in Phoenix any more than beach volleyball
belongs in Winnipeg -- Bettman created a huge financial gap
between franchises that he’s now trying to redress by taking
money out of the players’ pockets.  Instead of viewing his job as the custodian of a sport with
a long and proud tradition -- the  Stanley Cup  has been around
since the 19th century -- and a deeply devoted fan base, Bettman
is acting like the chief executive of a restaurant chain who
can’t stop looking for new markets to exploit, regardless of
whether there’s demand for his product. This hasn’t worked for
the NHL any better than it worked for Krispy Kreme.  At least Krispy Kreme had an excuse: Publicly traded
companies are under constant pressure to deliver increased
revenues to satisfy impatient shareholders. As sacrilegious as
it sounds, professional sports leagues don’t have to keep
growing to stay healthy.  To be fair, hockey’s obsession with expansion predates its
current commissioner. In the early 1970s, when Bettman was still
wobbling around Cornell University’s  Lynah Rink , the NHL was
already trying to move beyond its primary markets in  Canada , the
Northeast and the  Great Lakes .  Between 1967 and 1991, when the  San Jose Sharks  joined the
NHL, the league’s “Original Six” (the teams in  Boston ,  New York ,
 Detroit ,  Chicago ,  Montreal  and Toronto) had become 21.  Existing teams loved expansion, mostly because each new
franchise had to pay a substantial fee to join the league. And
for a while, it didn’t seem like such a crazy business strategy.  The hockey zealots who ran the NHL back then were convinced
that once people in places like  Los Angeles  and Atlanta were
exposed to the game, they too would fall in love. There was also
a precedent for a regional sport going national: The NBA started
out with franchises in, among other cities, Rochester, New York,
and Fort Wayne,  Indiana .  By the time Bettman took over the NHL in 1993, though, it
was clear that America’s appetite for hockey was limited, and
that the league was never going to see the kind of national TV
deals that had transformed basketball in the 1970s and ’80s. Yet
Bettman doubled down on expansion, adding nine more teams in
such hockey bastions as Tampa,  Florida ; Nashville,  Tennessee ;
and Phoenix.  Not Viable  Bettman has stubbornly refused to give up on his own bad
ideas, even when serendipitously presented with viable exit
strategies. In 2009, the NHL paid $140 million to buy the
league’s biggest sinkhole, the  Phoenix Coyotes , out of
bankruptcy -- in order to prevent Research In Motion co-founder
and former Chairman  Jim Balsillie  from acquiring the team and
moving it to a legitimate hockey town in southern Ontario.  The NHL is now made up of a handful of profitable teams and
a whole lot of money pits in cities that didn’t care much about
hockey to begin with and are going to care even less about it
when the league eventually emerges from the current lockout.  Not only do these expansion teams make it impossible for
the NHL to find firm financial footing, they are often a drain
on taxpayers, who subsidized the construction of their now-empty
arenas and continue to service their debt. What’s more, like
Hanna-Barbera’s second- and third-rate TV superheroes, they make
a mockery of the league’s  historic rivalries .  So what can the NHL do?  Well, it could force its successful franchises to share a
larger percentage of their revenues, which are derived largely
from ticket sales and local broadcast contracts. This will never
happen. And even if it did, it wouldn’t address the root of the
problem, which is pretty simple: There are hockey towns, and
there’s everyplace else.  Or the NHL could adopt the heretical idea that contraction,
not expansion, is its future, and just return to the Original
Six. (OK, maybe it could also include another half dozen or so
teams in the cities where they have truly taken root:
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania ;  Vancouver , Canada;
plus a few others.)  I realize this suggestion runs counter to every instinct
Bettman has had during his almost-20-year tenure as
commissioner. That may be the best thing it has to recommend it.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 