-- ECB Eases Greek Banks’ Access to Cash as Reform Efforts Rewarded
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-19T13:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/ecb-eases-greek-banks-access-to-cash-as-reform-efforts-rewarded.html
The European Central Bank acted to
ease Greek banks’ access to funding by accepting the country’s
bonds in exchange for cash for the first time since July.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it will take debt
instruments issued or guaranteed by the Greek government as
collateral again, citing “the wide range of measures already
implemented by the Greek government in the areas of fiscal
consolidation, structural reforms, privatization and financial
sector stabilization.”  Greek banks had been reliant on more expensive emergency
funds from their own central bank since the expiry of a
temporary guarantee on July 25. An agreement by European
officials last week to pay  Greece  a 49.1 billion euro ($65
billion) slice of European Union and International Monetary Fund
bailout loans has boosted optimism that the debt-stricken
country will be able to push through economic reforms and stay
in the euro.  Standard and Poor’s yesterday raised Greece’s credit rating
to B-, the highest since June 2011, after a bond buyback helped
reduce its debt burden. Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras
said today the upgrade was a “great success” for his country.  Banks Gains  Banks led gains on Greece’s benchmark ASE Index after the
ECB’s announcement, with Eurobank increasing 10 percent and
Piraeus Bank advancing 11 percent. The ECB had held open the
prospect of a return to more normal funding for Greek banks
should they receive a positive review from their international
donors.  Greek bonds have surged 85 percent this year, the best
performance among 26 markets tracked by indexes from the
European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies. The 10-year
yield, at 12.8 percent, is about a third of its high this year,
and its spread to benchmark German bunds has collapsed to about
11 percentage points, the least since April 2011.  S&P said that Greece’s deficit-reduction plan, which is
based on tax increases, improved tax collection, privatizations,
and government spending cuts, may still go awry.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of the 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974. This year, investors ignored 56 percent of
Moody’s rating and outlook changes and 50 percent of those by
S&P.  “We believe these adjustments carry implementation risks
given the projected further output contraction in 2012 and 2013,
which will likely see social pressures persist,” S&P said.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecasts the Greek economy to shrink 6.3 percent this year, 4.5
percent in 2013 and 1.3 percent in 2014.  The ECB said Greek bonds will now be subject to “special
haircuts,” to be specified in a legal act implementing the
changes on Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  