-- Emaar Obtains $500 Million Financing Facility for Turkey Project
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-12-19T13:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/emaar-obtains-500-million-financing-facility-for-turkey-project.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer
of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, obtained a $500 million
loan from a group of banks to develop a mixed-use project in
 Turkey , its second such venture in the country.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Emirates NBD
Capital Ltd. are among lenders that will provide the seven-year
loan, Dubai-based Emaar said in an e-mailed statement today. The
money will be used to develop Emaar Square in Istanbul, which
will include what would be Turkey’s largest shopping mall,
luxury homes, a five-star hotel and offices, it said.  Emaar is focused on completing its projects in key  emerging
markets  and in Dubai on schedule, Chairman Mohamed Alabbarsaid
in the statement. “Turkey is one of our key markets, where we
have successfully handed over homes in the first phase of our
first integrated community, Tuscan Valley.”  Emaar, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest developer by
market value, is expanding across the  Middle East  as an
oversupply of properties in Dubai hurts the company’s home
market. Emaar’s malls and hotels have helped cushion the effect
of the region’s real estate crisis by providing stable revenue.  Last December, Emaar agreed to 3.6 billion dirhams ($980
million) in financing with three banks backed by its flagship
Dubai Mall, half of which would be repaid in five years and the
rest amortized over eight years. Emaar is paying interest of 3.5
percentage points over the benchmark rate on the loan.  Emaar raised $500 million in July from the sale of seven-
year Islamic bonds at a profit rate of 6.4 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds traded at a yield of 4.898
percent today, according to the data.  Emaar in October reported a  4.7 percent decline  in third-
quarter profit to 387 million dirhams ($105 million) as revenue
fell. Its debt was 23 percent of its capital at the end of
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar’s share s rose 0.5 percent to close at 3.7 dirhams on
the  Dubai Financial Market  today. They have risen 44 percent
this year compared to an 18 percent rise in the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  