-- Emerging Stocks Advance to Eight-Month High
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-19T23:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-8-month-high-on-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting
the benchmark index to an eight-month high, as the  World Bank 
raised its East  Asia  growth outlook, business confidence in
Germany improved and investors awaited a U.S. budget deal.  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest coal
producer closed at a three-month high, helping the country’s
benchmark PX Index post its longest rally since 2009. Russian
steelmaker OAO Severstal rose for a fourth day.  Poland ’s  Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  led a jump in emerging-market
 energy stocks , while Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  climbed to a three-
month high as rising oil stoked gains in  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.7 percent to
1,053.17 in  New York , the highest close since April 3.
Developing nations in East Asia will probably grow 7.5 percent
this year, compared with a previous forecast of 7.2 percent,
contributing about 40 percent of global growth, the World Bank
said in a  report  today. U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s “Plan
B” budget plan would put “too big a burden on the middle
class” and President  Barack Obama  would veto it, White House
Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  said.  “Asia is the most attractive region in the world, and
China is clearly the dominant influence in that region,”  Steven Bell , portfolio manager of hedge fund GLC Ltd.’s Global Macro
Fund, which has $600 million assets, said by phone from London.
“World final demand is picking up.”  Brazil, Mexico  The 21 countries in the  emerging-markets  index send about
17 percent of their exports to the U.S., according to data
compiled by the  World Trade Organization .  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed at $43.51. The ETF advanced 15 percent this year. The
 Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, added 1.2 percent to 20.28.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 0.9 percent, gaining for a second day
and closing at the highest level since Sept. 24. Petrobras, as
Petroleo Brasileiro is known, added 3.6 percent, the  highest
close since Nov. 9. The  Mexican IPC Index (MEXBOL)  lost 0.4 percent,
dropping for the first time in four days.  Eastern Europe  A gauge of financial stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index added 0.9 percent to the highest since August 2011. The
broader index has risen 15 percent this year, beating a 14
percent gain by the MSCI World Index of developed countries. The
developing-nations measure trades at 12.1 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.8, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index climbed to a record for
a second day, while the South African rand pared gains,
weakening for the first time in four days.  Benchmark indexes in Poland and the Czech Republic climbed
on expectations that the countries will benefit from improving
confidence in  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy. The German Ifo
institute’s business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, climbed to 102.4 in December from 101.4 in November.  Novorossiysk Commercial  Stocks in Poland added 1 percent to the highest level since
July 2011. The Czech Republic’s PX Index added 1 percent, rising
for a seventh day, its longest winning streak since March 2009.
New World Resources jumped 5.5 percent for a sixth day of gains,
its longest winning streak in two years.  Severstal gained 4.2 percent, rising for a fourth day in
Moscow, the longest streak of increases since Sept. 12. OAO
Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port declined 3.6 percent, the
biggest drop on the Micex and the stock’s first loss in seven
days. Novorossiysk reported “disappointing numbers” in
November, Andrey Rozhkov, an analyst at IFC Metropol, said by
phone from Moscow. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 0.2 percent.  Developing East Asia is set to expand 7.9 percent in 2013,
according to the World Bank. The region is expected to account
for about 40 percent of global growth in 2012, it said.  Low Rates  “Asia as a region is in expansionary mode without the
problems plaguing the U.S. or Europe,”  Jonathan Ravelas , chief
market strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc., said by
phone. “Low interest rates and infrastructure spending support
the region’s expansionary growth outlook.”  The  Bank of New York Mellon South Korea ADR index  was
little changed at 187.70 in New York, while the iShares MSCI
South Korea Index Fund, an exchange-traded fund incorporated in
the U.S., added 0.1 percent to $62.38. Park Geun Hye was
forecast to win South Korea’s presidential election, becoming
the first woman to lead Asia’s fourth-biggest economy, more than
30 years after her father’s reign as dictator ended with his
assassination. South Korea’s market is closed for elections.  Trains to Iraq  Goldman said in a note to clients today that comments by
India’s central bank yesterday signal a 50 basis point cut in
the nation’s benchmark rate starting January.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 0.6 percent
to its highest level in almost two weeks. The  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 2.1 percent after the government forecast
“robust” first-half economic growth. Thailand’s SET Index
climbed 1.1 percent to the highest since February 1996.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  advanced 0.8 percent, the highest close
since March.  Dongfang Electric Corp. (600875)  climbed 5.3 percent to the
highest price since Jun. 27 in Hong Kong after winning a $115
million contract to deliver 10 diesel multiple-unit passenger
trains to Iraq, according to a spokesman for state-run Iraqi
Railway Co.  SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd. climbed 3.7 percent in  Kuala
Lumpur , the highest level on record.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed by two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 262 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  