-- Empellon, Mission Chinese Best New Spots of 2012: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/empellon-mission-chinese-best-new-spots-of-2012-review.html
By late October,  New York  was on
track to have its most impressive year for new restaurants since
the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers  and the ongoing recession
ravaged our city’s economy.  Then  Hurricane Sandy  came along and ravaged us again.
Diners and chefs fought back with credit cards, charity diners
and hashtags, acting out of duty -- and fear of going under.  Uptown venues were packed as downtown spots remained dark
and empty. But downtown restaurants like Northern Spy Food Co.,
Corton and others would soon be back. We opened our wallets and
realized that, Sandy be damned, this was still the best year for
new restaurants in a long time.  Things weren’t so great for high-end hotel spots; Adour and
L’Atelier de  Joel Robuchon  shuttered. Expensive snoozers opened
-- Il Mulino, Brasserie Pushkin, Hakkasan and Sirio.  The most exciting new restaurants blossomed in lower
 Manhattan ,  Brooklyn  and  Jersey City , neighborhoods battered by
power outages and raging floodwaters. Not one of the following
selections lies north of 28th St. These are the best of the
best:  Pok Pok  12. Pok Pok: Shortly after Andy Ricker imported his
hipster-Thai-enterprise from  Oregon  to Red Hook, I encountered
service so bad I had to personally raid a wait station for
utensils. Months later, Pok Pok has become the destination
restaurant is deserves to be, with friendly service, fiery pork
salads and one of New York’s best gin and tonics.  11. The NoMad:  Daniel Humm  and Will Guidara gave the
garment district (of all places) Leo Robitschek’s four-star
cocktails and one of the city’s finest and, at $79, priciest
chickens, albeit one stuffed with foie gras and truffles.  10. North End Grill: If you work for Goldman Sachs next
door, this is where you have your client dinners.  Danny Meyer 
and Floyd Cardoz do it right with $64 veal chops, a killer clam
pizza and over 100 scotches -- definitely a banker’s hangout.  9. Thirty Acres: Jersey City is no farther from Manhattan
than Brooklyn, so there’s no excuse to ignore this mom and pop
shop from ex-Momofuku Noodle Bar chef Kevin Pemoulie. Where else
can you get maple-syrup-slicked corned beef?  Maison Premiere  8. Maison Premiere: It’s fitting that when so many
restaurants shuttered the night Sandy struck, this New Orleans-
inspired spot stayed open, shaking Hurricane cocktails into the
night. And with myriad dollar oysters during happy hour and one
of the city’s best bread baskets for $3, Maison reminds us that
ambitious food doesn’t have to cost a mortgage payment.  7. La Vara: In the era of Italian everything and New
American anything, Alex Raij gave us a Carroll Gardens Iberian
spot that takes its influences from  Spain ’s rich Sephardic and
Moorish traditions. This is where you can get a life-enhancing
bacon sandwich for $8.  6. Atera: Typical criticism of Atera in Tribeca goes like
this: Matthew Lightner’s avant-garde wizardry is more
interesting than delicious, more clever than satisfying. That’s
hogwash. Try Lightner’s intense, nourishing chicken broth with
squid noodles and you’ll see why I disagree.  Red Sauce  5. Parm: Now that Torrisi Italian Specialties has been
turned into an expensive luxe establishment, the neighboring
Parm is where to go for affordable Italian-American red saucery.
Expect galamar with tabasco aioli, frozen scorpion cocktails and
a flattened meatball parm that ranks with the city’s best
burgers.  4. Perla: Gabe Stulman and Michael Toscano’s Italian
newcomer in the  West Village  is today’s Babbo. This is where I
go when I want foie gras, instead of truffle shavings,
fortifying my papardelle. I get that craving a lot.  3. Gwynnett St: Perhaps the most courageous restaurant of
the year, a statement I feel comfortable making for an East
Williamsburg spot that serves turnips with Iberico ham mousse,
parsnips with pork blood dumplings and shockingly boozy whiskey
bread, all down the block from a dollar store.  2. Blanca: Caviar doesn’t cost any less in Brooklyn, which
is why you shouldn’t complain about your $700 meal for two at
Blanca in Bushwick. The restaurant serves a 25-course tasting
menu on par with New York’s most exalted fine-dining spots.  The Tie  1. Empellon Cocina: This is New York’s best Mexican
restaurant. It’s the story of Alex Stupak, an ex-pastry chef who
forces us to eat outside our comfort zone. Stupak initially
refused to serve tacos; instead served masa fettuccine. When
Stupak charged $125 per person to expose us to the cuisine of
Mexico City’s Enrique Olvera, he sold out the house. Empellon
has helped free Mexican cuisine from the stereotypes of
rusticity, the shackles of authenticity and the burden of being
cheap.  1. Mission Chinese: Like the San Francisco flagship, Danny
Bowien’s Manhattan outpost isn’t just about excellent plates of
“Americanized Oriental food.” Diners pump free beer from a keg
while waiting to be seated. Most of the (incendiary) dishes are
$16 or under. And 75 cents of every entree goes to the  Food Bank
for New York.  Mission inflames your insides while warming your
soul.  For a slideshow on the New York area's best dishes in
2012, click  here .  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on movies and
Patrick Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 