-- U.S. Oil Fields Could Store Decades of Carbon Emissions
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/energy-department-says-oil-fields-could-store-decades-of-carbon.html
Depleted North American oil fields
could hold billions more tons of carbon dioxide than previously
estimated, providing a way to both curb greenhouse gas emissions
and boost production of domestic fuels.  In a  report  released yesterday, the U.S. Department of
Energy said the underground capacity of oil fields in the U.S.
and  Canada  is 225 billion metric tons, or about 60 percent
greater than estimates from two years ago. That’s the equivalent
of more than a century of U.S. power-plant emissions at current
levels.  “These numbers are jaw-dropping,” Kurt Waltzer,
coordinator for  carbon capture  at the Clean Air Task Force, said
in an interview. “The more we learn about enhanced-oil recovery
the better it looks as a technology.”  Under enhanced-oil recovery, drilling companies pump carbon
dioxide into the earth, where the gas acts as a solvent to help
extract oil from older deposits. The technique helps produce
281,000 barrels of oil a day in the U.S., or 6 percent of
domestic production, according to a report this year by the
Center for Climate and Energy Solutions.  Most of the carbon dioxide now used in oil drilling is
pulled from underground reservoirs and transported to the wells.
Meanwhile, U.S.  power plants  emitted 2.3 billion metric tons of
carbon dioxide equivalents in 2010, according to the
Environmental Protection Agency.  With investments in pipelines and upgraded technologies to
improve collection of carbon dioxide,  oil companies  could buy
the gas from power plants or ethanol manufacturers instead of
extracting it from underground deposits, advocates say.  “What’s constraining enhanced oil recovery now is the lack
of carbon dioxide,” Waltzer said.  Once it’s pumped deep into the ground, most of the gas
remains trapped, and kept from release into the atmosphere where
it can cause global warming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  