-- English Says N.Z. Powerless to Curb Kiwi’s Bond-Fueled Gain
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-12-19T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/english-says-n-z-powerless-to-curb-bond-fueled-currency-gains.html
New Zealand Finance Minister Bill English said the nation’s growth outlook is attracting foreign
bond investors, helping propel the year’s strongest-performing
Group of 10 currency and leaving the government powerless to
steer it to lower levels.  “Other people seem to see our prospects as reasonable and
therefore they’re buying the currency,” English said in an
interview yesterday in Wellington. New Zealand’s dollar has
gained 7.7 percent against the U.S. currency this year.  English is betting that rebuilding in earthquake-damaged
Christchurch city will stoke  job growth  and consumer spending,
delivering a faster economic expansion in 2013 after a sluggish
recovery from the 2007-08 recession. The outlook for exports,
which makes up 30 percent of the economy, is clouded by a rising
currency which the Treasury Department earlier this week said
may stay near current levels until the first half of 2014.  The finance minister’s remarks align him with the views of
central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler, who cited the currency
gains as a “significant headwind, restricting export earnings”
in the Dec. 6 monetary policy statement. Wheeler this month left
the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent, where it’s
been since March 2011.  The local dollar bought 83.34 U.S. cents at 11:28 a.m. in
Wellington and is up about 1.6 percent this month. The Treasury
forecasts it will average 82 cents throughout 2013 before
declining to 79 cents by late 2014.  Bond Returns  New Zealand’s sovereign bonds have handed investors a 16
percent return in U.S. dollar terms over the past 12 months, the
best performer among nations with at least one AAA rating
tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analyst Societies.  “I am pretty happy about the state of demand for our
bonds,” English said, adding that buying from Asian central
banks and Chinese investors was continuing.  Annual economic growth is projected to accelerate to 3.2
percent in 2013, the fastest pace since 2005, from an estimated
2.3 percent this year, the Treasury said in a fiscal and
economic update two days ago.  In an Oct. 26 speech, Wheeler said he didn’t favor cutting
interest rates simply to target the exchange rate, citing
evidence that past reductions had failed to quell currency
demand. All 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect his
next move will be to raise rates, most likely in the second half
of 2013.  Currency Fallout  Last month, Wheeler said the high currency and weak
domestic demand resulting from a slump in home building had
harmed the manufacturing industry.  “It’s been tough for those guys,” English said yesterday,
referring to manufacturers. “A number have found it really
hard.”  The government hasn’t been presented with any
“persuasive” means of curbing the currency’s gains, which also
reflects the weak U.S. dollar amid near-zero interest rates,
English said.  “There’s plenty of unconventional management going on
around the world but not anything we’ve seen that would be
beneficial in our circumstances,” he said.  The government doesn’t have a preferred level for the
currency “because we don’t have the tools to drive it to a
particular level,” English said. Its policy is to reduce costs
and make  local companies  more competitive so they can cope with
an elevated exchange rate, he said.  Productivity Gains  “Our export community has become more productive and
efficient,” he said. “When I ask them, they talk about numbers
like 75 cents and tell us they’d be sufficiently profitable at
that level to encourage further investment. Five years ago they
would have said 65 cents.”  New Zealand’s economic recovery has slowed in the second
half of 2012 as a global slowdown hurt exports, curbed
manufacturing and pushed the unemployment rate to a 13-year high
of 7.3 percent in the third quarter.  “Those countries that survived the global crisis are now
having to deal with countries that haven’t,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in
 Singapore . “Those sectors that are currency sensitive need to
adapt and need productivity and they need efficiency rather than
just waiting for the currency to rescue them again.”  Slower Growth  A government report today showed third-quarter growth of
0.2 percent from three months earlier, after a revised 0.3
percent expansion in the three months through June. The result
was half the 0.4 percent growth pace economists predicted,
according to the median forecast of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  “We are disappointed with what looks like a softer labor
market because that’s the measure for a lot of people of
sustainable growth,” English said.  Christchurch, New Zealand’s third-biggest city, was hit by
a series of temblors in 2010-11, including a Feb. 22, 2011 quake
that killed 185 people and shut the central business district.
The reconstruction cost is estimated at NZ$30 billion ($25.2
billion), the Treasury said this week.  Milk powder prices fell to a three-month low yesterday,
according to auction results from Auckland-based  Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s biggest dairy exporter.
Prices have gained 23 percent since mid-July, prompting the
company earlier this month to raise its forecast payment to New
Zealand farmers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  