-- EON Sells 51% Stake in Energy-to-Waste Unit to Sweden’s EQT
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-12-19T16:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/eon-sells-51-stake-in-energy-to-waste-unit-to-sweden-s-eqt.html
EON SE sold 51 percent of its
energy-to-waste unit to Swedish buyout firm EQT Partners AB for
about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) as  Germany ’s largest
utility disposes of assets to cut debt.  EON, which aborted the sale of the unit earlier this year
after failing to get high enough bids, will keep 49 percent of
the venture after selling the stake to EQT’s fund Infrastructure
II, according to today’s statement.  “With the transaction, EON will have achieved more than 14
billion euros of its target to generate 15 billion euros through
portfolio measures by the end of 2013,” the Dusseldorf-based
utility said in a statement. Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said on Nov. 13 the company had raised about 13 billion
euros.  Sabine Meixner, a spokeswoman for EON, declined to comment
on the price.  “We want to guide EON Energy from Waste to a successful
future as an independent company,” Teyssen said in the
statement.  For EQT the venture is a “mid-term investment of probably
five to seven years” Juergen Rauen, industrial adviser at EQT,
who will become chairman of the new venture, said in a phone
interview.  EON expects to close the transaction, which is subject to
antitrust approval, in the first quarter of 2013.  EQT Partners, German utility  MVV Energie AG (MVV1) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s infrastructure fund and  SembCorp Industries Ltd. (SCI) , a
Singapore-based energy and water company, had made offers for
the unit, people familiar with the process said in June.  The unit operates 18 incineration plants with a capacity of
about 4 million tons, generating about 2,100 gigawatt hours of
electricity and about 2,800 gigawatt hours of heat, according to
its website. The unit had 544 million euros in sales in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  