-- Merck KGaA Lung-Cancer Drug Misses Trial’s Survival Goal
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-12-19T15:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/merck-kgaa-lung-cancer-drug-misses-trial-s-survival-goal.html
Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s experimental drug L-
BLP25 missed the main goal of a trial in lung cancer patients,
denting the company’s ambitions of turning the medicine into a
$1 billion-a-year product.  The drug, formerly known as Stimuvax, failed to improve
patient survival significantly in a late-stage study of more
than 1,500 patients, Darmstadt, Germany-based Merck said today
in a  statement . Further research will focus on smaller groups of
patients who showed positive response to the drug, and results
will be discussed with regulators in coming months, it said.  Merck fell the most in seven months after the latest
setback in an 11-year effort to develop L-BLP25, a drug
originated by U.S. partner  Oncothyreon Inc. (ONTY) , into a marketable
product. While Merck is implying that there may be some hope for
the vaccine, it’s still too early to say that, and the company
would probably have to conduct further trials, Edouard Aubery,
an analyst with Equinet AG, said in a phone interview today.  “This could have been a potential blockbuster, but now
it’s been taken off the table,” he said. Aubery had estimated
peak annual sales at 1 billion euros ($1.32 billion), with only
a 25 percent probability that the vaccine would make it to
market after Merck signaled that L-BLP25 was a “high-risk
project.”  Stock Drops  Merck  fell  as much as 4.1 percent to 97.50 euros, the
steepest intraday drop since May 9, and was trading down 1.8
percent at 3:21 p.m. in  Frankfurt . That pared the stock’s gain
this year to 29 percent, valuing Merck at 21.7 billion euros.
Oncothyreon plunged as much as 62 percent to $1.71 in Nasdaq
trading, the biggest intraday decline since June 17, 2003, and
was 59 percent lower at 10:22 p.m. in  New York . That gave the
company a market value of $106.9 million.  Oncothyreon licensed L-BLP25 to Merck in 2001. Success in
the trial, known as Start, would have triggered a $90 million
payment to the Seattle-based company, plus royalties on sales in
the mid-teens in the U.S. and the high single digits in the rest
of the world, the drugmaker said in 2011.  L-BLP25 is a therapeutic vaccine designed to stimulate a
patient’s immune system to identify and target cancer cells
where the MUC1 gene is present.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is also
developing a therapeutic cancer vaccine targeting the MAGE-A3
gene which is present in a number of cancers and expects data
from late-stage trials next year.  Therapeutic Vaccines  Therapeutic cancer vaccines, which are not to be confused
with preventative vaccines like flu shots, have been difficult
to develop.  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge, a medicine that targets
prostate tumors, is the only approved therapeutic cancer vaccine
on the market, yet it has struggled to garner sales due to its
$93,000 price tag and competition from existing drugs.  Merck’s Start trial enrolled patients with advanced,
inoperable lung cancer whose disease was stable following
chemoradiotherapy. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  put the
program on hold in March 2010 after a patient developed a brain
infection. Merck was allowed to resume two lung cancer trials in
June 2010 and scrapped a test of the vaccine in  breast cancer .  “It is disappointing” that the testing “did not meet its
primary endpoint,” Frances Shepherd, a medical professor at the
 University of Toronto  who coordinated the trial, said in the
statement. “However, notable treatment effects were observed in
certain subgroups of patients and warrant further investigation
of L-BLP25.”  Publishing Data  Merck KGaA, which isn’t related to the U.S.-based  Merck &
Co. (MRK) , plans to submit the results to a peer-reviewed journal for
publication and present the data at an international scientific
meeting. Stefan Oschmann, head of pharmaceuticals, and Annalisa Jenkins, head of global  drug development  and medical for Merck
Serono, the company’s pharmaceutical unit, were unavailable for
comment, Gangolf Schrimpf, a spokesman, said.  Merck is reorganizing with job cuts, factory closings and a
review of its new-product pipeline in response to setbacks for
some key medicines. Results of separate trials earlier this year
showed that Merck’s Erbitux treatment for colorectal cancer and
head and neck tumors failed to help patients with advanced cases
of stomach cancer and  colon cancer .  Merck scrapped development of the cladribine pill for
multiple sclerosis in 2011. In September this year, the company
withdrew an application to market Erbitux for use in a subgroup
of patients with non-small cell  lung cancer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  