-- Merkel Cabinet Backs Power-Line Plan to Absorb Renewables Growth
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-12-19T14:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/merkel-cabinet-backs-power-line-plan-to-absorb-renewables-growth.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet backed a plan to build three “power autobahns”
stretching north to south to move growing supplies of renewable
energy across the country.  The  plan  involves laying about 2,800 kilometers (1,740
miles) of new transmission lines and upgrading 2,900 kilometers
of existing cables by 2022, according to the Bundesnetzagentur
regulator. New direct-current high-voltage networks would bring
wind power generated in the north to consumers in the south,
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said today in Berlin.  Power supply has moved to the center of  Germany ’s political
agenda since Merkel decided in 2011 to replace nuclear reactors
with more fossil-fired plants and a growing share of clean-
energy sources. The Bundesnetzagentur has called on grid
operators to stabilize the network as the country adds wind
farms and solar parks, whose output varies with the weather.  “Realizing the energy switch is a task of historic
dimensions,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told reporters
today. The government seeks to cut the average time it takes to
develop arterial  power lines  to four years from 10,  according to 
Roesler’s ministry.  Southern Germany may lose about 6,000 megawatts of power-
plant capacity in the coming years,  Andreas Loeschel , a
professor of economics at the University of Heidelberg, said
today.  “I don’t expect we will see widespread power outages,”
said Loeschel, who also chairs the government’s energy
commission. “Doubts about supply security, however, are enough
to damage the acceptance of the energy switch.”  Germany’s four main grid operators in May said the
country’s energy overhaul required about 3,800 kilometers of new
cables, including a fourth power-line corridor. Their proposal
was scaled down by the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  