-- Less Profit in Sight as Maersk Overcapacity Hits Growth: Freight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/less-profit-in-sight-as-maersk-overcapacity-hits-growth-freight.html
European container-shipping
operators such as A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S may benefit little
from higher volumes next year as carrier lines battle to remain
profitable amid overcapacity and weak demand.  Global lines will ship the equivalent of 168 million 20-
foot containers, an increase of 6.6 percent from 2012, according
to London-based shipping-services company  Clarkson Plc. (CKN)  Traffic
on mainline Asia- Europe  routes will lag global growth, rising 4
percent to 21 million 20-foot boxes as low European consumer
demand limits orders.  Economic weakness caused by the debt crisis in Europe,
which accounts for more than a third of global trade, is putting
pressure on earnings at shipping lines such as Copenhagen-based
Maersk Line, the world’s largest, and CMA CGM SA. Further
clouding the outlook, industry capacity will grow 7.5 percent
next year, Clarkson says, undermining efforts to boost profit on
Asia-Europe routes as earlier rate rises struggle to take hold.  “Unless Europe has an unexpected recovery, growth volumes
from Asia to Europe are likely to be low,” said Lars Jensen,
chief executive officer of Copenhagen-based  SeaIntel Maritime
Analysis . “Consequently we expect the structural overcapacity
to persist in 2013, leading to rapid cycles of price increases
and price declines as carriers intermittently idle and re-
activate tonnage.”  World freight traffic growth probably slowed to 4.8 percent
this year from 7.1 percent in 2011, according to Clarkson. East
Asia-Europe volumes will decline 3.3 percent as European
consumers struggle with fiscal austerity and economic
uncertainty caused by the sovereign debt crisis.  Double Recessions  The economy of the 17-nation euro area  shrank  0.1 percent
in the third quarter as the region slipped into recession for
the second time in four years. A  gauge  of services and
manufacturing output in the euro area was at 47.3 in December,
staying below the 50 mark that indicates contraction for an 11th
month, London-based Markit Economics said on Dec. 14. The
 European Central Bank  forecasts the economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013.  The weakness of Europe’s economy and its debt turmoil is
also affecting the rest of the world, curbing global trade
growth to 2.5 percent this year from 5 percent in 2011,
according to the  World Trade Organization ’s September forecast.  Global merchandise trade volume rose 2.7 percent in the
first three quarters of 2012 from a year earlier, according to
the Geneva-based WTO. By comparison, European Union exports were
unchanged and imports posted a 2.7 percent drop during the same
period.  Emerging Markets  Next year, global trade will expand 4.5 percent, the WTO
forecast in September. World container growth in 2013 will be
driven by trade on secondary routes, such as between northern
and southern hemispheres and within  Asia , as well as by Middle
East and Indian volumes, according to Clarkson.  “Shorter trade routes, more suited for smaller vessels,
will become increasingly important as the growth of emerging-
market demand for goods continues to outpace developed
markets,” said Brandon Oglenski, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
 New York . “We believe supply fundamentals may improve over the
next 12-18 months as container scrapping has picked up and the
delivery schedule is set to run off to more manageable levels.”  Maersk  estimates “single-digit growth” in global container
volumes in 2013, which “includes the possibility for marginal
positive growth in Europe,” spokesman Hursh Joshi said in an e-
mail response to questions. “Maersk is absolutely committed to
maintaining capacity discipline” and “ Maersk Line  does not plan
to offer any new capacity” on routes between Asia and Europe in
2013, Joshi said.  Full Boxes  Rates to ship a full 40-foot box from  Shanghai ,  China ’s
busiest port, to Rotterdam, Europe’s biggest, have dropped 50
percent from a peak reached in May, according to  Drewry Shipping
Consultants Ltd. ’s World Container Index.  Carriers will take delivery of ships capable of holding 1.4
million 20-foot boxes, or TEUs, increasing the total global
supply to 17.7 million, according to Clarkson. The imbalance in
demand and supply has damped Maersk’s  shares , which have climbed
10 percent this year compared with a 14.5 percent gain in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Maersk will next year start receiving the first of 20 new
18,000-container vessels built by  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. (042660)  The ships will be the  largest  cargo-box carriers
afloat. Shipping lines are deploying bigger vessels to boost
 fuel efficiency  and to cut operating costs. The biggest ships
are mainly used on Asia-Europe routes as U.S. ports generally
can’t handle them.  Vessel Delivery  “Aggressive 2013 global vessel delivery plans should drive
rate weakness at Maersk Line, curtailing recovery,” said Neil Glynn, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group in  London  with an
underperform rating on Maersk. “We expect global net supply to
exceed demand” next year, “with the burden heaviest on Maersk
Line’s key Asia-Europe lane,” he said.  While excess capacity in the global fleet will continue in
2013, this may be positive for Maersk’s container division as it
takes advantage of economies of scale, according to Robin Byde,
an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald  in London with a buy rating on
the shares.  “Its business can bear a fairly muted rate environment,
taking advantage of its unit cost advantage to remain cash
positive while others struggle,” Byde said. “We expect
container shipping demand and rates to remain fairly subdued in
2013, but Maersk should be able to take advantage of its lower
unit costs and market position to support margins.”  Carriers’ 2013 earnings will depend on whether Maersk and
its rivals are able to resist the temptation to pursue market-
share-driven strategies, according to Mark McVicar, an analyst
at Nomura International Plc in London with a neutral rating on
Maersk.  “We believe Maersk Line will need to exercise continued
capacity discipline to remain profitable,” he said. Still, “we
expect demand growth in 2014 to exceed capacity growth for the
first time in four years, triggering improved market
conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  