-- MetLife Said in Advanced Talks to Buy BBVA Chile Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-19T15:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/metlife-said-to-hold-advanced-talks-to-buy-bbva-chile-unit.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  is in advanced talks to
buy the Chilean pension-management unit of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , which has a market value of more than $2 billion,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  MetLife executives may be prepared to sign a deal for the
unit, known as AFP Provida SA, within days or weeks, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
The discussions could falter and another bidder could always
prevail, one of the people said.  MetLife Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian is
pursuing growth beyond the U.S. as low interest rates and
sluggish economic expansion pressure profit at the nation’s
largest life insurer. MetLife, based in New York, follows
 Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  in seeking revenue from Latin
America. The Des Moines, Iowa-based insurer agreed in October to
buy Chilean pension provider  AFP Cuprum SA (CUPRUM)  for about $1.5
billion.  John Calagna , a MetLife spokesman, declined to comment on
negotiations, as did Paul Tobin at Bilbao, Spain-based BBVA.
Chilean media, including La Segunda online, have previously
reported MetLife’s interest.  BBVA has sought buyers for its pension-fund assets in
 Chile ,  Mexico ,  Peru  and Colombia this year as it attempts to
recover from Spain’s real estate slump. It agreed last month to
sell the Mexican operation to a group of local buyers for $1.6
billion. BBVA owns a majority stake in Provida, whose shares
trade in Santiago.  Pension Providers  MetLife rose 0.5 percent to $33.30 at 9:58 a.m. in New
York. American depositary receipts of Provida gained 0.1 percent
to $101.71. Each ADR is the equivalent of 15 ordinary shares.
BBVA advanced 1.5 percent to 6.99 euros in Spanish trading.  Provida is Chile’s largest pension fund manager, with about
$45.5 billion under management as of Nov. 30, according to data
from the country’s pensions regulator. Chilean pension
providers, called AFPs, manage a total of $160 billion in
assets, according to the regulator.  MetLife is targeting return on equity of at least 12
percent by 2016, driven by growth outside the U.S. The insurer
said in May it’s seeking to boost business in  emerging markets 
to at least 20 percent of operating earnings, from about 14
percent this year.  Operating earnings from Latin America increased 15 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, excluding the impact
of currency fluctuations. Growth in premiums, fees and other
revenue in Mexico, Brazil and  Argentina  was offset by a decline
in Chile, the insurer said.  Liquid Assets  The company may consider deals that cost about $2 billion
to $3 billion, Kandarian said in May as he discussed strategic
plans. The insurer estimated it would have $5.4 billion in cash
and liquid assets at the holding-company level at the end of
this year, according to a  slide presentation  this month.  The insurer purchased American Life Insurance Co. for about
$16 billion from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 to
expand beyond the U.S. The unit had about 12,500 employees and
operations in more than 50 countries at the time.  MetLife grew in Japan,  Australia  and the U.K. with the
$11.7 billion purchase of Travelers Life & Annuity from
Citigroup Inc. in 2005. The company bought Mexico’s biggest life
insurer, Aseguradora Hidalgo SA, for about $962 million in 2002,
and entered the Brazil dental market with a 2008 acquisition,
after opening for business in the country in 1999. It added
Banco Santander SA’s Chilean insurance units in 2001 for more
than $200 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  