-- European Stocks Rise on German Business Confidence Report
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-19T16:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/european-stock-futures-advance-ubs-akzo-nobel-may-move.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed to their
highest level in 19 months as German business confidence rose
more than forecast and optimism mounted that U.S. policy makers
will reach an agreement on next year’s budget.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  advanced 2 percent as European banking
shares contributed the most to the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index’s advance.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  jumped 5.4 percent.  Merck
KGaA (MRK)  lost 2.1 percent after an experimental drug missed the main
goal in a trial with lung-cancer patients.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.4 percent to 281.63 at the close of
trading. The equity benchmark advanced to its highest level
since May 2011 after  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded Greece’s debt.
The gauge has  rallied 15 percent  this year as the  European
Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buying plan and the
 Federal Reserve  began a third round of asset purchases.  “The market is still focused on the fiscal-cliff talks in
the U.S., in which investors seem to expect an agreement
relatively soon,” said John Plassard, vice president at
Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva. “News such as the upgrade of
Greece’s  credit rating  is positive, albeit not a big surprise,
helping to continue a year-end rally. Sentiment at the beginning
of 2013 will be cautious as we face some political risk.”  National benchmark indexes rose in every western-European
market except  Finland . France’s CAC 40 and the U.K.’s FTSE
climbed 0.4 percent. Germany’s DAX gained 0.2 percent. Greece’s
ASE rallied 4.8 percent.  Budget Optimism  The Stoxx 600 rose for the first time in four days
yesterday as Obama changed his position on tax increases. That
led to optimism U.S. lawmakers will agree on a compromise
budget, preventing more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts -- known as the fiscal cliff -- from
coming into force at the beginning of next year.  The volume of shares changing hands in the Stoxx 600 was 34
percent greater than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Germany, the Ifo institute’s  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 102.4 in
December from 101.4 in November. That was the second straight
increase after sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low in October.
Economists had predicted a gain to 102, according to the median
forecast of 43 economists in a  Bloomberg News   survey .  Housing Starts  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 housing starts  fell to a 861,000 annual rate in November after
gaining a revised 888,000 in October. House building missed the
 median forecast  of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Building permits, a proxy for future construction, rose more
than forecast to a 899,000 annual pace.  Greece had its credit rating raised by S&P following the
country’s debt buyback. The ratings company cited the
determination of euro-area governments to keep Greece in the 17-
nation currency zone.  S&P lifted the rating from selective default to B- with a
stable outlook, it said in a statement yesterday. The new grade
is the highest since June 2011 when the ratings company lowered
the country to CCC from B.  HSBC gained 2 percent to 653 pence, contributing the most
to the Stoxx 600’s climb.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  jumped 10
percent to 1.38 euros.  Stada, Merck  Stada advanced 5.4 percent to 23.98 euros. Platow Brief
reported that India’s Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and an
unidentified U.S. company may make bids for the German generic-
drug maker. Stada declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, gained 4.9 percent to 46.24 euros. MainFirst Bank AG
raised the stock to outperform from neutral, meaning that
investors should buy the shares. MainFirst predicted that the
company will regain an investment-grade credit rating next year.  Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN)  surged 17 percent to 95 euro
cents. The German solar manufacturing-equipment maker got a 300
megawatt order for solar-cell production systems from China’s
CECEP Solar Energy Technology Co.  Merck fell 2.1 percent to 99.43 euros, dropping for a
seventh day, after  saying  that the drug, formerly known as
Stimuvax, failed to significantly improve the survival of
patients suffering from  lung cancer  in a late-stage study of
more than 1,500 people.  Bunzl Plc (BNZL)  slid 4.3 percent to 1,020 pence. The company
acquired McCordick Glove & Safety Inc. in  Canada  and Atlas
Health Care Pty Ltd. in  Australia . It didn’t provide any
financial details for the two purchases.  Seymour Pierce Ltd.  cut  the stock to reduce from hold,
meaning investors should sell the company’s shares. The
brokerage said Bunzl’s results have missed estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  