-- Europe’s Top 10 Restaurants Headed by Italy, Website Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-12-19T11:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/europe-s-top-10-restaurants-headed-by-italy-website-says.html
Osteria Francescana, a modern
establishment with just 12 tables in the northern Italian city
of Modena, was named Europe’s finest today in  The Daily Meal 
website’s inaugural list of the  101 Best Restaurants  in Europe.  It was followed by Arzak, San Sebastian,  Spain , in second;
Noma, Copenhagen, third;  Alain Ducasse  at the Dorchester,
 London , fourth;  Guy Savoy , Paris, fifth; then Aqua (Wolfsburg,
 Germany ), Varvary (Moscow), Hof Van Cleve (Kruishoutem,
 Belgium ), L’Arpege (Paris) and  JB  (Ljubljana, Slovenia).  Some of the rankings will raise a few eyebrows: For
example, the fact that Ducasse at the Dorchester places above
Alain Ducasse at the Plaza Athenee and Le Louis XV in  Monaco .  The list spans about 30 countries. France is home to the
most restaurants, followed by Spain and Italy,  The list was compiled through a seven-month process,
involving the website’s editors and more than 200 food writers
and bloggers. It’s one of a number of rankings, including the
 World’s 50 Best Restaurants  awards, for which I work. Panelists
voted in two categories: cuisine and style/decor service.  The website was founded by former president and CEO of
Forbes.com, Jim Spanfeller, and is under the editorial direction
of Colman Andrews, the co-founder of  Saveur  magazine and
biographer of chef Ferran Adria, of El Bulli.  Osteria Francescana places fifth in the world and fourth in
 Europe  on the World’s 50 Best Restaurants list. Chef Massimo
Bottura cooked in London earlier this year at an event at
Viajante with that establishment’s chef, Nuno Mendes. Noma has
held the title of World’s Best Restaurant for three years.  The Daily Meal’s list of the 25 Best Restaurants in  England 
and  Scotland  is also highly individual:  http://bit.ly/QGOKBQ .
There’s room for unsung establishments such as the Boat House
(Edinburgh), Two Fat Ladies at the Buttery (Glasgow) and
Anstruther Fish Bar (Fife), yet no sign of the Ledbury, Sat
Bains, L’Enclume and other gastronomic destinations.  Here are the Top 101 rankings from Daily Meal:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Ryan Sutton  on
U.S. food and  Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 