-- Ex-Credit Suisse Trader Sues Bank Saying Job Made Him Depressed
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-12-19T12:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/ex-credit-suisse-trader-sues-bank-saying-job-made-him-depressed.html
A former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
trader who says his job drove him to depression and thoughts of
suicide sued the Swiss bank in London in a personal injury claim
after losing a related employment tribunal case.  Asif Mohamedali, who earned as much as $4.3 million a year
in the European credit trading team before he was fired in 2009,
claimed overwork and bullying by his boss led him to be
hospitalized with severe depression, according to a November
court filing that was released last week.  When Mohamedali told his manager Eraj Shirvani he was
struggling to cope, he says he was told to “pull yourself
together” and called an expletive, according to the documents.
Shirvani didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  It is the second time Mohamedali, 36, has sued the Swiss
lender. A London employment tribunal rejected his lawsuit for
unfair dismissal and discrimination in February.  Bankers suing their former employers have had a run of
legal defeats in London since more than 100 Dresdner Kleinwort
workers successfully sued Commerzbank AG for their bonuses in
May. A blind Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst, a fired
UBS AG trader and a  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  whistle-blower all lost
employment tribunal cases.  “Credit Suisse will vigorously defend these allegations,
particularly in light of the decision made by the judge in the
claimant’s employment tribunal claim in February which found in
favor of the bank and Eraj Shirvani,” Adam Bradbery, a
spokesman for the Zurich-based lender, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Tribunal Appeal  Mohamedali’s lawyer, Chanel Alexander, said her client was
appealing the tribunal’s decision. She couldn’t specify how much
was being sought in the personal injury claim as the damages
weren’t yet quantifiable.  “We consider our client to have a good claim for damages
based on the bank’s treatment,” she said in an e-mail.  Mohamedali was fired after the bank discovered he had
carried out undisclosed personal trades that breached its code
of conduct, the Employment Tribunal said.  The misconduct “was extremely serious” and justified the
dismissal, Employment Tribunal Judge Jonathan Ferris said in
February. Mohamedali’s evidence was “unconvincing,” he ruled.  Mohamedali said in the latest lawsuit that he spent several
weeks in a hospital in 2009 and continues to suffer from
depression and anxiety. His unit, which traded distressed debt,
lost $25 million on one day that year when an investment
defaulted.  He told his wife in 2009 he wanted to commit suicide.  Mohamedali said his work suffered because he was doing the
job of several people, and had begun to suffer heart
palpitations, nightmares and extreme sweating. Mohamedali argues
the bank failed to provide any adequate system for managing his
stress and breached its contract by permitting Shirvani’s
behavior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  