-- Ex-Porsche CEO Wiedeking Charged Over Failed Volkswagen Bid
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-19T13:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/ex-porsche-ceo-wiedeking-charged-over-use-of-volkswagen-options.html
Former Porsche SE Chief Executive
Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and ex-Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter were charged with market manipulation over the use of
options in a failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The indictment was filed after more than three years of
investigations into claims Porsche misled investors in 2008 when
it denied that it sought to buy VW. The company in October of
that year disclosed a plan to take control of the carmaker.  “The investigation found the suspects in February 2008 at
the latest made the decision to increase Porsche’s share in
Volkswagen to 75 percent in the first quarter of 2009 to prepare
a takeover,” Claudia Krauth, spokeswoman for Stuttgart
prosecutors, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Legal wrangling, stemming from Porsche’s bid for VW,
ultimately scuttled a planned merger between the two companies
last year. The risks of billions of euros in damages have been a
drag on Porsche’s share price. The value of its VW holding is
about 24 billion euros ($31.9 billion).  Porsche  shares  fell as much as 2 percent to 56.83 euros and
were down 1.11 cents as of 1:37 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The
stock has climbed 38 percent this year, valuing the company at
17.5 billion euros.  In the period between March 10 and October 2, 2008, Porsche
denied at least five times that it planned to increase its VW
stake to 75 percent, Krauth said. The denials influenced VW’s
share price, she said.  Haerter Trial  The Regional Court of Stuttgart now has to decide whether
the case may proceed. Haerter is currently standing trial at
that court in a related case claiming he and other Porsche
managers made false statements when refinancing a 10 billion-
euro loan.  The part of the probe covering allegations of breach of
trust was dropped because they couldn’t be proved with the
“necessary degree of certainty,” Krauth said. The two men and
Porsche have rejected the allegations.  The charges won’t succeed, Anne Wehnert and Hanns Feigen,
lawyers for the two men, said in a joint statement. Dropping the
breach of trust probe for lack of evidence is tantamount to an
acquittal, they said.  The allegations shrank during the probe from 14 to five
cases of information-based market manipulation, they said.
Prosecutors had dropped the part of the probe looking into
trade-based market manipulation claims in February of last year.  Short Sellers  “We’re astonished to note the prosecution with this
indictment wants to side with unknown short sellers, of all
people, who made highly speculative and irrational bets against
the VW stock,” the men’s lawyers said.  Albrecht Bamler, a spokesman for Porsche, said the charges
apply to Wiedeking and Haerter, who are no longer part of the
company, and declined to comment further.  Porsche’s denials in 2008 caused investors to sell
Volkswagen shares and increase short positions, Krauth said. At
the same time, Porsche started to prepare the bid by building up
options, she said, citing the probe’s findings.  The men had been investigated for breach of trust because
prosecutors suspected they put the company at the risk of
bankruptcy with the options strategy. While the findings
confirmed the number of VW options Porsche held in October 2008
would have exhausted Porsche’s liquidity “multiple times” had
the stock dropped, the prosecutor can’t prove the men foresaw
that risk when buying the derivatives earlier, Krauth said.  Likely Slump  “The likelihood of such a slump increased during the
period the probed examined,” Krauth said. “However, it was no
longer possible to sell the options when such a slump was likely
enough, because” Porsche then held too many of the instruments
to exit the strategy.  “This is clearly negative news given that the case will
necessarily take quite a significant length of time, and
moreover could well be viewed as supportive for other related
actions,”  David Arnold , an automotive analyst with Credit
Suisse in  London , said in an emailed statement today.  The company is also facing civil suits seeking more than 4
billion euros in a Braunschweig court over the issue. Similar
cases are also pending in U.K. and U.S. courts.  Plaintiffs in those civil suits have so far failed to get
access to findings from the German prosecutors. They may now
renew their bids. Any material they may get can also be used in
the civil cases.  Civil Suits  Franz Braun, a lawyer representing plaintiffs suing for
more than 2 billion euros combined in Braunschweig, said he will
seek access to the files as soon as the court has ruled that the
charges may go to trial.  “The prosecutors’ allegation are identical, including the
dates, with what we say in our suits,” Braun said. “That’s
nice, of course.”  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in its unsuccessful
hostile bid. Wiedeking and Haerter left Porsche in July that
year. A merger between the two companies was scrapped last year
because of the lawsuits.  To avoid further delays, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW
purchased the Porsche auto business, completing the transaction
on Aug. 1. The Porsche holding company remains a stock-listed
company, whose sole asset now consists of its VW shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  