-- Mexico Peso Falls as U.S. Budget Concern Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-12-19T23:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/mexico-peso-falls-as-u-s-budget-concern-damps-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso dropped for the first
time in four days on concern U.S. political leaders are
struggling to agree on a budget deal for the Latin American
country’s biggest trading partner.  The currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 12.7664 per  U.S.
dollar  at 4:30 p.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency has rallied 9.2 percent this year,
still the biggest advance among the dollar’s 16 most-traded
counterparts.  The peso dropped as a spokesman for President  Barack Obama 
said he would veto a budget proposal from House Speaker  John
Boehner . The Congressional Budget office has said spending cuts
and tax increases that will go into effect next month if a deal
isn’t reached may cause a recession. The U.S. is the destination
for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  “Until they finalize a deal, there’s going to be this
cloud of uncertainty of how the  U.S. economy  will react to any
fiscal adjustment,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “And
this obviously impacts Mexico.”  The Mexican government plans to sell an average of 5
billion pesos per week in 28-day bills, known as Cetes, during
the first quarter of 2013, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement. It also will sell an average of 7 billion
pesos per week in 91-day notes. The government will also auction
9 billion pesos of six-month notes every week and 9.5 billion
pesos of one-year notes every four weeks.  Yields on peso-denominated bonds due in 2024 rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.52 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  