-- Expanded Online Child-Privacy Rules Approved by U.S. FTC
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-20T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/expanded-online-child-privacy-rules-approved-by-u-s-ftc.html
Online companies can’t collect
photos, videos or location data from children without a parent’s
permission, under expanded privacy rules adopted by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission.  The new regulations, the result of a two-year review
process, revise the FTC’s standards for enforcing a 1998 child-
privacy law and create new boundaries for the activities of
websites and online services operated by companies such as  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   “The commission takes seriously its mandate to protect
children’s online privacy in this ever-changing technological
landscape,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said yesterday in a news
 release . The changes “strike the right balance between
protecting innovation that will provide rich and engaging
content for children, and ensuring that parents are informed and
involved in their children’s online activities.”  The 1998 Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act requires
operators of websites directed at children under 13 to give
notice to parents and obtain their consent before collecting,
using or disclosing children’s personal information. Changing
technologies, such as the use of mobile devices and social
networking, prompted the revisions, the FTC said.  “The new rules should help ensure that companies targeting
children throughout the rapidly expanding digital media
landscape will be required to engage in fair marketing and data
collection practices,” Kathryn Montgomery, a communication
professor at American University, said in an e-mail. The FTC
will have to monitor companies and take action against violators
for the rules to be effective, she said.  Closing Loophole  The new rules require parental consent for collecting
Internet Protocol addresses and mobile-device IDs that recognize
users over time and across multiple websites. They also close a
loophole through which websites and applications directed at
children could let outside services gather information without
parental notice and consent, the FTC said.  Those outside services include so-called plug-ins, such as
Facebook “Like” buttons on other companies’ websites, or
advertising networks. The agency said that the new rules apply
to services that have “actual knowledge” they are collecting
information through a children’s website or app.  “While we’re still reviewing the FTC’s final rule, we are
pleased the commission clarified the limited circumstances under
which providers of social plug-ins would be subject to COPPA
when those plug-ins are displayed on other websites,” Erin Egan, Facebook’s chief privacy officer, said in an e-mail.  Extending Reach  Disney looks “forward to working with the FTC as we
implement the new rules and continue to offer innovative and
entertaining services for kids and families,” according to an
e-mailed statement from  Zenia Mucha , a company spokeswoman.  The new rules don’t extend to “platforms” such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Apple App Store and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Google Play, which
offer access to children’s apps.  The rules are written in a way that could expand child-
privacy obligations to websites aimed at general audiences of
all ages and may “confuse website owners as to whether these
new rules apply to them,” the Washington-based Center for
Democracy & Technology said in a statement e-mailed by spokesman
Brock Meeks.  Uncertainty could prompt more websites to demand a user’s
age, a practice that “runs counter to the First Amendment right
to access information anonymously and increases the collection
of potentially sensitive information generally,” according the
group, which received funding last year from technology
companies including Facebook and Google.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said in an e-mailed
statement that the FTC action reflects “common-sense updates”
to the child-privacy rules “that better reflect the realities
of the current online world.”  The new rules take effect July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  