-- Facebook, Twitter Threats Should Be Crimes, U.K. Prosecutors Say
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-19T11:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/facebook-twitter-threats-should-be-crimes-u-k-prosecutors-say.html
Facebook and Twitter users who
threaten violence online will face criminal charges in Britain,
while people posting “grossly offensive” comments may avoid
punishment by hitting the delete button, prosecutors said.  Credible threats and campaigns of harassment or stalking on
sites run by Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  will be prosecuted
“robustly” under new social-media guidelines, the  Crown
Prosecution Service  said today in a statement. Non-threatening
messages that are obscene or false may trigger charges if they
“cross a high threshold,” it said.  The guidelines, which are temporary until they receive
final approval, “are intended to strike the right balance
between freedom of expression and the need to uphold the
criminal law,”  Keir Starmer , the agency’s director of public
prosecutions, said in the statement.  The new rules come five months after a London court
overturned the conviction of a man who posted a joke on Twitter
in 2010, saying he would blow a British airport “sky high”
because he was angry about a closure. The CPS prosecuted the
man, Paul Chambers, even though police and staff at Robin Hood
airport in Doncaster,  England , decided the tweet wasn’t serious.  While the guidelines don’t change any U.K. laws, they are
intended to assist police in deciding how to handle complaints
about online communications and help prosecutors determine
whether charges should be filed in specific cases. A public
consultation period on the proposed rules ends March 13.  Non-Violent Messages  Under the new rules, users who post offensive non-violent
messages may avoid prosecution if the communications in question
are deleted quickly and weren’t intended for a wide audience.
Such cases may not be in the public interest, the CPS said.  “The interim guidelines thus protect the individual from
threats or targeted harassment while protecting the expression
of unpopular or unfashionable opinion about serious or trivial
matters, or banter or humor, even if distasteful to some and
painful to those subjected to it,” Starmer said.  Javed Khan, who leads the Victim Support group, said the
clarification on how different postings will be treated is
“sorely needed.”  “Victims tell us that sustained and vindictive targeting
on social media can leave long lasting emotional and
psychological scars, so we warmly welcome clarification on how
prosecutors will deal with online threats or harassment,” Khan
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  