-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Libor Loss Tops $3 Billion in Audit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-12-19T22:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-libor-loss-tops-3-billion-auditor-says.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac may have
lost more than $3 billion tied to the rigging of a key interest
rate, according to internal memos by the auditor of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency.  Inspector General Steve A. Linick urged FHFA Acting
Director Edward J. DeMarco in a Nov. 3 memo that has not been
made public to investigate the potential losses tied to
manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate.  “We conducted a preliminary analysis of potential Libor-
related losses at Fannie and Freddie and shared that with FHFA,
recommending that they conduct a thorough review of the issue,”
Kristine Belisle, a spokeswoman for the Inspector General, said
in an e-mail. “FHFA agreed to study the matter further.”  UBS AG (UBSN) , the Zurich-based bank, today agreed to pay about
$1.5 billion to settle charges with U.S. and U.K. authorities
for manipulating  interest rates  including Libor in a global
conspiracy to boost profits and bonuses. Two former traders face
prison for their alleged role in the conspiracy, according to a
criminal complaint unsealed today.  The charges are the first brought by U.S. officials against
individuals alleged to have manipulated Libor and comparable
benchmarks in Europe and Japan.  Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for FHFA, said the regulator
of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac had not substantiated any Libor-
related losses at either of the two mortgage-finance companies.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  rely on Libor to determine interest payments on
their investments in floating-rate financial instruments such as
bonds and swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  