-- FedEx Maintains Full-Year Forecast Amid Economic Concerns
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-19T21:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/fedex-maintains-full-year-forecast-amid-economic-concerns.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s
largest cargo airline, maintained its full-year profit forecast
amid increasing concern that U.S. economic growth may slow.  The shares rose, as broader market indexes declined, after
 Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx re-affirmed its fiscal 2013
earnings  outlook  of $6.20 to $6.60 a share, excluding costs
associated with a voluntary buyout program.  FedEx, an economic bellwether because it moves goods as
varied as pharmaceuticals, financial documents and electronics,
beat fiscal second-quarter sales estimates while struggling with
falling profit at its express division. That drop is caused in
part by customers’ long-term shift to cheaper shipping options.  “It was a pretty impressive quarter, especially given the
economy,” said Logan Purk, an Edward Jones & Co. analyst in  St.
Louis , who recommends buying the shares. “Something else the
market likes is that in this sluggish environment they came out
and maintained their guidance” for full-year profit.  FedEx increased 0.9 percent to $93.20 at the close in  New
York , while  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest
package-delivery company, gained 0.7 percent to $75.61. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
both fell as  federal budget  talks deteriorated, stoking concern
that the lack of an agreement will hurt the economy.  Fiscal Cliff  The standoff between President  Barack Obama ’s
administration and congressional Republicans over more than
$600 billion in federal tax increases and spending cuts has been
causing concern at companies ranging from Ford Motor Co. to Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. Failure to reach an accord would trigger higher
taxes and reduced  government spending  starting in January.  “The mounting uncertainty in the U.S. related to fiscal
policies and their potential to impact earnings by further
restraining economic growth is a concern,” Chief Financial
Officer Alan Graf said in a statement today.  Earnings will fall to $1.25 to $1.45 a share in the third
quarter ending in February, FedEx also said. The range’s top end
matched the average analyst estimate.  FedEx reiterated its forecast for 1.9 percent U.S. GDP
growth in calendar 2013, and lowered the global outlook to
2.5 percent. The company reduced to 2.4 percent its outlook for
U.S. industrial production growth on Superstorm Sandy, and
forecast 2.5 percent worldwide.  “I just want to emphasize that calendar year 2013 outlook
could swing either direction depending upon policy outcomes,
especially with the fiscal cliff issues in the U.S. and
certainly issues in  Europe ,”  Mike Glenn , chief executive
officer of FedEx Services, said on a conference call with
analysts and investors.  Buyout Program  FedEx in October announced a $1.7 billion effort to reduce
costs and improve earnings. About $1.55 billion of the work
will involve FedEx Express. The company will record a charge of
$550 million to $650 million, or $1.09 to $1.29 a share, in the
fiscal fourth quarter related to the voluntary buyout program,
expected to be accepted by “thousands” of workers.  “We expect to begin realizing the benefits of these
programs in fiscal year 2014 and anticipate these savings will
be substantially realized by the end of fiscal 2015,” Graf said
on the call.  Quarterly Profit  Net income in the second quarter ended Nov. 30 fell
12 percent to $438 million, or $1.39 a share, from $497 million,
or $1.57, a year earlier, FedEx said. The profit, which included
11 cents in costs related to Sandy, trailed the $1.41 average
analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 4.9 percent to $11.1 billion, topping the
$10.8 billion average estimate. Operating income for FedEx
Express, the largest segment, fell 33 percent to $230 million
from $342 million, while revenue increased 4.2 percent to
$6.86 billion.  The 3 percent gain in international priority shipments,
FedEx’s most expensive offering, was in line with Hatfield’s
projection, showing that growth in that segment remains anemic.  “It’s consistent with what we thought given the economy,”
 Art Hatfield , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
Memphis,  Tennessee , said today in a telephone interview. He
rates the shares outperform.  FedEx also said it agreed to buy four additional  Boeing Co. (BA) 
767-300 freighters, bringing to 50 the number it has on order.
Deliveries are to begin in fiscal 2014.  The shipping company also postponed deliveries of two
Boeing 777 freighters to fiscal 2016 from fiscal 2015 “in order
to better match capacity timing to global demand.”  FedEx said it handled a record 19.8 million packages on
Dec. 17, surpassing the 19 million it had forecast to be its
peak on Dec. 10. The company expects volume over the full
holiday shipping period to be up more than 13 percent from last
year, as several big customers are seeing record sales, said
Dave Rebholz, CEO of FedEx Ground.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net 
*FDX US <Equity>
FDX US <Equity>
BA US <Equity>
UPS US <Equity>
P US <Equity> 