-- Flaherty Says Canada Won’t Be Long-Term GM Shareholder
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-12-19T15:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/flaherty-says-canada-won-t-be-long-term-gm-shareholder.html
 Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said
the Canadian government doesn’t intend to be a long-term
shareholder in  General Motors Co. (GM)   Still, the government hasn’t decided when it will sell its
GM shares and won’t hold a “fire sale” of its holdings,
Flaherty told reporters today in Burlington, Ontario.  “We’ve always been clear about two things: One, that we
will not have a fire sale, we will not sell the shares without
getting the best value we can for Canadian taxpayers,” Flaherty
said. “Secondly, we are a Conservative government, we are not
interested in the long term in being shareholders in private
corporations.”  GM said today it will buy 200 million shares of its stock
from the  U.S. Treasury  as part of the department’s plan to sell
its entire holding of the automaker’s stock within 15 months.  Flaherty said he spoke today with GM Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson, and discussions have taken place
regarding  Canada ’s shareholdings with the U.S. Treasury
department and the company. He didn’t elaborate on the talks.  The federal and Ontario governments together hold just over
140 million common shares in Detroit-based GM, representing
about 9 percent of the outstanding stock, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Canada is the third-largest shareholder
in GM, behind the U.S. Treasury, which holds 32 percent, and the
GM-UAW Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association with 10
percent.  GM rose 6.8 percent to $27.22 at 10:09 a.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  