-- Focus Media Makes Deal in Biggest China Leveraged Buyout
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-19T21:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/focus-media-makes-deal-in-biggest-china-leveraged-buyout.html
Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a Chinese
advertising company, agreed to be bought by a consortium of
investors led by  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in a $3.7 billion deal that
will be the country’s largest leveraged buyout.  The board has approved the offer from the group, which also
includes Chief Executive Officer Jason Nanchun Jiang, to acquire
the Shanghai-based company for $27.50 per American depositary
share, Focus Media said in a statement. The price was 50 cents
more than the group offered in a non-binding proposal in August.
The shares jumped 6.7 percent to $25.52, the highest close since
April 12.  “They’re getting a very unique, monopolistic network of
advertising in the second-largest economy in the world, it’s a
great deal,” David Riedel, president of Riedel Research Group
Inc., said by phone from San Francisco. Riedel doesn’t own Focus
Media stock. “It highlights the fact that these sophisticated
investors who are doing their due diligence are getting a very
good opportunity here.”  The transaction needs approval from at least two-thirds of
shareholders and is scheduled to close in the second quarter of
2013, according to the statement. Jiang, company managers and
 Fosun International Ltd. (656) , which altogether hold 36 percent of
the stock, have agreed to vote in favor of the deal, Focus said.  Focus Media, accused by short-seller Muddy Waters LLC of
overstating its ad network, joins a growing number of Chinese
stocks seeking to withdraw from U.S. exchanges after concern
about corporate governance depressed their valuations. Since
April 2010, 19 of the 49 companies that announced intentions to
go private have completed the transactions, while four have
failed, according to a Nov. 5 report by Roth Capital Partners.  ‘Better Off’  Investors are “clearly better off” with Focus Media out
of U.S. capital markets, Muddy Waters founder  Carson Block  said
in an e-mailed statement related via Dukas Public Relations.  “We note that many pension funds and endowments will
presumably be the new owners of this company when the deal
closes,” Block said. “Should Focus be unable to meet its
sizable debt obligations, we encourage regulators and fund
investors to ask hard questions about the rationale and due
diligence process underlying this purchase.”  Muddy Waters in February published a  fifth report  saying
Focus Media overstated its ad network and overpaid for
acquisitions. The company has said the allegations were based on
“innuendo.” Short sales involve borrowing a stock or bond and
then selling it in anticipation of a price decline.  The buyout group also includes FountainVest Partners, Citic
Capital Partners and  China Everbright Ltd. (165)  CDH Investments Fund
Management Co., an investment company based in Beijing, dropped
out of the group, Dow Jones Newswires reported Dec. 7. The deal
values Focus Media’s equity at about $3.7 billion on a fully
diluted basis, according to the statement.  Lenders including Bank of America Corp, state-owned China
Development Bank, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse AG have
committed $1.53 billion to finance the buyout, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  