-- Hungary Yields Hit 7-Year Low on Global Growth: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-12-19T16:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/forint-advances-for-second-day-on-global-growth-budapest-mover.html
Hungary’s bond yields dropped to a
seven-year low on bets a recovering global economy and receding
euro area crisis will allow the central bank to cut rates
further after five consecutive months of easing.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds slid
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.35 percent,
the lowest since October 2005. The currency appreciated 0.5
percent to 286.66 per euro by 4:35 p.m. in Budapest after
dropping to as low as 290.33 early yesterday, the weakest in
almost five months.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank yesterday cut its benchmark rate by
25 basis points to a two-year low of 5.75 percent to help the
country emerge from recession. Emerging-market stocks rose
today, sending the benchmark MSCI index to an eight-month high,
as the  World Bank  increased its growth forecast for  East Asia .
European equities gained as  Greece  had its  credit rating  raised
by  Standard & Poor’s , citing the determination of euro-area
governments to keep the country in the 17-nation currency zone.  Hungary’s “rate cut cycle will continue as long as the
market accepts it without serious forint weakness or capital
flight,” Balint Torok, a Budapest-based analyst at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt., wrote in a research report today.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on  interest rates  in
three months fell two basis points to 5.3 percent, 47 basis
points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating
half a percentage point of easing in the next quarter.  “The forint has bounced back despite the rate cut as it
couldn’t sustain losses in this good environment,” Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based analyst at Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB
unit, wrote in a research report today.  European assets added to gains as data showed that German
business confidence rose more than forecast and optimism mounted
that U.S. policy makers will reach an agreement on next year’s
budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  