-- Gazit-Globe Targets Sweden, Brazil After Rally: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-20T16:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/gazit-globe-targets-sweden-brazil-after-rally-israel-overnight.html
Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT) , the Israeli real
estate firm that surged to a two-year high yesterday, is seeking
to grow in  Sweden  and sees Brazil’s slowdown as an opportunity
to buy properties at lower prices, Chairman Chaim Katzman said.  “We’re still looking to expand in Sweden because we think
it’s one of the best markets in  Europe ,” Katzman, who is also
Gazit-Globe’s founder, said yesterday in a phone interview from
Miami. “If the economy in Brazil isn’t as hot as it was years
ago, it would be better for us as we are looking to expand.”  Gazit-Globe, based in Tel Aviv, said yesterday that its
Citycon Oyj unit joined with the  Canada  Pension Plan Investment
Board to  acquire  the Kista Galleria shopping center in  Stockholm 
for 526 million euros ($698 million). The deal boosted Helsinki-
based Citycon’s Swedish assets to 40 percent of its holdings,
Katzman said. The company is also looking to buy commercial
properties in  Brazil , where the central bank has kept borrowing
costs at a record low to revive the slowest growth in a decade.  Gazit-Globe’s shares traded in Tel Aviv advanced 0.8
percent to 48.40 shekels, or the equivalent of $12.91, the
highest level since Dec. 2007.  Israel ’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
fell for the first time in three days, slipping 0.5 percent to
1,220.74.  The company’s price estimate was raised to $14.1 at
Citigroup Inc. from $11.5, according to an e-mailed report
today.  ‘Gradual Recovery’  Shares of Gazit-Globe rose 0.2 percent in New York
yesterday to $12.66, the highest level since December 2010. The
jump extended this year’s rally to 34 percent. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-York traded Israeli
companies advanced 0.9 percent to 87.18, the biggest gain in
three weeks.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  rallied after Barclays
Plc reiterated its buy recommendation on the stock and  Partner
Communications Co. (PTNR)  posted the biggest climb since 2001.  The Kista Galleria acquisition, which is expected to close
in January, is a record real estate purchase in Sweden, Katzman
said. Citycon owns nine other shopping centers in the Nordic
country.  Gazit-Globe manages assets valued at about $18 billion in
mostly supermarket-anchored shopping centers. Europe accounted
for $442 million of its 2011 revenue of $1.82 billion while the
company’s biggest market is Canada with $549 million in sales.  Katzman said  Gazit-Globe (GLOB)  is looking to buy properties in
the U.S. on expectations that interest rates remain low and the
world’s largest economy continues to show signs of a “gradual
recovery.” The company operates in the U.S. through its Miami
Beach, Florida-based Equity One Inc. unit.  Home values in the U.S., the fourth-biggest source of
revenue for Gazit, have been boosted by record-low mortgage
rates, with prices jumping 6.3 percent in October from a year
earlier, the biggest increase since June 2006, data provider
CoreLogic Inc. said Dec. 4.  ‘Long-term Prognosis’  A slowdown in Brazil’s growth may provide Gazit-Globe more
opportunities to buy commercial properties, Katzman said. The
company seeks to take advantage of the country’s “long-term
prognosis which we believe is still a very desirable market to
enter,” he said.  Brazil’s economy, the largest in Latin America, will grow
an average of 1.86 percent in the 2011 to 2012 period, according
to the median forecast in a central bank survey, the slowest
two-year average rate since the 0.15 percent increase recorded
between 1998 and 1999.  Gazit-Globe said Dec. 11 that it received 1 billion shekels
($265 million) of commitments from institutions for its offering
of bonds due 2024, exceeding an initial plan to sell 500 million
shekels of debt.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland, has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .  Mellanox, Partner  Mellanox, a maker of technology used to transfer and store
data, advanced 2.5 percent to $63.40 in New York, after sinking
38 percent this quarter, the worst three-month performance on
record. The company’s shares in Israel lost 4.6 percent to 231.9
shekels, or $61.9.  Investors should buy the shares after the retreat, Joseph Wolf, a Tel Aviv-based analyst at Barclays, wrote in a Dec. 18
report.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest database software
supplier that owns 8.94 percent of Yokneam Elit, Israel-based
Mellanox, said yesterday that it expects third-quarter earnings
of as much as 68 cents, exceeding the 66-cent average of 40
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  American depositary receipts of  Partner (PTNR) , Israel’s second-
largest mobile-phone provider, surged 11 percent to $6.07 on
trading volume that was more than twice the stock’s three-month
daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Partner’s shares
traded in Tel Aviv today added 1.4 percent to 23.27 shekels, or
$6.21.  Saban Capital Group Inc. is seeking to buy additional
shares in the Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-based company from
institutions and Leumi Partners Ltd., the investment arm of  Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , and has offered to pay Leumi 25 shekels
per share, TheMarker reported yesterday. Moshe Debby, Saban’s
spokesman in Israel, declined to comment on the report when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  