-- Gene Therapy Extends Lives of Children With Brain Disease
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-12-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/gene-therapy-extends-lives-of-children-with-brain-disease.html
Children born with a rare, genetic
 brain disorder  that causes severe atrophy and often leads to
death within three years, are still alive 7 to 10 years after
being treated with an experimental gene therapy, a study showed.  The findings, published today in the journal  Science
Translational Medicine , described the procedure of inserting a
virus containing healthy genes into the children’s brains
through holes drilled into their skulls. The 13 children, the
youngest of whom was 3 months old and diagnosed with the
disorder while in the womb, were treated at the Cell and Gene
Therapy Center at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of
New Jersey in Stratford.  The children are among only about 600 people in the world
with the disorder, called  Canavan disease , a nerve-cell
destroying condition marked by brain atrophy, seizures, vision
loss, physical disability and ultimately death. There is no
treatment or cure.  “We were able to change a terminal diagnosis in these
patients into a non-fatal diagnosis,” study author  Paola Leone ,
an associate professor of cell biology at the University of
Medicine and Dentistry  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview.  The study, which began in 2001, was the first approved by
U.S. regulators using an adeno-associated virus, a type of virus
used in gene therapy because of its benign effects on humans.  Oldest Patient  Today’s oldest patient in the clinical trial is 18 years
old. The patient “has major cognitive abnormalities, but she’s
not in a vegetative state,” Leone said, and indicates “yes”
by blinking and “no” by opening her mouth.  Canavan disease is caused by recessive mutations. When two
of these occur, people can’t make an enzyme used to break down a
compound called NAA in nerve cells in the brain. The buildup in
the brain, along with unusual patterns of the insulation called
myelin that lines nerve cells, are characteristic of the
illness.  Scientists aren’t sure whether the buildup of NAA is what
causes the  brain damage , or whether the enzyme has another role
they haven’t yet discovered, Leone said. As the myelin
degenerates, the child has difficulty moving, has seizures and
goes blind.  In the study, doctors inserted healthy genes into the
patients’ brain cells, allowing them to produce the enzyme. The
first patients treated in the study were the oldest, the
researchers said.  More Effective  The younger the patient was at the time of the procedure,
the better the response seemed to be, according to the study.
The three oldest patients didn’t become more alert, but their
awareness of the world around them didn’t deteriorate. The 10
younger patients all demonstrated improved alertness.  After treatment, 11 patients had decreases in the numbers
of seizures they suffered; two had no seizures before or after
treatment. The major adverse event was an abscess in the burr
hole in one patient’s skull following the surgery.  The treatment costs $100,000 for the first two years, said
Leone. Her group is looking for a company or philanthropist who
can finance  clinical trials  for the third and final stage of
testing generally required by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  