-- Ifo Business Confidence Probably Rose for Second Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/german-ifo-business-confidence-probably-rose-for-a-second-month.html
German business confidence probably
increased for a second month in December, signaling  Europe ’s
largest economy may support a euro-area recovery next year.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will rise to 102 from 101.4 in
November, according to the median forecast of 43 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey . That would be the second straight
increase after sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low in October.
Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  German factory orders and exports rose in October as
shipments to countries outside Europe offset weaker demand in
the 17-nation currency bloc, which is battling recession after
governments cut spending to rein in excessive deficits. The
Bundesbank said this week it expects the German economy to grow
next year after shrinking markedly in the fourth quarter.  “I’m optimistic for the German economy,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “The rescue
measures by the  European Central Bank  and governments will lead
to a reduction of uncertainty in the euro area.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
96.4, the highest since June, from 95.2 in November, while a
gauge of the current situation may have slipped to 108 from
108.1, the survey shows.  Gradual Recovery  The ECB’s new bond-purchase program and the creation of a
single supervisor calmed financial markets and will help foster
a gradual recovery in the euro area in the second half of next
year, President  Mario Draghi  said Dec. 17. Still, the ECB
revised down its economic forecasts earlier this month,
predicting contractions of 0.5 percent this year and 0.3 percent
in 2013.  The Bundesbank also lowered its growth outlook,
anticipating expansions of 0.7 percent and 0.4 percent,
respectively.  “Indicators point to a perceptible decline in economic
activity at the end of the year,” the Bundesbank said in its
monthly report published this week. Still positive export
expectations and returning business confidence “may point to
the fact that the period of economic weakness in Germany can be
overcome soon.”  German growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the third quarter
from 0.3 percent in the second as the euro area,  Germany ’s
biggest export market, slipped into recession for the second
time in four years.  Weaker Demand  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that is the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, last month
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and  Asia .  At the same time, some German companies compensate fewer
European orders with exports to faster growing economies.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, said on Dec. 7 it is targeting higher sales and
profit next year, boosted by growth in the U.S. and China.  Daimler AG, another German luxury carmaker, is planning to
almost double its 2011 car sales by 2020 by focusing on demand
in  China ,  Russia  and the U.S., the company said Nov. 14.  “There are hopeful signs for the German economy,” said
Natascha Gewaltig, head of European economics at Action
Economics in  London . “The current quarter looks pretty dismal
for businesses but it looks like we will see stabilization next
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  