-- German Business Confidence Rises for a Second Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-19T10:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/german-business-confidence-rises-for-a-second-month.html
German business confidence increased
for a second month in December, signaling  Europe ’s largest
economy may support a euro-area recovery next year.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 102.4 from 101.4 in
November. That’s the second straight increase after sentiment
dropped to a 2 1/2 year low in October. Economists predicted a
gain to 102, according to the median forecast of 43 economists
in a  Bloomberg News survey .  German factory orders and exports rose in October as
shipments to countries outside Europe offset weaker demand in
the 17-nation currency bloc, which is battling recession after
governments cut spending to rein in excessive deficits. The
Bundesbank said this week it expects the German economy to grow
next year after shrinking markedly in the fourth quarter.  “Recent survey evidence suggests sentiment is bottoming
out in  Germany , providing further support to our view that the
weakness in German economic outlook is not to last long,” said
Gizem Kara, European economist at BNP Paribas in  London . The
fourth quarter “will prove to be the bottom of the downturn,”
with the first quarter “already shaping up much better.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation slipped to 107.1 from
108.1, while a measure of executives’ expectations rose to 97.9,
the highest since May, from 95.2 in November.  The euro rose after the report and traded at $1.3281 at
11:44 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.4 percent on the day. The
benchmark DAX index increased for a fourth day, gaining 0.3
percent to 7676.39.  Downside Risks  “There’s a good chance we will see a recovery some time
next year,” said Alexander Koch, an economist at UniCredit
Research in Munich. “At the same time, downside risks remain
for the German economy, coming mainly from its euro-area
partners.”  The ECB revised down its economic forecasts for the euro
region earlier this month, predicting contractions of 0.5
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013. The Bundesbank also
lowered its growth outlook for Germany, anticipating expansions
of 0.7 percent for 2012 and and 0.4 percent next year.  German industrial production unexpectedly dropped 2.6
percent in October and unemployment rose for an eighth month in
November.  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that is the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer  Continental AG (CON) , last month
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and Asia.  ‘Perceptible Decline’  “Indicators point to a perceptible decline in economic
activity at the end of the year,” the Bundesbank said in its
monthly report published this week. Still positive export
expectations and returning business confidence “may point to
the fact that the period of economic weakness in Germany can be
overcome soon.”  The ECB’s new bond-purchase program and the creation of a
single supervisor calmed financial markets and will help foster
a gradual recovery in the euro area in the second half of next
year, President Mario Draghi said Dec. 17.  In the U.K., Bank of England policy makers voted 8-1 to
leave their bond-purchase program on hold this month as
immediate dangers from the sovereign debt crisis in the euro
region receded and near term inflation risks persisted,
according to minutes of the decision released today.  The World Bank said that growth in East Asia’s emerging
nations will accelerate next year as  China ’s economy recovers,
reducing the need for policy makers to cut interest rates.  Asia, U.S.  Developing East Asia will probably expand 7.5 percent in
2012 and 7.9 percent in 2013, the Washington-based lender said
in a report today, raising the forecast for this year from an
October prediction of 7.2 percent.  A report in the U.S. today may show housing starts fell to
an 872,000 annual rate in November, while building permits, a
proxy for future construction, probably rose to an 875,000
annual pace, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Optimism in Germany’s economic outlook is “well founded”
because demand for the countries’ products outside Europe is
increasing, Hans-Werner Sinn, Ifo’s president, told  Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, said on Dec. 7 it targets higher sales and profit
next year boosted by growth in the U.S. and China.  Daimler AG, another German luxury carmaker, is planning to
almost double its 2011 car sales by 2020 by focusing on demand
in China,  Russia  and the U.S., the company said Nov. 14.  “There are hopeful signs for the German economy,” said
Natascha Gewaltig, head of European economics at Action
Economics in London. “The current quarter looks pretty dismal
for businesses but it looks like we will see stabilization next
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  