-- GM to Build Camaro in Michigan, Shift Model Out of Canada
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 2012-12-19T21:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/gm-says-new-camaro-to-be-built-at-michigan-factory.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it will
build the next-generation Chevrolet Camaro at a Michigan factory
and shift the model out of an Ontario plant.  GM said the sports car will be assembled at the Lansing
Grand River factory because of “lower capital investment and
improved production efficiencies,” according to a statement on
Detroit-based GM’s website. The company said it will “continue
to meet the production targets” it agreed to when receiving
financial aid from the Canadian and Ontario governments in 2009.  The Canadian Auto Workers, in a separate e-mailed
statement, said the move “will cut between one third and one
quarter” of production in late 2015 or early 2016 at an Oshawa,
Ontario, factory that now builds the Camaro. The Toronto-based
union said it’s urging GM to replace the Oshawa production “on
a one-to-one basis, ensuring that no jobs are lost.”  GM reached a new four-year labor agreement with the CAW in
September. That accord was to create, maintain or extend a total
of 1,750 jobs and calls for GM to invest C$675 million ($684
million) in its Canadian plants, the union said at a Sept. 20
news conference.  GM notified union leaders of the transfer by telephone at
11 a.m. Eastern time, CAW President  Ken Lewenza  said.  “Their explanation for us is they are consolidating their
rear-wheel drive vehicles under one facility,” Lewenza told a
news conference in Oshawa today. “They believe that will be
important for suppliers and others to have that continuity
around a facility. We rejected that, because this local union
beginning in 2006 made significant sacrifices to win the Camaro
work.”  Job Losses  During this year’s labor negotiations, GM never discussed
the possibility that the Camaro would no longer be built in
Oshawa, Chris Buckley, president of CAW Local 222, said at the
press conference. GM employs about 4,000 people in the city,
down from about 23,000 in 1983, he said.  “General Motors has been extremely misleading, and that’s
what we find offensive,” Buckley said.  GM, in an e-mailed statement, said the decision “is based
on a comprehensive business case. Lower  capital investment  and
improved production efficiencies were key factors in the
business case.”  At least 1,000 union members who work at GM will probably
lose their jobs if the transfer takes place, in addition to some
GM supplier employees, Buckley said. GM builds about 100,000
Camaros in Oshawa annually, Lewenza said.  ‘Assault on Canada’  “This decision by General Motors today quite frankly is a
betrayal to  Canada  as a nation, to the Canadian taxpayers and to
workers that need these jobs,” Lewenza said. “We are outraged.
This is an assault on Canada.”  Canada and Ontario provided a combined C$13.7 billion to
the rescues of GM and Chrysler Group LLC and retained ownership
stakes in both companies to protect an estimated 52,000 jobs,
according to the country’s 2012 budget plan.  CAW leaders will respond to the planned transfer “in a
very aggressive way” at the start of 2013, Lewenza said without
being more specific.  Lewenza said he talked to Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
chief of staff and Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty to voice his
opposition to the automaker’s plan and enlist their support in
making GM reverse its decision. Lewenza said he asked Harper’s
chief of staff to have the prime minister “speak up for
Canadian jobs.”  Canada is “concerned about the implications” of the
announcement and will hold GM to its Canadian production
commitments, Julie Vaux, a spokeswoman for Harper, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Finance Minister  Separately, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said
today his government doesn’t intend to be a long-term
shareholder in GM. The government hasn’t decided when it will
sell its GM shares and won’t hold a ‘‘fire sale” of its
holdings, Flaherty told reporters today in Burlington, Ontario.  “We will not sell the shares without getting the best
value we can for Canadian taxpayers,” Flaherty said. “We are a
Conservative government, we are not interested in the long term
in being shareholders in private corporations.”  Flaherty said he spoke today with GM Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson, and discussions have taken place regarding
Canada’s shareholdings with the U.S. Treasury Department and the
company. He didn’t elaborate on the talks.  Flaherty said in a separate interview with CTV Television
that he isn’t aware of Ontario job losses resulting from the
move.  GM said today it will purchase $5.5 billion of its stock
from the  U.S. Treasury  and that the U.S. plans to sell its
entire holding in the automaker within 15 months.  The Canadian and Ontario governments together hold about
140 million, or about 9 percent, of outstanding common shares of
GM, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Canada is the
third-largest shareholder in GM, behind the U.S. Treasury, which
holds 32 percent, and the GM-UAW Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association with 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Koenig in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frederic Tomesco at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  