-- Google to Sell Motorola Home to Arris for $2.35 Billion
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-12-20T14:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/google-sells-motorola-home-to-arris-for-2-35-billion-correct-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to sell its
Motorola Home business to  Arris Group Inc. (ARRS)  for $2.35 billion,
finding a buyer for a division that sells television set-top
boxes while it focuses on expanding in smartphones.  Arris, a cable-equipment maker, will pay about $2.05
billion in cash and about $300 million in newly issued shares
that will give Google a stake of about 15.7 percent, the
companies said yesterday in a statement.  Google, which acquired the division through the $12.5
billion purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. in May,
received multiple offers on Dec. 7, a person with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this month. Google sought a buyer for
the home unit as it aims to devote more attention to mobile
devices amid an accelerating rivalry with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “Google never really wanted the set-top box business,”
 Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group in  Portland ,
Oregon, said in an interview. “What they wanted were the mobile
patents. It was very clear this wasn’t why they were buying the
business in the first place.”  Google rose 0.5 percent to $723.50 at 9:30 a.m. in New
York, while Arris gained 5.6 percent to $15.35. The deal was
announced after regular trading hours.  Pace Loses  Pace Plc (PIC) , a U.K. maker of set-top boxes and a suitor of the
assets, said in a statement that it was unable to reach an
agreement with Google.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is advising Google, while  Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP  is acting as legal counsel.  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  is the lead financial adviser to Suwanee, Georgia-
based Arris, and Troutman Sanders LLP is providing legal advice.
 Bank of America Corp.  is also advising Arris, the companies
said.  Adding Motorola Home helps Arris more than triple sales, on
a pro-forma basis, to about $4.7 billion for the year that ended
Sept. 30, according to the statement. The company will have
about 2,000 patents after the acquisition, Arris said in a
 presentation .  The agreement also includes provisions to cap potential
liability for intellectual-property infringement. Digital-video
recording company  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  is suing Motorola Mobility and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  over use of recording technology in the set-top
boxes they make.  “Google has taken that risk off the table,” Arris Chief
Executive Officer Bob Stanzione said on a conference call.  With Motorola Home, Arris will be able to get products to
market faster, expand its customer base and become more
“relevant” in the set-top box business, he said.  Newer Set-Tops  The agreement gives Arris patents in areas such as video
processing and digital-rights management, he said -- plus the
right to license additional intellectual property from Motorola
Mobility, Stanzione said. Arris sees an opportunity to sell new
equipment to customers whose home cable-TV sets don’t support
Internet-video delivery, he said.  “There’s an aging installed base of set-tops out there,”
he said.  The company now gets about  half its revenue  from two
customers -- Comcast Corp. and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , Stanzione
said. Buying Motorola Home will diversify Arris’s sales so that
five accounts supply half its revenue.  “This is a transformational deal for us,” he said.
“There’s significant earnings accretion.”  The deal will immediately add to per-share earnings,
excluding certain costs, Arris said.  Mountain View , California-based Google, also owner of the
world’s most popular Internet search engine, said in August that
it would cut 4,000 Motorola workers and close about a third of
its 90 facilities as part of a plan to restore the hardware
firm’s leadership in the mobile market.  Google’s share of the smartphone market will slip to 63.8
percent in 2016 from 68.3 percent this year for all devices
running the company’s Android software, according to a report
from research firm IDC. Apple’s iPhone will rise to 19.1 percent
from 18.8 percent, staying in second place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  