-- Google, Zimbabwe, Tattoo Art: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-19T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/google-zimbabwe-tattoo-art-intellectual-property.html
Merz Pharmaceuticals LLC, a maker of
neurological drugs, sued Par Pharmaceutical Inc. for patent
infringement, claiming the generic-drug company is copying a
medicine that treats severe drooling in cerebral palsy patients.  Par, an affiliate of private-equity company TPG Capital,
violated the patent for the drug Cuvposa by applying for the
right to make a generic version before Merz’s patent expired,
Merz said in court papers filed Dec. 17 in U.S. District Court
in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Merz will be substantially and irreparably damaged and
harmed,” if Par goes forward with its plan, Merz said in its
complaint.  Before a generic-drug maker can begin producing a patented
medicine, it must get permission from federal regulators. As
part of its application, Par claimed that its plan either didn’t
violate a current patent, or that the patent related to Cuvposa
is invalid, according to the Merz complaint.  Stephen Mock, a spokesman for Par, declined to comment on
the filing.  Cuvposa is classified by federal regulators as a so-called
orphan drug because it treats a rare disorder with limited
medical options, according to a Merz statement. In August, Merz
announced that it had bought the rights to the drug.  Merz, an affiliate of German drugmaker Merz Pharma GmbH,
asked the court to halt Par’s effort to produce the drug.
Cuvposa is the brand name for glycopyrrolate oral solution.  The case is Merz Pharmaceuticals LLC v. Par Pharmaceutical
Inc., 12-cv-01723, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Fujitsu Loses Claims in Interface-Card Patent-Infringement Case  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) , the Japanese semiconductor and computer
company, lost every claim it made in a patent case against three
makers of wireless equipment.  Fujitsu, based in  Tokyo , sued in federal court in San Jose,
California, in September 2010, accusing Belkin International
Inc. of Playa Vista, California; Taipei-based  D-Link Corp. (2332)  and
San Jose’s  Netgear Inc. (NTGR)  of infringing two patents.  In dispute were patents 5,357,091 and RE36,769, which cover
technology related to interface cards.  In a Dec. 17 verdict following a two-week trial, jurors
found no infringement of any of the patents by any of the
defendants. The jurors also found that the patent claims made in
the case were all invalid.  In January 2011, Netgear persuaded U.S. District Judge Lucy
Koh to disqualify Baker Botts LLP from representing Fujitsu in
the dispute on the grounds that the Texas firm previously
represented Netgear in a different matter.  According to Koh’s order, Baker Botts had asked for a
waiver, which wasn’t granted by Netgear. In addition to
disqualifying Baker Botts, she ordered the firm to return all
confidential information it obtained from Netgear and to destroy
any work product related to that information.  The case is Fujitsu Ltd. v. Belkin International Inc.,
5:10-cv-03972, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google May Make EU Antitrust Offer After Schmidt Meets Almunia  Google Inc. (GOOG)  should send an offer to European Union
regulators next month to settle its investigation, the EU’s
antitrust chief said after meeting Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
yesterday.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said he expects
“Google to come forward with a detailed commitment text in
January” that would allow the Brussels-based authority to end
the probe into allegations that the world’s largest search
engine operator discriminates against rivals.  “I have decided to continue with the process towards
reaching an agreement” to settle the investigation, Almunia
said in an e-mailed statement.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
Google is poised to offer voluntary concessions to U.S.
authorities that would end a 20-month antitrust probe of its
business practices without any enforcement action being taken,
two people familiar with the matter said earlier this week.  Google’s offer would be sent to rivals and customers for
comments before the EU could move to drop its two-year-old probe
without imposing a fine or declaring that the company violated
antitrust rules.  Google will “continue to work cooperatively with the
commission,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels,
said in a telephone interview.  Almunia said the EU was concerned about the way Google’s
specialist search-services are promoted above those of rivals,
how it uses and displays other content on search services, its
exclusive agreements with websites that show search ads and
restrictions that reduce advertisers’ ability to shift ad
campaigns from Google’s AdWords platform.  Google in July outlined a proposal to end the EU antitrust
investigation. Almunia has previously said that he would send
Google a formal antitrust complaint if the company’s proposal
was unsatisfactory. He warned that settlements couldn’t go on
indefinitely.  In 2010, the EU began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post last year,
citing data from regulators.  Zimbabwe Publishers Seek ‘Parade’ Trademark Ruling From Court  Despite receiving a court order not to use the trademark,
 Zimbabwe  Publishing House began selling a “Parade” magazine on
the streets of Harare Dec. 13, NewsDay Zimbabwe  reported .  Harare Ka Nako Media, the holder of the registered
trademark, went to Zimbabwe’s High Court in efforts to halt the
unauthorized use of its mark, according to NewsDay Zimbabwe.  High Court Justice Ben Hlatshwayo issued an order Dec. 7
barring both parties from using the mark before the matter was
decided by Zimbabwe’s Registrar of Trademarks, according to the
newspaper.  The dispute is to be heard by High Court Justice Hlekani
Mwayera, the newspaper reported.  Delhi Public School Society Mark Infringed, High Court Rules  The Delhi High Court has ordered a trust to stop infringing
a trademark belonging to an organization that runs a chain of
schools,  India ’s Business Standard newspaper  reported .  Delhi Public School Society , which runs 11 schools directly
and another 118 under a franchise agreement, had complained,
saying that the DPS Trust was infringing and using its logo
deceptively, according to the newspaper.  The court also fined the trust, saying its use of the
society’s mark was “dishonest, actuated with greed,” the
Business Standard reported.  The trust, which was operating a school under the name of
“Delhi Public School,” didn’t make any court appearances to
contest the suit, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AMSC Says Supreme People’s Court to Hear Part of Sinovel Case  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC)  said in a statement that
China’s Supreme People’s Court is expected to hold an additional
hearing in its software copyright-infringement case against
 Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)   The dispute centers around software used to control wind
turbines. AMSC has accused Beijing-based Sinovel of copying and
making unauthorized use of the software for the Chinese
company’s 1.5-megawatt wind turbines and PM2000 power
converters.  AMSC, based in Devens,  Massachusetts , has asked the court
for a cease-and-desist order and $6 million in damages.  The ruling from the Supreme People’s Court is expected to
cover jurisdictional issues, AMSC said in its Dec. 17 statement.
Sinovel has sought to have the dispute removed from court and
brought to the Beijing Arbitration Commission.  The case is one of four that AMSC has brought against
Sinovel since late 2011, all related to breach of contract and
unauthorized use of intellectual property, according to the AMSC
statement.  Tattoo Art’s Infringement Award Upheld by Appeals Court  Tattoo Art Inc.  of  Virginia  Beach, Virginia’s $480,000
award in a copyright-infringement case was upheld by a federal
appeals court.  After  TAT International LLC ’s license to use some of Tattoo
Art’s designs for stencils for temporary tattoos expired, the
Grand Rapids, Michigan-based company continued to use them,
changing only the color of the images on its website, according
to court papers.  The Virginia company sued in July 2010, claiming the
copyrights to its designs were infringed by a former licensee.  In September, a court in Norfolk, Virginia, found that the
designs’ copyright had been infringed and awarded the damages.
TAT then appealed, saying it wasn’t liable, and that the award
was grossly disproportional to the damages Tattoo Art could have
recovered under the previous royalty agreement or unpaid
royalties.  In its Dec. 10 ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Richmond, Virginia, said that there was “no abuse of discretion
of constitutional error” in the amount of the award.  The case is Tattoo Art Inc. v. TAT International LLC
11-2014, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The lower
court case is Tattoo Art v. TAT International LLC, 2:10-
cv-00323, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Norfolk).  U.K. to Advance Battle Against Online Copyright Infringement  The City of  London  police will establish an intellectual
property crime unit next year in response to illegal
downloading, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  Vince Cable, business secretary in the Cameron government,
said the government would also set up a national campaign
focused on illegal downloading and counterfeiting, according to
the Guardian.  Speaking at a Dec. 17 copyright conference at London’s Big
Innovation Center, Cable said the measures were part of a
campaign to “create the environment in which creative
innovative businesses of all shapes and sizes flourish,” the
Guardian reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 