-- Groups Dispute Assertions of Sabotage in Bangladesh Fire
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-12-19T06:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/groups-dispute-assertions-of-sabotage-in-bangladesh-fire.html
Labor rights groups challenged some
of the findings of a  Bangladesh  government panel that said a
fire which killed more than 100 people at a clothing factory
last month was an act of sabotage.  “I don’t think it was sabotage,” Mushrefa Mishu,
president of the Garment Workers Unity Forum union, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Calling it an act of sabotage, the
government is indicating some workers are responsible for the
fire, so that they can be harassed.”  Mainuddin Khandaker, the head of a government panel probing
the incident, this week said that witness statements suggest
sabotage caused the Nov. 24 blaze at Tazreen Fashion Ltd. The
factory made clothes for retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and the fire renewed pressure on companies sourcing cheap
clothes from Bangladesh to improve labor conditions.  The panel probing the incident has not said who was
responsible for the sabotage. It also blamed the factory owner
for “gross negligence” as poor safety standards made it harder
for workers to escape.  The Bangladesh government often cites sabotage in the wake
of factory accidents, strikes and other labor unrest, said
Kalpona Akter, executive director of the Bangladesh Center for
Worker Solidarity, a non-governmental organization founded by
two former garment child workers to promote safer factories.  Factory Accidents  The panel investigating Tazreen believes the incident was
the result of sabotage because it didn’t find any electricity
connection or appliance in the area where the fire originated,
Khandaker has said.  A copy of the panel’s report obtained by  Bloomberg News 
described the fire as an act of “sabotage by an evil force.”
The report also detailed missteps by the factory’s managers.  “The mid-level managers forced the workers to stay inside
the factory, even after the fire alarm was set off,” it said.
“They hid information about the fire from the workers.”  Some managers locked workers inside and left the building,
according to the report. The report also cited Deepa Akter, a
survivor, as saying that a factory manager told her “it was a
fire drill. There’s no problem.”  Delowar Hossain, managing director of Tuba Group that owns
Tazreen Fashion, hid information or gave conflicting information
about the fire and deaths, according to the probe report.
Hossain didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  ’Deflects Blame’  A report of sabotage rather than citations involving
factories’ structural integrity deflects blame from garment
industry and government officials that are supposed to be
monitoring them, Ineke Zeldenrust, international coordinator for
the  Clean Clothes Campaign , said in a telephone interview from
Amsterdam.  “It’s cheap to blame a person and put someone in jail,”
said Zeldenrust, whose Amsterdam-based organization pushes for
improved working conditions in the global garment industry.
“It’s much more complicated and expensive to upgrade
infrastructure.”  Wal-Mart (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, has said it fired a
supplier that made apparel at the factory without its
authorization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  