-- Gulf Diesel Rises on Biggest Inventory Drop Since April
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-12-19T21:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/gulf-diesel-rises-on-biggest-inventory-drop-since-april.html
Diesel fuel  gained for a second day
on the U.S. Gulf Coast as the area’s  distillate inventories 
dropped the most since April.  Supplies of distillates, including heating oil and diesel
in PADD 3, declined  2.65 million barrels , or 7.2 percent, to 34
million in the week ended Dec. 14, the largest percentage
retreat since April 20, according to Energy Department data.
U.S. exports of the  fuel oil  grew 37,000 barrels to  1.06 million
barrels  a day, the data showed.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel ’s discount narrowed 1.88 cents to
to 6 cents below heating oil futures on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 3:45 p.m. Diesel shipments from the U.S. Gulf Coast
to  Europe  were poised to gain in the two weeks ending tomorrow,
according to a shipbroker survey.  “We continue to export more than a million barrels a day
so that, combined with domestic consumption, is keeping it
tight,”  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at IAF
Advisors, said in a phone interview from Houston today.
“Distillate will remain the strongest of the energy complex and
really will bounce around this type of  price range . It seems
comfortable.”  Traders and oil companies booked a total of six tankers to
load diesel fuel in the fourteen days ended Dec. 20, and another
four were forecast to be hired, the median estimates in a survey
of six shipbrokers who specialize in the trade showed. Each
tanker would normally haul about 38,000 metric tons of diesel,
or 285,000 barrels.  Motiva Repairs  Gulf gasoline advanced for a third day as Motiva
Enterprises LLC conducted maintenance at a 325,000-barrel-a-day
crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery and after a
report indicated motor fuel shipments to the U.S. will decline.  The Port Arthur refinery, which is the largest plant on the
U.S. Gulf Coast, expects to complete repairs and try to restart
the crude unit by Dec. 23, a person familiar with operations
said. Traders will book 22 percent fewer oil tankers to ship
European gasoline to the U.S. in the next two weeks, a Bloomberg
survey of five shipbrokers and one trader said today.  Conventional gasoline  to be blended with ethanol, or CBOB,
gained 4.75 cents to 19.75 cents a gallon below Nymex futures in
 New York , the narrowest gap since Dec. 4. Reformulated gasoline
rose 5.25 cents to 17.75 cents below futures.  “Motiva restart being delayed is probably the issue for
gasoline today,” Cooper said.  Motiva Refinery  Motiva will make a second attempt to have a clamp made and
applied to contain a leak on the crude unit’s heater outlet that
led to fires Dec. 11 and Dec. 17, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the information isn’t public. At full
rates, the refinery can make 240,000 barrels a day of gasoline
and 190,000 barrels of diesel, according to Motiva.  The crude unit will be placed on partial circulation while
maintenance is conducted to resolve the leak, Kimberly Windon, a
Houston-based spokeswoman for the refinery, said yesterday in an
e-mail.  Motiva is a refining and marketing joint venture of Saudi
Refining Inc., a subsidiary of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., and Shell
Oil Co., a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDS/A)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  