-- Gun-Control Backers See No High Court Hurdle for Laws
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-12-19T18:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/gun-control-backers-see-no-high-court-hurdle-in-push-for-laws.html
Gun-control advocates, seeking new
laws in the aftermath of the  Connecticut  school shooting, are
drawing support from an unlikely source: the U.S. Supreme
Court’s landmark 2008 decision backing the right to bear arms.  That ruling marked the court’s first declaration that the
Constitution’s Second Amendment protects the gun rights of
individuals. At the same time, Justice  Antonin Scalia ’s majority
opinion said the government could impose restrictions, such as
bans on gun possession by convicted felons and the mentally ill.  Since that ruling, in  District of Columbia  v. Heller,
courts have struck down only a handful of state and local gun
laws. President  Barack Obama  announced today that Vice President
 Joe Biden  will produce by next month a list of actions on gun
violence that won’t run afoul of the court.  “There is a big chunk of space between what, you know, the
Second Amendment means and having no rules at all,” Obama said.
“And that space is what Joe’s gonna be working on, to try to
identify where we can find some common ground.”  With gun-control advocates now discussing improved
background checks and bans on assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines, the legal obstacles may be less daunting than the
political ones.  Second Amendment  “The Second Amendment doesn’t impose any significant
barriers to any of the major reforms being talked about,” said
 Adam Winkler , a professor at the  University of California  at Los
Angeles School of Law and the author of a book on gun rights.
“The Supreme Court made clear in the Heller case that there’s
plenty of room for gun control under the Second Amendment.”  Gun control is getting new attention in  Washington  after
last week’s shooting massacre in Newtown, Connecticut. The
gunman, Adam Lanza, killed 26 people, including 20 children at
Sandy Hook Elementary School, before turning one of his guns on
himself, police say.  Obama supports a ban on military-style assault weapons and
a requirement that purchasers at gun shows undergo background
checks. The president will also look at efforts to restrict
high-capacity magazines that can accept more than 10 rounds of
ammunition, according to White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney .  The Heller decision resolved a constitutional question that
had lurked for two centuries: whether the Second Amendment
protects individuals even though it refers to state-run
militias. The ruling, which divided the court 5-4 along
ideological lines, struck down the District of Columbia’s
handgun ban.  Scalia’s Opinion  Buried within the 21,000-word majority opinion was a
paragraph that gave gun-control advocates reason for hope. Gun
rights are “not unlimited,” Scalia wrote.  “Nothing in our opinion should be taken to cast doubt on
longstanding prohibitions on the possession of firearms by
felons and the mentally ill,” he said. Nor was the court
questioning “laws forbidding the carrying of firearms in
sensitive places such as schools and government buildings, or
laws imposing conditions and qualifications on the commercial
sale of arms.”  Scalia also said the Second Amendment protects weapons that
are in “common use” and not those that are “dangerous and
unusual.”  Gun-rights advocates say the Heller ruling established
important limits. The court’s backing of weapons in “common
use” would doom a law that limited magazines to 10 rounds, says
David Kopel, a policy analyst at the Washington-based  Cato
Institute  and adjunct professor of constitutional law at the
University of Denver.  Popular Rifle  “It’s extremely common these days for regular guns bought
by regular people to have ammunition magazines in the 11-to-19
range,” Kopel said. “I think the ban at 10 is plainly
unconstitutional under that.”  Similarly, Congress wouldn’t be able to ban the weapon that
police say Lanza used, the Bushmaster AR-15 assault rifle, said
Gene Hoffman, chairman of the Calguns Foundation in San Carlos,
 California .  “Restrictions on probably the most popular firearm in
America are going to be hard over the long term to square with
the right to keep and bear common firearms,” said Hoffman,
whose group provides education and legal assistance to gun
owners.  Gun-control activists say they are confident both types of
restrictions would pass constitutional muster.  “The Second Amendment is not an issue,” said Jonathan Lowy, director of the Legal Action Project at the Washington-
based Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence.  ‘Crystal Clear’  “The  Supreme Court  was crystal clear that, while the
Second Amendment protects the right of law-abiding citizens to
have a gun in the home for self-defense, it also allows for a
wide variety of sensible gun laws.”  Winkler said that, under Heller, popularity isn’t enough to
ensure constitutional protection.  “Heller said that handguns are protected because they are
in common use for self-defense, not because they’re common but
because they’re common for self-defense,” he said.  Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the  National Rifle
Association , declined to comment on the legal prospects for new
legislation. The gun-rights lobby said today it will hold a
“major news conference” on Dec. 21.  So far, federal courts have invalidated only what Winkler
called “clear outlier” laws.  Illinois Case  On Dec. 11, three days before the Connecticut shooting, a
federal appeals court in  Chicago  struck down an Illinois law
that bars most people from carrying a loaded gun except in their
home or place of business. Illinois is the only state with an
outright ban on carrying a loaded weapon in public.  Writing for the majority in the 2-1 decision, Judge  Richard Posner  said the Second Amendment offers protection beyond the
home. That reasoning put the Chicago court in conflict with a
different federal appeals court, which had upheld that state’s
limits on who can carry a weapon in public.  In Heller, Scalia said the home is “the place where the
importance of the lawful defense of self, family, and property
is most acute.” A follow-up Supreme Court case, a 2010 ruling,
also involved in-home gun possession.  “The biggest issue the Supreme Court has to confront is
whether the right recognized in Heller extends outside the
home,” Winkler said. “That’s where we’re seeing a lot of
litigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  