-- Gusher of Texas Oil-Patch Divorces Leads Breakup Trend
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/gusher-of-texas-oil-patch-divorces-leads-breakup-trend.html
For almost a century, farming and
oil have driven the economy in the windswept,  Texas  Panhandle
town of Borger. The latest growth industry: divorce law.  The small town, whipsawed by an energy boom and an
agriculture bust, registered the largest increase in divorced
people in the U.S. during the past five years. The percentage of
divorced adults in Borger, home to the world’s largest inland
petroleum refinery complex, has almost doubled to 15.2 percent
since 2007, according to U.S. Census data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two-thirds of the nation’s cities have registered an
increase in the percentage of divorced adults since 2007. The
largest gains have occurred in small towns such as Borger during
the last two years, as Americans began recovering from the worst
economic downturn since the Great Depression. About 10.9 percent
of U.S. adults are divorced, up from 10.5 percent in 2007.  “A bad economy creates a lot of anxiety,” said Alton
Abramowitz, a  New York  family law attorney and president of the
 American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers . “And when people are
anxious, either things get really miserable at home, or people
bite their tongues and hunker down.”  During Texas’s epic 2011 drought, the worst single-year dry
spell in state history, the percentage of winter wheat in “very
poor” condition rose to more than 50 percent from 1 percent in
2007, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . While
energy has boomed in Borger, the erratic work schedule for
oilfield workers has caused marital discord, said Vaavia
Edwards, an Amarillo family law attorney.  Meth Roughnecks  “A lot of roughnecks use meth, and they’re gone all the
time,” she said. “And the farming and ranching business has
just been horrible. There’s nothing. It’s terrible. The economy
is just whacko right now.”  Even by the colorful standards of Texas, Borger is a rough
place. An epidemic of bootlegging, prostitution and gambling
prompted the state’s governor to send the fabled  Texas Rangers 
to restore peace there in 1927. The city’s founder was murdered
with his own gun in 1934 by the municipal treasurer, who was
annoyed that he hadn’t been bailed out of jail quickly enough. A
combination of martial law and state troops brought order to the
town just in time for the Dust Bowl to arrive.  FBI statistics  show the town of 13,530 had 89 violent
crimes per 10,000 people last year, more than double the rate in
larger cities such as Austin, 500 miles to the southeast, or El
Paso, 500 miles southwest. Only six Texas cities larger than
Borger had higher violent-crime rates.  Divorce Capital  With the increase, Borger has the 37th-highest percentage
of divorced adults in the nation. The town of Moberly,  Missouri ,
had the most. Census Bureau data show 18.1 percent of people in
the central Missouri town are divorced, about twice the figure
for nearby Columbia or for  Washington  and  Boston .  The divorce rate in the Moberly area, which has about
25,465 people, has risen from 15.7 percent five years ago. The
town’s high percentage of divorced people may be partially
caused by the low cost of living that attracts single parents
commuting to Columbia and other nearby cities, said Thomas
Fuhrman, a Moberly-based human-development specialist for the
University of Missouri extension service.  The town, dubbed the “Magic City” because of its
explosive growth soon after its founding in 1866, has rebounded
from the loss of manufacturing plants in the 1980s to host a
half-dozen distribution centers. They include facilities for
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Orscheln Farm & Home, according to a
 January 2010 report  by the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis .  Prison Effect  Unemployment fell to 6.8 percent in October after peaking
at 12.6 percent in January 2009. Even so, Fuhrman said he doubts
the percentage of divorced people will fall soon as children
become used to growing up in single-parent homes. He said the
presence of a medium-security prison housing 1,800 men also may
contribute to the high percentage of divorced people in Moberly.  “It doesn’t help,” he said.  Even with  Nevada ’s pioneering liberalization of divorce
laws, cities there haven’t shown a significant increase in the
number of adults with broken marriages, census data show. The
number of divorced people in  Las Vegas  barely grew 0.2 percent
to 13.6 percent of the adult population over the five-year
period, despite encouragement from the  Sin City Chamber of
Commerce , which extols the ease of Nevada divorces in an online
promotion. The percentage of divorcees in Reno grew 0.4 percent
to 14.2 percent of the adult population.  Creative Differences  The percentage of divorced people fell 0.2 percent to 8.6
percent of adults in  Los Angeles , where “creative differences”
have spelled doom for more than one marriage. In New York, the
nation’s largest city and home to once-draconian divorce laws,
the percentage of divorced people remained unchanged during the
last five years, holding at 7.8 percent.  “We haven’t seen a falloff in business at all,” said
Abramowitz, of the  American Academy  of Matrimonial Lawyers. New
York was the last state to allow no-fault divorce, removing
provisions that required proof of abandonment, adultery or cruel
and unusual treatment before filing for divorce. “Things have
escalated. Cases are tougher to settle. And now, all it takes is
one person to blow a marriage apart.”  Edwards, the Texas family law attorney, said her business
has dropped even as the number of divorces has taken off in
Borger. She attributed the decline to rulings by the Texas
Supreme Court that make it easier for aggrieved spouses to
handle their own legal work.  She still expects to regain business lost to people who
tried to handle their own divorce -- “fixing and modifying all
the screwed-up stuff they do.”  “It’s true,” Edwards said. “He who represents himself
has a fool for a client. Or she.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in New York at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark McQuillan  in Washington at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 