-- Icahn Seen Completing First Takeover Since 2010: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-19T15:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/icahn-seen-completing-first-takeover-since-2010-real-m-a.html
Carl Icahn , the activist investor
who offered to buy railcar maker  Greenbrier Cos. (GBX) , is on the
verge of completing his first full takeover in two years -- at
least if the stock market is any guide.  Icahn hasn’t succeeded in buying an entire company since
2010, with bids for Clorox Co., Dynegy Inc. and others falling
through, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Traders are
signaling Icahn may have better luck with Greenbrier after the
 Lake Oswego , Oregon-based company yesterday  closed  37 cents
above the $20-a-share cash offer from his American Railcar
Industries Inc., showing expectations a transaction will get
done at that price or higher.  Four years after a prior attempt at combining Greenbrier
and  American Railcar (ARII)  failed, the billionaire disclosed a 9.99
percent Greenbrier stake in November. He already owns a
controlling interest in American Railcar, which has a market
value of $734 million. While the renewed proposal yesterday
seeks to create the biggest U.S. maker of railroad freight cars,
the deal valuing Greenbrier at $542 million probably won’t be
blocked on antitrust grounds, said Susquehanna International
Group LLP.  “Clearly there’s a strategic fit,”  Walter Todd , who
oversees about $940 million as chief investment officer of
Greenwood Capital Associates LLC in Greenwood,  South Carolina ,
said in a telephone interview. Icahn is “familiar with the
industry and understands the dynamics. Given the size of this
transaction, in theory it should be an easier deal for him to
get done.”  ‘Undervalued’ Shares  Icahn, 76, didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed
to  Susan Gordon , his spokeswoman. American Railcar Chief
Financial Officer Dale Davies didn’t return phone or e-mail
messages.  Greenbrier said Icahn’s bid “grossly undervalues” the
company, according to a statement released after markets closed
yesterday. As would a price up to $22 a share, Greenbrier said.  The Greenbrier board “remains ready and willing to
continue discussions with Mr. Icahn,” according to the
statement. “Greenbrier has repeatedly made clear to Mr. Icahn
its interest in acquiring American Railcar at a modest premium,
taking into account the current full valuation of American
Railcar’s stock.”  Today, Greenbrier shares gained 3 percent to $20.99 at
10:44 a.m.  New York  time. American Railcar advanced 3.7 percent
to $35.62.  Bloomberg Billionaires  Icahn, the 44th-richest person in the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , disclosed his Greenbrier stake in a filing
Nov. 13, saying the shares were “undervalued.” A week earlier,
Greenbrier fell to the cheapest level since 2006, with an
enterprise value 5.39 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization from the prior year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  American Railcar, based in St. Charles,  Missouri , and
almost 56 percent owned by Icahn, said yesterday that it
proposed buying Greenbrier for $20 a share in cash. While that
was just 5.4 percent higher than Greenbrier’s most recent close,
it was a 43 percent premium to the level on Nov. 12, before
Icahn’s investment was revealed. At that price, Icahn would have
to spend $489 million to purchase the shares he doesn’t already
own, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Greenbrier’s share price  averaged  $20.16 yesterday and
closed at $20.37, signaling investors are betting a deal with
American Railcar will be consummated.  More Manageable  “The stock’s trading right at or slightly above the price,
so that would seem to indicate that the market’s confident a
deal’s going to happen,”  Greenwood Capital ’s Todd said. This is
a smaller, more manageable deal than Icahn’s most recent
takeover attempts, making it easier to complete, he said.  Icahn’s takeover attempts haven’t worked out since 2010.
Clorox plunged as low as $64 even with Icahn proposing to buy
the bleach maker for $80 a share. He dropped the bid after
concluding Clorox shareholders didn’t support a transaction.
Power producer Dynegy, film studio Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. and steel-scrap recycler Commercial Metals Co. also
received acquisition offers from Icahn that were terminated.  The last full buyout he completed was of closely held Daros
Group for an undisclosed amount in June 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. While Icahn was able to amass an 82 percent
stake in CVR Energy Inc., he withdrew his bid for the rest of
the company this year.  Though discussions between American Railcar and Greenbrier
broke off in 2008 after Icahn attempted to merge the two
companies, Raymond James Financial Inc.’s  Art Hatfield  says the
investor may have more luck this time.  ‘More Confident’  “I’m much more confident now than I was then” that a
transaction will be completed,  Memphis , Tennessee-based Hatfield
said in a phone interview. The analyst cited the low valuation
for Greenbrier’s stock and an improved economy.  The outlook for the industry is better, according to Brad Delco, a  Little Rock , Arkansas-based analyst for Stephens Inc.
Railcar makers couldn’t expand output fast enough in the past
year to keep up with demand for hauling sand used by oil and gas
producers to extract fuel from shale rock. The recovery is still
in the early stages, Delco said earlier this month.  “By combining the businesses now, you have the potential
that there are still some good years ahead that a combined
business could operate in,” he said.  Tanks, Hoppers  The two companies are complementary, said Salvatore Vitale,
an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. Greenbrier’s sales are
generated more by auto carriers, lumber cars and intermodal
cars, which can also be hauled by ships and trucks. American
Railcar’s focus is tank cars, used to haul liquids, and covered
hoppers for transporting bulk commodities such as grain, sugar
or fertilizer.  Together, Greenbrier and American Railcar would control 36
percent of the industry’s deliveries, vaulting past current
leader Trinity Industries Inc.’s 31 percent share, Susquehanna’s
Bascome Majors wrote in a Nov. 19 report.  If Icahn succeeds, only two major railcar manufacturers
would be left, something that U.S. antitrust regulators will
consider, Vitale said.  “It’s going to face a pretty stiff review,” Vitale, who
is based in New York, said in a phone interview.  Still, antitrust concerns probably won’t scuttle a
transaction, said Majors, a New York-based analyst for
Susquehanna.  Icahn will probably have to raise the price to persuade
Greenbrier’s  management  to accept, which is why the shares
closed above $20 yesterday, Vitale said before Greenbrier’s
statement that called the bid insufficient.  Low Price  “The price seems a little on the low side,” he said. “It
sounds like they’re just at the negotiating table. So, they can
only go up.”  American Railcar could justify a purchase  price  of $23 a
share, Majors said. A transaction in the mid-$20s would still
make sense, Raymond James’s Hatfield said.  With a U.S. shale oil boom driving demand for tank cars and
the economy improving, completing a deal is more probable now
than it was in 2008, he said.  “It’s highly likely that the deal gets done at a higher
price,” Hatfield said. “One of the reasons they didn’t press
as hard in ’08 is that they were trying to get a deal done and
the economy blew apart,” he said. “We’re just in a different
world with the economy where it’s at today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  