-- Microsoft-HTC Draw Closer to Create Rally in Smartphones:
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/microsoft-htc-draw-closer-to-create-rally-in-smartphones-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer , on a swing through Taiwan this month,
made time to meet with Peter Chou, his counterpart at  HTC Corp. (2498)   On Chou’s agenda: the low screen resolution that prompted
HTC to scrap plans for a bigger smartphone using Microsoft’s
mobile software, a person familiar with the matter said this
week.  Ballmer needs to stay on Chou’s good side. HTC could help
his company vie with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the 718-
million-unit smartphone market, where, according to researcher
IDC, Microsoft has only a 2.6 percent  share . After trying to
gain ground for a decade without success, Microsoft needs HTC --
which has drawn praise for its current Windows devices -- to
help it win over consumers with a hit product.  “HTC is important to Microsoft because they put together
one beautiful smartphone and when you have that kind of DNA, you
have a company that can boost general acceptance and market
share,” said  Ramon Llamas , an analyst at IDC. “If you want
bigger market share, getting multiple vendors is the name of the
game.”  Microsoft is also relying on Nokia, which became the lead 
Windows partner last year through a multibillion-dollar 
marketing agreement, to expand in smartphones.  To strengthen ties to HTC, Ballmer and Chou meet in person
a few times a year and exchange phone calls and e-mails
frequently, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
It helps that Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based HTC runs its U.S.
operations out of Bellevue,  Washington , a Seattle suburb next
door to Redmond, where Microsoft is based.  HTC Struggles  In other evidence of the closer cooperation between HTC and
Microsoft, the HTC 8X is shown in about 70 percent of
Microsoft’s advertising highlighting a specific phone, said
Jason Mackenzie, HTC’s president for global sales.  Both companies need a hit. Microsoft, two years after
completely overhauling its mobile software, risks being shut out
of the growing market by smartphones based on Google’s Android
software and Apple’s iPhones.  HTC, which also makes Android phones, in October forecast
its lowest sales in 11 quarters as it loses Android customers to
Samsung Electronics Co. HTC had a 4.7 percent  share  of the
global smartphone market in the third quarter, IDC said, down
from a peak of 10.7 percent in the second quarter of 2011.  Samsung dominated the Android market with 41 percent share
of those phones in the third quarter, IDC’s Llamas said. HTC,
with 5.5 percent, is in a battle for the No. 2 spot with seven
other vendors, he said.  Android Dependence  HTC can’t afford to lose further ground. Chou decided to
scrap plans for a large-screen Windows smartphone because a low-
resolution version wouldn’t have been competitive, a person
familiar with the project said this week. That left HTC with
only Android for phones measuring larger than 5 inches
diagonally, and fewer products to claw back share from Samsung,
which offers Galaxy Note devices with bigger screens.  “Windows Phone is very much a blue ocean -- there’s no
dominant player,” Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Gartner
Inc., said in an interview. “The opportunity for HTC to become
the flagship device would give them a chance to not be as
dependent on Android.”  Still, since HTC released the new Windows-based phones last
month, its monthly revenue has increased. Sales in November
jumped 23 percent from October, ending a four-month revenue
decline. HTC is on track to meet its fourth-quarter sales
forecasts, in part because of demand for new models such as the
Windows Phones, Jasmine Lu, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a Dec. 10 note.  ‘Go Big’  The relationship between Microsoft and HTC goes back at
least a decade. HTC made the first-ever smartphone with Windows
in 2002. It also made the first phone showcasing the Android
operating system, and for the past several years, HTC has
devoted almost all of its marketing and its best designs to the
software made by Microsoft rival Google, said Mackenzie.  “We just weren’t promoting it,” Mackenzie said of Windows
Phone. “We just didn’t see the opportunity to get massive
sales. What changed is with Windows Phone 8, we saw a massive
opportunity.”  Ties between the companies got a restart in February, when
Mackenzie and Chou met in Barcelona with Ballmer and Microsoft
Windows Phone chief Terry Myerson. Ballmer urged HTC to “go
big” on using Windows Phone, Mackenzie said. HTC came prepared,
walking into the meeting with prototypes that, for the first
time in years, reflected high-quality design work.  ‘Ballmer’s Phone’  “They were devices that were going to be unique to Windows
Phone,” Myerson said. “I remember thinking they were beautiful
devices.”  Engineers from both companies soon began meeting weekly if
not more frequently, and officials jointly started pitching
wireless carriers on selling the devices, Myerson said. HTC also
opted to use the Windows Phone brand in the name of its products
-- something  Nokia (NOK1V)  hasn’t done with its Lumia lineup.  Microsoft’s Myerson even found himself dragged up on stage
by HTC’s Chou to sing karaoke at the W Hotel in Taipei in June,
at a dinner celebrating the company’s 15th anniversary dinner.  HTC has been rewarded for its efforts. When Microsoft
decided to show “Ballmer’s phone” at an October event to
unveil Windows Phone 8, it was a red HTC 8X with tiles showing
updates from Ballmer’s wife, Connie, as well as Microsoft
Chairman Bill Gates.  Nokia Ties  As Microsoft and HTC forge closer ties, at least one
company that stands to lose is Nokia. Through last year’s deal,
Nokia switched its smartphones to Windows in exchange for
marketing and development funds. That agreement was crafted by
Nokia CEO Stephen Elop, a former Microsoft executive.  Nokia, which posted six straight quarterly  losses  totaling
$6.3 billion since the move to Windows, said its relationship
with Microsoft has enabled “Nokia to offer truly differentiated
products.”  “We view Android and Apple as our primary competition,”
said Doug Dawson, a spokesman for Nokia. “As such, we welcome
the momentum behind the Windows Phone ecosystem.”  Still, Mackenzie says the bulk of Microsoft’s ads that
focus on just one handset will feature the 8X, including a
recent spot with musician Gwen Stefani showing her HTC phone.
The smartphone has received several positive reviews.  “The 8X is a cutting-edge phone in virtually every way
except maybe capacity,” said Gartner’s Gartenberg. “It’s a
thin and light device. The Nokia 920 has a lot of high-end
features but it’s a polarizing device. It’s huge and it’s heavy.
It’s like the SUV of phones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  