-- Illumina Bull Gene Tests Milk Cattle Industry for Profit
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/illumina-bull-gene-tests-milk-cattle-industry-for-profit.html
Genetic testing from  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) 
and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  have spurred broad changes in the
development of new medicines. Now, this research may also help
farmers reduce the cost of producing milk.  Procedures from the companies are allowing dairymen such as
Jonathan Lamb, with 4,000 milking cows at his family farm near
Buffalo, New York, to find out in weeks, instead of years, which
bulls will sire the best milking cows.  Breeders market bulls and semen based on the animal’s
ability to produce proficient milkers. In the past, a bull’s
performance couldn’t be assessed until it was raised, mated and
its offspring were old enough to gauge their milking ability.
Now, farmers are increasingly using DNA screens to find gene
markers in young bulls that predict top production, said Tom
Lawlor, a geneticist with the  Holstein Association USA .  “I liken it to a scratch-off lotto ticket when I get the
results every month,” Lamb said in a telephone interview.
“Bull prices are minimum two times what they used to be.”  Lamb, owner of the  Oakfield Corners Diary , said genetically
superior milking cows now sell for $40,000, with the best
getting as much as $125,000. Prior to the genetic tests, a good
animal might fetch $15,000, he said. On the downside, livestock
without great genetics are selling for far less than before.  The genetic tests, which may help double U.S. milk
production in the next few years, debuted about four years ago
and are being quickly adopted in the industry, Lamb said.
Executives from Illumina, based in San Diego, and Life
Technologies, of Carlsbad,  California , say they are benefiting
from the increased interest.  ‘High-Growth’  “We’ve now developed a high-growth, recurring-revenue
business in both the livestock and agricultural segments,”
Illumina Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said during a
February earnings call. Illumina has estimated that testing
generates more than $100 million, Tristan Orpin, the company’s
chief commercial officer, said in an e-mail.  Machines built by Illumina and Life Technologies are able
to provide a blueprint of a person’s DNA, information used to
compare genetic sequences as a way to find mutations. This
process is used in people to diagnose rare illness, identify the
risks of certain conditions, or to precisely target tiny
physical changes with treatment.  Translating an entire human genome required more than a
decade of research and billions of dollars by the government’s
 Human Genome Project , which completed the first sequence in
2003. Machines from Illumina, founded in 1998, can do the same
work in weeks for thousands of dollars.  Lengthy Effort  Illumnia’s bovine test is the result of a six-year effort
by more than 300 researchers who sequenced and analyzed the
22,000 genes of the animals’ genetic code, which includes cell
instructions for making milk and muscles. The genetic data also
revealed how the cow’s four-chambered stomach digests, changing
grass forage into body tissues that make high-quality beef.  The test, called  BovineSNP50 , searches cattle DNA for
50,000 markers that indicate attributes such as good milk
production, as well as marbled fat for beef cattle, according to
the company.  “We’re seeing uptake of this at the level of hundreds of
thousands of samples per year,” Christian Henry, Illumina’s
general manager of life sciences, said at an analyst conference
in May. “It’s also going not only from high-value crops like
cattle, but also down to pigs and sheep, and then all of the
fruits and vegetables that you can think of.”  Expanding Sales  The market for the tests is growing, said Nir Nimrodi,
general manager of food safety and animal health at Life
Technologies, with a sales potential that is much larger than
just cattle breeders.  “For each breeder, there are thousands of farmers and
dozens, or hundreds, of veterinary diagnostics labs that run
test for these animals,” Nimrodi said in an interview.  While Nimrodi wouldn’t disclose what percentage of Life’s
sales are in this industry, he said the market is worth $500
million and expanding from 7 percent to 10 percent a year.  Along with producing profits for genetic testing companies
like Illumina and Life Technologies, the screening is making
U.S. breeding livestock more efficient, said Lawlor, a
Brattleboro, Vermont-based geneticist at the Holstein
organization, in a telephone interview.  “It’s definitely allowing us to make rapid genetic
improvement,” he said. Farmers are “scrambling to get a hold
of those top genetics so that they can build their elite
herds.”  American cows produced an average of 21,345 pounds of milk
in 2011, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said. New Illumina
tests may double that figure in a few years, Lawlor said.  Gains from the technology are just now being seen, said
 Kent Weigel , a dairy science professor at the University of
Wisconsin in Madison, who estimated that as many as 20,000
animals a month are undergoing testing.  “We’re looking at a pretty staggering impact on the
industry,” said Curtis Van Tassell, a geneticist at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. “We have not come near to exhausting
the improvement we can make in the dairy cow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  