-- IMF Staff Rejects Audit Findings on Foreign Reserve Focus
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-12-19T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/imf-staff-rejects-audit-findings-on-foreign-reserve-focus.html
The International Monetary Fund
staff rejected criticism by an internal auditor that the
organization focused too much on countries’ foreign assets
accumulation and said the report “misconstrues the motives of
the fund.”  The audit by the Independent Evaluation Office, which was
reported by Bloomberg on Dec. 7 and made public today, said that
the IMF overemphasized the risks posed by countries amassing
reserve assets. The staff response was published with the report
today, along with a summary of the board’s discussion that
reveals divisions between executive directors.  The report “incorrectly suggests that the discussion on
reserves was merely a way to reopen the debate on global
imbalances, or that it was focused on symptoms of problems
rather than the causes,” the IMF staff wrote.  “We cannot support the implication of much of the analysis
in the IEO report that countries should feel free to accumulate
reserves in a manner consistent with ‘keeping up with the
Joneses,’ ignoring any potential consequences for others,”
staff members wrote.  The report may embolden economies such as South Korea or
 China , which has the world’s largest stockpile of reserves
amounting to $3.29 trillion as of Sept. 30 and has been accused
by the U.S. of keeping its currency weak to promote exports.
Developing nations buffeted by the financial turmoil of the late
1990s have defended their accumulation of reserves as buffers
that helped them weather the global crisis of 2008.  Diverging Opinions  Diverging opinions and interests within the fund’s 188
members also showed in the Dec. 7 debate at the board.  IMF directors “held different views on the analytical
underpinnings of the report, in particular on whether the
membership is adequately represented in the sample chosen by the
IEO,” according to a summary of the deliberations.  The audit report also mentioned a “broadly held view”
among the people it interviewed that the recent focus on reserve
accumulation was a response to the frustration of some member
countries over the IMF’s inability to get “Asian countries with
persistently large current account surpluses” to adjust their
exchange rate.  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde wrote in a
separate statement that the audit report “errs when it
considers the rationale of the Fund and its membership” for the
work on reserves. At the same time she said she agreed with most
of the recommendations, “which are remarkably congruent with a
number of recent Fund policy positions and new surveillance
initiatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  