-- India Non-Bank Lenders Rise on New Licensing Rules: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-12-19T06:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/india-non-bank-lenders-rise-on-new-licensing-rules-mumbai-mover.html
L&T Finance Holdings Ltd. (LTFH)  led
 India ’s non-bank lenders higher in Mumbai trading after
parliamentary approval of laws that give the  Reserve Bank  of
India more freedom to issue bank licenses.  L&T Finance jumped as much as 5.2 percent to 97.4 rupees,
the highest since listing in August 2011, and traded at 94.5
rupees as of 12:03 p.m.  Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services
Ltd. (MMFS)  rose 1.6 percent to 1,096 rupees and  Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (BJFIN) 
gained 1.6 percent.  The new banking laws also include raising limits on voting
rights for shareholders in state-controlled lenders and allow
the banks to raise capital through rights offerings. Yesterday’s
approval ends a two-year process that may lead to more banking
competition for  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the country’s largest, and
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , its biggest private lender.  “This would pave the way for the RBI to issue much-awaited
new banking licenses for which a lot of non-bank financial
companies have been queuing up,” Deven Choksey, managing
director at Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.,
said by phone. “An increase in voting rights would mean better
investor representation in lenders, especially state-owned
banks, which can attract investment into the sector.”  The final rules for banking permits will be issued after
the central bank has received the additional regulatory powers,
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last month.  Given the criteria set by the RBI, L&T Finance and Mahindra
& Mahindra have a strong chance of getting licenses, Antique
Stock Broking Ltd. analysts led by Sunesh Khanna wrote in a note
dated Dec. 11.  Under the rule changes, the limit on  voting rights  of
shareholders in state-run banks was raised to 10 percent from 1
percent, and in other lenders to 26 percent from 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  