-- Indian Stocks Climb to Two-Week High on Reforms, Easing Optimism
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-19T10:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/india-s-stock-futures-advance-on-speculation-rbi-to-ease-policy.html
India’s (SENSEX)  benchmark stock index rose
to the highest level in two weeks amid optimism the government
will take more measures to boost growth.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, advanced 0.5
percent to 19,458.66, the highest level since Dec. 6, according
to preliminary closing prices in  Mumbai .  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the
owner of Jaguar and  Land Rover , and  Sterlite Industries (India)
Ltd. (STLT)  led carmakers and materials producers higher.  SREI
Infrastructure Finance Ltd. (SREI)  and  Edelweiss Financial Services
Ltd. (EDEL) , which are not part of the Sensex, rallied, leading gains
among non-banking finance companies.  Lawmakers  approved changes in the nation’s  banking laws 
yesterday, raising a cap on  voting rights  and giving more power
to the central bank in a move that may attract investment to the
industry. Reserve Bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  signaled higher
odds of a reduction in interest costs, lifting investor
confidence even after he held the benchmark rate yesterday for a
fifth policy meeting. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today said it
sees “high likelihood” of a 50 basis points cut in January.  “It appears the RBI will finally start to cut rates,”
said Mahesh Patil, co-chief investment officer at Birla Sun Life
Asset Management Co., India’s fourth-biggest money manager with
$13.3 billion in assets. Patil said he expects the central bank
to cut rates by up to 75 basis points in 2013.  Subbarao yesterday kept the  repurchase rate  at 8 percent
and held the  cash reserve ratio  for lenders at 4.25 percent,
withstanding calls from Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
for lower rates to revive an economy forecast by the government
on Dec. 17 to expand at the slowest pace in a decade this fiscal
year. Still, with inflation cooling, monetary policy has to
“respond to the threats to growth,” the authority said
yesterday. The RBI’s next policy review is on Jan. 29.  The Sensex has risen 26 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual jump since 2009, as government steps to open the
economy to offshore investment lured foreign funds. Overseas
funds were net  buyers  of domestic stocks for a 23rd day on Dec.
17, taking net purchases in 2012 to $22.5 billion, the highest
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 30-stock Sensex is valued at 15.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 12.1
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Volumes in the gauge
exceeded the 30-day average for this time of day by 37 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  