-- Indian Rupee Rebounds on Speculation Policy Shifts to Draw Funds
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-12-19T11:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/indian-rupee-rebounds-on-speculation-policy-shifts-to-draw-funds.html
India ’s rupee rose the most in
almost two weeks on speculation the central bank and government
will make policy adjustments that spur growth and attract funds
to  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  The focus of monetary policy has to increasingly shift
toward growth “from this point onwards,” the  Reserve Bank  of
India said yesterday in a statement as Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
kept borrowing costs unchanged. The lower house of India’s
parliament approved changes yesterday to banking laws that may
spur expansion in the industry.  “There are expectations of a rate cut in January and the
government’s reform agenda is, so far, way beyond the market’s
expectations,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at state-run  Andhra
Bank  in Mumbai. “This is likely to boost inflows into equities
and support the rupee.”  The currency advanced 0.5 percent to 54.5575 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest gain since Dec. 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has fallen 2.7 percent this
year after plunging 16 percent in 2011. One-month implied
volatility, a gauge of expected moves in exchange rates used to
price options, was unchanged at 10.20 percent.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares rose 0.6 percent
today as data showed foreign investors poured $2.4 billion into
the nation’s stocks this month through Dec. 17. Global funds
should look to buy the right to purchase rupee-denominated debt,
Barclays Plc recommended in a note to clients today, before an
auction of permits tomorrow.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.50 per
dollar compared with 55.85 yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were at 55.42
versus 55.78. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  