-- India Banks, Dark Pools Testimony, BOE Checks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-19T13:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/india-banks-dark-pools-testimony-boe-checks-compliance.html
The Indian parliament’s  lower house 
approved changes to  banking laws , raising a cap on voting rights
and giving more regulatory power to the Reserve Bank of  India  in
a move that may attract investment to the industry.  The limit on voting rights of shareholders in state-
controlled lenders was increased to 10 percent from 1 percent,
and in other lenders to 26 percent from 10 percent. The new law
allows state-run banks to raise capital through rights offerings
and free shares.  The additional powers for the banking regulator take it a
step closer to issuing new bank licenses, part of a process that
has been under way for more than two years. The higher limit on
voting rights will boost investor interest in banks, Nitin
Kumar, a Mumbai-based analyst at Quant Broking Pvt., said by
telephone before the bill was passed.  The amended law will allow the  Reserve Bank of India  to
take control of a bank and inspect the books of lenders’
associate enterprises. The final rules for new banking permits
will be issued after the central bank has received the new
regulatory powers, governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said last month.  New entrants would compete with State Bank of India, the
nation’s largest, and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the biggest private
lender.  India’s 26 state-run banks accounted for 76 percent of the
nation’s outstanding loans as of March 31, according to the
Reserve Bank of India. The 20 private domestic lenders had a 19
percent market share and 40 foreign lenders accounted for the
remaining 5 percent.  Compliance Policy  Dark Pool Expansion Hurts Investors, NYSE, Nasdaq to Tell Senate  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , their share of
American equity markets squeezed by venues that sprang up in the
mid-2000s, were expected to tell legislators yesterday that too
much trading occurs in dark pools, hurting investors.  Exchanges and private, broker-run dark pools are subject to
separate regulations that impair the price-setting process and
make it harder for public markets to compete, executives from
the largest stock market operators were expected to say,
according to prepared testimony. Trading occurring away from
U.S. exchanges, excluding the biggest markets known as
electronic communication networks, or ECNs, has doubled since
early 2008, according to data compiled by Rosenblatt Securities
Inc.  Members of a Senate subcommittee were set to hear both
sides yesterday in the debate over off-exchange venues, which
have risen to prominence since the 1990s, when new rules enabled
automated systems to compete with the main markets.  While proponents say dark pools spur competition and help
investors trade more easily and without affecting prices,
exchanges say regulators have let the venues grow too freely
without rules for fair access and equal treatment of
participants.  Complexity and fragmentation have increased in U.S. equity
markets, with trading now spread across 13 stock exchanges and
about 50 dark pools. A third of U.S. volume occurs away from
exchanges. Regulators in  Canada ,  Australia  and Europe have
instituted or are weighing rules to limit the amount of trading
away from exchanges.  For more, click here.  Australia Fund Managers Back Tax on High-Frequency Trading Firms  Australian fund managers want levies to be charged on high-
frequency trading firms that send an excessive number of trade
orders to equity markets.  The  Financial Services Council , which represents Australian
money managers, pension funds and life insurers that invest more
than A$1.9 trillion ($2 trillion) on behalf of 11 million
Australians, also is considering whether a minimum time limit
should be set before an order can be withdrawn from the market,
according to a  statement  yesterday on its website.  Australia, Hong Kong and  Singapore  are looking at
tightening regulation of high-frequency trading amid concern
trades that can be executed in under 10 microseconds may
destabilize equity markets. The Australian Securities and
Investments Commission, the national regulator, has cited  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $457 million loss in August and the
American flash crash of May 2010 as examples of the need to
examine whether tougher rules are needed.  ASIC Chairman Greg Medcraft has expressed concern that
high-frequency trading provides “phantom liquidity” that can
be quickly removed from stock markets. A taskforce at the
regulator is studying the trading and is expected to report on
its findings next year.  Central Bank Chiefs Said to Seek Basel Liquidity Rule Deal  Global central bank chiefs and regulators will next month
seek to resolve clashes on a liquidity rule after the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision failed to clinch a full deal on
the controversial measure, according to two people familiar with
the situation.  The top officials may meet as soon as Jan. 6 in the Swiss
city to thrash out a compromise on the so-called liquidity-
coverage ratio, which central bankers including European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi have warned may choke interbank
lending and stifle economic recovery.  The Basel committee declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Governments Allowed to Fund Broadband in Cities Under EU Rules  European governments will be able to fund faster Internet
networks in cities under  rules  approved by the European
Commission today.  Regulators said new guidelines for funding networks with
speeds of more than 100 megabits per second would allow public
funding in urban areas “subject to very strict conditions.”  The overhaul would limit public funding for broadband
unless it provides a substantial improvement over existing
infrastructure.  Compliance Action  UBS Fined $1.5 Billion by Regulators for Manipulating Libor  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, must pay about 1.4
billion Swiss francs ($1.5 billion) to U.S., U.K. and Swiss
regulators for trying to rig global interest rates, triple the
penalties levied against  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Fines from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the U.S. Department of Justice total $1.2 billion, UBS said
in a statement today. It will pay 160 million pounds ($260
million) to the U.K. Financial Services Authority, the largest-
ever fine imposed by the regulator, and disgorge 59 million
francs in estimated profits to the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority.  “Clearly, this chapter isn’t positive,” UBS Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  told reporters on a conference
call. “We want to move forward and I think we’re showing our
determination in the bank to move forward and to change the bank
for good.”  About 30 to 40 people have left UBS as a result of the
probes, Ermotti said, adding that the behavior of certain
employees was “unacceptable.” He said he doesn’t expect any
more departures.  The U.K. finance regulator found more than 2,000 documented
requests by UBS traders to manipulate rates in chat messages and
group e-mails, and that at least 45 people at the bank knew of
the practice between over a six-year period until the end of
2010.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks such as
the London interbank offered rate to profit from bets on
interest-rate derivatives or make the lenders’ finances appear
healthier.  UBS’s penalty brings total fines for Europe’s largest banks
to at least $6.1 billion, or about a quarter of their estimated
profit this year.  For more, click here, and see Interviews, below.  Clearinghouses Face BOE Spot Checks on Risk-Management Practices  Clearinghouses face unannounced reviews into how they
manage risks when the Bank of England takes over as financial
supervisor next year.  Clearinghouses, which act as central counterparties in
derivatives transactions, will also have to show that bonuses
for senior management don’t prioritize “revenues, market share
and profit over systemic risk-management objectives,” the
central bank said in a  report  on its website.  The paper preceded a meeting at the central bank yesterday
where officials including Paul Tucker, deputy governor for
financial stability, and  Andrew Haldane , executive director for
financial stability, were set to inform the industry about
supervision. It said central counterparties will need to show
that risk-management functions are “adequately resourced,
sufficiently independent from commercial pressures and have a
key role in the decision-making process.”  The Bank of England will take responsibility for
supervising central counterparties and securities settlement
systems once the U.K. Financial Services Bill takes effect,
expected on April 1. European Union and U.S. regulators are
trying to align rules for the $648 trillion market for over-the-
counter derivatives.  SEC Revokes Toronto Brokerage’s Registration Over Manipulation  U.S. regulators revoked the registration of Toronto-based
brokerage Biremis Corp. and barred its founders from the
securities industry for failing to supervise traders who engaged
in a manipulative practice.  Peter Beck and Charles Kim, who founded the firm, from at
least 2007 to 2010 ignored repeated red flags that affiliated
traders outside of the U.S. were engaging in so-called layering,
or placing non-bona-fide trades to trick others into buying and
selling stocks at artificial prices, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said. The two men agreed to pay a combined $500,000
to resolve the SEC’s claims.  Biremis and Beck were already expelled about five months
ago by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S.
brokerage industry’s self-regulator, which cited similar claims.
Biremis, Beck and Kim didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in
settling the claims.  A phone call to Michael Wolk, an attorney for the firm and
the executives, wasn’t immediately returned.  Courts  TheStreet, Ex-Executives Settle SEC Accounting Investigation  TheStreet Inc. (TST) , operator of the financial website
 TheStreet.com , and three former executives settled a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of accounting
fraud at the company in 2008.  The SEC filed three complaints in federal court in
Manhattan yesterday against TheStreet, ex-Chief Financial
Officer Eric Ashman and two former co-presidents of a onetime
unit of the company, Gregg Alwine and David Barnett. The
defendants agreed to settle without admitting or denying the
claims, the SEC said in a statement.  TheStreet, co-founded in 1996 by CNBC host Jim Cramer,
reported in 2010 that the SEC was investigating the accounting
at its former Promotions.com unit. TheStreet acquired the online
promotional agency for $20.7 million in August 2007 and sold it
to a company owned by Promotions.com managers for $3.1 million
in December 2009, according to a company filing.  “Alwine and Barnett used crooked tactics, Ashman ignored
basic accounting rules, and TheStreet failed to put controls in
place to spot the wrongdoing,” Andrew Calamari, director of the
SEC’s New York regional office, said yesterday in a statement.  Cramer, who is on TheStreet’s board, is the fourth-largest
holder of the company’s shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “TheStreet cooperated with the SEC over the course of its
investigation, and we conducted our own comprehensive review in
conjunction with the investigation,” Elisabeth DeMarse,
TheStreet’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Upon learning of the irregularities, we promptly
reported the matter to the SEC.”  The settlement doesn’t require TheStreet to pay any
monetary penalty, DeMarse said.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us,” she said.  The SEC allegations were connected to improper revenue
recognition at the online promotion unit, which the SEC
identified as “Subsidiary A.” Before it was acquired by
TheStreet, the closely held company wasn’t required by U.S.
securities law to maintain accurate financial records, the SEC
said.  After the 2007 acquisition, the promotions unit improperly
reported revenue from phony transactions, used a “percentage of
completion” method of recognizing revenue without meeting the
requirements for doing so and prematurely booked sales before
completing any work, the SEC said.  When the financial reports of Promotions.com were
consolidated with TheStreet’s, the improper revenue caused
misstatements in the parent’s regulatory filings, the SEC said.
In 2010, TheStreet restated its 2008 financial results and
disclosed improper revenue recognition at its subsidiary, the
agency said.  Ashman agreed to pay a $125,000 penalty and to reimburse
TheStreet $34,240, the SEC said. He will be barred from acting
as an officer or director of a public company for three years.
Barnett agreed to pay $130,000 and Alwine $120,000. Both will be
barred from serving as officers or directors for 10 years, the
SEC said.  The three former executives and TheStreet agreed to an
order barring them from violating the securities laws in the
future, according to the SEC.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with TheStreet.com in providing financial news.  The cases are SEC v. TheStreet Inc., 12-cv-9187; SEC v.
Ashman, 12-cv-9189; and SEC v. Alwine, 12-cv-9191, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Amgen Pleads Guilty to Misbranding Anemia Drug Aranesp  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest biotechnology company,
pleaded guilty to misbranding its anemia medication Aranesp and
agreed to pay $762 million in criminal penalties and civil
settlements.  The company, based in Thousand Oaks,  California , entered a
guilty plea yesterday to one misdemeanor charge before U.S.
District Judge Sterling Johnson in  Brooklyn , New York. Johnson
said yesterday that he will decide today whether to accept the
firm’s deal with the government.  Amgen promoted Aranesp for uses not approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration from 2001 through March 2007 in an
effort to gain market share from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s anemia
treatment Procrit, according to a criminal information filed
yesterday in court.  The FDA declined to approve changes for dosing indications
requested by Amgen in 2005, 2007 and 2008, according to the
information. In 2007, the agency issued a statement that Aranesp
“increased the risk of death” in cancer patients not receiving
chemotherapy or radiation treatment, and required a warning
against that use on the label, according to the filing.  Amgen stopped promoting the drug for that use when the
warning was issued, according to prosecutors.  The company agreed to pay $150 million in criminal fines
and penalties. It will also pay $612 million in civil
settlements, prosecutors said during yesterday’s hearing.  The company also faces whistle-blower lawsuits that haven’t
been made public over its marketing practices.  “If the court accepts the plea and enters an agreed
sentence, Amgen expects immediately thereafter to complete the
comprehensive resolution of related civil and criminal matters
for which a $780 million charge was recorded in the third
quarter of 2011 and to enter into a corporate integrity
agreement,” Ashleigh Koss, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Amgen Inc., 1:12-cr-00760, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews  Silva Expects U.S. Banks’ Libor Fines to Exceed UBS’s  Ralph Silva, a strategist at Silva Research Network,
discusses the $1.5 billion fine  UBS AG (UBSN)  will have to pay for
rigging global interest rates.  He speaks with Mark Barton and Ryan Chilcote on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  AmEx’s Chenault Said to Be Discussed at White House for Treasury  White House officials have approached  American Express Co. (AXP) 
Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Chenault about joining President
 Barack Obama ’s second-term administration, possibly as Treasury
secretary, according to two people familiar with the matter.  White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew remains the leading
contender for the Treasury job, the people said. Still,
consideration of Chenault among Obama’s staff may indicate the
president hasn’t made a final decision on a replacement for
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who has said he plans to
leave the post.  Other potential roles for Chenault, a longtime Obama
supporter, may be as Commerce secretary or as a senior adviser
to the president, according to the people, who asked for
anonymity to discuss internal administration deliberations.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  