-- Rothschild Proposal for Bumi Plc Rejected by Borneo Lumbung
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-12-19T10:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/indonesia-s-borneo-rejects-rothschild-proposal-for-bumi-plc.html
PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal (BORN) 
rejected a proposal from  Nathaniel Rothschild  to sell its stake
in Bumi Plc, the company at the center of a dispute between
Rothschild and  Indonesia ’s Bakrie Group.  The proposal also involves a share sale by Bumi Plc,
Alexander Ramlie, president director at Jakarta-based Borneo,
said in a statement yesterday. The company received the offer
from Rothschild through his financial adviser Morgan Stanley.  Rothschild is seeking support for his plan to remove the
Bakrie Group as shareholders of Bumi Plc. The London-listed
vehicle was founded by Rothschild and the Bakries, a family-
owned palm oil-to-property empire, in a $3 billion deal in 2010
that grouped stakes in two Indonesian coal producers.  “This lowers the chances for Rothschild’s proposal to
win,” Ikhsan Binarto, an analyst at PT Indo Premier Securities,
said by phone from Jakarta.  Borneo, which has a 23.8 percent stake in Bumi Plc, fell
1.8 percent to 560 rupiah by the close of trading in Jakarta.
Bumi Plc, which has slumped 69 percent this year in London, was
0.6 percent lower at 268.9 pence at 9:40 a.m.  Rothschild made his proposal after the Bakrie Group in
October offered $1.2 billion to buy all of Bumi Plc’s assets --
a 29 percent stake in  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and an 85 percent stake
in PT Berau Coal Energy. Rothschild’s offer requires Borneo
Lumbung and PT Bukit Mutiara, to sell their holdings in the
London-listed group, Bumi Plc last week.  Considered, Rejected  “We have considered the proposal and have elected not to
accept it,” Borneo’s Ramlie said in the statement. The company
isn’t in talks with Rothschild or his advisers about the offer,
he said.  Bakrie Group has offered to swap its 23.8 percent stake in
London-listed Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of Bumi Resources, Bumi
Plc said in October. The Bakries proposed to buy back the
remaining 18.9 percent in Bumi Resources by Christmas and to
make an offer for  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s 84.7 percent stake in Berau Coal
within six months.  Rothschild’s five-step proposal includes issuing new shares
equal to 25 percent of the current share capital at the
prevailing Bumi share price, according to a Dec. 12 statement
from Bumi Plc. That would help fund an offer to purchase the
23.8 percent stake in Bumi held by Borneo and a 9.8 percent
holding of fellow investor Bukit Mutiara for the same price. His
offer to unwind the Bakrie’s investment is identical to the
Bakrie family’s own proposal, according to the statement.  Competing Proposals  The competing proposals for Bumi Plc come amid boardroom
infighting that’s seen Rothschild, who controls about 12 percent
of Bumi Plc voting stock, and Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie resign,
and as investigators in London and Indonesia probe possible
financial anomalies.  “It is very strange that at the beginning of October
Borneo chose to accept Bakrie’s highly conditional 427 pence
offer within hours of it being tabled, describing it as ‘very
fair,’ but won’t entertain a superior proposal backed by real
cash from another party,” Rothschild said today in e-mailed
comments to  Bloomberg News .  Rothschild has made repeated demands for Chairman Samin Tan
and Rosan Roeslani, a director who indirectly controls about 13
percent of Bumi Plc, to resign. The financier said last week
that he may seek to remove the board of the coal venture.  Bumi Plc said Dec. 12 it’s working to cut its association
with the Bakries and sell a 29 percent interest in Jakarta-based
Bumi Resources “as soon as practical.” It promoted Nick von
Schirnding, head of communications and investor relations, to
chief executive officer effective Dec. 31 after Nalin Rathod
told the board he planned to step down.  Institutional Support  Rothschild said last week his proposal has the support of
Bumi Plc’s top five institutional  shareholders , including Abu
Dhabi Investment Council, Schroders Investment Management Ltd.,
Standard Life Investments, Taube Hodson Stonex LLP and Artemis
Investment Management LLP.  Bumi Plc announced Sept. 24 an inquiry into “potential
financial and other irregularities” at its Indonesian
operations, Bumi Resources and Berau Coal. The company has
received a near-final version of a report by law firm
Macfarlanes LLP, which is handling the probe, it said last week.  The London-listed venture “is evaluating all legal and
commercial options available to it and has been engaging
actively with U.K. regulators and will continue to do so as
appropriate,” Bumi Plc said Dec. 12. Its own investigation has
discovered that information linked to the probe was obtained
illegally by e-mail hacking, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  