-- Israel Under Fire at UN for Moving Forward With New Homes
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-12-19T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/israel-under-fire-at-un-for-moving-forward-with-new-homes.html
Israel was the focus of attacks in
the  United Nations Security Council  over its plans for new
Jewish housing in east  Jerusalem  and the West Bank, with all 15
members except its ally the U.S. joining in.  “Israel’s announcements to accelerate construction of
settlements send a negative message and are undermining faith in
its willingness to negotiate,” U.K. Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant
said in a statement yesterday on behalf of the European
countries on the council. “We call on the Israeli government to
rescind these plans.”  Similar sentiments were echoed by France, China and Russia
-- which hold permanent seats on the council along with the U.S.
and U.K. -- as well as Germany, Portugal, Morocco, India, South
Africa, Colombia, Guatemala, Togo, Azerbaijan and Pakistan.  While symbolic, the coordinated criticism from everyone on
the UN’s decision-making council except the U.S. highlights
 Israel ’s isolation in a body that has historically been pro-
Palestinian, as demonstrated by last month’s vote to upgrade
 Palestine ’s status to non-member observer state.  Speaking separately, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said
yesterday the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process  was in a “deep
freeze.”  As a permanent Security Council member with veto powers,
the U.S. has blocked any attempts to chastise Israel through
binding resolutions. U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice cast her first
veto at the UN in February 2011 to shield Israel from
condemnation of its settlements activity.  During yesterday’s debate, Rice kept a low profile as her
council colleagues walked up to the microphone.  ‘Extremely Concerned’  The Europeans said they were “extremely concerned by and
strongly opposed” to Israel’s planning to expand settlements
construction, particularly in an area in the West Bank known as
E-1 between Jerusalem and the Maaleh Adumim settlement.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has been
impervious to outside pressure to interrupt his government’s
planning for new housing on land claimed by the Palestinians.  “Jerusalem has been the capital of the Jewish people for
3,000 years,” Netanyahu told a meeting of Asian ambassadors in
Jerusalem yesterday, according to a text message from his
office. “Every Israeli government has built in Jerusalem, and
we will not change that.”  While bound by its ties to Israel, its closely ally in the
 Middle East , the U.S. yesterday expressed displeasure at the
push to build an additional 1,500 homes in east Jerusalem.  The U.S. is “deeply disappointed that Israel insists on
continuing this pattern of provocative action,” State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said Dec. 18 in
Washington.  U.S.-Israel Tensions  The construction issue threatens to escalate tensions
between the two countries as U.S. President  Barack Obama  embarks
on a second term and Israel prepares to hold parliamentary
elections next month, with polls showing a strong lead for
Netanyahu’s bloc.  The U.S. and Europe have pressed Israel for years not to
proceed with development in E-1, which the UN says threatens to
split a future Palestine and cut off Palestinians from their
desired capital of east Jerusalem.  David Makovsky  of the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy said “it’s a little too soon” to tell whether the State
Department criticism marks the beginning of an escalation in
U.S.-Israeli tensions.  Israeli Comment  Israeli officials say development wouldn’t necessarily
prevent a contiguous Palestinian state and that Israel expects
to retain the area under any future negotiated deal with the
Palestinians to ensure access to Maaleh Adumim.  While the Israeli government decided on Nov. 30 to build
3,000 housing units in Jerusalem, “all other announcements
regarding construction refer to stages of planning and zoning, a
bureaucratic process that takes years to complete,”  Mark Regev ,
a spokesman for the government, said yesterday in a statement.  Israel captured east Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East War
and annexed it in a step never recognized internationally. The
U.S. regards the final status of Jerusalem as a matter to be
determined in negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has refused
to hold direct talks with Israel unless it ceases all
construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, a condition
Netanyahu says he won’t meet.  Palestinians want east Jerusalem to be the capital of the
state they’re trying to establish in the West Bank and  Gaza
Strip . The UN General Assembly recognized Palestine as a non-
member state on par with the Holy See Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  