-- Italy’s Bersani Seeks Monti’s Job in Move From Unions to Center
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/italy-s-bersani-seeks-monti-s-job-in-move-from-unions-to-center.html
Italy’s Pier Luigi Bersani, the
front-runner to succeed Prime Minister  Mario Monti , wants
markets to know he has fully abandoned the Communist allegiance
of his youth.  “He is a former communist, very former,” said Gian Maria Gros-Pietro, former  Eni SpA (ENI)  chairman who as chief of Italy’s
portfolio of state-owned companies in the 1990s worked on asset
sales with then-Industry Minister Bersani. “He has the
sensitivity to understand what the electorate thinks and what
are the right moves.”  The Senate today is due to begin debating the budget law,
the last piece of legislation that Parliament needs to pass
before a date for the elections is set. The budget may get final
approval in the Chamber of Deputies this week, paving the way
for the vote to be called for February.  Bersani, a 61-year-old career politician, is now stressing
his commitment to maintain the rigor that Monti imposed, which
has shielded the country from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Bersani is
seeking to broaden his appeal beyond his labor base by citing
his backing for Monti, while at the same time appeasing the
union supporters and anti-government wing of the party that
helped win a primary challenge with more than 60 percent of the
vote.  The political center is familiar territory to Bersani, who
opened up Italy’s energy market as industry minister under
former premier  Romano Prodi . It’s also slippery ground for a
lawmaker who was labeled obstructionist by economists this year
when he succeeded in watering down Monti’s labor-market
overhaul.  Taking on Berlusconi  Bersani is squaring off against billionaire former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  as the general election campaign gets
under way. The two will be joined in the race by candidates from
Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity Five Star movement and Italy’s
smaller parties. Monti, an unelected technocrat who governed
with support from both Bersani and Berlusconi, is being pressed
by admirers to enter the campaign.  Bersani, who also had stints at the head of transport and
economic development ministries, has been at once blessed and
tainted by his association with Monti. His support for the
government’s tax increases and budget-saving pension reform
bolstered Bersani’s reputation with investors, while aligning
him in the eyes of voters with a deepening recession.  “The most likely scenario currently remains a center-left
coalition led by Bersani, who would become the next prime
minister,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura International
in  London  said in a Dec. 10 research note. That would be “the
second-best outcome” after another mandate for Monti, Peruzzo
said.  Leading Race  The  Democratic Party , or PD, had 33 percent support in an
ISPO Ricerche Srl poll published Dec. 10, compared with 16
percent for Berlusconi’s People of Liberty and 18 percent for
Five Star. The three biggest parties defining themselves as pro-
Monti centrists had a combined 8.8 percent. Forty-nine percent
of respondents were undecided or said they would abstain. The
margin of error was 5 percentage points.  Italian elections may be held on Feb. 17, Ansa reported
Dec. 12, citing Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri. Monti
has said he will resign after the 2013 budget law is passed this
week.  Bersani, a fan of AC/DC and the  Rolling Stones , graduated
in philosophy and briefly worked as a teacher before entering
politics. A father of two and married to a pharmacist,
Bersani chomps a cigar and uses folksy aphorisms like, “We’re
not here to primp dolls,” which means he’s looking for concrete
results. In a debate this year, Bersani stressed his ties to
Catholicism and organized labor with an anecdote about his
relationship with the deceased pastor of his youth in the town
of Bettola in central Italy.  Altar Boys’ Strike  “The newspapers came out and said there was an altar boys’
strike, which by the way was the right thing to do,” said
Bersani. “But he suffered in such a way that I hope up there he
accepts my apology.”  Bersani’s dilemma is how to build a coalition broad enough
to win and cohesive enough to reliably agree on legislation. His
leadership of PD is grounded in support from the CGIL,  Italy ’s
biggest union. His victory over Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi in
the Dec. 2 primary ballot was aided by an alliance with the
anti-Monti movement of Puglia GovernorNichi Vendola. Bersani’s
task in the next six weeks is to appeal to so-called centrist
voters, who have rallied around Monti’s agenda.  “He’s a communist who won the primaries against Renzi
thanks to the unions’ support,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees
$180 million at Glendevon King Asset Management in London, said
by phone. “He won’t do anything that could upset or even bother
the unions.”  Primary Challenge  Bersani secured control of the center-left nomination by
outflanking Renzi on the left. In two debates, Bersani talked
about easing Monti’s pension reform, while Renzi stressed budget
rigor as a moral obligation. Since his Dec. 2 primary victory,
Bersani has focused more on the points where his policies
converge with Monti.  “I reiterate that the rigor and credibility brought to the
world by Monti’s government are for us a point of no return,”
Bersani said Dec. 13 at a conference in  Rome  hosted by the
foreign press association.  Party Dissolved  As a youth, Bersani joined Italy’s Communist Party, which
was at the time the biggest left-leaning political force in the
country. When it was dissolved in 1991, Bersani joined a group
of former communists that called themselves the Democratic Party
of the Left.  PD, Italy’s main political force on the center-left, was
created in 2007. The combination also brought ex-communists like
Bersani and former Prime Minister  Massimo D’Alema  into the fold.
According to an SWG Institute poll published Dec. 14, the two
biggest parties retaining the communist label had combined
support of about 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  