-- Italy Minister Chasing Evaders Shows Home Value Below Market
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-12-20T15:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/italy-minister-chasing-tax-evaders-shows-home-value-below-market.html
Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli , appointed by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to spearhead a
drive to prevent  tax evasion , purchased his 14-room home in Rome
at a price less than the reported market values in his
neighborhood and dwarfed by his mortgage, according to records
of the 2004 transaction.  Documents signed by Grilli and filed with the Italian  land
registry  say he paid 1.065 million euros ($1.42 million) for the
ground-floor apartment with a garden in the hilltop Parioli
quarter. Government archives show he obtained a mortgage of 1.5
million euros, or 41 percent more than the registered purchase
price.  Italian property sales often are reported to be less than
the actual price paid to reduce taxes or skirt controls on  money
laundering , according to the  website  of the finance police,
which reports to Grilli. Monti picked Grilli in November 2011 to
help shore up the nation’s finances. Grilli’s crackdown has
included inspections of yachts at marinas and checks of
Lamborghini and Ferrari sport cars at the Cortina d’Ampezzo ski
resort. Grilli increased the  collection  of delinquent taxes by 9
percent to 5.79 billion euros in the first 10 months of 2012
from a year ago.  Grilli, 55, said in a statement that the matter of his home
purchase “at best could be considered local unfounded gossip.”
He said he’s involved in divorce litigation and that allegations
about the value of his assets may interfere with the case. His
wife, Lisa Lowenstein, who lives in  New York , declined to
comment on Grilli’s statement.  ‘Unprofessional and Wrong’  “It is unprofessional and wrong to criticize the financial
arrangements related to the purchase of a property without
knowing anything about the other standard aspects of typical
client/bank relationship that underlies any commercial
transactions involving loans and guarantees,” Milan-born Grilli
said in an emailed statement sent Dec. 3.  “All the money related to that or any other transaction I
have ever been involved is perfectly legal,” Grilli wrote. “I
have never been involved in money laundering operations of any
sort.”  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the bank he originally
borrowed from, said in an e-mailed statement that it doesn’t
lend funds that exceed a purchase price. In 2004, the Siena-
based bank offered loans that were capped at 95 percent of a
purchase, the company said in a written response to generic
questions about loan policy, before being told the query was for
a story about Grilli. The bank declined to comment on Grilli’s
loan.  Milan-based  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest
bank, has held the mortgage since 2010, the records show.  Banking Association  Italian banking regulations limit mortgages to 80 percent
of a home’s value unless the borrower puts up collateral, which
raises the cap to no more than 100 percent, according to the
 Bank of Italy . Loans exceeding 80 percent of a home’s value
comprised 1.7 percent of mortgages outstanding in Italy at the
end of 2006, according to the central bank.  The Rome-based Italian Banking Association said legal
restrictions on mortgages have prevented it from advising member
banks to lend more than 100 percent of a property’s value.  Underreporting a home sale price doesn’t necessarily reduce
taxes, in part because property levies are based on separate
tax-roll numbers that are generally lower than market values,
according to the finance police website. At the same time, “the
only lawful and proper behavior is to declare the entire agreed
price in the sale documents,” the site says.  Transactions have been rife with idiosyncratic reporting.
Buyers sometimes agree to pay a portion of the purchase on the
side in exchange for a discount, said Luca Dondi, head of the
real estate research unit at Bologna-based institute Nomisma.  ‘Bad Habit’  Such side payments can allow a buyer to channel previously
undeclared funds into a property, according to Dondi, who wasn’t
commenting specifically on Grilli’s transaction.  Senator Elio Lannutti submitted an “urgent” written query
to Monti today in the Rome-based parliament, asking whether
Grilli “fell into the bad habit of declaring a purchase price
that is lower than the one actually paid.” If that was the
case, “Grilli would be more similar to the average Italian,
while his behavior would distance him from the one required by a
state representative.”  Grilli has decried financial shenanigans and taken personal
responsibility for leading Italy’s crackdown, which is employing
new software to find anomalies in residents’ transactions.  “This government changed the rule of the game,” he said
in a Nov. 7 speech in Munich. “We have our I.R.S., the internal
revenue service, that depends on me, on my ministry. We now have
full tools to monitor all financial activities, so your bank
accounts, your transfers, everything.”  The apartment in Parioli, an embassy-filled enclave north
of  Rome ’s ancient walls, measures 310 square meters (3,336
square feet), according to Grilli’s financial disclosure on the
Italian Treasury’s website. The ceilings are 3.46 meters high,
or about 11 feet, 4 inches, blueprints in the property records
show. The 14 rooms include a kitchen and four bathrooms,
according to the documents.  Price Range  In the first half of 2004, the value of homes in the
neighborhood classified as “ordinary” -- excluding luxury
properties or those in a degraded state -- ranged from 4,800
euros to 5,800 euros per square meter, according to a finance
ministry database. An apartment the size of Grilli’s would have
been worth between 1.49 million euros and 1.8 million euros by
that measure.  For luxury properties in Parioli, declared prices in 2004
were as high as 7,340 per square meter, according to Nomisma. At
1.065 million euros, Grilli’s declared price was less than half
that, at about 3,435 euros per square meter.  “There is no doubt that such a price is quite low for that
part of Rome,” says Nomisma’s Dondi, who was told the
apartment’s address, measurements and date of purchase. At his
request, he wasn’t told the name of the owner.  ‘Below Street’  The seller of the property was Massimo Tosato, executive
vice chairman of London-based fund manager  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and a
member of the  board  of overseers at  Columbia Business School  in
New York. Tosato’s assistant at Schroders in  London  said he
declined to comment.  Grilli said in his statement that it’s “wrong to speculate
about the 2004 value of a property without having detailed
knowledge of what the property was back then and of its past
state and conditions. For example, my home lies below street
level, needing substantial structural and architectural work to
bring it proper  living conditions .”  Raffaele De Paola, lead agent for Parioli at the Tecnocasa
network of real estate agencies, said that even if the apartment
“needed a total renovation, that price is low.” He said the
value of the apartment was at least 2 million euros in 2004.  De Paola was shown an architectural drawing of Grilli’s
apartment and told the address. At his request, he wasn’t told
the name of the owner.  Declared Assets  Grilli, who has spent most of his career in civil service,
bought the apartment in Rome after returning to government work
from London, where was a managing director and head of Italian
 investment banking  at  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  First Boston for about a
year from 2001 through 2002.  The apartment is one of the few assets Grilli declared in
his financial  disclosure  posted on the Treasury website. He
reported that he had a life insurance policy and owned no stocks
or mutual funds. His other assets included three automobiles --a
2009 Rover, 1994 Jaguar and 1975 Volkswagen --and a 9.6-meter
sport boat.  Grilli worked at the Italian Treasury from 1993 through
2000 before joining  Credit Suisse First Boston . After returning
to Rome in 2002 to serve as Italy’s general accountant, he
became head of the Treasury under the governments of  Silvio Berlusconi  and  Romano Prodi , helping to craft an emergency
budget last year. In the Monti administration, Grilli first
served as deputy finance minister and then replaced Monti as
finance minister in July when the premier decided he wanted
someone dedicated full-time to the post.  Grilli, who holds a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Rochester  in New York, said in October that he
won’t seek a government post or a Treasury position after Italy
holds its general elections, which are due in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Silver in Rome  at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  