-- Lithuania Bank Merger Talk Sparks Interest in Ukio Bankas Shares
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-12-19T11:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/lithuania-bank-merger-talk-sparks-interest-in-ukio-bankas-shares.html
AB Ukio Bankas (UKB1L)  shares were the most
active since February after a news portal said the Lithuanian
central bank wants to merge it with  AB Siauliu Bankas (SAB1L)  with aid
from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  Volume of 1.5 million shares by 11:45 a.m. in Vilnius was
higher than any day since Feb. 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares were unchanged at a nine-year low of 0.11
euros, valuing the company at 38 million euros ($50 million). No
trading of Siauliu Bankas shares took place on the exchange.  The Bank of Lithuania wants the EBRD, Siauliu Bankas’s
biggest shareholder, to help it merge the two lenders to avert a
deterioration of the unprofitable Ukio Bankas, Eversus.lt
reported today, without saying where it got the information. It
would create the Baltic nation’s third-biggest lender by
deposits after the units of SEB AB and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   The EBRD, which said today it won’t comment specifically on
the transaction, listed actions “to support strengthening and
consolidation of local banks” as a priority in the  Strategy for
Lithuania  published on its website last month.  The Bank of Lithuania won’t comment on the situation,
spokesman Giedrius Simonavicius said by phone in Vilnius today.  Shareholder Losses  Kaunas-based Ukio Bankas shares have declined 28 percent
since Oct. 29, when it reported a group net loss of 44 million
litai ($16.9 million) for the first nine months of this year.  Following the collapse of Russian-owned AB Bankas Snoras a
year ago, Ukio Bankas, whose majority owner Vladimir Romanov is
also Russian-born, has had to offer higher interest rates to
attract depositors and offset a lack of demand for its bonds.  A merger with Siauliu Bankas could only work if the EBRD
agreed, Baltic investment bank Finasta analyst Tadas Povilauskas
said today in a note to clients.  “Such a merger would not be positive news for the minor
shareholders of Ukio Bankas, the value of which would probably
be depressed,” Povilauskas said.  The EBRD owns 43 percent of Siauliu Bankas, which is based
in the northern Lithuanian town of Siauliai.  EBRD Position  “We continue our work with Siauliu Bankas, a long-standing
partner of the EBRD in  Lithuania ,” the bank’s Head of Media
Relations Anthony Williams said by phone today from  London . “As
always, the EBRD will review opportunities as they arise.”  In its Lithuania strategy document, the EBRD said the
failure of Snoras in November 2011 showed a need “to enhance
the governance and the financial strength of local banks,
possibly through assistance in consolidation.”  “The bank will consider, primarily through the EBRD’s
existing shareholding in Siauliu Bankas, opportunities to play
an active role in the process,” it said in the policy document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  