-- Mitsubishi Invests in Shrimp, Mitsui in Sugar in Food Focus
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-12-19T09:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/mitsubishi-invests-in-shrimp-mitsui-in-sugar-in-new-food-focus.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  said it will set up
a shrimp seafood venture in  Thailand , a day after rival  Mitsui &
Co. (8031)  announced a sugar investment in the same country as Japanese
trading houses step up their focus on food.  Mitsubishi, Japan’s biggest trader by market value, agreed
to set up a shrimp business with  Thai Union Frozen (TUF)  Group by
buying existing facilities on the coast of the Southeast Asian
nation and building new ones, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement. Mitsubishi will own 49 percent of the venture and the
total project cost will be 3 billion yen ($36 million).  “This strategy will help Mitsubishi respond to increasing
global demand for food products and to fulfill the role of
providing a stable supply of resources,” the company said.  After a decade of rising profits on the back of Chinese
demand for coking coal and iron ore,  Japan ’s biggest trading
companies are shifting focus to food, utility and transport
businesses as bulk commodity prices and demand wane. Mitsui,
which relies on raw materials for more than 90 percent of
profit, has said it plans to expand its non-commodity assets in
the next one to two years to account for 30 percent of net
income within six years from about six percent last year.  Japanese trading houses have looked to food in the last few
years for new business growth, as well as stable returns during
volatility in industrial commodity prices.  Mitsui, Japan’s second-largest trader, said yesterday it
will buy 11.1 percent of Thailand’s Khonburi Sugar Public Co.
and its related company Mitsui Sugar Co. will buy a further 5.6
percent. The purchases will cost the two Mitsui companies about
1.15 billion baht ($38 million). They will also provide the Thai
producer with equipment and marketing support to expand.  Mitsui, which today said it will make Mitsui Foods Co. a
wholly owned subsidiary, gained 3.9 percent to 1,240 yen in
Tokyo at the close, the biggest gain in two months. Mitsubishi
rose 2.4 percent to 1,630, the most since Nov. 15.  Mitsubishi last year invested in meat and livestock in
 China  with Cofco Corp., entered the salmon fish-farming business
in  Chile  and in 2012 added grain collection and coffee
plantations in Brazil, as well as phosphate mines in  Peru . The
trader will make food one of its key areas, Chief Executive
Officer Ken Kobayashi said in Tokyo in April.  In the Thai venture Mitsubishi targets annual capacity of
10,000 metric tons of shrimp, the company said. Total annual
consumption of wild and farmed shrimp globally is about 6.5
million tons, it said.  “The goal is to be well positioned to respond to imminent
increases in global demand for shrimp products,” Mitsubishi
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  