-- Mitsubishi Motors Warned by Ministry Amid Recall in Japan
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-12-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/mitsubishi-motors-warned-by-ministry-amid-recall-in-japan.html
Japan ’s transport ministry issued a
warning to  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) , saying the automaker was
“passive” after it ordered a fourth round of  recalls  related
to the similar issue of engine oil leaks.  Mitsubishi Motors will call back eight models, including
the Town Box and the Minica minicar, for a total of 1.21 million
vehicles in Japan, the company said in a filing to the stock
exchange yesterday. Mitsubishi will book a 7.5-billion yen ($89
million) charge for the recalls, which is related to oil leakage
that may cause engines to stop, according to the filing.  “The ministry warned the  company  on having been passive in
its handling of the recalls, for having made inappropriate
decisions, for providing the ministry with inappropriate
explanation, for being insufficient in clarifying the causes of
the recall,” according to the ministry’s statement.  The latest round of recalls brings the total number of
vehicles called back by Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Motors for the
engine flaw to 1.76 million units, according to the transport
ministry. No accidents have been reported as a result of the
defect, which prompted the first round of related recalls by the
automaker in November 2010, the ministry said.  “Recalls are quite common in the automotive industry,”
said  Ashvin Chotai , managing director of Intelligence Automotive
 Asia  in  London . “The difference between this one and the others
is that Mitsubishi has failed repeatedly to deal with the issue.
But because the recall problems are so common, as long as they
fix it relatively quickly, they still have a chance.”  ‘Greatly Apologize’  The automaker had decided against the need for wider
measures after the first call back because there wasn’t a safety
issue, Koji Yokomaku, Mitsubishi Motors’ general manager for
quality, said at a press conference yesterday.  “We have received very strict verbal warnings, and here,
we were made aware of what was still lacking in our company,”
Yokomaku said. “With this incident, we want to improve our
personnel training, and we greatly apologize for causing this
problem.”  Senior Executive Officer Masao Omichi said at the same
briefing that the automaker didn’t intentionally skew its
reports.  The ministry said it will soon conduct an inspection and
ordered the automaker to submit a report by March about the
improvements made, according to the statement.  Mitsubishi Motors rose 3.4 percent to 91 yen at the close
in Tokyo trading yesterday, before the announcement. Its shares
are unchanged for this year, compared with the 20 percent gain
in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  