-- HIV Falls in Black Women as Total Cases Remain at 50,000
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-12-19T20:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/hiv-falls-in-black-women-as-total-cases-remain-at-50-000.html
HIV infections among black women in
the U.S. declined for the first time since U.S. health officials
began reporting numbers of new cases from 2006, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention said.  The CDC today  reported  that new HIV infections among black
women fell 21 percent in 2010 compared with two years earlier,
as total new infections with AIDS virus remained steady at about
50,000 new cases per year during the last decade. Infections
among gay and bisexual men increased 22 percent during the same
two-year period.  While blacks make up the majority of new HIV infections in
women, accounting for 64 percent of female diagnoses, the two-
year decrease is an “encouraging trend,” the CDC said in a
 statement  issued with the report. The rise of new cases among
gay and bisexual men, who are most often diagnosed with HIV, was
“troubling,” the report said. Young, black men who have sex
with other men are most at-risk.  “Other studies indicate that individual risk behavior
alone does not account for the disproportionate burden of HIV
among young” gay and bisexual men, the report said. “Other
factors are likely at work.”  Those factors include people with undiagnosed infections,
stigma and homophobia, which stop some men from seeking health
services, and high rates of STDs, which can make it easier to
transmit an HIV infection, the report said.  1.2 Million Infected  HIV, or human immunodeficiency virus, damages certain blood
cells that are important for the immune system’s ability to
fight disease. The infection can be asymptomatic for several
years.  About 1.2 million people in the U.S. are currently
infected. Of these, about 20 percent to 25 percent are unaware
of their status. In November, the U.S. Preventive Service Task
Force issued a draft recommendation that everyone ages 15 to 65
should be screened at least once for the virus.  The CDC used the two-year comparison data to get a clear
picture of trends, which may not be obvious in year-to-year
statistics, Salina Cranor, a CDC spokeswoman, said. The data
from 2007 appeared to be anomalous, overestimating HIV
prevalence compared with the previous and subsequent years, so
the investigators didn’t use it. The next adequate point of
comparison was 2008, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  