-- Jakarta to Have Biggest Gain in Office Rents Through 2014
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-12-19T20:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/jakarta-to-have-biggest-gain-in-office-rents-through-2014.html
Jakarta is likely to have the
biggest jump in office rents globally through 2014 as technology
and financial-service firms expand into  emerging markets ,
Cushman & Wakefield said.  Office rents probably will climb 79 percent in the
Indonesian capital from the end of last year through the fourth
quarter of 2014, according to the brokerage’s Global Office
Forecast, released today. Sao Paulo is likely to have the
second-biggest increase, at 59 percent, followed by San
Francisco with a 33 percent gain, according to the report.
London rents are expected to rise 21 percent, ranking it No. 10
on Cushman’s list.  While rent increases will slow in much of the Asia Pacific
region, particularly in developed markets, the area will benefit
from continued economic growth and the expansion of companies
into cities where they lack a presence, said Maria Sicola,
executive managing director and head of Americas research at New
York-based Cushman.  “Growth is slowing in mature markets but what we’re seeing
is that emerging markets are coming into favor,” she said in a
telephone interview. “Corporations are looking to become more
global -- to increase their footprint where they don’t currently
have occupancies.  Indonesia  is now open for business and has
become much more attractive for companies.”  South America will “enjoy solid growth” next year,
Cushman said. Rents at top-tier office buildings in Sao Paulo
probably will climb 60 percent by 2014, helped by growth of
 Brazil ’s middle class and preparations for the 2016 Olympics,
Sicola said. New  office buildings  are opening at “higher price
points, which is driving rent-price increases,” she said.  “Companies are willing to pay a premium to be there,”
Sicola said.  While office-rent growth in most of the U.S. will be
“lackluster” next year, San Francisco will benefit from having
few new  buildings  and from growth in the technology industry,
Sicola said. It’s the only U.S. city among the 10 Cushman
expects to have the biggest rent increases worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  