-- Japan Stock Futures Fall, Yen Gains as U.S. Budget Talks Regress
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-19T23:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/japan-stock-futures-fall-yen-gains-as-u-s-budget-talks-regress.html
Japanese  stock futures  fell as the
yen gained against the dollar, weakening the earnings outlook
for exporters, and amid concern that U.S.  federal budget 
negotiations regressed.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets 80 percent of its sales abroad, slid 1.2
percent. Shares of computer-game maker  Capcom Co. (9697)  may be active
in Tokyo after cutting its profit forecast. BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s largest mining company, slid 0.2 percent as metals
prices fell.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
March closed at 10,140 in Chicago yesterday, down from 10,180 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 10,130 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.1 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.6 percent even as
a report showed economic growth slowed more than economists
forecast last quarter.  “Cracks appeared in the fiscal-cliff negotiations,” said
Stan Shamu, Melbourne-based markets strategist at IG Markets
Ltd. “The Republicans failed to come up with a reasonable
compromise to President Obama’s proposal. Market participants
decided to exercise caution despite U.S. leaders still insisting
they are hoping to have something done by Christmas.”  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell 0.4 percent today.
The gauge slid 0.8 percent yesterday as White House
Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  said House Speaker  John
Boehner ’s “Plan B” would put “too big a burden on the middle
class” and President  Barack Obama  would veto it. Boehner
replied that Obama will be responsible for “the largest tax
increase in American history” if Democrats don’t accept the
measure the House plans to pass today.  House Vote  The House may vote today on Boehner’s plan, which would
raise tax rates on income of above $1 million, rather than the
$400,000 threshold the president proposed in his latest offer.
Boehner is looking to pressure Obama to accept deeper spending
cuts and a higher threshold for rate increases by showing how
tough it will be to win Republican support for any higher taxes.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 17 percent since
Nov. 14 through yesterday on expectations the  Liberal Democratic
Party , which returned to power at an election last weekend, will
raise spending and secure more easing from the central bank to
boost the economy.  The BOJ will probably increase monetary stimulus after a
two-day policy meeting that ends today, 17 of the 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg say. The yen today rose 0.4 percent to
84.06 per dollar.  Relative Value  “Should we see a sell-off on the back of the BOJ meeting,
buying the dips is likely to be the preferred strategy as the
government is still likely to exercise some aggressive action
going forward,” Shamu said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 14 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks from the U.S., Europe, Japan
and China took action to spur economic growth. The gauge traded
at 14.7 times average estimated earnings compared with 13.8 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.8 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading resumes today in  South Korea  after Park Geun Hye
was elected president, becoming the first woman to lead Asia’s
fourth-biggest economy more than 30 years after her father’s
reign as dictator ended with his assassination.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 0.4 percent yesterday in
New York to close at 97.15.  The London Metal Exchange Index of six industrial metals
slid 0.9 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  