-- Jet Airways Seen Beating Kingfisher for Etihad Investment
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-20T12:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/jet-seen-beating-kingfisher-for-etihad-funds-corporate-india.html
Jet Airways (JETIN)  (India) Ltd. may trump
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. in the race for funds from Etihad
Airways PJSC, hindering the grounded rival’s efforts to win
investment to help restart flights.  Jet Airways’ network, domestic market share and a codeshare
pact with Etihad may help it clinch a deal, according to
analysts, including Kapil Kaul of CAPA Centre for Aviation. In
comparison, Kingfisher stopped flying in October and had its
license suspended by Indian authorities following service
disruptions caused by five straight years of losses.  “For Etihad, tying up with Jet makes more sense,” said
 Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research & Investment
Services Pvt. “It’s an airline that is in business and also
flies to the Middle East. They can have a new hub.”  Both the companies are in talks with Etihad for a stake
sale and the Gulf carrier may decide on one of them by next
week, an Indian government official said Dec. 17. A share
purchase by Etihad may attract more investors to the nation’s
aviation industry, after companies struggled with high costs and
a price war, according to Jagannadham Thunuguntla of SMC  Global
Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  CAPA forecasts demand for seats may rise as much
as 10 percent in the year to March 31.  “It will be a game changer,” said Thunuguntla, chief
strategist of the New Delhi-based brokerage. “Until and unless
foreign money comes in, many of the players risk going out of
business. They need a fresh breather of life.”  Airbus A380  For more than two years, Chairman Vijay Mallya has been
seeking capital for Kingfisher, the only Indian airline to have
ordered Airbus SAS A380 planes. The carrier, which was No. 2 in
 India  by market share about a year ago, has piled up debt of 85
billion rupees. It pared more than two-third of flights and
returned planes to lessors before halting services in October.  Kingfisher said last week it’s in talks with investors
including Abu Dhabi-based Etihad. The company and Jet Airways
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the talks. Etihad
Chief Executive Officer James Hogan reiterated Dec. 18 in Berlin
that the carrier is looking at two opportunities in India. He
declined to comment further.  Etihad has followed a policy of investing in smaller
operators to help feed long-haul flights and turn its home
emirate into a hub for intercontinental travel. It has stakes in
 Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , Aer Lingus Group
Plc and Air Seychelles Ltd.  Hogan said earlier this month in an interview that he
wouldn’t be “stepping in to just help someone out.” The
carrier would make investments “where it will improve my top
line and bottom line and improve theirs too.”  Delayed Salaries  While Kingfisher struggled with widening losses, shrinking
market share and labor troubles caused by delayed salaries,
Mumbai-based Jet Airways and others such as IndiGo benefited by
luring more passengers and charging higher fares.  “We were seeing business fundamentals improving in terms
of the yields because of the consolidation in the industry after
Kingfisher moved out,” said Mahesh Patil, co-chief investment
officer at Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co. with $13.3
billion in assets. “The trend in aviation is booming. And the
big event of money infusion has still to happen.”  Jet Airways, which posted an operating  profit  in the first
two quarters, may narrow its loss to 1.83 billion rupees in the
year ending March 31 from 14 billion rupees in the previous 12
months, according to the average of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. It may report a profit of 3 billion
rupees next year, the estimate shows.  Share Surge  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , India’s only listed discount carrier, may
also narrow its shortfall this year and return to an annual
profit in the 12 months starting in April, according to the
average of analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. SpiceJet has
said it is planning to raise funds.  Shares of Jet Airways have more than tripled in Mumbai this
year, making it the second-best airline stock in Asia, while
Kingfisher slumped 27 percent. Jet Airways fell 2.3 percent to
609.3 rupees at close of trading today. Kingfisher dropped 4.6
percent to 15.4 rupees.  Jet Airways had 116 aircraft in its fleet, including  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and Airbus planes, as of Sept. 30, and flies to as many as
125 destinations including Bahrain, Doha, Dubai, Jeddah, Kuwait
and Muscat. The carrier this month agreed to expand a codeshare
pact with Etihad, which operates services to nine Indian cities.  The Mumbai-based carrier had a 25.2 percent share of Indian
domestic  market  in November, behind discount operator IndiGo’s
27.3 percent, according to data from the nation’s aviation
regulator. State-owned Air India Ltd. had 20.7 percent and
SpiceJet 19.5 percent.  ‘Powerful Franchise’  Kuwait Airways and Gulf Air each used to own 20 percent of
the Naresh Goyal-controlled Jet in the 1990s, when India allowed
foreign ownership in airlines. Those holdings were bought back
after the nation banned such investments. India ended the ban in
September, allowing foreign carriers to own 49 percent in local
airlines.  Jet may raise about 16 billion rupees ($293 million) from
selling a 24 percent stake to Etihad, the Indian government
official said this month. A similar  holding  in Kingfisher is
valued at 3.1 billion rupees as of yesterday.  “Jet is a powerful franchise and it will be very valuable
for any alliance or airline,” said CAPA’s Kaul, who heads the
consultant’s India unit. “It looks that Jet might be the first
carrier to receive foreign airline investment after the recent
policy change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  