-- Joseph Woodland’s Lessons for Inventors
-- B y   E d w a r d   T e n n e r
-- 2012-12-19T17:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/joseph-woodland-s-lessons-for-inventors.html
The  New York  Times rarely honors
inventors with a front-page obituary. But it  gave one  to N.
Joseph Woodland, who received the original patent on bar coding
in 1952 for the principle he had developed with his college
classmate Bernard Silver.  Woodland’s epiphany came as he sat on a beach, running his
fingers through the sand, contemplating ways to encode data
about products. It struck him that he could adopt Morse code,
which he had learned as a Boy Scout, visually -- in a series of
lines of varying width that could be read with a scanner.  The ensuing invention would eventually find its way onto
almost every product you buy, but the story of how it became
such a staggering success has a number of counterintuitive
lessons about invention.  First, it’s sometimes good to take the money. Woodland and
Silver shared only $15,000 for the patent, a pittance
considering the savings it would later yield for the economy.
But the first scanner that could read bar codes, and thus make
their invention commercially feasible, wasn’t introduced until
1974, long after their patent had expired. In the meantime,
Woodland joined the staff of  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  He hoped it would buy the invention and turn it into a
marketable product, but it never did. (In 1952, Woodland and
Silver sold the patent to Philco, which in turn sold it to RCA.)
Most patents generate no income at all, and very few can match a
steady professional job with a  retirement plan  at a leading
company.  Too Advanced  Second, although Woodland continued to develop coding
systems at IBM, none of them was a breakthrough comparable to
his original bar code. Most ideas simply aren’t transformative.
A corollary is that no matter how brilliant and original a
concept may be, sometimes it’s so advanced that missing pieces
of a successful prototype take decades to appear. Shoes with
air-filled soles  were patented  as early as 1882; a century and
150 patents later, Nike introduced a model that wouldn’t deflate
like its predecessors. The original concept of the fax machine
dates to 1843, as the engineering professor and author Henry
Petroski has  pointed out .  It may be a blessing that inventors often can’t foresee
additional breakthroughs that will be needed to make their ideas
work. They might otherwise be discouraged. In this case, bar-
code scanning depended on the invention of the laser, which
didn’t appear until the 1960s. Laser printers, which are needed
to generate custom bar codes, weren’t available until the 1980s.
Electronic circuitry also had to be miniaturized before scanning
could enter retailing and other nonindustrial settings.  Software lagged, too. The Luhn algorithm, which catches the
most common errors of electronic reading and human
transcription, wasn’t patented until 1960. The product codes of
books and magazines are checked by the more advanced Verhoeff
algorithm, introduced in 1969. That development was essential
for another notable innovation, Amazon.com.  Jeff Bezos , the
company’s founder, chose books as its first product category in
1994 because -- thanks to the International Standard Book Number
made possible by the bar code -- books were the largest category
of coded product in the world.  Third, the Woodland-Silver invention also needed what might
be called a standardization entrepreneur. If the great majority
of retailers and manufacturers couldn’t agree on a standard
format, multiple codes for different vendors would have become a
packaging nightmare. So the Boston supermarket executive  Alan
Haberman  brought representatives of leading companies together
to choose the final version of the bar code, which became known
as the Universal Product Code.  Political Inventions  Finally, the influence of Woodland’s innovation would
extend well beyond simply cutting costs, and in unexpected ways.
Artifacts, as the historian of technology Langdon Winner has
suggested, have politics, and scanners radically changed power
relationships.  The UPC began as a simple tool for accounting and inventory
control. But the savviest retailers, led by Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., realized that with growing computer power the code could
do much more. Retail executives could gather superior
intelligence about prices and sales, and experiment rapidly and
efficiently. With this knowledge, and with the scale of its
purchases providing immense leverage, Wal-Mart  could lean on
vendors  for ever-lower prices, raising its profit margin and
making possible further expansion.  In practice, Wal-Mart’s demands were also enough to force
companies producing profitably in the U.S. to outsource
manufacturing to low-wage Asian factories. Liberal and
conservative economists may disagree on whether this change has
benefited the U.S., but they agree that the UPC and the
concentration of retailing flipped the historic relationship
between manufacturers and sellers.  Inventors, like scientists and writers, are often
unpleasantly surprised by the consequences of their ideas. The
inventor of the modern reclining chair, a Hungarian named Anton
Lorenz,  sincerely believed  that recliners were heart-saving
health chairs rather than the symbols of sedentary living that
they have become.  Woodland’s invention has undoubtedly enhanced my own life,
but I have to confess to reservations. As a reader in the  New
York Public Library , I was inspired by Asher Durand’s superb
painting of friendship in nature, “ Kindred Spirits .” In 2005,
library executives auctioned it to raise funds, no doubt
expecting that some angel would acquire it for the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art, where it would continue to be open to millions
near its Hudson Valley setting. Instead the winning bidder was
the Wal-Mart heiress  Alice Walton , who has made it a centerpiece
of the Crystal Bridges Museum she created in Bentonville,
 Arkansas , population 35,300 and more than two hours from the
nearest big city.  All this happened because an engineer versed in Morse code
ran his fingers in the sand on a beach one day. Perhaps the real
lesson is to be careful what you dream about.  ( Edward Tenner  is author of “Why Things Bite Back:
Technology and the Revenge of  Unintended Consequences ” and “Our
Own Devices: How Technology Remakes Humanity.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Edward Tenner at
 info@edwardtenner.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  