-- Kenya ICC-Suspect Alliance Can Run Nation During Case, Ruto Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-19T07:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/kenya-icc-suspect-alliance-can-run-nation-during-case-ruto-says.html
Kenyan lawmaker  William Ruto  said he
and deputy premier Uhuru Kenyatta can run the country even while
fighting International Criminal Court indictments, if their
coalition wins elections in March.  Kenyatta, the son of  Kenya ’s founding father Jomo Kenyatta,
and Ruto are facing a trial due to start in April at the Hague-
based ICC on charges of crimes against humanity for their role
in directing violence following Kenya’s last elections in 2007.
The men deny allegations by ICC prosecutors that they ordered
their supporters to murder and forcibly displace one another in
ethnic clashes that left more than 1,100 people dead and forced
300,000 from their homes.  The duo announced this month they had formed a coalition to
contest the vote on March 4, which could be followed by a second
round of balloting a month later if no presidential candidate
achieves a majority in the first round. Their trials at the ICC,
alongside two other Kenyan suspects, are scheduled to begin on
April 10.  “We are law-abiding citizens. We will attend the ICC,”
Ruto said in an interview on Nairobi-based Citizen TV. “Kenyans
should have no worry about our capacity to run this country.”  The exact make-up of the alliance remains unclear. Deputy
Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi, a member of Kenyatta and Ruto’s
newly created United Democratic Front, told a press conference
yesterday that Kenyatta had agreed in writing to back him as a
nominee for the alliance’s presidential candidate two weeks ago.
A delegates conference to choose the party’s “flag-bearer”
scheduled for yesterday was canceled so that delegates of the
so-called three-party Jubilee Coalition could reorganize the
process, Kenyatta’s National Alliance party said on Dec. 17.
Ruto represents the United Republican Party.  Poll Lead  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki, 81, has said he will abide by
the constitution’s two-term limit and step down.  Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , from the Orange
Democratic Movement, has formed a coalition with Vice President
Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper Democratic Movement and about a dozen
other political parties. An Ipsos-Synovate survey of 1,625
Kenyans released on Dec. 14 shows this group may win 47 percent
of the vote, while Kenyatta and Ruto may get 41 percent. About
22 percent of Kenyans were undecided, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  