-- Keystone Protesters Pay Price for Camping in Texas Trees
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-19T18:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/keystone-protesters-pay-price-for-camping-in-texas-trees.html
Protesters trying to save the world
by sitting in trees or blocking equipment used to build the
Keystone XL oil pipeline are learning that environmental
activism can be a ticket to lengthy jail time in East Texas.  Matthew Almonte, Glen Collins and Isabel Brooks landed in
jail in Tyler on Dec. 3, charged with misdemeanor criminal
trespass, resisting arrest and illegal dumping, following
efforts to stop work on the  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline. Each has
asked for a reduction in the $65,000 bond that must be posted to
get out pending trial, without success.  The trio joined more than 30 others arrested since October
near Tyler and Nacogdoches as they tried to halt work on the
$7.6 billion pipeline that would bring products of Alberta tar
sands to Houston-area refineries. President  Barack Obama  blocked
the northern U.S. leg, citing environmental risks in  Nebraska .
An updated review of a revised route may be released in days.
The southern end runs from  Oklahoma  through Texas.  “This is the front line where the climate debate comes
onto the ground and you can come over and kick it,” said Eddie
Scher, a Sierra Club spokesman. The Washington-based group calls
itself the largest, most effective U.S. environmental advocate.
“There isn’t an inch of space between us and the blockaders.”  First Well  Dozens of mostly 20-something activists have pitched tents
on a ranch outside Nacogdoches, a city near the site of the
state’s first oil well. The camp provides a staging area for
protests, which have included perching in trees on the route and
locking people to construction equipment.  “Gangs of tree sitters who trespass and defecate on
landowners’ property don’t understand  Texas  values and
culture,” Texas Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson said in an
essay posted on his website in October. He called the protesters
“a bunch of out-of-state, self-appointed eco-anarchists.”  No state elected officials have lent public support to the
protests, which, if successful, may curb the energy boom in
Texas, the nation’s biggest oil producer. Blocking interstate
pipelines would threaten the economic viability of Houston
refineries, which support thousands of jobs, Tom Zabel, a
TransCanada lawyer, said in an Oct. 4 court hearing.  At least five groups are fighting the Keystone route across
their property, while about 95 percent of landowners favor the
project for financial reasons, said John Johnson, a rancher in
Douglass who has leased acreage to accommodate the pipeline.  ‘Fair’ Deal  Pipeline protesters are a small minority and are the type
of people who always are unhappy about something, Johnson said.
“I think the pipeline has been fair in its dealings.”  The Keystone project became a cause celebre last year among
supporters of environmental activists, who say extracting oil
from tar sands releases three times more carbon dioxide than
conventional drilling and worsens global warming. Actress  Daryl Hannah  was charged with criminal trespass and resisting arrest
during an Oct. 4 pipeline protest in Wood County, near Tyler.
Hannah, 52, spent less than six hours in jail before being
released on $4,500 bond, court records show.  Hannah protested in support of Eleanor Fairchild, 78, who
was also arrested Oct. 4 on charges of trespassing on land she
leases to TransCanada. Fairchild has owned the spread since 1993
with her late husband, Ray, a former senior vice president of
international exploration at Hunt Oil Co., a Dallas energy
company.  The much higher bail amounts set for Almonte, Collins and
Brooks, by a judge in Smith County, a two-hour drive east of
Dallas, has raised questions of fairness.  “If they’ve been charged with misdemeanors and don’t have
prior criminal records, $65,000 bond is ridiculously high,”
said Brandon Baade, a criminal defense lawyer in Tyler.  Crude Carrier  TransCanada, which says on its website it expects to win
approval for the northern leg early next year, has consistently
prevailed in court over opponents to the southern section of the
2,151-mile (3,460-kilometer) pipeline. Output from  Canada ’s  tar
sands , currently 1.5 million barrels a day, is forecast to
double by 2020. Keystone will also carry crude from  North
Dakota , Oklahoma and Texas.  “You have just about every mainstream NGO speaking about
game over for the planet if this pipeline is built,” said Ron
Seifert, a blockade spokesman, referring to nongovernmental
organizations. “There is a disconnect between that rhetoric and
the willingness to take aggressive action like the Tar Sands
Blockade is doing.”  Grace Cagle, 22, started organizing the east Texas blockade
while studying for a degree in biology at the University of
North Texas in Denton. She graduated in May.  80 Feet Up  Cagle spent 16 days in a tree house 80 feet (24 meters) off
the ground on property leased to TransCanada. After coming down
Oct. 17, she was arrested on a criminal trespass charge and
spent 17 hours in jail before being released on a $1,500 bond.  Protesters “are doing this with full knowledge that they
are breaking the law,” Shawn Howard, a TransCanada spokesman,
said. “Their goal is to get publicity or raise money.”  Cagle counts it as a small victory that the stand of trees
remain, with at least three protesters still aloft. The tree
blockade is ending while protesters focus on other sections of
the pipeline, Seifert said today in an e-mailed statement.  “A real special ecosystem is still standing because of the
actions we took,” said Cagle, who grew up in suburban  Dallas .
“There we were able to stop them.”  While he didn’t know what would become of the trees, Howard
said TransCanada hasn’t changed its route in the area.  Some local residents admire the passion displayed by
protesters and said they’re frustrated that county commissioners
and others in Nacogdoches won’t discuss the pipeline’s effects,
said Vicki Baggett, who helped organize an anti-Keystone group
called NacSTOP. County commissioners got a TransCanada report in
October 2010 and haven’t met with opponents, said Keith
Bradford, an assistant county attorney.  Blueberry Festival  After learning TransCanada money backed an annual blueberry
festival put on by a local chamber of commerce, NacSTOP plans to
match the donation next year, Baggett said.  “We don’t have that same legitimacy with the powers that
be in town,” said Baggett, who has operated a tree-service
company with her husband for 22 years. “Money talks.”  Protesters are getting support and supplies from Austin
Heights Baptist Church, formed in the 1960s in Nacogdoches by
opponents of racial segregation, said the Rev. Kyle Childress,
pastor of the congregation. A dozen or more protesters now
attend its Sunday morning service, he said.  “Swimming against the stream is often a pretty good
indication that you are practicing your faith,” Childress said.
“Many of these kids have sold everything they own except what’s
in their backpacks to come here. Some of them haven’t had a bath
in a month. I think what they are doing is extraordinary.”  Training Activists  Protesters who remain in the Nacogdoches camp are inviting
activists to a training seminar starting Jan. 3, Cagle said.
Organizers want to find indoor accommodations soon as
temperatures fall near freezing at night, she said.  Most of any monetary support is used to post bail for those
jailed, Cagle said.  Almonte and Collins were arrested after barricading
themselves inside unlaid pipe on a section near Winona. Brooks
was filming them when authorities arrested her, she said.  Almonte, 21, said the only other time he has been locked up
stemmed from his participation in an  Occupy Wall Street  protest
in  New York . Brooks said she’s a newcomer to jail. Collins
couldn’t be reached for comment on his experience.  “All you do in jail is sleep and eat and then wait to eat
and watch TV,” said Lizzy Alvarado, 20, a cinematography major
at Stephen F. Austin University in Nacogdoches who spent 28
hours in the trees before she was ordered to descend, and then
was arrested. “Going to jail was part of what I wanted to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 