-- Kingfisher Executive Sutherland Steps Down to Run Co-Op
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-12-19T08:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/kingfisher-executive-sutherland-steps-down-to-run-co-op.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ’s Chief Operating
Officer Euan Sutherland, regarded by analysts as a possible
successor to Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire, is leaving
the U.K. retailer to run the Co-Operative Group Ltd.  The departure of the 43-year-old, who joined the London-
based company in 2008 as head of the B&Q home-improvement chain,
“will be a disappointment to investors,” Jamie Merriman, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said in a note today.  Sutherland was named COO in February and only joined the
main board of the retailer in October. He will remain in his
current role until March 2013 to allow an “extensive handover”
of responsibilities, Kingfisher  said  today in a statement.  Sutherland was “viewed as a credible successor to Ian
Cheshire,” Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce in
 London , said by e-mail. “He was, in our view, a major
contributory factor in the recovery of the U.K. business over
the last five years and more latterly was responsible for the
company’s key self-help initiatives.”  Kingfisher shares fell as much as 0.9 percent in London and
were little changed at 276.8 pence as of 8:20 a.m.  Cheshire praised the contribution of Sutherland in almost
five years at the company. The executive “played an important
role in the successful development of the group,” he said.  Declining Profit  Kingfisher “has great strength and depth in its
management, and I will personally be involved in the transition
as Euan’s responsibilities are handed over,” the CEO said.  Kingfisher is among consumer-goods companies that have been
squeezed as challenging markets in the U.K. and mainland  Europe 
reduce sales. It reported a decline in third-quarter profit Nov.
29 as earnings fell in  France , where it operates Castorama and
Brico Depot home-improvement stores, as house building slowed.  Sutherland, who has been a non-executive director of
mutually owned retailer Co-Op’s food business for two years,
“brings with him considerable experience of the strategic
leadership needed in complex customer-facing businesses, across
a variety of retail sectors,” Len Wardle, chairman of the Co-
Operative Group, said in a separate statement.  “I am very pleased to be given the opportunity to lead the
organization at this important time,” Sutherland said in Co-
Op’s statement. “The challenge is to build upon the success
that has been achieved in recent years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  