-- Apple, Google in Group Buying Kodak Patents
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-12-19T17:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/kodak-agrees-to-sell-imaging-patents-for-525-million.html
A group including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  agreed to buy patents from
bankrupt Eastman Kodak Co. for about $525 million, gaining the
right to use the digital technology to capture and share photos.  The group is led by Intellectual Ventures Management LLC
and  RPX Corp. (RPXC) , Kodak said in a statement today. Google, Apple
and RIM are among the 12 companies that will license the patents
in the deal, according to a court filing. Under the terms,
Intellectual Ventures will split the payment with the licensees.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  also are
part of the group, the court filing shows, along with Samsung
Electronics Co.,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) ,
Huawei Technologies Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Shutterfly Inc. (SFLY)  The
auctioned patents -- more than 1,100 related to the capture,
manipulation and sharing of digital images -- were previously
estimated by advisory firm 284 Partners LLC to be worth as much
as $2.6 billion.  “This is a fraction of our overall patent portfolio,”
said Chris Veronda, a spokesman for Rochester, New York-based
Kodak. “We retain ownership of about 9,600 other patents for
our ongoing businesses.”  The agreement resolves all patent-infringement lawsuits
between Kodak and the 12 licensees, Veronda said. That includes
suits Kodak had against Apple, RIM, Fujifilm, HTC, Samsung and
Shutterfly. In a May filing, Kodak had said Apple alone owed it
more than $1 billion in patent royalties.  Competing Consortiums  Before uniting as one bidding group, Apple and Google had
led competing consortiums bidding for Kodak’s patents, people
familiar with the situation said earlier this year.  The two groups joined forces in August as the initial
auction date approached, a person familiar with the process said
today. Combining allowed each company to only pay for the
patents and protection it needed.  Unlikely partnerships occur in patent sales because they
allow competitors to neutralize potential infringement
litigation. A group including Apple, Microsoft and RIM bought
Nortel Networks Corp.’s more than 6,000 patents for $4.5 billion
out of bankruptcy last year. Google lost the auction for those
patents after making an initial offer of $900 million.  A May ruling against Kodak by the U.S. International Trade
Commission dealt a blow to the company’s pursuit of a higher
price for its patents. The decision, the result of a two-year
legal fight against Apple and RIM over a patent for previewing
digital images on cameras, was upheld in July. It dashed Kodak’s
plans to pursue royalty payments from Apple and RIM it once
estimated at more than $1 billion.  Lost Interest  After the ITC ruling, bidders lost interest in buying the
patents to pursue infringers for compensation and licensing
fees, the person familiar with the process said today, asking
not to be identified because the details aren’t public. The sale
became defensive as buyers offered to pay only enough to cover
their potential exposure to litigation with Kodak, the person
said.  Kodak needed to sell the patents for at least $500 million
under a November agreement -- codenamed Komodo -- to obtain $830
million in financing to exit bankruptcy in the first half of
2013. That funding also requires progress in the sale of two
business units and resolution of U.K. pension obligations. The
patent sale had to be agreed upon by Jan. 31 and must close by
Feb. 28.  In court documents, Kodak said it had generated more than
$3 billion in revenue by licensing some of the patents to
outside users, including Samsung,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , Google’s
Motorola Mobility unit and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Selling Businesses  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez has been selling
businesses to shrink Kodak and fund its shift into commercial
printing and packaging after seeking Chapter 11 protection in
January. The company is also selling its consumer-film, photo-
kiosk and commercial-scanner businesses and shuttering its
consumer inkjet-printer unit.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business. The company has announced almost 4,000 job cuts this
year and spent $3.4 billion on restructuring before bankruptcy,
including payouts to fire 47,000 employees since 2003.  The 132-year-old imaging company listed $5.1 billion in
assets and $6.75 billion in debt in its bankruptcy filing.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  