-- Komatsu Banks on U.S., Japan Construction as Miners Retreat
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-12-20T03:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/komatsu-banks-on-u-s-japan-construction-as-miners-retreat.html
Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-
largest maker of excavators and dump trucks, is betting on a
construction revival in the U.S. and post-earthquake rebuilding
in Japan to counter flagging demand from miners.  North America and Japan, Komatsu’s biggest markets, are
forecast to expand about 20 percent in the year starting April
1, President Kunio Noji said in an interview. Excavator sales in
 China , Komatsu’s biggest market until 2010, plunged as much as
60 percent this year because of a slowing economy and may only
recover after the Lunar New Year in February, he said.  Rising production of natural gas from shale deposits is
spurring U.S. manufacturers and industries to increase spending,
while confidence among the nation’s homebuilders reached its
highest level in more than six years in December. In contrast,
global miners including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest,
have curtailed investments because of falling commodity prices.  “Demand in the U.S. is now supported by shale gas and
public spending,” Noji said on Dec. 18 at Komatsu’s  Tokyo 
headquarters. “Housing starts have begun increasing. Steps are
being taken to boost the  U.S. economy .”  Komatsu fell 0.9 percent to 2,087 yen as of 11:30 a.m. in
Tokyo, paring its advance this year to 16 percent.  Caterpillar (CAT) 
Inc., the biggest construction and mining equipment maker, has
gained 0.2 percent this year.  Growth Forecast  In October, Komatsu forecast industry sales growth will
range from 20 percent to 40 percent in the six months through
March 31 in  North America  and Japan, the markets that together
contributed one third of Komatsu’s sales last quarter. U.S.
housing starts climbed in October to a four-year high, according
to Commerce Department data released on Nov. 20.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s plan to spend more than $100 million next year
on building Mac computers in the U.S., is symbolic of the
manufacturing rebound in the country, Noji said. The Cupertino,
California-based iPhone maker intends to shift a portion of
manufacturing away from China, the country that has assembled
its products for years.  Some overseas companies are also taking steps toward
building in the U.S. some products that had been handled abroad.
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  will assemble computers in Whitsett, North
Carolina, starting next year, while  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  and other
companies plan to create batteries for hybrid and electric cars
in  Michigan .  Caterpillar, Komatsu’s bigger U.S. rival, said in February
it will open a plant in Athens, Georgia next year, shifting
manufacturing of small track-type tractors and mini-hydraulic
excavators from Sagami, Japan. The facility will create 4,200
jobs, including suppliers and outside the companies that will
support the factory.  Energy Boost  While construction in the U.S. is being fueled by lower
energy costs and spending on homes and highways, global demand
for mining equipment is expected to decline as much as 10
percent next year, Noji said. Komatsu cut its full-year profit
forecast by 17 percent to 157 billion yen ($1.9 billion) in July
as declining coal prices cut mining in Indonesia and Chinese
sales of construction equipment plummeted, he said.  BHP last quarter decided to delay the approval of an
estimated $33 billion expansion of the Olympic Dam copper,
uranium and gold mine.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s
biggest iron ore producer after Rio Tinto Group and BHP, said
it’s cutting  capital spending  and jobs.  Komatsu’s sales of construction and mining equipment in
China dropped 44 percent to 21.7 billion yen in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, the biggest regional decline, Komatsu said on
Oct. 30. China’s contribution to Komatsu’s revenue fell to 7
percent in the fiscal first half from 13 percent a year earlier.
The market accounted for 20 percent of Komatsu’s sales two years
ago during China’s construction boom.  Lower Capacity  Dwindling demand has forced Komatsu to operate only 30
percent of its capacity in China, Noji said. Still, Komatsu has
retained its employees on optimism demand will rebound and has
asked local suppliers to seek other buyers, he said.  “Demand will probably increase after the Lunar New Year”
holidays, Noji said. An increase in coal production and
resumption of construction projects may revive sales, he said.  In Japan, efforts to rebuild the regions affected by last
year’s earthquake and tsunami will probably boost demand in
summer, Noji said.  Japan’s  Liberal Democratic Party  reclaimed power in a
landslide victory this week and outgoing Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s successor Shinzo Abe said on Dec. 3 he will
take measures to boost consumption and create jobs through
spending on public works. Noda had budgeted 20 trillion yen in
relief spending for the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  