-- Kuwaiti Lawmakers Draft Bills to Bail Out Indebted Citizens
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-19T09:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/kuwaiti-lawmakers-draft-bills-to-bail-out-indebted-citizens.html
Kuwaiti lawmakers in the Gulf
state’s newly elected parliament are pushing for a government
bailout of households that have accumulated billions of dollars
of debt.  Three lawmakers have submitted draft bills this week to
help Kuwaitis repay loans. One of them, lawyer Nawaf Al-Fuzaie,
said he has been fighting in court to relieve Kuwaitis of the
burden of “illegal interest” and is now taking the battle to
parliament.  “We’re looking for a solution to help solve this issue and
we’re open to suggestions,” Al-Fuzaie said in a phone interview
today. “We’re talking about 1.8 billion dinars ($6.4
billion).” Al-Fuzaie said he is confident of the support of a
majority of lawmakers.  Previous attempts at passing such a law have failed. In
2010, the government refused to endorse a bill that would have
cost the state about $23 billion to buy personal loans and write
off accumulated interest. The government said at the time the
measure was unconstitutional and threatened the stability of
 Kuwait ’s banking system. Al-Jarida newspaper today cited Finance
Minister Mustafa Al-Shimali as saying that the government has no
intention of supporting such proposals.  Al-Fuzaie said his bill, which would apply to Kuwaitis with
loans of 70,000 dinars or less, will help companies and the
economy. Proposals submitted by two other lawmakers call for
scrapping interest on loans and rescheduling payments.  In 2007, the government set up a fund to help retail
borrowers repay their loans. Central Bank Governor Mohammed Al- Hashel said in October that about 26,000 Kuwaitis who had
registered with the fund had received interest-free loans of 420
million dinars, adding that he was opposed to scrapping the
interest on citizens’ debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  