-- N.Y. Public Library, Norman Foster Evict a Million Books
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/n-y-pubic-library-norman-foster-evict-a-million-books.html
A $300 million renovation of the  New
York Public Library ’s ornate marble palace in midtown Manhattan
will start by evicting 1.2 million books.  The plan, unveiled today and overseen by the London firm of
Foster & Partners, keeps more books onsite than had been
suggested in earlier proposals. Books will be stored in space
under Bryant Park and in a Princeton,  New Jersey , facility.  Many of the ousted books are now available digitally or
rarely requested, which may mollify some of the proposal’s
prominent critics.  The books’ absence makes room for the most dramatic aspect
of the Central Library Plan: curving balconies of bookshelves
and reading tables that will look out over Bryant Park.  The project, announced by the library’s president, Anthony Marx, will bring the circulating collections from two branch
libraries into the building.  Foster’s plan is expected to both make and save money. How?  The dilapidated Mid- Manhattan  Library, across the street,
will be sold once the new facility has been built; ditto the
Science, Industry and Business Library on 34th Street.  The proceeds will underwrite much of this epic
reorganization, though a one-shot real-estate deal won’t fix the
library’s long-term financial needs.  And moving out millions of books to bring in the
circulating collections has antagonized researchers and writers.  More Money  In an interview in his wood-paneled library office, Marx
said: “We need to provide a better experience for our users and
have more money to do it.”  From his point of view, everybody wins: The books in the
stacks will be better protected, the Mid-Manhattan Library will
get a sparkling new facility without having to close, and the
library will receive more money to spend on operations.  His argument is persuasive as far as it goes.  Right now, the 1911 library, whose grand marble entry on
Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street is flanked by beloved stone lions,
is the busiest research library open to the public in the U.S.  In the future, patrons wishing to take out a book will
proceed in a straight line from the vaulted Fifth Avenue
entrance through the soaring columns of the renovated Gottesman
exhibition hall.  They’ll enter the former book-storage space on a balcony
that looks out to  Bryant Park  through an atrium that unites four
floors of books, computer stations and reading tables. Pairs of
gracefully curving stairs also link the collections. Imagine
everything bathed in slanting bands of sunlight.  The Foster layout would make more of the building’s
splendors publicly accessible.  More Space  A grim hallway and surrounding  office space  centrally
located on the second floor will be renovated to augment space
for writers working on projects. A vastly expanded children and
teen area will open up underused space on the ground floor.  The plan can’t succeed if the sale of the branch libraries
doesn’t spin off lots of cash.  Augmenting a promised $150 million from the city, the
library hopes to raise $200 million by selling the two branches.
With gifts and operational savings, the library expects to
realize $15 million annually to hire more librarians and
purchase more materials.  But real-estate deals always pose risks for a cultural
institution. (The nearby Donnell Library, closed for four years,
still awaits a commercial tower that’s supposed to be its new
home.)  Floor Supports  And the renovation is complex. That’s because the
bookshelves’ dense mesh of solid-steel panels supports the
building’s third floor. A contractor will have to hack through
the thicket to install new columns and beams before the rest of
the stacks can be removed.  Moving out the research collection pits Marx against
hundreds of vocal academics and writers who include Mario Vargas Llosa,  Salman Rushdie  and Jonathan Lethem. They want the three
million books that would be displaced to stay right where they
are.  The Rose Main Reading Room with its elaborately carved wood
ceiling and massive chandeliers, has nurtured generations of
writers, who have been able to call up any of the books in the
library’s vast underground trove.  Far Away  While the reading room’s splendor and function will not be
altered, sending books 60 miles away makes them only nominally
accessible, though the library promises a 24-hour turnaround on
requests.  It seems obvious to me that the New York Public Library
should avoid downgrading books at a time when most people are
happy with whatever they can find on Wikipedia.  Unfortunately, the Foster design, perhaps to avoid further
enflaming opponents, proffers graceless skinny columns rising
through the atrium to a flimsy looking parasol-shaped ceiling.
In a brief telephone conversation, Foster said he was still
studying the ceiling and walls.  I hope so. This thin architectural gruel defers to the
spare-no-expense grandeur underwritten by a clutch of early
20th-century financial titans. The library is one of the
greatest works of the architecture firm Carrere & Hastings, and
won’t be defaced. But Foster’s work should energize not
enervate.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 