-- N.Z.’s Economic Growth Slows More Than Forecast; Kiwi Falls
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-12-19T23:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/n-z-s-economic-growth-slows-more-than-forecast-kiwi-falls.html
New Zealand’s economic growth slowed
more than economists forecast last quarter amid a drop in
manufacturing and farm output, sending the currency toward its
steepest weekly decline since May.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from the previous quarter, when it expanded a
revised 0.3 percent, Statistics New Zealand said in a report
released today in Wellington. Growth matched the central bank’s
0.2 percent forecast and was half the 0.4 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists.  The New Zealand dollar fell as traders bet central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler will extend a period of record-low
interest rates. Still, sluggish growth may be temporary amid
signs of a pick-up in reconstruction in Christchurch and a rise
in  consumer confidence  in the fourth quarter that may revive
domestic demand in 2013.  “The economy shifted down a gear,” Mark Smith, senior
economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in an
e-mailed note. “With 2013 approaching, the real issue is
identifying the drivers of growth outside construction against a
fickle global and labor market backdrop.”  New Zealand’s dollar dropped against the U.S. currency
after the data. It bought 83.35 U.S. cents as of 11:35 a.m. in
Wellington from 83.61 cents immediately before the result. The
so-called kiwi has fallen 1.5 percent since Dec. 14.  Downward Revision  Statistics New Zealand has introduced new methodology for
parts of the GDP series and used new industry benchmarks,
resulting in revisions to the whole series. The changes showed
New Zealand was in a recession in the second half of 2010, a
period when growth was previously reported to have stalled.  Second-quarter growth was revised from a previously
reported 0.6 percent as confirmed figures proved more accurate
than preliminary indicators in parts of the services industry,
officials said. First-half growth was 1.2 percent, down from a
previously reported 1.6 percent.  The economy expanded 2 percent in the third quarter from
the year-earlier period, the report showed, less than the 2.5
percent growth estimated by economists and the slowest pace in a
year. Annual growth slowed from a revised 2.5 percent in the 12
months through June.  New Zealand’s economic recovery has weakened in the second
half of 2012 as a global slowdown and rising currency hurt
exports, curbed manufacturing and pushed the unemployment rate
to a 13-year high of 7.3 percent in the third quarter.  Manufacturers  A number of manufacturers “have found it really hard,”
Finance Minister Bill English said in an interview yesterday.
“We are disappointed with what looks like a softer labor market
because that’s the measure for a lot of people of sustainable
growth.”  The central bank forecasts growth will slow to less than 2
percent early next year before accelerating to 3.1 percent by
the end of 2013. It also predicted annual inflation will remain
less than 2 percent over the next two years.  Wheeler held the official cash rate at 2.5 percent earlier
this month. Nine of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
he will raise borrowing costs next year and seven predict no
change until 2014.  Manufacturing fell 1.1 percent in the third quarter, led by
metal products and food processing, while farm production
dropped on less dairy output, today’s report showed.  Quake Rebuilding  Construction rose 4.5 percent, led by rebuilding in
Christchurch, the country’s third-largest city which was
devastated by a series of earthquakes that began in September
2010. The increase was the most since the second quarter of that
year.  The expenditure measure of GDP advanced 0.2 percent in the
quarter, as a drop in investment offset rising exports, today’s
report showed.  Investment declined 4.7 percent as businesses bought fewer
fixed assets, primarily plant and equipment, it showed.
Residential housing investment rose for a fifth straight
quarter, the agency said. Household spending was unchanged.  Exports of goods, which make up 30 percent of the economy,
surged 4 percent, led by overseas shipments of milk powder and
butter, the GDP data showed. Imports increased 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  