-- Navistar Falls After $2.77 Billion Fourth-Quarter Loss
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-12-19T21:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/navistar-falls-after-2-77-billion-fourth-quarter-loss.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
truckmaker under pressure from shareholders including  Carl Icahn 
to boost its performance, fell the most since September after a
$2 billion tax expense led a quarterly loss of $2.77 billion.  Navistar tumbled 8.5 percent to $20.92 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest one-day drop since Sept. 4. The shares
have lost 45 percent this year.  Navistar, which has posted losses in three of the last four
quarters, today also cited pretax charges totaling $252 million
for warranty expenses linked to big bore engines, cost cuts,
restructuring and engineering integration and non-conformance
penalties. The company will exceed its goal of reducing
structural costs by $175 million, Chief Executive Officer Lewis B. Campbell said in the statement.  While the truckmaker’s report was “messy” it provided
“encouraging” details of its turnaround effort,  David Leiker ,
a Milwaukee-based analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a
note today. Leiker has an outperform  rating  on Navistar.  The fiscal fourth-quarter loss of $40.13 per share compared
with net income of $255 million, or $3.48 a share, in the year-
earlier quarter. The non-cash tax expense, which accounted for
more than 70 percent of the per-share loss, was for an increase
in deferred tax valuation allowance, the Lisle, Illinois-based
company said.  Sales Decline  Lower  sales , warranty costs and cost-cutting charges caused
Navistar to lose $566 million on a pretax basis, down from a
pretax profit of $275 million a year earlier, according to the
statement. The company said it exceeded its guidance on
liquidity by having $1.5 billion in cash and near-cash items.  Revenue for the period ended Oct. 31 fell 24 percent to
$3.28 billion. That compared to an average estimate of $3.18
billion, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  “We continue to make significant progress on our
turnaround and the complexity of this quarter’s results is
reflective of the actions necessary during this time of
transition,” Campbell, who  became  Navistar’s CEO in August,
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  