-- NBA Trademarks 5 Possible New Nicknames for New Orleans Hornets
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/nba-trademarks-5-possible-new-nicknames-for-new-orleans-hornets.html
The  National Basketball Association 
has filed trademark applications covering five potential
nicknames for its New Orleans team now known as the Hornets,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office website.  Trademarks for the New Orleans Pelicans, Bullsharks, Swamp
Dogs, Rougarou and Mosquitos have been filed on behalf of the
 New Orleans Hornets  NBA Limited Partnership, according to the
website. The reports were filed Dec. 5 by Anil V. George, a
lawyer at NBA Properties Inc.  “When teams may be looking at a possible name change, it
is standard practice for the NBA league office to file trademark
applications on the team’s behalf,” NBA spokesman  Mike Bass 
said yesterday in an e-mail. “We filed trademark applications
for multiple possible team names for the New Orleans
franchise.”  The trademarks were first reported by the website
BehindTheBuckPass.com.  “This is an ongoing process still being discussed, but the
eventual decision is in the hands of the NBA,” the Hornets said
in a statement.  Tom Benson, who owns the city’s  National Football League 
franchise, the Saints, bought the Hornets earlier this year for
$338 million. He said at the time that he would like to change
the team’s nickname to something more fitting for the city.  Yahoo Sports reported earlier this month that Pelicans was
the leading candidate to be the team’s new nickname starting
next year. The brown pelican is the Louisiana state bird and
appears on the state flag and seal.  The Hornets moniker was carried over when the team moved
from Charlotte, North Carolina, prior to the 2002-03 season.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  