-- N.Y. MTA Chairman Lhota Resigning to Explore NYC Mayoral Bid
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-19T20:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/new-york-s-mta-raises-subway-base-fare-by-25-cents-to-2-50.html
Joseph Lhota, who was widely praised
for reviving the  New York City   subway system  after  Hurricane
Sandy , will resign as chairman of the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  to explore a run for mayor.  Lhota’s announcement, which came minutes after the largest
U.S. transit agency’s board voted to raise fares and tolls, will
clear a path for him to pursue a bid for mayor of New York City
as a Republican. The MTA chairman is barred from participating
in political activity.  The 58-year-old Bronx native is no stranger to  City Hall ,
having served as deputy mayor under  Rudy Giuliani . He will
decide whether to declare his candidacy within weeks, he said,
and described as “bittersweet” his departure so soon after
Sandy caused the worst damage to the subway system in its 108-
year history. He will step down Dec. 31.  “I never expected this opportunity to arise, but I will
use every part of this opportunity to support the MTA,” Lhota
said in a news briefing following the board meeting. Resigning
on the same day as telling  New Yorkers  they will have to pay
more to commute, Lhota said to laughter, was “an act of
courage.”  The board voted to raise its base fare for subways and
buses by 25 cents to $2.50 and monthly unlimited passes by $8 to
$112. The increases will take effect in March, marking the
fourth fare boost in five years. Also included are higher prices
on river crossings and railroads, part of a plan to net an
annual $450 million in additional revenue.  Still Struggling  Lhota’s announcement, just over a year after he took over
daily operations, threatens to disrupt the already struggling
state agency. Sandy’s destruction has officials lobbying
Congress for $5 billion in repairs, in addition to billions more
to prevent future damage. Even before Sandy hit Oct. 29, the MTA
wasn’t done digging itself out of a fiscal hole exacerbated by
the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.  The MTA has also yet to reach a contract deal with the
Transport Workers Union Local 100, the agency’s biggest
bargaining unit, after building into its budget three years of
no wage increases. And the authority is fighting a legal battle
over a  payroll tax  projected to pump $1.26 billion into its
coffers. A state judge struck down the levy in August as
unconstitutional.  Midtown Tunnel  Under the fare and toll plan, weekly unlimited passes for
subways and buses will rise $1 to $30, and a 7 percent discount
on purchases of $10 or more will fall to 5 percent and apply to
those as small as $5. Base fares on express buses will jump to
$6 from $5.50.  Tolls on most MTA crossings, including the Robert F.
Kennedy Bridge and Queens Midtown Tunnel, will increase to $5.33
for E-ZPass users from $4.80 and to $7.50 for those paying cash,
from $6.50. Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North riders will
continue to pay based on length of trip, time of day and type of
ticket purchased. The price of most tickets will go up by 8.2
percent to 9.3 percent.  Lhota said the increases were unavoidable due to rising
labor and debt costs. They were set in motion years ago when the
agency planned to enact biennial fare and toll increases to make
up for insufficient state and federal support, he said.  “We are not the fat, profligate, out-of-control agency
that people have tried to make the MTA out to be,” Lhota told
the board. “We are an agency that 8.5 million people rely on
every single day” and without it, the economy of the  New York 
City metropolitan area couldn’t function.  Revolving Door  Riders already pay the second-highest share of operating
costs of any transit system in the country, according to the
 Citizens Budget Commission . The MTA will continue lobbying
Washington and Albany lawmakers to win more funding in hopes of
staving off the next fare and toll increase planned for 2015,
Lhota said.  Gene Russianoff, a commuter advocate, said the constant
managerial changes at the top of the MTA threatens that quest.  “There have been six MTA leaders in the last six years,”
said Russianoff, senior attorney at the Straphangers Campaign.
“That has not helped the cause of winning safe, reliable and
affordable transit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  