-- Next South Korea President to Engage More With North, Beck Says
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-12-19T04:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/next-south-korea-president-to-engage-more-with-north-beck-says.html
Asia Foundation  Korea  Representative
Peter Beck comments on South Korea’s presidential election in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today.  On  North Korea  policies:  “It is interesting that the rocket launch has happened a
week ago but it really hasn’t had any impact on the election.
Voters are really focused on domestic issues. There is broad
consensus on Korea on the need to engage with North Korea, even
when they engage with bad behaviors, like rocket launches.”  “Even after the attacks, North Korea launched two attacks
on South Korea in 2010, and still there is a strong majority
supporting more engagement with North Korea. So both
presidential candidates have pledged to reach out to North
Korea.”  “Moon Jae In would be a bit more aggressive than Park Geun Hye, he has recognized that North-South relations are very poor
right now and that he would try to improve it.”  On why Rocket is not having much impact on the election:  “ South Korea  has been living with the attacks from North
Korea for more than sixty years.”  “Having a long range missile capability doesn’t really
change the threat equation on the Korean peninsula.”  On voter turnout:  “We have seen so far that the turnout is very high. I
think its for two reasons. One the election is much closer than
it was five years ago, we knew even before the polls closed. The
weather is good, it’s cold, but it is good so its not going to
stop people.”  “There is a real generational divide. Those under 40
overwhelmingly support opposition candidate Moon Jae In and
those over 50 overwhelmingly supporting Park Geun Hye. Those who
are in the 40s, like me, the first generation that really
experienced democracy, they are really going to be the ones
determining this election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  