-- Nigeria to Angola Plan Record Bond Sales as Yields Sink
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-12-20T21:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/nigeria-to-angola-plan-record-bond-sales-as-yields-sink.html
Three oil-producing African nations
are preparing to sell as much as $3.75 billion in international
bonds in 2013, the most from the continent ever, after yields
sank below Italy and  Spain  and investors set aside concerns
sparked by Ivory Coast’s default almost two years ago.  Nigeria  plans to borrow $1 billion on overseas markets,
twice as much as it sold in 2011, while  Angola  is seeking $2
billion of debt.  Ghana , which issued the first Eurobonds in sub-
Saharan  Africa  outside of  South Africa  in 2007, may sell a
further $750 million, Deputy Finance Minister Seth Terkper said
by phone from Accra Dec. 13. Sales the past 14 months by Namibia
and Zambia drew five to 20 times more demand than sought.  As the  World Bank  estimates sub-Saharan Africa needs $93
billion a year to overcome poor road networks and shortages of
power and water, governments are taking advantage of historic-
low yields across  emerging markets . Yields on Nigeria’s dollar
bonds due January 2021 have dropped 201 basis points this year
to 4.1 percent, while similar-maturity debt sold by Spain yields
5.18 percent and that for Italy 4.38 percent. Ivory Coast, which
defaulted on $2.3 billion of bonds in January 2011, rewarded
investors with the world’s best returns.  “Given their inherent financing needs and the lack of
capital, it would be beneficial for African issuers to access
cheap financing while it is available,” Kojo Amoo-Gottfried, a
London-based analyst at FM Capital Partners Ltd., which manages
about $1 billion, said by phone Dec. 11. “Conducive market
conditions will not persist indefinitely.”  Economic Expansion  Average emerging-market dollar-denominated bond yields have
fallen 85 basis points, or 0.85 percentage point, this year to a
record 5.57 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates
developing nations will post growth rates next year almost four
times faster than the developed world. Even with the declines,
average yields compare with 1.8 percent on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries, luring investors seeking higher returns.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s gross domestic product will expand 5.7
percent in 2013, the fastest pace after developing nations in
 Asia , from 5 percent this year, the IMF said Oct. 9, boosted by
higher commodity prices.  Investors are looking to tap into “a good growth story,”
Aurelien Mali, a senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service,
said in a Nov. 7 phone interview from  London .  Moody’s Investors Service assigned Ghana a B1 rating today,
four levels below investment grade and the same level as Zambia
and  Kenya . The rating company cited the country’s “robust
growth prospects” in its report.  ‘Macroeconomic Instability’  While yields on Ghana’s dollar notes due October 2017 have
dropped 164 basis points this year to 4.9 percent, those on
five-year cedi-denominated debt stood at 21.25 percent according
to Standard Chartered Plc prices. The higher domestic yields,
reflect “underdevelopment of the domestic  capital market  and
also the fact there is macroeconomic instability, inflation
volatility and public finance with fiscal deficit volatility,”
Mali said. “There is not a lot of credit stability for those
markets.”  The drop in dollar funding costs reflects a “bubble” for
emerging markets and doesn’t compensate for the risks investors
are taking on,  Charles Robertson , global chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital , said in a Nov. 13 interview in London.  Nigeria’s  inflation rate  has stayed above the central
bank’s 10 percent target this year, with price growth
accelerating 12.3 percent in November. Sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-biggest economy also relies on crude exports for about 95
percent of foreign-currency earnings and 80 percent of
government revenue.  ‘Bond Bubble’  Ghana’s cedi has dropped 14 percent this year against the
dollar, the worst performing currency in Africa after  Sudan ’s
pound and Malawi’s kwacha. Kenya’s shilling plunged as much as
32 percent last year amid a fourfold surge in inflation.  “We are in a hard currency bond bubble globally,”
Robertson said. “Local debt is the better prospect” because
yields are higher than foreign securities to compensate for
risk, he said.  Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in his budget
speech in October that the West African nation will sell its
second Eurobond in 2013. Yields on Angola’s next international
bonds may be lower than the 7 percent on seven-year debt sold in
August because market conditions have improved, VTB Bank OJSC
Chairman Andrey Kostin, which helped Angola sell its notes, said
Oct. 31 after meeting the country’s President Jose Eduardo dos Santos and Vice President Manuel Vincente.  Rwandan Debt  Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and  Mozambique  may also
issue their first foreign-currency bonds in the next few years,
Moody’s said in October. Of the 54 countries in Africa, 13 have
sold foreign-currency denominated debt on international markets,
according to Moody’s. Dollar funding shields investors’ from
currency swings and inflation, while giving issuers access to
financing at lower rates than at home.  Investors are favoring African dollar bonds because they
are scarce and holding them means they can diversify their
portfolios, said Moody’s Mali. About 10 percent of the region’s
external debt stock is international issuance, he said.  As  Ivory Coast  resumed interest payments in June and got an
agreement from bondholders to service arrears by 2014, the
government’s notes due December 2032 have returned 87 percent
this year to 93.09 cents on the dollar, with yields dropping 765
basis points to 7.23 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “If you’re looking for yield its really one of the last
frontiers to find it,” Daniel Broby, deputy chief executive
officer of Silk Invest Ltd., which holds Nigerian, Zambian and
Senegalese Eurobonds, said in a Dec. 12 phone interview from
London. “The risk is they get greedy. I just hope that in this
rush for this window they act prudently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  