-- Nordic Power Price Nears Two-Week High on Cold, Dry Weather
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-19T09:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/nordic-power-price-nears-two-week-high-on-cold-dry-weather.html
Nordic electricity for delivery in
January through March neared a two-week high after forecasts for
dry weather and cold temperatures indicated curbed supply and
higher demand.  “The weather is marginally colder, which props up the
price, combined with a decline in available water supplies,”
Rune Joergensen, a trader at utility HelgelandsKraft AS, said
today by phone from Mosjoeen,  Norway .  Power for next quarter gained 1.3 percent to 42 euros a
megawatt-hour ($55.72) as of 10:27 a.m. on the Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo, the highest since Dec. 7. The
contract for next month rose 0.6 percent to 43.80 euros .  Low temperatures in Oslo may drop to minus 25 degrees
Celsius (minus 13 Fahrenheit) on Jan. 1 from minus 3 today,
according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg. That compares
with a 10-year seasonal average of minus 11.  Prices swing back and forth day to day, and there is a lack
of any clear trend in the market due to mixed  weather forecasts ,
Joergensen said.  “The overall tendency is flat, there are few signals to
trade on, and I wouldn’t take any large position based on
current weather indications,” he said.  The Nordic region’s hydropower reserves, which exceed the
seasonal average by 0.4 terawatt-hours, may drop to a deficit of
3.8 terawatt-hours in two weeks, according to Markedskraft AS
data on Bloomberg. The region gets more than half of its yearly
power supplies by running water through turbines, and has had a
water surplus since late June 2011.  The utilization rate of Swedish and Finnish nuclear
reactors may rise to 96 percent from today’s 91 percent on Dec.
21, if EON SE gets authorization from  Sweden ’s Radiation Safety
Authority to restart the 638-megawatt Oskarshamn-2 reactor,
according data from operators and calculations by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  