-- Norges Bank Predicts Rate Rise as Economy Remains Resilient
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-12-19T13:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/norges-bank-predicts-rate-rise-as-economy-remains-resilient-2-.html
Norges Bank kept  its benchmark
interest rate  on hold for a fifth meeting and stuck to a plan to
raise  interest rates  as soon as March amid “solid” growth in
western  Europe ’s largest oil producer.  The overnight deposit rate was left at 1.5 percent, the
Oslo-based bank said today. The decision was forecast by all 16
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank said today that
developments were “broadly in line” with projections in
October, when it predicted an increase in March at the earliest.  “Developments in the Norwegian economy give reason to
believe that inflation will gradually pick up,” Deputy Governor
Jan F. Qvigstad said in a statement. “This suggests that the
key policy rate can be raised further out.”  Policy makers are keeping rates close to record lows
following two cuts over the past 12 months as the krone’s
strength threatens exporters in the Nordic nation.  Norway , which
is backed by a $660 billion wealth fund and boasts the largest
budget surplus of any AAA rated nation, has provided investors
refuge from Europe’s debt crisis, pushing the krone to an all-
time high. At the same time, low borrowing costs coupled with
falling unemployment have fueled household credit growth and
sent  house prices  to records.  Krone Gains  The krone gained 0.4 percent to 7.3721 per euro as of 2:20
p.m. in Oslo. Versus the dollar, it surged 1 percent to 5.5420.  “Growth among our trading partners is weak and interest
rates abroad are very low,” the central bank said. “Inflation
in Norway is low. Against this background, the key policy rate
is left unchanged.”  The  import-weighted krone index  reached 85 last week, its
highest since at least 1999. The index, up 4.6 percent this
year, has surpassed the bank’s 85.75 forecasts for next year. A
lower reading indicates a stronger currency. Gains have pushed
inflation well below the central bank’s 2.5 percent target.  “Norges Bank has been pretty clear on its priority: the
inflation mandate,” Frank Jullum, chief economist for Norway at
Danske Bank A/S, said before the decision. “We will probably
see the housing market issues being left to macro regulation in
2013. This should take some burden off Norges Bank.”  Mortgage Risks  The  Finance Ministry  this week moved to stem credit growth,
after the central bank estimated private debt levels will exceed
200 percent of disposable incomes in 2013. The government
proposed an increase in risk weights on mortgages to 35 percent,
about triple current levels, and wants to place limits on
covered bond lending. The central bank will also, starting next
year, advise the ministry on countercyclical buffer requirements
for banks.  The world’s fourth-richest nation per capita is
withstanding a recession in the euro area, and even displaying
signs of overheating, amid record investment in Norway’s
petroleum industry. House prices have doubled since 2002 and are
up an annual 7.6 percent this year, according to the Norwegian
Association of Real Estate Agents.  Weak global growth prospects abroad have curtailed the
central bank’s scope to address overheating risks without
fueling krone gains. Central bankers in the euro area, the U.S.
and  Japan  have resorted to additional stimulus, pushing rate
increases further out in time.  Sweden’s Riksbank yesterday cut its benchmark interest rate
for a fourth time in a year, bringing the rate to 1 percent, to
revive growth as Europe’s debt woes erode export demand.  “We don’t think Norges Bank will increase rates until
2014, because of the strong krone and extremely low
international rates,” said Kjersti Haugland, an analyst at DNB
Bank ASA, in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  