-- Norway Seeks to Stem Covered Bond Issuance to Curb Bank Risk
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-19T10:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/norway-seeks-to-stem-covered-bond-issuance-to-curb-bank-risk.html
Norway ’s Finance Ministry is seeking
to set limits on the amount of loans banks can transfer to their
mortgage units to back covered bonds as part of an effort to
prevent a build-up of risk amid a potential property bubble.  The ministry has asked the financial regulator to set a
“qualitative” rule on loan transfers to wholly owned mortgage
units, according to  letters  to the Financial Supervisory
Authority and the central bank published today. There may be a
need for rules that allow the FSA to demand extra capital at a
bank if there’s a considerable increase in risk from shifting
loans to credit units, the ministry said.  The proposals follow an October recommendation from the FSA
that consideration should be given to introducing limits on the
proportion of assets that can be posted as collateral for
covered bonds. The use of mortgage loans to secure the bonds
means less high-quality assets are left on the banks’ balance
sheet, while the low funding costs of covered bonds risk drawing
away financing from other areas, the watchdog said at the time.  Near-record low interest rates in the world’s fourth-
richest nation per capita, coupled with falling unemployment and
solid wage increases has fueled household credit growth, pushing
private debt levels and house prices to records. Norway, which
is western  Europe ’s largest petroleum exporter, has withstood
the euro area debt crisis thanks to its oil wealth.  Putting Responsibility  House prices have risen 7.6 percent this year, while
private debt levels will rise to more than 200 percent of
disposable income next year, according to central bank
estimates. The FSA has warned that the run-away housing market
represents the biggest domestic threat to the economy.  “Essentially the government is putting the responsibility
for slowing lending growth and stabilize household debt levels
on banks rather than Norges Bank,” said Erica Blomgren, chief
strategist at  SEB AB (SEBA)  in Oslo. “By both limiting banks’ ability
to issue covered bonds and making it more expensive by demanding
banks to hold more equity for issuance of covered bonds, the
cost for mortgages will increase.”  The government this week also proposed to raise risk
weights on mortgage loans, to further ease lending growth. The
ministry today said that the FSA should examine whether banks
may need to reduce their economic ties to their mortgage lending
units. It also said the regulator and central bank should look
into whether credit units that issue covered bonds should have
restricted bank concessions limited to mortgage lending.  The ministry said it was up to the central bank to decide
whether it will lend to issuers of covered bonds. The FSA will
prepare a report on the ministry’s proposals by March 1.  “The balance sheet encumbrance issue is not really new and
has been discussed by the Norwegian and Swedish regulators for
the last year,” Hakon Fure, an analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in Oslo, said
in an e-mailed response to questions today. “I do not expect
any quantitative rules limiting the use of covered bonds or
imposing minimum deposit-to-loan ratios, but rather expect
qualitative rules regarding the risks transferred. Thus, I do
not expect this to be a big issue.”  DNB ASA, Norway’s largest lender,  rose 1.15 kroner , or 1.65
percent, to 70.75 kroner at 10:53 a.m. in Oslo today.  Norway’s covered bond market has grown to about 780 billion
kroner ($137 billion) from less than 100 billion kroner in 2007
and makes up about 20 percent of the banks’ funding, the FSA
said in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  