-- Tobacco Bonds Rally After Cigarette Makers Release $4 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-12-19T16:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/tobacco-bonds-rally-after-cigarette-makers-release-4-billion.html
Tobacco bonds issued by U.S. states
are gaining after  Philip Morris USA (PM)  and other cigarette makers
said they would distribute to 17 states $4 billion in payments
previously withheld from a 1998 settlement.  The extra yield that investors demand to buy a California
tobacco bond fell by more than 0.2 percentage point today, and
is down 10 percent this month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 Philip Morris ,  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  said
yesterday they would release the funds in exchange for credit
against future payments toward the settlement.  “There’s more certainty, and that’s good for the states
and ultimately good for the tobacco bonds,” said Alan Schankel,
managing director of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  A tax-exempt Golden State Tobacco Securitization Corp. bond
rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, six steps below
investment grade, and due in 15 years, traded today with an
average yield of 5.32 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s 3.2 percentage points above a benchmark index, down from
3.56 percentage points Nov. 30.  Tobacco bonds rated junk have earned about 28 percent this
year, compared with 7 percent for the broader $3.7 trillion
municipal market, Barclays Plc data show.  In the 14-year-old agreement, the producers make annual
payments to 46 jurisdictions based on cigarette shipments to
cover the companies’ liability in health-care cost litigation.  The makers and the states were in disagreement over claims
that market-share erosion should reduce the companies’ payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  