-- Obama Warns Rwanda’s President Against Backing Congo M23 Rebels
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-12-19T04:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/obama-warns-rwanda-s-president-against-backing-congo-m23-rebels.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  urged
Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  to end all assistance for rebel
groups in the  Democratic Republic  of the Congo, calling such
support “inconsistent” with regional stability.  During a phone call yesterday with Kagame, Obama pressed
the importance of “reaching a transparent and credible
political agreement that includes an end to impunity” by
commanders of rebels, including the M23 group, linked to human
rights abuses, according to a White House statement.  The call comes a week after U.S. lawmakers joined human-
rights groups in calling on the administration to get tough with
Rwanda for backing rebels in the eastern part of Congo. The
 United Nations  says the Rwandan government provided direct
support to the M23 rebels that captured the city of Goma in
Congo last month.  Obama “expressed his belief that from this crisis should
emerge a political agreement that addresses the underlying
regional security, economic, and governance issues while
upholding” Congo’s territorial integrity, according to the
White House statement.  The crisis in Congo has killed 5 million people since 1997
and displaced millions more, according to the U.S. State
Department. At stake in the eastern part of Congo, bordering
Rwanda and Uganda, are deposits of tin ore, gold, tungsten and
coltan, a mineral used in laptops and mobile phones.  Last month, as many as 1,000 Rwandan troops crossed the
border into Congo to support rebel operations in the village of
Kibumba, according to a letter from the UN Group of Experts that
is monitoring the crisis for the  Security Council .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ; 