-- Brent Crude Gains for Second Day as U.S. Stockpiles Decline
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-12-19T13:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-decline.html
Brent crude rose for a second day in
 London , gaining more than $1, after an industry report showed
stockpiles fell the most in more than three months in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest oil consumer.  Futures increased as much as 1.1 percent after closing
$1.20 a barrel higher yesterday. U.S. crude supplies dropped by
4.1 million barrels in the seven days ended Dec. 14, the most
since the week to Aug. 31, data from the American Petroleum
Institute showed. A U.S. government report today may say
inventories fell by 1.75 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Oil has advanced this week amid
speculation that U.S. lawmakers will agree on steps to avert tax
increases and spending cuts known as the fiscal cliff.  “There is increasing optimism that the U.S. will solve the
fiscal cliff issue, and that is driving prices up,” Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said today by e-mail.
“That’s been the main driver in the last few days, and in the
short term the EIA inventory report today could have an impact,
especially if it matches the direction of yesterday’s API.”  Brent for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up 90 cents at $109.74 a barrel at
1:41 p.m. local time. The European benchmark crude rose as much
as $1.16 and was at a premium of $20.99 to the corresponding WTI
contract, from $20.44 yesterday. The volume traded for all Brent
contracts was 11 percent below the average for the past 100
days. The front-month contract has risen 2.2 percent this year.  Contract Expiring  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery was at
$88.32 a barrel, up 39 cents, in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The contract expires today. The more-
actively traded February contract gained 37 cents to $88.77.
Traded volume for all contracts was 9.8 percent below the
average of the past 100 days. Front-month futures rose 0.8
percent yesterday to $87.93, the highest close since Dec. 4.  Oil in New York has fallen 11 percent in 2012 as the U.S.
shale boom deepened a supply glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
country’s largest storage hub and the delivery point for WTI.
That has left it at an average discount of $17.42 a barrel to
Brent this year, compared with a premium of about 7 cents in the
five years through 2010.  More than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases
are set to start in the U.S. in January unless an agreement to
avert the measures is reached. House Speaker John Boehner said
yesterday he will push a budget “plan B” measure that would
include higher taxes for people earning more than $1 million,
while continuing to negotiate with President  Barack Obama .  ‘Creeping’ Optimism  “There’s a level of optimism creeping into the market
about the fiscal cliff coming to an end,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity newsletter in Sydney. “I don’t think there are any
reasons for oil prices to come off at the moment.”  U.S. gasoline stockpiles climbed 4.2 million barrels last
week, the API said. Supplies are  forecast to rise  2 million
barrels in today’s Energy Department report, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate
inventories, including heating oil and diesel, decreased 1.9
million barrels, compared with a 1 million-barrel gain predicted
in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department in  Washington  for its weekly survey.  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as prices approach
technical resistance along the upper Bollinger Band, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted rallies from mid-
July to mid-September and in early December near this indicator,
around $89.37 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to be clustered
near chart-resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  