-- Hong Kong Will Ban High-Polluting Vehicles to Fight Smog
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-12-20T02:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/hong-kong-will-ban-high-polluting-vehicles-in-bid-to-fight-smog.html
Hong Kong will ban high-polluting
vehicles and offer subsidies to replace diesel-powered buses and
trucks, after 15 years of clean-air measures failed to limit
smog responsible for more than 3,000 premature deaths a year.  The government will introduce its new “carrot and stick”
approach next month,  Christine Loh , undersecretary for
environment, said in an interview. She said past incentives
weren’t big enough, declining to provide the size of the planned
subsidies.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying is making  air
quality  a priority as smoggy skies and choking exhaust fumes
have turned the city into the world’s most polluted financial
center. Air quality has gotten worse since 2007, 10 years after
then-Chief Executive Tung Chee-Hwa vowed to clean up pollution
in his maiden policy speech.  “When we look at the totality of what we’re going to be
pushing out, I think we’ll be among the most aggressive in the
world,” Loh said. Leung will announce the new measures during
his January policy speech, and reduction in emissions should
start by 2014, she said.  Hong Kong has never met its air quality targets in the 25
years since they were adopted. Some 121,300 commercial diesel
vehicles, which include franchised buses operated by companies
controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , are the biggest
contributor to roadside pollution, Loh said.  Failure to force aging buses and trucks off Hong Kong’s
streets is a key cause of pollution that results in more than
3,000 premature deaths a year, according to Civic Exchange, a
think tank that Loh founded before joining the government.  Last year saw 175 days of very high pollution, more than
twice the figure from 2007, the government said in an audit
report last month.  Big Stick  “There was no big stick before saying owners must make the
switch,” said Hung Wing-tat, an associate professor at Hong
Kong Polytechnic University and a member of the Clean Air  Asia 
Partnership Council. “Hong Kong started clean air initiatives
more than ten years ago but we’re always afraid of opposition
and protecting economic interest.”  Airborne particles from vehicle exhausts and power stations
have the greatest impact, and are linked to 9 percent of lung
cancer deaths globally, according to the  World Health
Organization . Hong Kong’s average roadside level of nitrogen
dioxide, which inflames lungs, was more than triple WHO limits.  “Because roadside is our biggest daily public health risk,
that is where we’re going to focus our firepower,” Loh said.
The government also plans to curb emissions from taxis and
public light buses, she said. “If the carrot that we give is
reasonably attractive, then we want to make sure after a certain
period of time, the old vehicle is essentially banned.”  Lagging Behind  Hong Kong has lagged behind rivals in upgrading its bus
fleet and legislating against polluting cars. Of the 121,300
commercial diesel vehicles in Hong Kong as of Oct. 30, more than
40 percent were Euro II models or lower, according to the
 Environmental Protection Department .  There are five EU
standards, with I the least stringent and V the most.  Singapore , which topped Hong Kong as the most desired place
in Asia for mobile millionaires, banned such vehicles in 2001.
Euro II models emit 12.5 times as much particulate matter as
Euro V, according to the  Civic Exchange .  In June 2010, the government announced a plan offering
HK$540 million ($69.7 million) for owners to replace Euro II
vehicles, subsidizing as much as HK$203,000 of a new one. As of
October, about  HK$340 million of subsidies  have been approved.  Spending Money  “Hong Kong has the resources, but of course we need to
persuade other people in the government that we should be
spending substantial amounts of money where we can make the
biggest difference,” Loh said.  NWS Transport Services Ltd., the second-biggest bus company
jointly owned by Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Ltd. and  NWS Holdings
Ltd. (659) ,  said in an e-mail reply to questions that the government
hasn’t contacted it about incentive plans. It also said current
subsidies for diesel commercial vehicles don’t cover franchised
bus operators.  Kowloon Motor Bus Co. (1933) Ltd. (62) , which operates the most
buses in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail reply it won’t comment  on
the planned subsidies because details aren’t yet available. The
company will spend more than HK$5 billion to upgrade its fleet
over the next five years, and has also installed converters on
older buses to improve emissions, it said.  Other measures in the roadside pollution program includes a
revamped index to gauge air quality and reducing bus routes, Loh
said.  Hong Kong will implement a new set of air quality
objectives in 2014 which, if attained, would save 4,200
unnecessary hospital admissions and 7,400 statistical life years
annually, according to the government’s audit. Loh said the
government believes the targets can be reached by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  