-- Monti Resignation May Be Delayed as Italy Budget Vote Stalls
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-19T14:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/monti-resignation-may-be-delayed-as-italy-budget-vote-stalls.html
The resignation of Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , expected by the end of this week, may be
delayed after lawmakers from former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
People of Liberty party asked for more time to examine the
country’s budget bill.  Monti, who said Dec. 8 that he would resign once the 2013
budget was approved by parliament, today postponed his year-end
press conference scheduled for Dec. 21, in which he was expected
to clarify his political future. A new date hasn’t been set, his
office said.  The parliament’s upper house originally was scheduled to
vote on the budget yesterday before passing the legislation to
the Chamber of Deputies for final approval, expected by Dec. 22.
The Senate started its debate on the budget today at 3 p.m.,
making a final vote there unlikely before tomorrow. The Chamber
would then take up the measure, making it difficult to secure
final passage by the end of this week.  “It’s just an electoral tactic, Berlusconi has probably
realized that Monti is not playing his game,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in  London . “Should the budget not be passed by the
end of the year, concerns may return to financial markets, but
this seems like a remote scenario to me.”  ’Institutional Uncertainty’  President Giorgio Napolitano said today it’s in the
country’s interest to pass the budget quickly to avoid
“institutional uncertainty.” Elections following a Monti
resignation shouldn’t be pushed back, as the PDL is now
requesting, Napolitano said in a statement.  Berlusconi said yesterday that elections should be delayed
at least one or two weeks beyond the dates in February now being
considered.  “This rush to go to elections is creating unnecessary
pressure,” Berlusconi said on state-owned Rai television late
yesterday.  The government has been trying to set elections for Feb. 17
or Feb. 24 since Monti announced his plan to resign after
Berlusconi’s party withdrew parliamentary support. Under Italian
law, elections would have to come between 45 and 70 days after
the resignation.  Fabrizio Cicchitto, chief whip for the PDL in the Chamber,
said yesterday the lower house will “take all the time
necessary” to examine the budget, according to  news agency 
Ansa.  “Berlusconi’s waiting game” on the elections and the
budget approval is “undignified,” Ansa cited Democratic Party
leader Pier Luigi Bersani as saying today in Brussels.  Monti’s Future  Monti is under pressure from euro-area and business
leaders, as well as from centrists in  Italy , to enter the
election campaign. Berlusconi this month announced his candidacy
for the premiership for a sixth time after pulling his support
for Monti, only to backtrack and say he’d stay out of the race
if Monti formed a “coalition of moderates.”  Monti has probably made his choice already and “he’s
waiting for parliament to be dissolved,” Union of Centrists
party leader  Pier Ferdinando Casini  told reporters today in  Rome 
after a meeting with Monti that also included Toward a Third
Republic movement leader Luca Cordero di Montezemolo.  Montezemolo later said his movement will start collecting
signatures to present an electoral list.  The three biggest parties defining themselves as “pro-
Monti” have a combined 9 percent of voter support, according to
an SWG poll published Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at o
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  