-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Trades Near Two-Week High
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-12-19T02:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/top-oil-market-news-crude-trades-near-two-week-high.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Rises a Third Day on Signs of Progress in U.S. Budget Talks  Oil climbed for a third day in New York on signs an
agreement will be reached on the U.S. budget, avoiding automatic
spending cuts and tax increases next year.  Gasoline Supply Surges to 8-Month High in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose to the highest level since
March as demand slipped and pump prices dropped to a low for the
year, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Gasoline Gains on Optimism U.S. Budget Talks Will Yield Deal  Gasoline and heating oil rose on optimism that the White
House is closer to a budget deal with House Speaker John Boehner.  Oil Stockpiles Decline as Gasoline Inventories Advance, API Says  Oil supplies fell 4.1 million barrels to 371.7 million last
week, the American Petroleum Institute said.  Vitol Buys European Naphtha; Jet at One-Month High: Oil Products  Naphtha advanced to the highest level since October as
Vitol Group bought its 18th cargo since the start of last week.
Jet fuel barge premiums rose to the most in almost a month.  IEA Sees Oil at $100/Barrel in Next Decade, Chief Economist Says  IEA Chief Economist Fatih Birol speaks to reporters in Rio.  Goldman Bullish With Hedge Funds Amid Citi Warning: Commodities  Investors almost doubled purchases of commodities this year,
at a time when Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are
forecasting higher prices and Citigroup Inc. says the best
returns are over.  Total Pushes Back North Sea Field Start to First Quarter (1)  Total SA plans to resume output from the Elgin platform in
the North Sea by the end of the first quarter, signaling the
return of the company’s largest U.K. field may take longer than
hoped.  Natural Gas Futures Advance as Weather Forecasts Turn Colder  Natural gas futures advanced for a second day in New York
on forecasts for colder-than-normal weather that would boost
demand for the heating fuel.  U.K. Sets Higher Solar Incentives Than Proposed, Caps Biomass  The U.K. set solar incentives under its renewables support
program at higher rates than it proposed in September, while
placing a cap on biomass.  Zambian Tax Paid by Glencore, Vedanta May Triple as Projects End  Mining companies such as Glencore International Plc and
Vedanta Resources Plc will pay three times more tax in Zambia
than they did in 2010 once they finish expansion projects in
Africa’s biggest copper producer, the Chamber of Mines said.  API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Fell 4.10 Mln Barrels  The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly
Statistical Bulletin from the American Petroleum Institute. *T  OPEC  Investors Shun Post-War  Iraq  as Rising OPEC Star’s Recovery Lags  Ziad Makkawi set up a private equity investment firm last
year to capitalize on Iraq’s plans for reviving an economy
gutted by wars and sanctions.  Gasoline at U.S. Pumps Drops to Lowest in a Year on Supplies (2)  Retail gasoline prices in the U.S. fell to the lowest level
in a year as refineries restored production and stockpiles rose
to the most in eight months, blunting criticism of President
Barack Obama’s energy policies.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Chevron Metal for Richmond Repair Meets Standards, Engineer Says  Chevron Corp.’s choice of metal to repair piping on the
crude unit at its Richmond refinery meets state standards and is
“suitable” for the high-temperature conditions at the plant, a
city consultant said.  Motiva Said to Attempt Port Arthur Crude Unit Start by Dec. 23  Motiva Enterprises LLC expects to complete repairs on the
325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit at its Port Arthur,  Texas ,
refinery by Dec. 23 and try to restart, a person familiar with
operations said.  Crude Oil-Tanker Rates Jump as Cargoes to Asia Curb Ship Supply  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broad measure of oil
shipping costs, gained the most since March as charter rates for
Suezmax tankers climbed amid a shortage of available vessels.  Saudi Aramco Seen Booking Fifth Tanker to U.S. Gulf in December  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s biggest state-owned
crude producer, booked its fifth tanker to haul a cargo to the
U.S. Gulf Coast this month, according to shipbroker reports.  Eagle Ford Crude Production Up 76% Over Last Year in October  Chesapeake Energy Corp. and other producers increased
production in October by 76 percent from a year earlier in South
Texas’s Eagle Ford shale formation.  Gasoline at U.S. Pumps Drops to Lowest in a Year on Supply Gain  Retail gasoline in the U.S. fell to the lowest level in a
year as refineries restored production and stockpiles rose to an
eight-month high, blunting criticism of President  Barack Obama ’s
energy policies.  Wynnewood Cuts Oklahoma Refinery Rate, NRC Filing Shows (1)  Wynnewood Refining Co. released an unknown amount of
hydrogen sulfide at its Oklahoma plant because of a shutdown
during maintenance, according to a filing with the National
Response Center.  Gulf Oils Weaken as WTI-Brent Spread Shrinks on Seaway Expansion  U.S. Gulf Coast oils weakened against benchmark West Texas
Intermediate crude as the spread between Brent and WTI narrowed
on an expected expansion of the Seaway oil pipeline in early
January.  Motiva Port Arthur Crude Unit Has Second Fire During Restart (1)  Motiva Enterprises LLC had a second fire in less than a
week at the 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit in Port Arthur,
Texas, as it attempts to restart equipment following six months
of repairs.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 1.7 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  fell 1.7 percent to 11.47 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  U.S. Gulf Tanker Rates Climb to Four-Week High on Fewer Vessels  Hire rates for oil tankers heading to  Europe  from the U.S.
Gulf Coast climbed to the highest in four weeks on a shortage of
vessels, according to Poten & Partners Inc., a New York-based
shipbroker and consultant.  Nigeria to Export 65 February Crude Lots, Partial Plan Shows (1)  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, is scheduled to
export 65 crude cargoes in February, a partial loading program
obtained by Bloomberg showed.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East,  Africa  and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Stocks Gain With Commodities on U.S. Budget as Krona Strengthens  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trading
at a two-month high, and commodities gained on signs of progress
in U.S. budget talks. Ten-year Treasury yields climbed to a
seven-week high.  Blasting Mississippi Rocks Delayed as Backhoes Make Progress  The drought-depleted Mississippi River was closed to
traffic today south of St. Louis as the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers reported progress removing submerged rock obstacles
without resorting to blowing them up.  Nuclear Stock Rally in Japan Ignores Public Opposition: Energy  Japanese power-company stocks that rallied after the pro-
nuclear Liberal Democratic Party was elected may struggle to
sustain gains because of public opposition to restarting atomic
plants.  Keppel May Acquire  China  Yard on Oil-Rig Demand: Southeast Asia  Keppel Corp., the world’s biggest oil-rig builder, may
consider buying a yard in China as the nation boosts offshore
drilling to meet rising energy demand.  Pertamina to Buy Conoco’s Algerian Unit for $1.75 Billion (1)  PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state- owned oil company, agreed
to buy stakes in three Algerian oil fields from ConocoPhillips
for $1.75 billion, expanding its overseas assets.  Coal to Approach Oil as Top Energy Source by 2017, IEA Says (1)  Global coal demand will rise 2.6 percent annually in the
next six years and challenge oil as the top energy source,
according to the International Energy Agency.  Dividends Fail to Attract Small Cap Buyers: Corporate Canada  The shift by Canada’s small energy producers to pay
dividends for the first time is failing to win over investors as
rising costs and reduced prices for Canadian crude have made
energy the second-worst performing industry group in the country
this year.  Cameron Faces Rebellion From Own Party on U.K.’s Power Bill (2)  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne face a rebellion within their own party
after rejecting proposals to include a target for cutting carbon
in new energy-market legislation.  Brazil  Said to Plan Boosting Ethanol Blend as Early as May (1)  Brazil, the world’s biggest sugar- cane grower, is
considering raising the amount of ethanol mixed with gasoline as
early as May as millers are forecast to process a record crop
next year, a government official familiar with the plan said.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Gain With Commodities on U.S. Budget as Treasuries Fall  Stocks rallied, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
a two-month high, and commodities gained on signs of progress in
U.S. budget talks. Thirty-year Treasury yields climbed to a
three-month high.  Euro Rises to 7-Month High Versus Dollar; Krona Up on Rate View  The euro rose to the strongest in more than seven months
against the dollar on speculation U.S. lawmakers will reach a
budget pact to avert pushing the economy over the so-called
fiscal cliff and into recession.  Real Plunge Burns Borrowers Doubling Dollar Debt: Brazil Credit  The Brazilian real’s plunge this year is raising borrowing
costs for local companies that have doubled dollar debt since
2009, as analysts project further losses in the world’s worst-
performing major currency.  S&P 500 Advances to 2-Month High Amid Optimism on Budget Talks  U.S. stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to the highest level in two months, amid signs of progress
in efforts by President Barack Obama and Republicans to reach
agreement on a new budget in  Washington .  European Stocks Rise on U.S. Budget Optimism; BHP Billiton Gains  European stocks rose for the first time in four days as U.S.
President Barack Obama changed his position on tax increases,
leading to optimism that Democrats and Republicans will agree on
a compromise budget.  Gold Sags to Three-Month Low as Budget Optimism Boosts Equities  Gold dropped to the lowest in more than three months as
signs that U.S. lawmakers may be closer to a budget deal boosted
equities and reduced demand for the metal as an alternative
asset.  Orange Juice Advances to Seven-Month High: Commodities at Close  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 0.5 percent to settle at 640.18 at 3:58 p.m. in New York.  Boehner to Push Budget ‘Plan B’ Bill While Continuing Talks (4)  House Speaker John Boehner said he will push a budget
“plan B” measure that will include tax increases on income of
more than $1 million a year, while he continues to negotiate
with President Barack Obama.  AmEx’s Chenault Said to Be Discussed at White House for Treasury  White House officials have approached American Express Co.
Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Chenault about joining President
Barack Obama’s second-term administration, possibly as Treasury
secretary, according to two people familiar with the matter.  SPORTS  Norway’s Hirscher Wins Italian Slalom Where Gatekeeper Dies  Marcel Hirscher won the night slalom at Madonna di
Campiglio in  Italy , where a course official died of an apparent
heart attack.  Colin Montgomerie Elected to Golf Hall Minus Major Championships  Colin Montgomerie, who won the European PGA Tour’s money
title a record eight times without securing a major tournament
victory, will enter the World Golf Hall of Fame in May.  China Builder With $48 Billion of Credit Seeks U.S. Investments  China Communications Construction Co. said it has access to
at least 300 billion  yuan  ($48 billion) of credit lines from
local banks as it seeks to invest in infrastructure projects in
the U.S. and other developed nations.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       87.93  +0.73  +0.8  Nymex     Jan.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    108.84  +1.20  +1.1    Ice     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         928.25  +6.00  +0.7    Ice     Jan.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       269.26  +0.17  +0.1  Nymex     Jan.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.40  -0.02  -0.6  Nymex     Jan.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    110.47  +1.01  +0.9    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            299.87  +0.22  +0.1  Nymex     Jan.  OTHER MARKETS:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.36  -0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,670.70  -1.6
MSCI World Index     1,347.60    --  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $790 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  