-- TOP Oil Market News: Brent Gains After U.S. Stockpiles Decline
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2012-12-19T12:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/top-oil-market-news-brent-gains-after-u-s-stockpiles-decline.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Brent Crude Gains for Second Day as U.S. Stockpiles Decline  Brent crude  rose for a second day in London after an
industry report showed stockpiles fell the most in more than
three months in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer.  TOP OIL MARKET STORIES  BP Whiting Delay Puts WTI-Brent Drop on Hold: Energy Markets  A delay in upgrades to the biggest refinery in the U.S.
Midwest is reinforcing the gap between the prices of the world’s
two most-traded oil contracts, confounding forecasts for the
difference to all but disappear.  Green  California  to Vie With Texas as U.S. Oil Heartland: Energy  California, even as it seeks to be the greenest of U.S.
states, stands a good chance of emerging as America’s top oil
producer in the next decade, helping the nation toward what once
seemed an unlikely goal of energy independence.  American Oil Growing Most Since First Well Signals Independence  The U.S. expanded its oil production this year by the most
since the first commercial well was drilled in 1859, upending a
belief that Americans were increasingly hooked on foreign crude.  Investors Shun Postwar Iraq as OPEC Star’s Recovery Lags (2)  Ziad Makkawi set up a private equity investment firm last
year to capitalize on Iraq’s plans for reviving an economy
gutted by wars and sanctions.  REFINERIES  Petronas Said to Shut Melaka Crude Unit for Maintenance Dec. 17  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state oil company, shut
a crude distillation unit at its Melaka I refinery for
maintenance, said two people with knowledge of the decision.  BP to Carry Out Maintenance on Texas City Catalytic Cracker  BP Plc said it will carry out maintenance at a fluid
catalytic cracker at its Texas City, Texas, oil refinery,
according to a filing with state regulators.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Saudi Arabia  Keeps Oil Output Unchanged in Oct From Sept: Jodi  Kingdom pumped 9.72m b/d of crude oil in Oct., according to
data posted on website of Joint Organizations Data Initiative.  Asia Fuel Oil Losses Widen; Trafigura Buys Gasoil: Oil Products  Asia’s fuel oil crack spread widened, signaling increased
losses for refiners turning crude into residual products.
Trafigura Beheer BV extended its gasoil purchases in  Singapore ,
the region’s largest oil-trading center.  Japan to Extend Cuts in  Iran  Oil Imports, JX Chairman Says (1)  Japan will import fewer than 160,000 barrels a day of oil
from Iran next year to avoid sanctions aimed at the Middle
Eastern country’s nuclear program, the head of Japan’s oil
industry group said.  Angola to Cut February Plutonio Crude Exports; Palanca Stable  Angola , Africa’s second-largest oil producer, will cut
exports of Plutonio crude in February while shipments of Palanca
grade will be stable at one lot, two loading programs obtained
by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Surgut Seeks to Sell Three January-Loading Urals Crude Cargoes  OAO Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer,
issued a tender to sell three cargoes of Urals crude for loading
in January from two Baltic ports, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Japan to Cut Iran Imports; Saudi Output Unchanged: Asia Crude  Japan will import fewer than 160,000 barrels a day of oil
from Iran next year to avoid sanctions aimed at the Middle
Eastern country’s nuclear program. Saudi Arabia kept its oil
output unchanged in October.  Indian Oil Said to Cancel Offer to Sell Naphtha From Chennai  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, canceled an
offer to sell 35,000 metric tons of naphtha for loading in
January from Chennai, said two traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Greeks Can’t Find Euros to Buy Heating Oil in Winter Economy (1)  In the Greek mountain town of Kastoria, less than an hour
from the Albanian border, Kostas Tsitskos, 88, can’t afford fuel
to heat his home against the winter’s cold. So he and his son
live in a single bedroom, warmed by a small electric heater.  Pertamina to Buy Conoco’s Algerian Unit for $1.75 Billion (1)  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil company, agreed
to buy stakes in three Algerian  oil fields  from ConocoPhillips
for $1.75 billion, expanding its overseas assets.  U.S. Boosts Duties on  China  Wind-Towers as Trade Talks Open (1)  Ratcheting up trade tensions with China, the U.S. increased
 import duties  on wind towers produced by Chengxi Shipyard Co.
and CS Wind Corp. as economic talks between the two nations
opened in  Washington .  BP Sells China Gas Stake, Bringing It Close to Disposal Target  BP Plc, Europe’s second-biggest oil company, sold its stake
in China’s Yacheng gas field for $308 million in cash, bringing
the company close to its target for asset disposals following
the 2010 Gulf of  Mexico  spill.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Rise to 17-Month High as Euro Gains on German Confidence  Stocks rose to a 17-month high and the yen weakened on
speculation U.S. leaders will reach a budget deal and Japan’s
central bank will expand stimulus. The euro strengthened after
German business confidence increased.  Gold Gains as Consumers Buy After Drop to 3-Month Low, ETPs Rise  Gold gained in London as a drop to the lowest level in more
than three months and a weaker dollar spurred buying while
holdings in exchange-traded funds rose to a record.  SPORTS  Jets Turn to Greg McElroy at Quarterback, Benching Mark Sanchez  Greg McElroy  will start at quarterback for the  New York 
Jets this week in place of  Mark Sanchez , who was benched after
committing five turnovers two days ago in a loss at Tennessee
that ended the team’s chances of making the National Football
League playoffs.  Giants Given 45% Chance to Win Last 2 Games to Make NFL Playoffs  The  New York Giants  have a 45 percent chance of winning
their final two games to make the National Football League
playoffs, according to bookmakers’ odds.  Knicks-Nets at Garden Tonight Boasts NBA’s Most-Expensive Ticket  Tickets for tonight’s game between the first-place  New York
Knicks  and the Brooklyn Nets at Madison Square Garden are the
most expensive of the National Basketball Association season on
the resale market.  Lakers Rally From 18-Point Deficit to Defeat Bobcats 101-100  Kobe Bryant  scored two baskets to break a 97-97 tie as the
 Los Angeles Lakers  rallied from an 18-point third-quarter
deficit to defeat the  Charlotte  Bobcats 101-100.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------WTI Crude ($/Bbl)
88.35  +0.42  +0.5  Nymex     Jan. Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    109.74
 +0.90  +0.8    ICE     Feb. Gasoil ($/Ton)         937.50
+8.75  +0.9    ICE     Feb. Gasoline (c/Gal)       271.01  +1.92
 +0.7  Nymex     Jan. Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.35  -0.06  -1.9
 Nymex     Jan. Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.12  +0.65  +0.6
OTC  21 Days Heating Oil            302.34  +2.69  +0.9  Nymex
  Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----Dollar Index            79.14  -0.3 Gold ($/Oz)  1,670.70  -1.6 MSCI World Index     1,353.96  +0.4  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  