-- Orban Backtracks on Hungary College Cuts After Protests
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-12-19T15:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/orban-backtracks-on-hungary-college-cuts-after-protests.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government backtracked on plans to cut the number of
state scholarships at universities next year after a series of
student protests.  The state will provide at least 55,000 state scholarships,
matching the previous year’s number, while increasing university
financing by “at least” 24 billion forint ($84 million),
government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz told reporters in
Budapest today.  Thousands of high-school and university students took to
the streets in Budapest and smaller demonstrations were held in
cities across Hungary in the past two weeks to protest funding
cuts. Rallies swelled this week to include teachers, doctors and
artists who demonstrated against financing cuts.  “The government decided today that the number of state-
financed spots in higher eduction can’t be less than last
year,” Giro-Szasz said, adding that student protests are “part
of democracy.”  Orban, who was elected with a two-thirds parliamentary
majority in 2010, is under pressure to keep the  budget deficit 
below 3 percent of economic output to avoid cuts in European
Union funding. He faces re-election in 2014 as support for his
ruling party, Fidesz, has slipped and the economy is mired in
its second recession in four years.  Ruling Party  Fidesz’s lead narrowed to 19 percent backing among eligible
voters, compared with 16 percent for the Socialists in November,
according to a poll on the Ipsos company’s  website . In January,
Fidesz led the Socialists 16 percent to 11 percent, the Ipsos
poll showed, without indicating a margin of error.  A joint, six-point petition by student groups, teachers’
unions and university leaders included a “comprehensive
educational reform,” restoration of the number of full
scholarships to the 2011 level and scrapping of a new rule
requiring that students stay to work in  Hungary  after graduation
in return for state tuition aid.  The government is sticking to the rule of requiring
students to stay and work in Hungary in return for state
scholarships, Giro-Szasz said today. Students were scheduled to
hold another round of protests starting at 4 p.m. in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  