-- Morgan Stanley Case Exposes Facebook to Similar Challenges
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-12-19T20:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/morgan-stanley-case-leaves-facebook-with-similar-legal-challenge.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest
social-networking company, could be exposed to legal challenges
surrounding its initial public offering similar to those faced
by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to legal experts.  In the first regulatory claims to flow from the May 17 IPO,
 Massachusetts  officials  said  on Dec. 17 that they fined Morgan
Stanley $5 million for letting its investment bankers provide
research analysts specific revenue information that was not
disclosed by  Facebook  to the general public. That broke a
decade-old rule enacted after the dot-com crash to block bankers
from influencing analysts, Massachusetts said.  The settlement includes for the first time details of the
closed-door conversations between Morgan Stanley and Facebook
ahead of the IPO, including testimony from  Michael Grimes , who
led the deal for the bank. According to the consent order,
Grimes wrote a script for Facebook’s then-treasurer to read to
analysts that detailed Facebook’s lowered revenue estimates.  Grimes “did everything but make the phone calls himself,”
the regulator said in a statement. Grimes was identified in the
settlement only as a “senior investment banker,” though it
provided biographical details that match his.  The revelation that Facebook gave specific estimates to
bank analysts and not to the public revives questions about
whether the company was sufficiently forthcoming ahead of the
IPO, said Stephen Diamond, an  associate professor  at Santa Clara
University School of Law.  ‘Denied Access’  “By providing that information to just a subset of
potential investors, in essence they have denied other investors
access to material information,” Diamond said. The Securities
and Exchange Commission “should have pushed much harder to find
out whether there was quantifiable data available or not,” he
added.  Facebook has not been accused by regulators of wrongdoing.
Michael Buckley, a spokesman for the  Menlo Park , California-
based company, declined to comment, as did  John Nester , a
spokesman for the SEC. New York-based Morgan Stanley did not
admit or deny the Massachusetts claims in settling.  The settlement offers fresh insight into a widely
anticipated IPO that turned into a debacle for the company and
Morgan Stanley. Facebook shares have  tumbled  27 percent since
they started trading for $38 on May 18, to $27.71 as of the
close yesterday. The company capitalized on its popularity among
consumers by raising the price and number of shares sold to
retail investors, who weren’t privy to the private conversations
or revenue estimates.  Class Action  William Galvin , the Secretary of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, said he didn’t have the authority to determine
whether Facebook executives acted improperly.  “The broader issue is the fairness of the marketplace for
investors,” Galvin said in an interview this week.  The details emerging from the consent order may also add
ammunition to dozens of class actions, which a judge ordered to
be consolidated earlier this month. The testimony disclosed by
Massachusetts could be used by prosecutors attempting to make a
case that Facebook and Morgan Stanley misled investors, said
 Erik Gordon , a  clinical assistant professor  at the  University of
Michigan ’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business.  “The real liability for Facebook and Morgan Stanley is yet
to come,” said Gordon.  If Facebook omitted material facts in its prospectus, known
as an S-1, it could be found in violation of Section 11 or
Section 12 of the  Securities Act of 1933 , Diamond said.  ‘Scariest Thing’  While it told potential investors that mobile usage could
adversely affect revenue, the revelation that it gave a select
group of analysts specific numbers on how that trend would
affect sales over the full year could be considered a material
omission, he said.  A violation of Section 11 could result in a fine or
injunctive relief, or it could force the company to return
proceeds of its IPO to shareholders, Diamond said.  “A material misstatement or omission in an S-1 is the
scariest thing in the world,” Gordon said. “It’s going to
hinge on whether the disclosures made in the S-1 were sufficient
to give reasonable investors as accurate a view as reasonably
possible.”  One of the earliest signs that Facebook’s growth wouldn’t
reach the rosiest projections surfaced on May 7, the day the
roadshow began, according to testimony cited in the settlement.
That evening, Facebook Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman 
informed Grimes that Facebook’s second-quarter revenue would
likely be lower than previously estimated.  Less Confident  Ebersman had told analysts at an April 16 briefing at
Facebook’s headquarters that sales would be $1.1 billion to $1.2
billion.  Now, Ebersman was telling Grimes that he was less confident
about those numbers because user growth on mobile devices was
outpacing advertising gains. Ebersman also said it was unlikely
that Facebook would reach $5 billion in sales for the year, as
he’d told analysts.  Grimes relayed that information to a Morgan Stanley capital
markets banker, according to Massachusetts.  The next day, May 8, as the roadshow moved from  New York  to
Boston and Baltimore, Facebook was predicting quarterly sales at
the low end of its $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range and sales
3 percent to 3.5 percent below the full-year estimate.  Grimes said in testimony that he advised Ebersman to update
analysts on the numbers. To avoid the appearance of incomplete
disclosure, he recommended updating the prospectus again to show
investors the trend.  Treasurer Calls  At 8:10 p.m. that evening, Facebook’s management held a
conference call with Grimes, capital markets bankers and counsel
from Facebook and Morgan Stanley. Grimes testified that he was
with the treasurer on the call. Facebook, with input from Morgan
Stanley, decided to update the filing.  On May 9, as the roadshow moved to Philadelphia, Ebersman
informed Facebook’s board by e-mail that the prospectus was
being refiled. He also said the company was forecasting second-
quarter revenue of $1.14 billion, while analysts were predicting
$1.18 billion.  Grimes and Facebook’s then-treasurer, Cipora Herman, stayed
at a Philadelphia hotel that evening to make calls to analysts.
In preparation, they rehearsed the calls, with Grimes playing
the role of the analyst.  After the S-1 was filed, Herman would call an analyst every
fifteen minutes and read the script, which said that the social
network’s second-quarter sales would be at the lower end of the
$1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range.  Hall Sitting  Grimes said that while the analyst calls were being made,
he was “far down the hall” so he wouldn’t hear anything.  “I took extra precaution to do that, and sat on the
floor,” he testified.  The first call was to Morgan Stanley, followed by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and Citigroup Inc. Seven
additional calls were made by 8:30 p.m. Grimes and the treasurer
then joined the roadshow team in New York. On May 10 and May 15,
the treasurer made calls to the remaining eight analysts.  Under the 2003 consent decree, Morgan Stanley had pledged
to stop investment bankers from influencing analysts.  Galvin, citing the script and Grimes’ involvement, faulted
Morgan Stanley for dishonesty, ethics violations and failing to
supervise employees.  When asked later in testimony whether the treasurer had a
script, Grimes said he didn’t remember. Yet, Facebook provided
the Massachusetts securities division with a script that was
handwritten by Grimes.  Low End  “You can decide what you want to do with your estimates,”
he wrote. “Our long term conviction is unchanged, but in the
near term we see these trends continuing, hence our being at the
low end of the” $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range, the script
said.  Facebook filed its sixth amended prospectus at 5:03 p.m.,
and within minutes the treasurer called bankers at Goldman Sachs
and JPMorgan, with Grimes in the room.  No revenue projection numbers were provided in the May 9
filing, and the company only discussed the trend for the second
quarter, not the rest of the year.  After the calls, all three analysts from the lead banks
reduced their estimates to the lower end of the $1.1 billion to
$1.2 billion range. Morgan Stanley’s analyst lowered his to
$1.11 billion from $1.18 billion.  The treasurer added to the script that the trends would
remain over the next six to nine months, resulting in sales for
the year of 3 percent to 3.5 percent below the $5 billion
target.  Estimates Cut  Morgan Stanley’s analyst lowered his estimate by 3 percent
to $4.85 billion from $5 billion.  Despite these lowered estimates, on May 15 the  price range 
for the IPO was increased and the next day the number of shares
in the offering was bolstered. On May 17, the pricing committee
decided to offer shares at $38 a piece, the high end of the
increased range.  Herman, who held finance roles at Facebook for five years,
left the company in October to take a job as  CFO  of the  San
Francisco  49ers football team. Prior to joining Facebook, she
was treasurer at Yahoo! Inc.  Bob Lange , a  spokesman  for the the  San Francisco 49ers ,
declined to make Herman available for comment.  Professor Diamond said the SEC could have been more
vigilant as it scrutinized Facebook’s IPO prospectus.  SEC’s Questions  The SEC had asked Facebook for more disclosure about the
impact of mobile users on revenue during a two-and-a-half-month
volley of messages, which were published after the IPO on the
agency’s website. While it succeeded in getting Facebook to
reveal more details about its business, it did not ask the
company to estimate how mobile usage may affect its forecast for
lower revenue in 2012, the messages show.  “The SEC bears some responsibility here, too,” Diamond
said. “That’s a question I think Congress ought to ask. Why
didn’t the SEC wake up and smell that something was going on
here?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  