-- Lloyd’s Estimates About $2.5 Billion Hurricane Sandy Claims
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-12-19T08:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/lloyd-s-of-london-sees-up-to-2-5-billion-hurricane-sandy-claims.html
Lloyd’s of London, the world’s
oldest insurance market, said claims before tax from superstorm
Sandy will probably cost between $2 billion to $2.5 billion.  The estimate is consistent with total insurance industry
losses of between $20 billion and $25 billion, Lloyd’s said in
an e-mailed statement today. The London-based market said it
expects a “minimal impact” on its member capital, while the
central fund won’t be affected.  Homeowners and businesses are seeking payouts on policies
to help cover losses from  Hurricane Sandy , which lashed the
densely populated U.S. Northeast coast on Oct. 29, causing a
storm surge, extensive flooding and damage to property, after
hitting the Caribbean and Bahamas. Total market losses could be
as much as $25 billion, Zurich-based  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  has said.  “It has been much more of a loss for insurers than for
reinsurers, specialty insurers in particular, which is what
Lloyd’s is” said Christopher Hitchings, a London-based analyst
with Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s biggest insurer,
said on Dec. 17 that claims from Sandy could be as much as $700
million. Lloyd’s member  Catlin Group Ltd (CGL)  estimated Sandy-related
losses at about $200 million and  Novae Group Plc (NVA)  said net costs
of the hurricane could be as much as $30 million.  “The Lloyd’s insurance market remains financially strong
and while claims from this storm could still evolve over time,
the market’s total exposure is well within the worst-case
scenarios we model and prepare for,” Chief Executive Officer
Richard Ward said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  