-- Two Pakistan Polio Workers Slain After Earlier Attacks Kill Five
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2012-12-19T11:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/pakistan-polio-workers-injured-after-earlier-attacks-kill-five.html
Gunmen in northwest  Pakistan  shot
dead a female health official and her driver in attacks on
several groups of polio vaccination workers, a day after five
women involved in the United Nations-backed program were killed.  The frequency of attacks prompted the  World Health
Organization  to suspend field operations and ask staff with the
polio campaign to operate from their homes, Nima Abid, WHO’s
polio team leader in Pakistan, said by phone from Islamabad.  “There were three attacks today in our area on polio teams
and in one of the attacks a lady health official and her driver
have been killed,” Nisar Ali Marwat, police chief in the
northwestern town of Charsadda, said by phone.  Earlier today, a boy working for health officials was shot
and wounded in Peshawar, according to Janbaz Afridi, deputy
director of the local government’s immunization program. Four
female polio workers were attacked by gunmen on motorbikes in
Nowshera City adjacent to  Peshawar , GEO television reported.  Six people working on the polio campaign have been killed
this week, according to a statement by the UN Children’s Fund
and the WHO released before today’s attacks. That includes four
women shot dead yesterday while working with vaccination
programs in areas of Karachi, the country’s financial capital,
said Saleem Khan, a spokesman for Sindh province’s health
minister.  The Taliban, a militant group blamed for suicide and bomb
attacks across Pakistan, in June said it would oppose efforts to
vaccinate people in tribal areas of North and South Waziristan
to protest U.S. drone missile strikes. No group has claimed
responsibility for this week’s attacks. Pakistan is one of only
three countries where  polio  remains endemic.  Violence in Pakistan has made it challenging to combat the
paralyzing disease. A WHO doctor was shot and injured in July
after supervising polio vaccinations in Karachi. A local
community worker involved in the campaign was shot dead in
Karachi the same month, UNICEF said in July.  The number of polio cases in the country fell to 47 in 27
districts as of the end of October, compared with 154 cases in
48 districts for all of 2011, according to the UN.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story
Augustine Anthony at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  