-- Park Win Lifts Korean ETF as Export Outlook Brightens on China
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-19T21:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/park-win-boosts-korean-adrs-as-export-outlook-brightens-on-china.html
An exchange-traded fund of South
Korean stocks rose in  New York  as Park Geun Hye was elected
president of the Asian nation amid signs  China , the nation’s
biggest trading partner, is emerging from a slowdown.  The  iShares MSCI South Korea Index Fund , an exchange traded
fund incorporated in the U.S., added 0.1 percent to $62.38,
while the  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   index  of Korean American
depositary receipts closed little changed at 187.70, after
gaining as much as 0.5 percent during the U.S. day.  Park, 60, of the ruling New Frontier Party, led main
opposition nominee Moon Jae In, 51.6 percent to 48 percent with
91.4 percent of the vote counted, the National Election
Commission said on its website as of 12:25 a.m. in  Seoul . Moon,
59, conceded defeat. The election results come as the World Bank
said in a report issued yesterday that the economy of China, the
biggest buyer of South Korean goods, may “have bottomed out”
after a seven-quarter slowdown.  “This government won’t be anti-business, there’s no such
tone,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the China Region Fund at
U.S. Global Investors Inc. in  San Antonio , Texas, which oversees
$2.2 billion including investments in South Korean stocks, said
by phone yesterday. “The market is also up because of the
recovery of Chinese economy. There’s a lot of tailwinds in  South
Korea ’s favor.”  Park will take office Feb. 25, when President  Lee Myung Bak ’s single five-year term ends. She has pledged stronger
support for small- and medium-sized businesses, to help them
compete with dominant exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co.
and Hyundai Motor Co.  Kospi Valuation  South  Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  has rallied 9.2 percent this
year, beating the 8.6 percent advance in Taiwan’s Taiex Index.
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 1.7 percent. Companies
on the Kospi trade for an average 12 times estimated earnings,
compared with 19 times for the Taiex and a multiple of 11 for
the Shanghai gauge of Chinese domestic shares.  The Kospi, which was closed yesterday, added 0.5 percent to
1,993.09 on Dec. 18.  Six-month non-deliverable forwards on the Korean won
weakened 0.1 percent to 1082.90 per dollar after the currency
added 0.1 percent to 1073.23 versus the greenback on Dec. 18 in
Seoul.  Park’s policy adviser Kang Seoghoon said during the
campaign that the government shouldn’t seek to artificially
weaken the currency to help exporters.  `Domestic Consumption'  “Both candidates pledged a shift from the current export-
driven policies to supporting domestic consumption, in which
case there should be fewer attempts to curb won appreciation,”
Kim Doo Hyun, the Seoul-based chief currency trader at Korea
Exchange Bank, said before the election result.  South Korea’s exports rose for a second month in November,
evidence that a recovery is taking hold after the economy
expanded at the slowest pace in three years in the third
quarter. The  World Bank  raised its forecast for China’s 2013
growth to 8.4 percent from an October projection of 8.1 percent.  The economy of South Korea is predicted to grow 2.4 percent
this year, the slowest pace since 2009. Park pledged to raise
wages, increase welfare spending and rein in the influence of
the family-owned conglomerates such as Samsung and Hyundai
Motor, known as chaebol.  Posco Climbs  “Park’s victory may be positive to sentiment because her
policies on conglomerates, mostly large-cap stocks, are
relatively less strict than Moon,” Heo Pil Seok, chief
executive officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees $5.3 billion, said from Seoul before the vote
result was known. “Still, this political event hadn’t served as
a drag on market, so I don’t expect any big impact.”  ADRs of  Posco (005490) , South Korea’s biggest steelmaker, rose for
an 11th day, adding 0.2 percent to $82.97 in New York. It is a
record rally for the Gyeongbuk, Korea-based company.  Shinhan Financial Group Co. Ltd. (SHG) , South Korea’s largest
financial services company by market value, slipped 0.4 percent
to $35.15 in U.S. trading. ADRs of  LG Display Co. (LPL) , the world’s
second-largest maker of liquid-crystal based in Seoul, rose for
a third day, gaining 0.1 percent to $14.74.  “The election doesn’t make much difference one way or the
other,”  Mark Williams , chief Asia economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said by phone from London. “The significant
factors for Korea are what happens to the global economy over
the next few months. There’s still work for the government to on
structural reform, but the immediate outlook is determined by
what happens to exports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  