-- Penn National Sees REIT Acquiring Rivals’ Casino Properties
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/penn-national-sees-reit-acquiring-rivals-casino-properties.html
  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , the
casino operator spinning off properties into a real estate
investment trust, will call competitors “10 seconds” after its
deal closes to see who’s willing to sell their resorts.  “This idea will absolutely revolutionize and open up
capital for gaming companies that’s not available today,” Chief
Financial Officer Bill Clifford said in a Dec. 13 interview in
New York. “Gaming companies could become asset-light, where the
only capital they need to raise in order to operate casinos will
be the cost of the furniture, fixtures and equipment, and gaming
license.”  If successful, Penn National would lead the casino industry
down a path pursued by hotels, offices, malls and timber
plantations. The pitch: the other casinos could free up capital,
allowing them to fund expansions, reduce debt or return cash to
shareholders, Clifford said. Companies would then lease-back
from Penn National’s REIT and continue operating the casinos as
before.  Penn said on Nov. 15 it planned to split into two public
companies in the second half of 2013 by placing most of its
properties into a REIT to be owned by existing shareholders.
REITs pay investors pretax earnings as dividends.  “If the price is right, I think people will definitely
consider selling to the Penn REIT,” said Joel Simkins, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , who rates the
stock outperform. “Some publicly traded companies may have a
handful of assets that they look to monetize,” along with some
of the more than 100 closely held gaming properties in the U.S.,
Simkins said.  Caesars, MGM  Casino companies with the most U.S. properties include
 Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) ,  MGM Resorts International (MGM) ,  Boyd
Gaming Corp. (BYD) ,  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA) ,  Pinnacle Entertainment
Inc. (PNK) , Station Casinos LLC and  Isle of Capri Casinos Inc. (ISLE)   While Penn can’t approach other owners until the spinoff is
completed under Internal Revenue Service rules, it will “be
picking up the phone 10 seconds after the spin is effective and
begin having conversations, setting up meetings, and try to
engage their interest in doing a transaction with us,” Clifford
said.  To be sure, other casino companies are likely evaluating
whether they can replicate a REIT spinoff themselves, rather
than sell assets to a rival, said  Joseph Greff , a JPMorgan Chase
& Co. analyst in New York.  Smart Spinoff  Still, most U.S.-focused casino companies today don’t have
Penn’s combination of low debt, high cash taxes and strong free
cash flow yields that make its spinoff strategically smart,
Greff said. More highly levered rivals would struggle to
generate sufficient cash to pay both rent and service debt. Many
have accumulated losses resulting in lower tax burdens that make
the REIT tax benefits less compelling, he said.  Similar moves have already succeeded in the hospitality
industry, where REITs such as Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. own and
lease hotels while operators including Marriott International
Inc. and Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. have sold real
estate to focus on managing properties. Gaylord Entertainment
Co. earlier this year sold its hotel brands and management
business to Marriott and converted to a REIT now called Ryman
Hospitality Properties Inc.  Penn needs approval from casino regulators in the 19
jurisdictions that it operates before splitting the company, a
process executives say they’re confident of achieving by the
fourth quarter of 2013. The company received a private-letter
ruling from the IRS related to the spinoff’s tax treatment that
took more than 18 months, clearing a key hurdle to proceed.  29 Locations  Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based Penn’s shares have surged 32
percent since the Nov. 15 announcement. Chief Executive Officer
Peter Carlino built Penn National via  acquisitions  and
development from a single horse-racing track near Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , into the operator of 29 casinos and racetracks
across  North America .  Clifford, 55, has been Penn’s CFO since 2001. He was
previously CFO at Sun International Resorts Inc., developer of
the Atlantis resort in the Bahamas, and earlier served as
controller at Las Vegas casinos including Treasure Island.  Both the REIT and the operating company will continue to
pursue acquisitions and developments, Clifford said, and the two
entities may partner on some projects. The REIT will have a
lower cost of capital, allowing it to potentially pay more while
still getting a better return than the casino operating company,
he said.  ‘Certain Price’  “Penn has scoured the U.S. and scoured the globe for
acquisition deals and development deals,” said JPMorgan’s
Greff. “I would imagine potential sellers who wanted a certain
price that Penn wasn’t willing to pay before” will be back in
touch.  Penn is initially placing 17 of its properties into the
REIT and will pay investors a one-time dividend of about $5.35 a
share plus stock in the property trust, and forecast an annual
dividend of about $2.36 per share based on 2013 earnings.  “It shows casino companies are looking for ways to unlock
value,” said Keith Foley, an analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service. “I wouldn’t be surprised if two or three other avenues
are being considered by different companies.”  REITs, which don’t pay federal income taxes, are required
to distribute at least 90 percent of income to investors, and
must pay out earnings already accumulated. The reliability of
regular payments appeals to a larger pool of investors than
casino companies enjoy.  REIT Offerings  REITs raised $67 billion from debt and equity offerings
this year through Nov. 30, the highest in records going back to
1996, according to data from the National Association of Real
Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based industry trade
group.  The dividend yield on the Bloomberg REIT Index was 3.5
percent yesterday, attracting investors pursuing yields higher
than U.S. Treasury securities. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note was 1.82 percent yesterday and 3 percent for
30-year bonds.  Penn’s plan seeks to protect investors by ensuring the
casino company must renew all leases together, preventing it
from dropping individual properties, and requires the operating
company to sell the license and equipment to the REIT at the end
of the lease.  “They can’t just take their gaming license and go down the
street and build another casino and compete,” Clifford said.
“They have to leave the gaming license and the gaming equipment
at the facility.”  Lease Structure  The casino operating company is also responsible for paying
all building costs including maintenance, property taxes,
utilities and insurance, minimizing expenses for the REIT. The
so-called triple net lease structure is similar to Lexington
Realty Trust, Omega Healthcare Investors Inc. and National
Retail Properties Inc.  Penn’s REIT will charge rent of about half the cash flows
of the casinos, and take 4 percent of the net revenue from most
of them for five years, before renegotiating that rate.  “That’s what allows the REIT to participate in the revenue
growth of the properties,” Clifford said. “It’s very much
modeled after a mall REIT.”  Unlike retailers in malls, casinos are “somewhat less
risky” tenants, said Credit Suisse’s Simkins. Because licenses
are scarce and tightly regulated, “the odds of somebody opening
up a shop next door to yours tomorrow are fairly limited.”  The property company should begin trading as a REIT in
January 2014, and Penn expects the bulk of casino acquisitions
to occur in the following three years, before expanding into
other types of real estate, Clifford said.  “REITs that don’t grow don’t trade at as high a multiple
as REITs that are successful at growing,” he said. “We’re
going to be approaching anybody who has an interest in
potentially monetizing their real estate holdings” to grow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  