-- Perry Seeks Halt in Grants by Texas-Funded Research Group
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/perry-seeks-halt-in-grants-by-texas-funded-research-group.html
Governor  Rick Perry  asked a cancer
research organization backed by $3 billion in state bonding
authority to stop making grants until it deals with probes of
conflicts in some awards and changes its governing structure.  Perry, joined by Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst and
Speaker Joe Straus of the state House of Representatives, made
the request in a Dec. 18 letter to the oversight committee of
the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas. The
Austin-based agency controls more funds than any other cancer-
fighting organization except the National Institutes of Health.  “The mission of defeating cancer is too important to be
derailed by inadequate processes and a lack of oversight,” the
three officials said in the letter. “It is important that we
restore the confidence of the  Texas  taxpayers who approved this
important initiative before new funds are dispersed.”  The agency, which has awarded $804.8 million in 502 grants
since 2009, according to its website, also faces criticism from
scientists and is dealing with the resignations of agency
officials amid complaints of political influence over some
grants. Perry, Dewhurst and Straus appoint most agency
overseers, while state Attorney General Greg Abbott and
Comptroller Susan Combs are permanent board members.  Awards Examined  Abbott, state Auditor John Keel and Rosemary Lehmberg, the
Travis County district attorney, are investigating some awards.
The group has been under fire since May, when Alfred Gilman, a
Nobel Prize winner and the agency’s first chief scientific
officer, resigned and criticized a grant-making process. Bill Gimson, the agency’s executive director, resigned on Dec. 17.  “These issues need to be resolved to restore public
confidence” in the agency, Oversight Committee Chairman Jimmy
Mansour and Vice Chairman Joseph Bailes said in a statement
responding to the three officials, all Republicans. In 2007,
voters authorized as much as $3 billion in bonds to be issued to
support the agency and its grants, according to its website.  “When our group and others raised questions about this,
Perry’s office called us conspiracy theorists,” said James
Moore, a director of Progress Texas, a nonprofit in Austin that
advocates for government accountability. “Now he wants the
program to shut down.”  Moore is a business consultant and writer who co-authored a
2011 book that was critical of Perry.  The institute’s review guidelines weren’t followed before a
$20 million grant was awarded in March for a joint project
between Rice University and the University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Gimson said in a June 26 meeting with the
institute’s advisory committee.  “It’s been a point of pride that CPRIT has earned a
reputation for a gold-standard review process, free from
conflicts of interest and unfair influence,” Gimson said at the
meeting, according to a transcript. “Some of our own steps for
the review were not followed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 