-- PGNiG Sees $4.9 Billion of Cash on Increased Gas Output
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-12-19T12:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/pgnig-sees-4-9-billion-of-cash-on-increased-gas-output.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s dominant gas company, plans to repay
existing debt and generate 15 billion zloty ($4.9 billion) of
excess cash by 2020 as it’s seeking to increase output, sell
units and expand into power generation.  The state-controlled company known as PGNiG will boost gas
production to 6.2 billion cubic meters in 2015 from 4.4 billion
cubic meters this year to cut dependence on Russian supplies and
prepare for the domestic market liberalization, according to its
plans for 2012-2014 published today.  “In two years we want to be a modern, diversified energy
company, which can operate successfully in new market
conditions,” Chief Executive Officer Grazyna Piotrowska-Oliwa
said in a statement today.  The Warsaw-based company plans to start gas production from
its off-shore Norwegian license, start drilling for the fuel in
Libya and  Egypt  and continue searching in  Pakistan . Its gas
output plan excludes the search for shale gas, the reserves of
which may be eight times as high as documented deposits of the
conventional fuel in the country.  Russian Imports  PGNiG, which sells about 14.5 billion cubic meters a year,
buys two-thirds of the amount from  Russia . Russia imports will
fall once Poland taps its shale gas reserves to meet rising
demand from power plants. The country may have as much as 768
billion cubic meters of gas trapped in shale rock formations,
the Geological Institute said in March after analyzing wells
drilled from the 1950s to the 1980s.  The company plans to sell shares in its gas exploration
unit PGNiG Poszukiwania as well as its PGNiG Technologie
subsidiary in an initial public offering next year. It will sell
non-core assets, including spa resorts operator Geovita Sp. z
o.o., to cut the number of subsidiaries to 14 from 53.  About 900 people will leave the company as of the start of
next year under a voluntary job reduction plan to help lower
costs and PGNiG will set up separate units for power and gas
trading.  The company will spend on investment about 5 billion zloty
next year, Chief Financial Officer Slawomir Hinc said today. Its
investments in coming years will include building gas-fired
power-generation units in Warsaw, Stalowa Wola and Lagisza.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  