-- Philippine Bonds Rise as Easing Inflation Supports Low Rates
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-12-19T09:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/philippine-bonds-rise-as-easing-inflation-supports-low-rates.html
Philippine bonds rose, pulling down
the yield on 2031 notes from a three-week high, on speculation
slowing inflation will give the central bank room to keep
 interest rates  at a record low. The peso rose.  Policy makers in East  Asia ’s emerging economies should hold
borrowing costs steady as economic growth is poised to
accelerate next year without spurring price gains, the  World
Bank  said in a report today. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is
preparing to deploy tools to make sure currency movements don’t
create pressure on financial stability, Governor Amando Tetangco
said today.  “The inflation outlook will remain tame,” said Antonio Espedido, treasurer at China Banking Corp. in Manila. “The
market is on the lookout for whether the global economy will
pick up, because if it doesn’t it could eventually hurt our own
growth. People are going to be cautious into the new year.”  The yield on the 8 percent bonds due July 2031 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.59 percent in  Manila ,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.038 per dollar in Manila,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It has advanced 6.8 percent
this year, the second-best performance in Asia after the South
Korean won. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose 20 basis
points to 4.4 percent.  Growth Outlook  Bangko Sentral will continue to allow some appreciation of
the peso, Tetangco said after the balance of payments surplus
was reported at $2.16 billion for November. The excess reflects
investors’ positive views on strong growth prospects and
remittances and helps support the currency, the governor said.  Policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate at 3.5
percent last week and lowered inflation forecasts for 2012
through 2014. Consumer prices in the  Philippines  rose 2.8
percent in November from a year earlier, the least since June.  Global food costs may ease inflationary pressures in some
economies in developing Asia, the  Asian Development Bank 
reported on Dec. 7.  Emerging Asian economies will expand 6 percent this year
and 6.6 percent in 2013, the Manila-based ADB said in its Asian
Development Outlook 2012 Supplement as it lowered forecasts by
0.1 percentage point for each period. Among the region’s
economies, it only raised its projections for  Southeast Asia ,
predicting growth of 5.3 percent in 2012 compared with 5.2
percent earlier.  The government expects robust economic growth in the first
half of next year helped by election spending, Budget Secretary
Butch Abad said today as President  Benigno Aquino  signed the
2013 budget of 2.01 trillion pesos ($49 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  