-- Pimco Says ECB May Use QE as Recession Looms in Germany, France
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-19T10:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/pimco-says-ecb-may-use-qe-as-recession-looms-in-germany-france.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the manager of the world’s largest mutual fund, said the
European Central Bank may need to cut interest rates and do
quantitative easing as recessions loom in the region’s two
biggest economies.  It’s “likely” that the ECB will lower its benchmark rate
even though such a move may not have “any significant impact on
the euro-zone economy,” Andrew Balls, Pimco’s head of European
portfolio management, said in an e-mailed statement today. That
“may preface, over time, a shift by the ECB to implement
quantitative easing as we see in other countries,”  The ECB kept its main interest rate at a record low of 0.75
percent this month, even though a majority of policy makers were
open to easing borrowing costs, according to three officials
speaking on condition of anonymity. The ECB also lowered its
economic outlook, predicting contractions of 0.5 percent this
year and 0.3 percent in 2013.  Pimco forecasts the euro-area economy will contract as much
as 1.5 percent through the third quarter of next year, Balls
said. The growth outlook has also weakened for the region’s two
largest economies, he said.  “We expect a milder recession in Germany and  France  over
the next four quarters,” Balls said.  ‘Significant Normalization’  ECB President Mario Draghi said on Dec. 17 the ECB’s new
bond-purchase program and the creation of a single supervisor
will help foster a gradual recovery in the euro area in the
second half of next year.  “We have seen significant normalization of euro-zone
financial markets owing to the ECB’s Outright Monetary
Transactions program,” Balls said. “Yet, these actions and the
ECB’s broader funding efforts, while they have helped to avoid a
collapse, have been insufficient to promote decent growth.”  While “the ECB can buy time” it cannot “by itself
achieve the outcomes of a more stable and prosperous euro
zone,” he said.  For the U.K., Pimco expects “the economy to be flattish
over the period, owing to the impact of fiscal tightening and
the weakness of the U.K.’s biggest trade partners,” Balls said.  Pimco’s so-called cyclical outlook for  Europe  covers the
four quarters through September 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  