-- Pimco Sees Spreading Slowdown Boosting Bonds: Australia Credit
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-19T00:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/pimco-sees-spreading-slowdown-boosting-bonds-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s government bonds are
forecast by economists to beat Treasuries for a third year in
2013 as Pacific Investment Management Co. says below-average
global growth rates are spreading to the South Pacific nation.  Investors in 10-year Australian notes will reap a 3.7
percent gain next year if the yield is little changed at 3.36
percent, the median forecast from 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Similar-dated Treasuries will deliver a 0.9 percent
loss should rates rise to 2.17 percent, the result of a similar
survey. Australian bonds returned 5 percent in 2012, versus 2
percent for the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A mining investment peak and “softening” labor markets
provided scope to reduce borrowing costs to a half-century low
on Dec. 4, the  Reserve Bank of Australia  said yesterday. Pimco
strongly recommends Australian bonds, as the slower global
expansion it dubs the “new normal” for the developed world
infects the nation and spurs further RBA rate cuts.  “The new normal is finally catching up with the Australian
economy,”  Robert Mead , Pimco’s head of  portfolio management  in
Australia, said in an e-mail interview last week. “The burden
of policy support will likely continue to fall on the shoulders
of the RBA which will keep Australian  interest rates  low.”  New Normal  Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach,  California , runs
runs the $285 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest. It
has popularized the phrase “new normal” to describe the  U.S.
economy  after the 2008 financial crisis. Pimco forecast slower
economic growth, higher unemployment, increased savings and
reduced consumption.  While the Reserve Bank is cutting borrowing costs, its
target for overnight lending of 3 percent, the so-called cash
rate, compares to almost zero in the U.S. Ten-year Australian
notes yielded 3.38 percent at 11 a.m. in Sydney, versus 1.81
percent for Treasuries.  “Into 2013 and beyond, Pimco will continue to strongly
recommend Aussie bonds as an effective anchor in balanced
portfolios,” Sydney-based Mead said.  Australia’s AAA debt rating is helping lure investors, with
as many as 26 central banks including those in Brazil, Russia
and Germany holding the currency, according to data compiled by
the  Reserve Bank  and Bloomberg. The South Pacific country is one
of just seven nations worldwide that have top-level AAA rankings
and stable outlooks from all three major rating companies.
Canada,  Denmark ,  Norway , Sweden,  Singapore  and  Switzerland  are
the others.  Haven Demand  “Australia,  Japan , Switzerland, and the U.S. are
identified as countries with a particularly safe investor
base,” according to a  report  published by the  International
Monetary Fund  on Dec. 3.  Foreign central banks and official funds quadrupled
holdings of federal, state and local debt in the nation to A$140
billion as of the start of 2012, or 29 percent of the market,
from A$35 billion at the end of 2008, or 16 percent, according
to the report from the IMF this month.  “Australian bond yields are attractive,” said Bin Gao,
head of interest-rate research for Asia and the Pacific at Bank
of America Corp. in  Hong Kong . “We see central banks continuing
to buy. Yield-seeking behavior is still there.”  The Australian dollar rallied 3 percent this year to
$1.0513 as of 5 p.m. yesterday in Sydney, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has surged 50 percent since the end of
2008, the most among more than 150 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Volatility Plunges  Central bank buying has also helped drive down expectations
for exchange-rate swings for the so-called Aussie by the most
among developed currencies this year. Implied one-month
volatility on the so-called Aussie fell to a 16-year low of 5.63
percent last week and was at 5.72 percent, down 8.7 percentage
points since Dec. 31.  The cost to insure Australian bonds fell to a two-year low
last month as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  strives to return the
national budget to surplus ahead of elections that must be held
by November.  Credit-default swaps dropped to 37.9 basis points last
month and traded at 41 yesterday, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts allow traders to bet on a borrower’s creditworthiness,
and a decline in prices indicates improving perceptions of the
government’s fiscal standing.  Fiscal Cliff  In the U.S., credit default swaps have risen to 33.5 basis
points from this year’s low of 28.9 as President  Barack Obama 
and lawmakers argue over how to avert the so-called fiscal cliff
of $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that will
come into effect in January unless Congress acts.  The spread between the prices of the two contracts of 7.5
basis points compares with the average of 27 in 2012.  Australian company bonds returned 11 percent this year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The extra yield
investors demand to hold corporate securities instead of
sovereign notes narrowed to 1.57 percentage points yesterday
from 2.92 percentage points at the close of 2011.  Australian  business confidence  plunged to the lowest level
since 2009 in November as companies struggled with a weaker
global outlook, a private survey showed this month.  RBA Outlook  Interest-rate swaps  trading indicates a 56 percent chance
the RBA will cut the overnight cash-rate target to 2.50 percent
or lower by June. The all-time low for Australia’s benchmark
borrowing cost was 2.89 percent in January 1960, according to
RBA data.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said Dec. 17 it
expects the RBA to cut rates to 2 percent by the end of 2013.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest lender,
forecast a reduction to 2.5 percent or less, helping push the
10-year government yield to 2.5 percent by June 30.  “The underlying economic story in Australia is one that’s
more conducive to lower yields now than in the past,” said Adam
Donaldson, Sydney-based head of debt research at Commonwealth
Bank. “There’s a very strong need for the non-mining economy
now to expand at a faster pace and the evidence of that
occurring is pretty limited. The burden of stimulating demand
falls very firmly on to the cash rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  