-- Polish Industrial Output Slows on Euro-Area Recession
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-12-19T13:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/polish-industrial-output-slows-on-euro-area-recession.html
Polish industrial output
unexpectedly declined last month as the euro area’s recession
stunted growth in the European Union’s biggest eastern  economy .  Production fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier, after a
4.6 percent increase in October, the  Central Statistics Office 
in Warsaw said today. That compared with the median estimate for
a 0.5 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists.
Output declined 4.8 percent from the previous month.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area, where Poland ships
more than half its exports, will contract 0.5 percent this year
and 0.3 percent in 2013, the  European Central Bank  forecast on
Dec. 6. Polish producers can’t count on domestic buyers either,
with  consumer spending  at the weakest in more than a decade.  “Industry and construction will be in the doldrums for at
least a couple quarters and only an economic recovery in the
 euro zone  may provide some support,”  Maciej Reluga , economist
at Bank Zachodni WBK, said in an e-mailed note today.  Employment at companies with more than nine workers
declined 0.3 percent last month after companies failed to add
any new jobs between July and October. That was the first drop
since March 2010.  Italian carmaker Fiat SpA plans to dismiss 1,500 workers
after announcing on Dec. 7 that it will build fewer than 300,000
cars in Poland next year, half 2009 output.  Polskie Gornictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , the country’s dominant gas company,
said today it will cut 900 jobs by Jan. 1.  Poland’s economy expanded 1.4 percent in three months
through September from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
the second quarter of 2009. Growth will ease to 1.5 percent next
year, the least since 2002 and down from 4.3 percent last year,
according to the central bank’s forecast.  “Nothing indicates any significant revival in  Europe  next
year, so employers will be afraid to hire,” Monika Zakrzewska,
an economist at the Polish Private Employers’ association, said
yesterday in an e-mailed comment. “Hopes that consumer demand
will drive the economy are unfounded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  