-- Porsche Files ’Torpedo-Suit’ to Avert New Battlefront in
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-12-20T19:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/porsche-seeks-to-torpedo-london-legal-front-in-germany.html
Porsche sports cars are made to move
fast, and former parent Porsche SE did the same to avoid opening
a new front in a $5 billion legal battle that’s the legacy of a
failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Porsche raced to file a lawsuit in its hometown of
Stuttgart before a Cayman Islands-based fund could do so in
 London . The holding company, which sold the Porsche car brand to
VW this year, won by 11 days. Already fighting suits in  Europe 
and the U.S., filing first may allow Porsche to keep the case in
Germany and avoid a fresh wave of litigation in a third country,
using a legal tactic that’s been called a torpedo.  “European Union rules say the venue where a party files an
action first prevails and bars another country’s court to assume
jurisdiction over the same issue,” said  Christoph Thole , a law
professor at  Germany ’s Tuebingen University. “Porsche’s attempt
to keep the dispute in Germany isn’t without hope.”  The legal wrangling, stemming from Porsche’s bid for VW
more than four years ago, ultimately scuttled a planned merger
between the two companies last year. The risk of billions of
euros in damages has been a drag on Porsche’s share price. The
value of its VW holding is about 24 billion euros ($31.9
billion), while Porsche’s  market value  is 17.4 billion euros.  The fallout from Porsche’s failed bid has shown no signs of
fading. After an investigation of more than three years, former
Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and ex-Chief
Financial Officer Holger Haerter, who led the takeover drive at
the time, were charged with market manipulation, Stuttgart
prosecutors said yesterday.  Short Squeeze  The indictment, which could give civil suits fresh
momentum, underscores the importance of Porsche’s efforts to
keep the legal process from spreading.  The plaintiffs claim Porsche lied for months about its
intentions to acquire VW before disclosing on Oct. 26, 2008,
that it controlled 74.1 percent of the larger company’s common
stock and was seeking a takeover. The news caused the shares to
surge as short sellers tried to cover positions.  Stuttgart prosecutors said their investigation found that
Wiedeking and Haerter decided in February 2008 at the latest to
prepare for a takeover. Lawyers for the two have denied the
allegations and said the charges won’t stick, pointing to the
fact that prosecutors dropped breach-of-trust claims.  Soaring Debt  Soaring debt eventually led the effort to unravel,
prompting a rescue by Volkswagen and reducing Porsche to a
holding company for 50.7 percent of VW’s  common stock . The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer completed the purchase of
the Porsche unit that makes the 911 sports car in August.  Winning the court race isn’t just about keeping U.K. judges
out of the dispute. While the London suit, filed in June by
 Cayman Islands  investment fund Pendragon (Master) Fund Ltd.,
seeks $195 million over losses on Volkswagen trades, its bigger
threat may be its effect on the German suits. Porsche and
Pendragon declined to comment because the cases are pending.  In Porsche’s home country, plaintiffs generally can’t force
adversaries to produce documents to beef up a claim. Sometimes
they can use findings by prosecutors. More recently, some
plaintiffs in German cases have used documents produced in
foreign lawsuits.  So far, Porsche has successfully blocked discovery in the
U.S. cases. German prosecutors haven’t yet allowed investors
access to their files. That may change after the charges.  Identical Allegations  Franz Braun, a lawyer representing plaintiffs suing for
more than 2 billion euros combined in Braunschweig, said he will
seek access to the files as soon as the court has ruled that the
charges may go to trial.  “The prosecutors’ allegations are identical, including the
dates, with what we say in our suits,” Braun said. “That’s
nice, of course.”  The court in the Braunschweig suits has scheduled a hearing
for April 17.  U.K. litigation could give Volkswagen investors, seeking
more than 4 billion euros in German courts, another avenue to
gather evidence. In the U.K., litigants can make pre-trial
disclosure requests for e-mails, instant messages,  text messages 
and commercial documents, said Marcus Rutherford, a lawyer at
Enyo Law LLP in London.  While U.K. plaintiffs are barred from sharing documents
received on disclosure, interested parties can request trial
bundles, which contain the material, once the trial starts.
During trial, the information will also become public when
lawyers use it in oral arguments.  Home Advantage  Even though the first two German suits, seeking less than 5
million euros combined, were rejected in September, plaintiffs
in four other suits in Braunschweig could make use of
information released in a U.K. case. Also, while fresh lawsuits
can no longer be filed in Germany, there’s still a window open
in the U.K.  To avoid a discovery order in London, Porsche needs to keep
the suit in its home country. In Stuttgart, Porsche is seeking a
declaration that it doesn’t owe investors anything. That bid was
filed over the same facts as in the Pendragon claims in London,
and the company could argue that the case should be heard in
Stuttgart because the lawsuit was filed there first.  “If the issue is the same as in Germany, then a U.K. judge
would have to throw it out, the law is clear,” said Rutherford.
“It suggests to me that there must be more to it for investors
to file a claim here.”  Jurisdiction Rules  The EU rules saying which court can hear the case only
apply if both parties are based in the EU. In what looks like an
attempt to fulfill the requirement, Porsche filed the Stuttgart
suit against Pendragon’s London  fund manager  as well as the
Cayman Islands-based parent. The ploy to keep the case in
Germany may not work.  “If the Pendragon fund is located on the Cayman Islands,
and outside the EU, then the jurisdiction rules don’t apply,”
Thole said. “I’m not sure this is mended by the fact that
Porsche is suing a second plaintiff, the fund manager, located
in the U.K.”  If Porsche can’t block the British case this way, the
company may still use the German lawsuit to force the VW
investors into the slow lane and buy time.  Under German rules, the Stuttgart court needs to send the
complaint to the Cayman Islands, a process that may take months.
Then, judges would ask the parties to exchange written arguments
before finally deciding on jurisdiction. Other European lawsuits
would drag to a halt during the process.  ‘Italian Torpedo’  “Under EU laws, the London judge would have to stay his
case until the Stuttgart court rules that it doesn’t have
jurisdiction,” Thole said.  European lawyers call a similar tactic an “Italian
torpedo,” referring to filing a suit in  Italy  before plaintiffs
can do so in another country. Italian courts can take years to
rule on jurisdiction, derailing the litigation, Thole said.
Porsche’s strategy is similar.  “The only difference is that the Stuttgart court most
likely indeed has jurisdiction, whereas some plaintiffs file
cases in Italy even if courts don’t have jurisdiction, betting
on the long time it takes for the judges to say that in a
ruling,” Thole said.  The Stuttgart Regional Court is trying to serve the suit in
the Cayman Islands, court spokeswoman Carola Wittig said in an
interview today. A first attempt failed, she said. The court is
looking into the jurisdiction issue and has given Porsche until
Feb. 5 to submit further arguments, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  