-- Pot Smoking Levels Off Among High Schoolers, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-12-19T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/pot-smoking-levels-off-among-high-schoolers-study-finds.html
Marijuana use among U.S. high school
seniors is leveling off, ending four years of increases in
annual prevalence, according to a government-funded survey.  Thirty-six percent of high school seniors surveyed in 2012
said they smoked marijuana at least once in the previous year,
the  National Institute on Drug Abuse  said today. The share of
seniors using pot daily rose to 6.5 percent, from 5.1 percent a
year ago, the study, called Monitoring the Future, shows.  Pot remained the most-popular illicit drug, followed by
synthetic marijuana, plant material that’s laced with chemicals
purported to mimic the active ingredient in marijuana. The study
found that 11 percent of 12th graders having tried synthetic pot
in the last year. That was level with the previous survey done
in 2011, the first year of measurement. Most illegal drugs
showed no change in use this year, with 17 percent of seniors
having tried a non-marijuana illegal drug.  “There isn’t much evidence for increasing use this year,”
 Lloyd Johnston , a research professor at the University of
Michigan in Ann Arbor who led the study, said in a telephone
interview. “Use of a great many drugs are holding steady.”  While marijuana use remained level, perceptions about the
drug’s risk dropped. The survey showed 21 percent of high school
seniors see occasional marijuana use as harmful, the lowest view
of risk since 1983.  The study also looked at alcohol drinking, showing that 24
percent of high school seniors engaged in binge drinking two
weeks before the survey, an increase of 2 percentage points over
last year’s answers. Binge drinking was defined as having five
or more drinks in a row. Overall alcohol use remained steady.  More than 45,000 students from almost 400 public schools
completed the Monitoring the Future survey. The study began in
1975 by asking questions of high school seniors; in 1991, it
included younger students as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  