-- Potash Seen Falling as Asia Wields Purchasing Power: Commodities
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-12-19T21:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/potash-seen-falling-as-asia-wields-purchasing-power-commodities.html
China and  India  are set to negotiate
the biggest price cut in three years to buy potash as they break
a deadlock in meetings with Russian and North American producers
that dominate the $24 billion market for the crop nutrient.  Indian talks have begun and China could start in January or
February, said Oleg Petrov, marketing director for Russian
supplier OAO Uralkali. The countries may pay as little as $430 a
ton, down at least 8.5 percent, according to analysts at Credit
Agricole Securities USA, Dahlman Rose & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  The price Asia’s biggest consumers pay in the 50 million-
ton-plus potash market provides a global benchmark for other
contracts.  China  delayed regular shipments since a $470-a-ton
accord expired June 30 while India’s last contract, for $490,
concluded at the end of the first quarter, with supplies to the
countries continuing through the third quarter. The two most-
populous nations put off new accords since then with the aim of
getting cheaper supply. That left farmers to rely on inventories
of the mineral used to strengthen roots and protect against
droughts.  “It comes down to the negotiating power of these very
large purchasing blocks,” Steve Hansen, an analyst in Vancouver
at Raymond James Ltd., said by telephone, referring to China and
India. “They’re not reluctant to capitalize on that power.”  Idled Mines  Producers had responded to the months-long deadlock in
meetings with production cuts that will protect prices from an
even steeper decline. Berezniki, Russia-based Uralkali, the
largest shipper by volume, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, plans to cut output by half between December and
March.  “There’s some acceptance by the producers that the price
comes down and then they’ll get the offset of more demand and
get higher earnings,” said Colin Isaac, a London-based analyst
at Atlantic Equities LLP. “But we’ve seen in the past they’d
rather just close production than accept a very low price.”  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, in October and November
announced the idling of a total of four mines for eight weeks.
It also predicted 2013 shipments of 57 million to 58 million
tons, compared with a September view of as much as 60 million
tons.  India’s fertilizer industry is holding out for cheaper
supplies after a cut in government subsidies and a weaker rupee
raised the cost of imports, Isaac said in a Dec. 18 interview.  ‘Playing Chicken’  “From the potash producers’ perspective, India and China
are playing chicken,” said Jason Miner, a Princeton, New
Jersey-based analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “The India-China
perspective is, ‘We don’t need as much, we have inventories and
other alternatives.’”  Demand for the potassium-based salt is elastic because
farmers can skip an application for a season if they choose and
rely on residual traces of the nutrient in the soil. Some did
just that after potash soared to more than $800 a ton in early
2009, with prices subsequently collapsing. Spot prices in
 Vancouver  slumped 48 percent that year, World Bank  data  show.  India, with no indigenous potash resources, imports about
3.5 million tons a year, down from about 6.5 million before the
global financial crisis, according to Uralkali’s Petrov.  Lower imports will hurt India’s agricultural output by
denying crops the nutrients they need, undermining the country’s
goal to feed itself, Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle said in a Dec. 11 telephone interview.  Food Prices  “It’s having an impact on crop yields, which means you’re
producing less food, you’re having higher food prices and you
have higher food inflation,” Doyle said. He declined to comment
on contract talks or price expectations.  Potash Corp. rose 0.1 percent to C$40.05 today in Toronto
while Calgary-based potash producer  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  climbed 1.5
percent to C$98.47. U.S. competitor  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  fell 0.9 percent
at $55.45 in New York.  Potash Corp. has dropped 4.9 percent this year, Agrium is
up 44 percent and Mosaic has gained 10 percent. Uralkali is up
11 percent in  London .  India has 700,000 tons of potash in inventory, enough to
satisfy demand until early March, said P.S. Gahlaut, managing
director of Indian Potash Ltd., the country’s largest buyer. It
will then need 3 million to 3.5 million tons of potash to last
through 2014, he said in a Dec. 12 interview.  ‘No Hurry’  Gahlaut said a delegation of Indian government and industry
officials will travel to  Russia  in the first week of January for
talks with Belarusian Potash Co., also known as BPC, which
negotiates sales for Uralkali and Belarus potash producer
Belaruskali.  “There is no hurry in signing potash import contracts,”
Gahlaut said. Talks with Canpotex Ltd. -- the offshore marketing
arm that represents Potash Corp., Agrium and Plymouth,
Minnesota-based Mosaic -- will begin later, he said.  Canpotex and Agrium declined to comment on the contract
talks. Rob Litt, a Mosaic spokesman, declined to comment ahead
of the release of the company’s quarterly earnings on Jan. 4.  BPC and Canpotex together account for about 63 percent of
worldwide potash supply and 73 percent of exports, Adam Samuelson, a New York-based analyst at Goldman Sachs, said Dec.
11 in a note. Canpotex is allowed to exist under  Canada ’s
 Competition Act , the country’s antitrust legislation, because
its business only relates to the export of products from Canada.  Rail Imports  An accord at $430 a ton would represent a 12 percent drop
from India’s last contract and an 8.5 percent for China. That
would be the biggest decline in Indian prices since Canpotex and
BPC agreed to a 26 percent reduction in July 2009, and the
largest cut in China since December of that year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Not everyone is forecasting much of a decline. India will
end up agreeing to pay $460 to $470 a ton, according to Elena Sakhnova, a Moscow-based analyst at VTB Capital, although she
also said that the country’s buyers will wait until a government
review of potash subsidies March.  “Uralkali’s recent cuts on production reflect our higher
expectation on the price curve, as we believe the current levels
at some markets do not truly reflect the industry
fundamentals,” Uralkali’s Petrov said in a Dec. 10 e-mail.  Since its last supply contract ended, China has received
some Russian imports by rail. Petrov said in an interview last
month that his company may temporarily cut those consignments at
the start of 2013 to help prop up prices.  “The importers’ pattern is to have the negotiations pushed
out,” said Spencer Churchill, an analyst at Paradigm Capital
Inc., who estimates India may agree to pay as little as $400 a
ton. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see even more delays.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in в Москве at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  