-- THQ Inc. Files for Bankruptcy Month After CFO Quit
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-12-19T21:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/thq-inc-files-for-bankruptcy-month-after-cfo-quit.html
THQ Inc. (THQI) , the money-losing video-
game maker, filed for  bankruptcy protection  and plans to sell
most of its assets to affiliates of Clearlake Capital Group LP.  The company listed assets $204.8 million and debt of $248.1
million as of Dec. 17 in Chapter 11 documents filed today in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware. Chapter 11 is the
section of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  used by companies seeking to
reorganize. Affiliates THQ Digital Studios Phoenix, THQ
Wireless, Volition and Vigil Games also sought protection.  “The sale will allow THQ to shed certain legacy
obligations and emerge with the strong financial backing of a
new owner with substantial experience in software and
technology,” THQ said in a statement today. The proposed deal
is subject to court approval, as well as better offers.  Clearlake, which has agreed to be the lead bidder at a
court-supervised auction, offered a total of about $60 million,
including a new $10 million note. Assets include the company’s
four studios and its games in development, according to the
statement.  THQ publishes game franchises including “Saints Row,”
“Company of Heroes,” “Darksiders” and “Red Faction,”
according to its  website . “Saints Row,” with more than 11
million units shipped globally, is THQ’s most-successful owned-
IP franchise, according to a May 2012 press release.  ‘Saints Row’  In “Saints Row,” an open-world action-adventure game that
lets the player have free roam of the virtual world to play the
story and explore the world how they choose, players take on the
persona of a gang member to take on rival gangs and end violence
in the made-up city of Stilwater. “Saints Row” was followed by
two more sequels and a third, “Saints Row 4,” is in
development.  The company also makes wrestling games based on  World
Wrestling (WWE)  Entertainment as well as games based on characters
from Disney and Nickelodeon including SpongeBob Squarepants and
Disney’s Princesses.  The video-game maker required more time for some of its
upcoming titles and had to delay the March introductions of
“ South Park : The Stick of Truth,” based on the popular adult
cartoon show from  Matt Stone  and  Trey Parker , “Company of
Heroes 2” and “Metro: Last Light.”  ‘Expedited Sale’  “Absent an expedited sale, the value of the debtors as a
going-concern will be jeopardized because the debtors will not
have sufficient liquidity to continue operating pending any
sale,” Brian Farrell, THQ chief executive officer, said in
court papers. The company is seeking to complete the sales
process in about 30 days.  The company plans to borrow as much as $37.5 million from
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Clearlake to help fund operations during
the sales process, according to court papers. The company said
its business won’t be interrupted and obligations to customers
and workers will be fulfilled. The company’s foreign operations,
including Canada, aren’t included in the filing.  THQ’s largest unsecured creditors listed in court papers
include holders of $102 million in 5 percent debentures due in
2014, under trustee Wilmington Trust NA; World Wrestling
Entertainment Inc., owed $45 million;  Yuke’s Co. (4334) , owed $17.8
million;  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , owed $12.8 million; and Viacom
International Inc., owed $10 million.  Shares of the Agoura Hills, California-based company fell
the most in 12 years on Nov. 6 after THQ posted a second-quarter
 loss  and announced that it had hired Centerview Partners LLC to
evaluate its options and raise cash. THQ tumbled 50 percent to
$1.50 on that day.  THQ declined 12 percent to $1.22 today before  trading  was
halted. They had fallen 82 percent this year before today.  Paul J. Pucino, who was chief financial officer for four
years, resigned as of Nov. 21.  The case is In re THQ Inc., 12-13398, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Glenn Holdcraft at 
 gholdcraft@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  