-- Qantas-Emirates Alliance Wins Initial Australian Backing
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-20T06:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/qantas-emirates-alliance-cleared-by-antitrust-regulator.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, won provisional approval from the nation’s
antitrust regulator to cooperate with Emirates as it seeks to
turn around unprofitable international operations.  The agreement will be approved for five years, rather than
the 10 the carriers sought, the Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission, or ACCC, said in a statement. Sydney-based
Qantas said the venture is due to start in April.  The alliance will let Qantas sell tickets to 60 new one-
stop destinations in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  via
Emirates’ Dubai hub, and help it overhaul Asian schedules. The
Australian carrier sought the tie-up after losing market share
on international routes to Middle East and Asian rivals offering
a wider range of connections and more convenient flight times.  “This is very positive for Qantas,” David Fraser, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney, said by phone. “If
they can get anywhere close to where the market is forecasting
by 2014 they’ll be doing significantly better than they are
today.”  Under the planned Qantas-Emirates accord, the two carriers
intend to coordinate pricing, sales and scheduling, as well as
aligning frequent-flier programs so passengers can earn points
on both carriers’ flights.  Emirates will gain access to Qantas’ Australia and  New
Zealand  network under the deal while the Australian carrier will
be able to sell tickets on Emirates’ planes from Dubai.  Alignment of computer systems, loyalty-program benefits and
an operational base for Qantas in the Gulf state were already
being set up, the companies said in a joint statement today.  Consumer Benefits  Qantas  shares  rose 0.7 percent to A$1.46 at the close in
Sydney. The stock has jumped 22 percent since announcing the
agreement with Emirates Sept. 6, on speculation it will be
better able to compete on international routes.  “The ACCC considers that the alliance is likely to result
in material, although not substantial, benefits to Australian
consumers,” the regulator’s Chairman Rod Sims said in the
statement.  The carriers will have to retain a minimum number of seats
on four routes between Australia and New Zealand they both
operate and increase capacity at a specified rate, the regulator
said in a separate statement.  Maintaining competition on the so-called trans-Tasman
routes between the two countries drove the ACCC’s initial
blocking of a 2010 alliance between Qantas’s main competitor
 Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and  Air New Zealand (AIR)  Ltd. The
partnership ultimately went ahead after the regulator set  terms 
to ensure the carriers didn’t push up prices by limiting seat
numbers.  International Losses  Qantas, which lost A$450 million ($471 million) on
international operations in the year ended June, will shift its
European hub to Dubai from  Singapore  under the accord. The
carrier is also abandoning a 17-year partnership with British
Airways and ending a loss-making Frankfurt route alongside the
agreement.  The new hub will let Qantas reschedule services through
Singapore to be more appealing for corporate travelers, Simon Hickey, head of Qantas’s international division, said in a Dec.
12 interview.  “This is the right deal for Qantas,” Simon Fitzgerald, a
Sydney-based analyst at Moelis & Co., said before the
announcement. “They can fly to a lot of destinations with
this.”  The alliance has been backed by Australia’s transport
minister Anthony Albanese, who described it as a “very good
deal for the traveling public” according to the transcript of a
 Sept. 10 interview .  ‘Dominant Position’  Virgin Australia, Qantas’s main domestic competitor, and
partner  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  raised objections to the Qantas-
Emirates tie-up. Virgin also cooperates with Abu Dhabi-based
Etihad Airways PJSC on Australia-Europe routes.  The deal “is likely to further entrench Qantas’s existing
dominant position” in Australia’s domestic and corporate travel
markets, Virgin Australia said in an Oct. 10  submission  to the
regulator.  Qantas and budget unit Jetstar have a combined 26 percent
share of international passenger traffic from Australia,
according to  government figures . Emirates is the third-biggest
carrier on the routes with an 8.2 percent share.  Virgin Australia  Virgin Australia and partners, Singapore Air and Air New
Zealand have a combined 25 percent share, according to data for
the year through June 2012. Etihad’s share wasn’t separately
broken out.  Since the Qantas-Emirates deal was announced, Singapore Air
has tightened ties with Virgin Australia by buying a 10 percent
stake. Virgin Australia has also agreed to take control of
budget carrier  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s local unit and
announced plans to take over regional carrier  Skywest Airlines
Ltd. (SXR)   The Qantas-Emirates agreement still requires approval from
authorities in Singapore and Europe, as well as a final sign-off
from the Australian agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  