-- Quality of Cliff Deal Easier to Gauge Than Quantity
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-12-19T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/quality-of-cliff-deal-easier-to-gauge-than-quantity.html
Is the deficit reduction  deal  being
negotiated by U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Speaker of the
House John Boehner likely to be small-ball, medium-sized or a
massive grand bargain that restructures the federal budget? Or
is all the talk of deficit reduction misleading, camouflaging a
deal that would actually increase deficits dramatically?  The answer is all of the above.  Measuring these deals is a frustrating exercise in a
subspecialty of physics known as budget relativity. For example,
viewed from one angle, the tentative Obama/Boehner deal is
surely small-ball. It includes about $1 trillion in tax revenue
and $1 trillion in spending cuts, for a total of about $2
trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years. That’s not nothing,
but it’s on the small side of the various fiscal plans
circulating Washington.  If you prefer a medium-size total, change your vantage
point. Previous negotiations between Republicans and Democrats
in 2011 led to the  Budget Control Act , which will cut
discretionary spending by about  $1.5 trillion over the next
decade . If you add that amount to the $2 trillion currently
under discussion, you achieve a 10-year deficit-reduction
package of $3.5 trillion. Now we’re getting somewhere.  Want an ambitious grand bargain instead? Take the $3.5
trillion outlined above and add savings from the drawdown of the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . Winding down the wars is expected
to cut about $1 trillion over 10 years.  Grand Bargain  In addition, savings on interest on the debt would produce
about $200 billion for every $1 trillion of spending cuts or tax
increases. That pushes the value of the total deficit reduction
above $5 trillion for 10 years -- more than enough to warrant
celebration of a grand bargain.  Yet even a grand bargain comes out looking like a budget
buster with a modest change of perspective. Under current law, a
combination of tax increases and spending cuts -- the “fiscal
cliff” -- will take effect Jan. 1.  That law slashes the deficit by about $600 billion in 2013
alone and keeps cutting thereafter. The deal being negotiated by
Boehner and Obama falls far short of that amount. Consequently,
measured against current law, Obama and Boehner are actually
proposing to increase the deficit by trillions of dollars over
the next decade.  The point? Judging a deal based on an arbitrary bottom-line
number is a mug’s game.  “The problem with relying on the number $4 trillion or $3
trillion is you can always game those numbers,” said Marc
Goldwein, policy director at the Committee for a Responsible
 Federal Budget .  The sainted  Simpson-Bowles plan , said Robert Greenstein,
president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, uses an
accounting baseline that assumes that a variety of tax cuts --
including those on income over $250,000 -- have either expired
or been paid for with spending cuts. “If you use that as your
baseline,” he said, “relative to that, the Obama offer is a tax
cut!”  I asked Goldwein, a budget hawk’s budget hawk, how he would
evaluate any deficit deal. “What’s important is what’s happening
to the debt,” he said. “I would define stability as the debt
declining as a percentage of the economy, particularly in the
second half of the decade.”  Greenstein employs a similar yardstick. But he pointed out
that health-care costs, which are the biggest driver of
deficits, may be more influential than a deficit deal in
determining the long-term budget outlook.  ‘Ultimate Goal’  “The ultimate goal is to stabilize debt-to-GDP for the long
term,” he said. “However, I think that is not something we
should be trying to do for future decades right now. For those
decades, the key is health care, and we neither know what
health-care costs will look like then -- they’re slowing down
now, but we don’t know if that’s permanent or temporary -- and
we don’t know enough about what changes we need to make to the
health-care delivery system to slow costs. So stabilize the debt
for the current decade and buy yourself time to figure out
health care.”  Both experts focus not on the precise ratio of debt to GDP,
but on the direction, up or down, in which the numbers are
moving.  According to Goldwein’s calculations, the deal proposed by
the White House earlier this week would produce declines in the
debt-to-GDP ratio until about 2020, after which the trend
flattens out. Greenstein agreed. “The administration’s package
comes close, but probably doesn’t get you all the way there,” he
said.  On the other hand, Robert Shiller, an eminent economist at
Yale, thinks it’s a mistake even to try to get “all the way
there” on deficit reduction. We’re far too obsessed with debt,
he said, whether measured as a percentage of GDP or by any other
means.  “We tend to focus on debt because it’s moralizing,” he told
me over the phone. “It has an emotional impact on us. Religions
talk about debt,” he said. “This moral dimension gives it
excessive importance.”  Even the focus on the annual debt-to-GDP ratio is skewed,
Shiller said. “There is nothing special about using a year as
that unit,”  he has written . “A year is the time that it takes
for the earth to orbit the sun, which, except for seasonal
industries like agriculture, has no particular economic
significance.”  He said that if you measured  Greece ’s debt against its GDP
over 10 years -- which, he said, would be more appropriate since
the government doesn’t have to pay off its debt in a single year
-- Greece’s debt burden would be only 15 percent of GDP.  There is no way to understand an entire economy and its
relationship to government debt from a single number, Shiller
said. So what data would he look at instead? “You want a scoring
system?” he asked. “I don’t have one of those. There’s too much
to focus on one number.”  The right way to judge a deal, in his view, is policy by
policy. If the policies make sense on their own terms, the deal
is a good one.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in  Washington  at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 