-- Quarter of Swiss Private Banks No Longer Profitable, KPMG Says
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-12-19T12:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/quarter-of-swiss-private-banks-no-longer-profitable-kpmg-says.html
A quarter of Swiss private banks are
no longer operating profitably, with smaller wealth managers
facing a “critical” situation, a KPMG report showed.  Income declined about 25 percent at small and medium-sized
banks as fees dropped amid lower customer activity and stricter
regulation and compliance added to costs, according to the study
of 103 firms in  Switzerland . The number of banks in Switzerland
dropped to 148 this year from 169 at the end of 2008 with
closures increasing in the past two years, the report said.  “A few years ago banks achieved great results even without
being great performers,” said  Christian Hintermann  of KPMG AG
in Zurich in a phone interview. “Some of the smaller to medium-
sized banks haven’t adapted.”  Banks with more than 25 billion francs ($27.5 billion)
under management managed to boost revenue since 2006 and aren’t
as acutely affected as smaller peers, KPMG said. The consultancy
didn’t include Switzerland’s two largest banks, UBS and Credit
Suisse Group AG, in the survey.  Swiss banks had an average return on equity of 2.4 percent,
excluding one-off gains such as the release of hidden reserves
and provisions. While some banks had a return on equity of more
than 40 percent in 2006, only a few exceeded 12 percent in 2011.  Assets under management declined about 10 percent since
2006 as most banks avoided substantial outflows of client funds.
Smaller firms were more likely to suffer withdrawals, the report
said.  Private banks are struggling to earn sufficient fees from
customers holding most of their money in cash amid volatile
financial markets, according to Hintermann. Firms are also
finding it harder to “push” their own products on clients, he
said, adding it may be too late for some smaller companies to
change their business models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  