-- Ramaphosa Reviews Business Interests After ANC Election
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-19T12:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/ramaphosa-reviews-business-interests-after-anc-election.html
Cyril Ramaphosa, chairman of  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Bidvest Ltd. (BVT) , is reviewing his business interests
after being elected deputy president of South Africa’s ruling
African National Congress.  “This is necessary to address any potential conflicts of
interest and to ensure that I can adequately perform the
responsibilities of this position,” Ramaphosa said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Ramaphosa, 60, won 76 percent of the votes in a three-way
contest for the No. 2 spot in the ruling party, making him the
frontrunner to succeed  Jacob Zuma  as the nation’s president in
2019. Ramaphosa is the richest black South African after his
brother-in-law, Patrice Motsepe, according to Johannesburg-based
Sunday Times newspaper.  A former labor union leader and secretary-general of the
ANC, Ramaphosa has built up a business empire since quitting
politics in 1996. Shanduka Group Ltd., an investment company he
founded, owns stakes in MTN, Bidvest,  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
and Liberty Group Ltd. and has the  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchise in
South Africa.  He also owns a direct stake in  Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP) , the Canadian
mining company founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, and sits
on the boards of brewer  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , lender Standard Bank and
platinum miner  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)   Ramaphosa’s election yesterday prompted calls from labor
groups and lawmakers for him to quit his businesses.   Zwelinzima Vavi , secretary-general of the 2.2-million-member Congress of
South African Trade Unions, said Ramaphosa must vacate all his
business posts and place his holdings in a trust.  “In consultation with the ANC national officials, I am
undertaking a process of engagement with several stakeholders on
the implications of my election to this post,” Ramaphosa said.  In September, Sunday Times estimated his wealth at 2.22
billion rand ($262 million), excluding property and unlisted
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  