-- Transneft Says Extended Link Moves ESPO Oil Closer to Benchmark
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-12-19T15:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/transneft-says-extended-link-moves-espo-oil-closer-to-benchmark.html
A $23 billion pipeline across
Eastern Siberia is moving Russian crude sold on the Pacific
coast closer to becoming an  benchmark, according to OAO
Transneft, the country’s oil pipeline operator.  The East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline, or ESPO, will
officially open Dec. 25, doubling capacity via the Pacific port
of Kozmino, Transneft President Nikolai Tokarev said today at a
Moscow conference. A ceremony will be held in the Far East city
of Khabarovsk, he said.  The pipeline, Russia’s most expensive infrastructure
project, brought a new grade of oil to market when its first
phase started at the end of 2009. It gives Russian  oil companies 
the highest netback of any export direction, Transneft First
Vice President Maxim Grishanin said. Netbacks are revenue from a
barrel of crude minus production and transport costs.  The Russian crude is a “strong candidate” for an Asian
benchmark, Steve McBain, a Singapore-based oil trading manager
for  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN) , said Dec. 11 at a conference in
the Southeast Asian city-state.  ESPO oil is trading at a premium of more than $4 a barrel
to Dubai crude after having traded at a discount when the first
phase began piping oil.  Oil traders in  Asia  typically price their crude as a
differential to the average of Oman and Dubai grades. The two
Arabian Gulf benchmark assessments are published by Platts, the
energy-information division of McGraw-Hill Cos.  Transneft,  Russia ’s oil pipeline operator, plans to export
21 million metric tons of crude via Kozmino in 2013, up from 18
million tons this year, Katsal said. Volumes will rise to 23
million tons to 24 million tons in 2014 and reach full capacity
of 30 million tons by 2015.  ESPO can become a benchmark within five years, Alexei
Rybnikov, the head of the St. Petersburg International
Mercantile Exchange, said at the conference.  “We have already created all the necessary conditions to
achieve benchmark status for ESPO,” Deputy Vice President Igor
Katsal said. “It has stable volumes and consistent quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  