-- Robert Bork, Judge Defeated in Supreme Court War, Dies at 85
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-12-19T18:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/robert-bork-defeated-judge-whose-name-became-verb-dies-at-85.html
Robert Bork, the U.S. judge and
legal scholar whose nomination to the  Supreme Court  by President
 Ronald Reagan  set off a battle for the judiciary that lived on
long after the  U.S. Senate  rejected him, has died. He was 85.  He died this morning at Virginia Medical Center in
Arlington, Virginia, said his son, Robert Jr. The cause was
 heart disease .  Bork’s defeat in the Senate by a roll call of 58 to 42 --
the  most votes ever  against a Supreme Court nominee --
established new rules for how prospective justices get selected
and vetted. The word “borking” entered the political lexicon,
meaning, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, trying to
block candidates for public office “by systematically defaming
or vilifying them.”  “My name became a verb,” Bork told  CNN  in 2005, “and I
regard that as one form of immortality.”  In nationally televised hearings, the Senate Judiciary
Committee delved into Bork’s ideology, not just his legal
qualifications or competence. His past commentary on hot-button
issues became fodder for his interrogators, establishing that
long paper trails can be liabilities for judicial nominees.  Advocacy groups adopted the tactics of political campaigns,
paying for print and broadcast advertising as part of what Ethan
Bronner, in “Battle for Justice: How the Bork Nomination Shook
America” (1989),  called  an “unprecedented lobbying campaign
against a Supreme Court nominee.”  Opposing Camps  Battle lines formed swiftly after Reagan, on July 1, 1987,
announced his selection of Bork, a judge on the Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit, to succeed Lewis F. Powell Jr., who was retiring.  Before the confirmation hearings even began, Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware, the Judiciary Committee chairman who was then
seeking the 1988 Democratic presidential nomination, declared
that he would lead the fight against Bork.  “I don’t have an open mind,” said Biden, the future vice
president. “The reason I don’t is that I know this man.”  In a 1963 article for New Republic magazine, Bork had
criticized civil-rights legislation that barred restaurants,
hotels and other public accommodations from discriminating on
the basis of race. While the “ugliness” of racism was clear,
he wrote, “having the state coerce you into more righteous
paths” is “a principle of unsurpassed ugliness.”  ‘Unconstitutional Decision’  On abortion, he had testified at a 1981 Senate hearing that
Roe v. Wade was “an unconstitutional decision, a serious and
wholly unjustifiable judicial usurpation of state legislative
authority.” He also had criticized the 1965 Supreme Court
 decision  establishing a constitutional right to privacy that,
among other things, permitted married couples to purchase
contraception.  As the confirmation hearings began, Senator  Edward Kennedy ,
a Democrat, said Bork “is publicly itching to overrule many of
the great decisions of the Supreme Court that seek to fulfill
the promise of justice for all Americans.”  Bork presented a softer side, saying he had “great respect
for precedent” and insisting he didn’t know how he would vote
if a challenge to Roe v. Wade came before him. In an hour-long
showdown on Bork’s final day as a witness, Republican  Arlen Specter  of Pennsylvania, a former  district attorney , challenged
his contention that the Supreme Court must rely on the
“original intent” of the framers of the Constitution.  Abandoning Neutrality  Advocacy groups representing blacks, women and labor
mobilized to defeat Bork. To join in, the  American Civil
Liberties Union  dropped a 51-year-old neutrality policy on
judicial and executive-branch nominations. Actor Gregory Peck
narrated an anti-Bork television commercial by People for the
American Way, a group founded by “All in the Family” producer
Norman Lear.  On the pro-Bork side,  Jerry Falwell ’s Moral Majority
delivered more than 20,000 postcards to the Judiciary Committee
supporting confirmation, and Concerned Women for America ran
radio ads in Washington and print ads in the home states of
select senators.  On Oct. 6, the Senate committee voted 9-5 against
recommending confirmation. All eight Democrats, plus Specter,
voted against Bork. Facing pressure to withdraw before the full
Senate voted, Bork vowed to fight on.  “The tactics and techniques of national political
campaigns have been unleashed on the process of confirming
judges,” he said after meeting with Reagan at the White House.
“That is not simply disturbing, it is dangerous.”  ‘A Lynching’  A Washington Post editorial opposing Bork’s confirmation
nevertheless said the campaign against him “did not resemble an
argument so much as a lynching.”  The full Senate’s 58-42 defeat of Bork on Oct. 23 was
mostly along party lines, with six Republicans opposing him and
two Democrats supporting him.  Reagan’s second choice to succeed Powell, appellate court
judge Douglas H. Ginsburg, was forced to withdraw amid reports
that he had used marijuana on occasion not just while a student
in 1960s but as an assistant professor at  Harvard University  in
the 1970s. Reagan filled the seat with his third pick,  Anthony Kennedy , who went on to be the court’s pivotal swing vote for
two decades, making Bork’s rejection even more consequential.  Four months after the Senate vote, Bork stepped down as an
appellate judge. He worked at the  American Enterprise Institute 
until 2003, then at the Hudson Institute. He was an adviser to
Republican nominee Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential
election.  Court’s Legitimacy  In “Slouching Towards Gomorrah: Modern Liberalism and
American Decline” (1996), Bork  wrote  that the Supreme Court was
suffering from a “crisis of legitimacy” due to “the judicial
adoption of the tenets of modern liberalism.”  The only way to restore legitimacy, he wrote, would be a
constitutional amendment making any state or federal court
decision subject to override by majority votes in the House and
Senate.  “ Robert Bork  was one of the most influential legal
scholars of the past 50 years,” U.S. Supreme Court Justice
 Antonin Scalia  said today in a statement. “His impact on legal
thinking in the fields of antitrust and constitutional law was
profound and lasting. More important for the final accounting,
he was a good man and a loyal citizen.”  Robert Heron Bork was born on March 1, 1927, in Pittsburgh,
the only child of Harry Bork, a purchasing agent for a steel
firm, and the former Elizabeth Kunkle, a teacher.  Political Conversion  He graduated from the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville,
Connecticut, in 1944. Following two semesters at the  University
of Pittsburgh , he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps in 1945 and
was in training when World War II ended.  He earned his undergraduate degree from the  University of
Chicago  in 1948 and returned there for law school, graduating in
1953 following a second stint with the Marines.  In a  1997 interview  with the District of Columbia Bar, he
said his political views were socialist and “quite radical”
from his teenage years until his exposure during law school to
the “rigorous analysis” of University of Chicago’s economists.  Intent on becoming an antitrust lawyer, he went to work in
New York at what today is Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, then in
Chicago at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. In 1962, with a wife and three
young children, he moved to New Haven, Connecticut, to accept a
teaching job at  Yale Law School .  Nixon’s Order  He was named U.S. solicitor general by President  Richard Nixon  at the start of his second term in 1973. By the end of
that year, Bork was embroiled in the growing scandal over the
Nixon White House’s cover-up of the June 1972 break-in at
Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate
office complex.  In what became known as the Saturday Night Massacre, Nixon
on Oct. 20, 1973, ordered the dismissal of the independent
Watergate prosecutor, Archibald Cox. The attorney general,
Elliot Richardson, and his deputy, William Ruckelshaus, both
resigned rather than fulfill the order. That left Bork as acting
attorney general, and he carried out the firing of Cox while
ensuring that a new special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, was
appointed to continue the investigation.  Back at Yale after  Jimmy Carter  took office in 1977, Bork
finished “The Antitrust Paradox: A Policy at War with Itself”
(1978), his critique of U.S. laws that, he said, were
discouraging necessary competition.  He returned to Washington in 1981 as a partner with
Kirkland & Ellis. Months later, Reagan named him to a seat on
the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.  His first wife, the former Claire Davidson, died in 1980 of
cancer. They had three children, Charles,  Ellen  and  Robert Jr. 
In 1982, Bork married the former Mary Ellen Pohl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  