-- Rogen’s Comedy Gold; Kerouac Tamed; Sad ‘Amour’: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/rogen-s-comedy-gold-kerouac-tamed-sad-amour-review.html
Barbra Streisand  and  Seth Rogen  look
nothing alike, have different comedy styles pitched to different
generations and, when they’re sitting in a car together, seem to
inhabit separate worlds.  In other words, they’re entirely believable as a mother and
son. In “ The Guilt Trip ” they play Joyce Brewster, a New
Jersey widow who has raised her son on her own, and Andy
Brewster, a schlubby chemist who’s developed a cleaning product
he’s trying to pitch to big-box stores.  So, not a hysterical premise. But once the screenwriter,
Dan Fogelman, gets them into that car together on a road trip to
meet with potential backers, the actors begin to have fun,
getting on each other’s nerves as they share a series of mild
adventures (a snowstorm, a barroom fight, a meat-eating
contest).  The irritations, the embarrassment and the boredom will
look familiar to anyone who’s traveled after adolescence with a
parent. But Fogelman’s script is surprisingly gentle and sweet.
(The title is more overstated than the picture itself.)  It has no gross-out jokes. Fogelman wrote it with his own
late mother, also named Joyce, in mind. An end credit dedicates
the film to her memory.  Breathing Room  Though the car is a compact, the two stars give each other
room and their restraint brings a big payoff in emotional
richness. There’s no goo. This is a very satisfying movie.  It has funny moments, but not sequences that build to a
comic crescendo. Streisand and Rogen don’t exactly hold back,
but they’re relaxed and they never beg for laughs. Perhaps as a
result, they don’t develop into a crack comedy team in the
Burns-and-Allen sense -- until the final credits.  At that point director Anne Fletcher drops in a series of
outtakes. You can see why they weren’t used: The movie builds
its rhythm carefully and they’re exactly the kind of devouring-
mother-castrated-son routines that would have thrown it out of
whack. But they’re hilarious.  “The Guilt Trip,” from Paramount, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ****  Kerouac Undone  Where’s the bliss? “ On the Road ” commits the offense that
was most anathema to Jack Kerouac: It tries too hard.  If
there’s a motion-picture equivalent to the headlong, speed-
inflected rhythms of Kerouac’s 1957 novel, surely it’s not this
long, boring succession of pristinely art-directed shots.  The actors try hard to look as hip as the legends they’re
playing. Among them are two Englishmen, Sam Riley and Tom
Sturridge, as well as Garrett Hedlund and a very amusing Viggo Mortensen as the characters based, respectively, on Kerouac,
 Allen Ginsberg , Neal Cassady and William S. Burroughs.  Jose Rivera, the screenwriter, and Walter Salles, the
director, seek to demythologize these figures, which is what
they did to Che Guevara in their previous collaboration, “ The
Motorcycle Diaries .”  They don’t glamorize the drugs or the endless cigarettes or
Cassady’s rather predatory sexuality. They’ve stripped Kerouac,
who was possibly the most conscious mythmaker since Virgil, of
his transcendence.  And what’s “On the Road” without transcendence? A
plotless tale of boozing speed freaks in period cars. The film
doesn’t hint at revelation. It doesn’t even look like fun.  “On the Road,” from  IFC Films , opens Friday in New York.
Rating: **  Truest Love  Michael Haneke’s “ Amour ” watches an elderly Parisian
(Jean-Louis Trintignant) try, with increasing desperation, to
care for his dying wife (Emmanuelle Riva). In October it played
at the  New York  Film Festival, after winning the Palme d’Or at
Cannes.  It’s gorgeously shot, with impeccable performances, and I
was impressed yet ambivalent: The film is severe and very
graphic. (To read my review from the New York Film Festival
screening, click  here .)  But in the months since I saw it, I haven’t stopped
thinking about it -- and it’s a beautiful memory, not a bad one.
“Amour” earns its title: It’s as much about love as it is
about death. I’m convinced of its greatness.  “Amour” is playing in New York and L.A. Rating: *****  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
Patrick Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writer of this column:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 