-- Romania’s Leu Retreats as Ponta Names Cabinet to Tackle Economy
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-12-19T15:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/romania-s-currency-retreats-as-ponta-announces-new-cabinet.html
Romania ’s leu retreated after Prime
Minister-Designate Victor Ponta named his Cabinet, shifting
investor focus from last week’s elections to the need to tackle
the current account gap and secure an international bailout.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 4.4730 per euro by
5 p.m. in Bucharest. The currency added 1.4 percent last week,
making it the best performer among emerging-market peers tracked
by Bloomberg. Yields on Romania’s 2019 euro-denominated bonds
declined nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point to 3.95
percent today.  “The leu’s current decline may be justified by a tendency
to look at the country’s fundamentals, especially at the
current-account deficit, which is less financed by foreign
investments and there are fewer capital inflows,” Vlad Muscalu,
a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank Romania SA, said in a
phone interview today.  Ponta’s 26-member Cabinet, which includes a new finance
minister and a division of the  Economy Ministry , will hold talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union in
January, during a review mission of a current 5 billion euros
($6.6 billion) precautionary accord, on a new deal, once the
current one expires at the end of March.  Romania’s current-account gap stood at about 4 billion
euros in the first 10 months of this year, according to the
central bank’s data. Foreign direct investments totaled 1.3
billion euros, covering 29 percent of the deficit.  Stake Sales  Yesterday, the government extended until the end of 2013 a
deadline to sell minority stakes in some state-owned companies
after pledging to international lenders it will try to sell the
stakes by the end of this year. The deadlines were extended
several times over the past two years because of market
conditions.  “The delay of state assets may have also had an influence
on the leu today,” Muscalu said.  Ponta said today in a Bucharest news conference that he
plans to move Economy Minister Daniel Chitoiu, 45, to the
 Finance Ministry , replacing Florin Georgescu, who will resume
his post as central bank deputy governor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  