-- Romania’s Ponta Names New Cabinet, Chitoiu to Finance
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-19T11:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/romania-s-ponta-names-new-cabinet-chitoiu-to-finance.html
Romanian Premier-designate Victor Ponta, whose government will seek a confidence vote from
Parliament this week, named his 26-member Cabinet, replacing the
finance minister and dividing the  Economy Ministry .  Ponta said today in a Bucharest news conference that he
plans to appoint move Economy Minister Daniel Chitoiu, 45, to
the Finance Ministry, replacing Florin Georgescu, who will
resume his post as central bank deputy governor.  “I wanted every European commissioner to have a
correspondent in our government to ensure that our goals are met
in the next four years as this cabinet is benefiting from a full
mandate instead of a temporary one,” Ponta said.  Ponta, whose ruling coalition won a two-thirds majority in
Parliament in Dec. 9 elections, was re-designated as premier by
his political rival, President Traian Basescu, this week.
Parliament is expected to hear his proposed government and hold
a confidence vote on Dec. 21, according to Ponta.  He also appointed Liviu Voinea as minister-delegate to
supervise the country’s budget, under the  Finance Ministry .
Ponta also divided the Economy Ministry in three, separating a
ministry for industry and trade headed by a former Finance
Minister Varujan Vosganian, one for energy led by Constantin
Nita and one for small- and medium-sized companies headed by
Maria Grapini.  Environment, Labor  The proposed government retained some ministers from the
previous seven-month-old Cabinet, including Environment Minister
Rovana Plumb and Labor Minister Mariana Campeanu. Ponta
appointed Relu Fenechiu as transport minister and Eugen
Teodorovici as the minister in charge with the absorption of
European Union funds.  Romania , which got a 5 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
precautionary credit from the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union in 2011, is trying to approve its 2013 budget
and start talks for a new accord in January.  It plans to cut its  budget deficit  to 2.2 percent of gross
domestic product this year and 1.7 percent in 2013 after a gap
of 4.3 percent in 2011. It hasn’t drawn any funds so far from
the lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  