-- Russia to Ban U.S.-Funded NGOs, Adoptions in Retaliatory Step
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-12-19T13:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/russia-to-ban-u-s-funded-ngos-adoptions-in-retaliatory-step.html
Russia ’s lower house of parliament
gave preliminary approval to a ban on U.S.-funded non-government
organizations and adoptions of Russian children in the U.S.,
escalating a rift between the two countries.  The State Duma passed the measures today in the second of
three required readings. The bans are retaliation for a law
approved in the U.S. this month that imposes a visa ban and
asset freeze on Russian officials suspected of involvement in
the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and other human-rights
abuses.  “This is the response of a sovereign state, protecting its
citizens,” said Vladimir Pligin, a senior lawmaker from the
ruling United Russia party.  Russia condemned the U.S. legislation and repeatedly warned
it would damage ties between the two countries. Tensions are
already growing after President  Vladimir Putin , who faced
unprecedented protests in late 2011 and early this year,
criticized the administration of  Barack Obama  over its efforts
to promote democracy in Russia and oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Magnitsky, an attorney for London-based Hermitage Capital,
alleged a $230 million  tax fraud  by Russian officials. He died
at age 37 in November 2009 after being beaten to death and
denied medical care during almost a year in pre-trial detention
on fabricated tax evasion charges, according to a Russian
presidential human-rights body.  Separate legislation passed this year requires groups that
receive money from abroad to register themselves as “foreign
agents” and submit to tighter controls. The Justice Ministry
threatened to close human-rights organization Memorial, vote-
monitor Golos and the Moscow branch of anti-corruption watchdog
 Transparency International  after they said they’ll flout the new
rules.  Putin’s administration also ordered the closure in October
of U.S. aid agency USAID, which has financed NGOs in Russia
including Golos and Memorial. The NGO law is in line with
international practice, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  