-- Russian Orphans Suffer for Officials’ Sins
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2012-12-19T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/russian-orphans-suffer-for-officials-sins.html
If Russian lawmakers have their way,
the best intentions of a U.S. investor could soon result in
tragedy for thousands of Russian orphans and the U.S. families
who would adopt them.  In recent weeks, Russia’s parliament has been grasping for
a response to the  Magnitsky Act , a bill lobbied for heavily by
U.S. investor Bill Browder and signed into law last week by
President  Barack Obama . The law replaces Cold War-era trade
restrictions with a mechanism denying entry to the U.S. for
Russian officials involved in human-rights violations -- and
specifically in the 2009 jail death of 37-year-old Sergei
Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer who had been defending the interests
of the Hermitage Fund, an investment fund run by Browder.  Now, to the horror of many Russians, parliamentary deputy
Yekaterina Lakhova believes she has found the answer: a total
ban on the adoption of Russian children by U.S. families. The
relevant bill gained preliminary approval Dec. 19, and awaits a
final parliamentary vote.  “The response to the Magnitsky bill is a disgrace,” art
gallery owner Marat Guelman  wrote  on Twitter. “The Americans
have punished our officials; in retaliation, the parliament
punishes orphans -- also our own.”  Browder, now banned from  Russia , claims that Magnitsky
exposed a fraudulent scheme against Hermitage run by a number of
corrupt Russian tax and law enforcement officials. The
investment fund was accused of large-scale  tax evasion , and
Magnitsky was jailed in 2008. He died in Moscow’s Butyrka pre-
trial detention center after being denied medical help for a
stomach illness.  Browder, whose fund was once one of the largest private
investors in the Russian natural gas monopoly Gazprom, refused
to take his losses silently. For three years, he has run a
relentless public relations campaign to expose the people who
chased him out of Russia and whom he accused of torturing and
killing Magnitsky. A series of videos called “Russian
Untouchables,” made as part of the campaign, has attracted
millions of viewers on the Internet. Democratic U.S. Senator
Benjamin Cardin, a long-standing foe of Russian President
 Vladimir Putin , picked up the cause and introduced the
legislation.  Initially, Russia’s parliament sought a symmetrical
response. On Dec. 10, a large group of pro-Putin legislators
 introduced a bill  called “On measures against persons involved
in violating the rights of Russian citizens.” Like the U.S.
legislation, the bill called on the Foreign Ministry to compile
a list of people who have “committed crimes against Russian
citizens abroad,” passed “groundless” sentences against them or
otherwise persecuted them. The transgressors would be denied
entry to Russia, and their assets in Russia would be frozen.  The drafters named their handiwork the “Dima Yakovlev”
bill, for a 21-month-old Russian boy who died in 2008 after his
U.S. foster father, Miles Harrison, left him in a locked car on
a hot day. Dima’s was one of 19 deaths of Russian orphans
adopted by U.S. families since 1996. According to the Russian
prosecutor general’s office, in the same 16 years 1,500 adopted
children have died in Russian foster families.  The symmetry of the Russian legislative response proved to
be a weakness. While many wealthy and influential Russians
travel frequently to the U.S., buy property there and send
children to top U.S. schools, Russia is not yet a preferred
destination for the American elite. To bolster Russia’s side of
the tit-for-tat equation, Lakhova -- who has long opposed U.S.
adoptions -- proposed the total ban.  If passed, the legislation could have a big impact.
According to the  State Department , the U.S. is the world leader
in adopting Russian children. U.S. families have adopted 45,112
Russian orphans since 1999. In 2011, 956 of the 3,400 orphans
adopted by foreigners in Russia went to the U.S.  “We must do everything to promote adoptions by Russian
citizens,” Lakhova  told  the state-controlled RIA Novosti agency.  Outside the pro-Putin parliament, formed in a notoriously
rigged election in December 2011, many people did not see the
logic of holding orphaned children hostage to international
politics. “The logic is 'an eye for an eye,’”  tweeted  Education
Minister Dmitry Livanov. “But this logic is flawed, because
children for whom adoptive parents cannot be found in Russia
could suffer.”  The minister’s reaction was mild compared with the
collective outrage on social networks. On Facebook, journalist
and children’s rights activist Valery Panyushkin  published  a list
of gravely ill Russian children, many with Down syndrome, 
awaiting adoption by U.S. families. “I know of only two
organizations that kill their own children to scare their
enemies: Hamas and  United Russia ,” Panyushkin wrote, referring
to the Kremlin-loyal political party.  Blogger Alexei Navalny, a leader of the anti-Putin
opposition movement, has  suggested  that the Russian president
will now speak out against the adoption ban, “and everyone will
praise his wisdom.” This is possible, but perhaps overly
optimistic, given that Putin’s camp is on an anti-American roll.  The TV channel Dozhd asked Deputy Prime Minister  Vladislav
Surkov , until recently Putin’s chief political aide, what he
would feel if placed on the “Magnitsky list.” “It would be a
great honor for me,” Surkov  said , adding that Russia’s reaction
to the bill was adequate.  When a siege mentality combines with their herd instincts,
politicians don’t care who gets hurt. The symbolism of revenge
is more important.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow and Kiev
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 