-- Russia Stocks Fall First Time in Four Days as Sberbank Retreats
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-19T16:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/russia-stocks-gain-fourth-day-on-crude-u-s-budget-deal-wagers.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  equities retreated for the
first time in four days, posting the smallest price swings in
almost two years, as OAO Sberbank fell and U.S. lawmakers
continued budget talks.  The 50-stock Micex Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,478.83 by
the close in Moscow after adding as much as 0.4 percent earlier.
The index’s  10-day volatility  dropped to 7.6, trading near the
lowest level since December 2010. Sberbank, the country’s
largest lender, which has the  second-biggest  weighting in the
gauge at 14 percent, sank 0.6 percent, falling for the first
time in four days.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan for the budget would
put “too big a burden on the middle class” and President
 Barack Obama  would veto it, White House Communications Director
 Dan Pfeiffer  said, fueling concern that progress in budget talks
is deteriorating. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 0.4
percent to 1,517.39.  “The fiscal cliff continues to weigh on investor
sentiment,”  Kingsmill Bond , Citigroup Inc.’s chief strategist
for Russia, said by phone.  Federal spending cuts and tax increases of $600 billion
will come into effect in January without action by the  U.S.
Congress . Federal Reserve chief  Ben Bernanke  began calling the
combination of spending cuts and tax increases a “fiscal
cliff” when he spoke to the House Financial Services Committee
in February.  Obama proposed a budget plan that would cut about $1.2
trillion in federal spending and raise a similar amount in taxes
in the next decade, according to a person familiar with the
talks.  ‘Positive Note’  “Sentiment remains strong, as investors look set to end a
difficult year on a positive note,” Slava Smolyaninov, an
equity analyst at UralSib Financial Corp, wrote in an e-mailed
report today. “The clear trigger is more comments of a looming
compromise on the fiscal cliff, which may be announced as early
as this week.”  The amount of shares traded was 25 percent below the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OAO RusHydro closed little changed at 75.07 kopeks,
reversing gains of as much as 1.9 percent.  Russia ’s state-run
hydropower producer may pay more than 25 percent of net income
in dividends in five years, George Rizhinashvili, a deputy
chairman at RusHydro, said in a phone interview from Moscow
yesterday.  OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port tumbled 3.6 percent to
2.9 rubles, the sharpest drop since Oct. 23, making it the
biggest decliner on the Micex. The amount of shares traded was
694,000, equivalent to about 70 percent of the three-month
average.  ‘Trendy Theme’  Crude oil handling totaled 103 million tonnes in January-
November, a 0.7 percent drop from January to November 2011,
Novorossiysk said in a regulatory filing today. Novorossiysk
reported “disappointing numbers” for November, Andrey Rozhkov,
an analyst at IFC Metropol, said by phone from Moscow.  “Companies are become more responsive to the needs of the
market, dividends are becoming a trendy theme,” Alexander Varyushkin, a partner at Third Rome LLC, said in Moscow at a
press conference today.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index gained 0.1 percent to 641.05.
Oil, Russia’s chief export earner, gained 0.2 percent to $88.11
a barrel in  New York . Russia receives about half of its budget
revenue from oil and natural gas sales.  OAO Severstal surged 4.2 percent to 375.30 rubles, the
biggest gainer. The volume of shares traded was about 4 million,
equivalent to 2.7 times the three-month average.  Lowest Valuations  The  Market Vectors Russia (RSX)  ETF, the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, yesterday added 1.4 percent to
$29.85, the highest close since Sept. 18. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in futures, fell 2 percent
to 20.03.  The Micex trades at about 5.4 times  estimated earnings 
after adding 5.5 percent this year. That compares with a
multiple of 10.7 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index,
which has gained 14.7 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Russia receives about half of its budget revenue from
oil and natural gas industry sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  