-- SAC Indictment Deadline May Show U.S. Hand on Cohen Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-19T15:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sac-indictment-deadline-may-show-u-s-hand-on-cohen-deal.html
Prosecutors face a deadline next
week that may force them to tip their hand on whether they’re in
plea talks with an ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP manager to get him
to testify against founder  Steven Cohen  about insider trading.  Federal speedy-trial rules require Manhattan prosecutors to
secure a grand jury indictment by Dec. 26 against portfolio
manager Mathew Martoma, who was charged in a complaint Nov. 20
with making illegal trades on two drug company stocks after
receiving confidential tips.  Martoma, 38, may agree to postpone the U.S. deadline. If he
does, prosecutors requesting the adjournment sometimes tell the
presiding judge whether the two sides are in plea talks, or at
least provide some hint of negotiations.  “There are all types of reasons why they could adjourn the
case,” said  Stephen Miller , a former federal prosecutor in  New
York  and Philadelphia. “It gives the government more time to
investigate the case and to negotiate all types of plea deals.”  In what U.S. prosecutors call the “most lucrative”
insider scheme ever, Martoma was accused of trading on shares of
Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC based on tips he got from Sidney Gilman,
a  University of Michigan  neurologist.  Gilman, 80, oversaw a clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s drug
by Wyeth and Elan and allegedly passed the results to Martoma
before the disappointing news became public, prosecutors said.
The trades netted $276 million in profits and avoided losses for
SAC affiliate CR Intrinsic Investors, prosecutors said.  Not Named  The complaint doesn’t name Cohen, referring only to a
“Hedge Fund Owner” with whom Martoma spoke. A person familiar
with the case identified the fund owner as Cohen last month.  Martoma, who lives in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , and was fired
from SAC in 2010, hasn’t responded to the charges, though his
lawyer has said he will be exonerated. Gilman entered a
cooperation deal in which the U.S. agreed not to prosecute him.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to comment on the deadline. He has said
Cohen and SAC acted appropriately in making the trades.  Defense attorney  Charles Stillman , who said at Martoma’s
court hearing last month that he’d likely seek an adjournment,
didn’t return calls for comment. Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to say if
prosecutors will seek an indictment from a grand jury or ask for
an extension.  With an indictment, which members of a grand jury decide on
following a presentation of evidence by prosecutors, Martoma’s
case will be assigned to another judge and head toward a trial.
It’s also possible Martoma will eventually plead guilty without
entering into a cooperation deal, lawyers said.  A Pause  Matt Levine, a former U.S. prosecutor in  Brooklyn , New York,
said a court filing next week may signal that negotiations are
underway or represent a pause in proceedings before an
indictment is handed down. Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, now serving 11 years in prison for  insider trading 
following his conviction, wasn’t indicted until two months after
his arrest.  “Before indictment, the conventional wisdom is that the
government and the defense have much more flexibility on how
they’re going to reach a resolution,” Levine, who is now in
private practice, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not
unusual in my experience for an extension to be sought.”  Martoma rejected several government bids for cooperation,
according to a person familiar with the case. When first
confronted by an FBI agent on the lawn of his mansion last year,
he fainted, another person said.  Martoma’s arrest, followed by a well-publicized press
conference by U.S. officials, may spur him to reconsider the
government’s cooperation bid.  No Room  “Now that the indictment is imminent, Martoma may be
running out of maneuvering room,” said  Anthony Sabino , who
teaches law at the Tobin School of Business at  St. John’s
University  in New York. “The government’s leverage may have
increased dramatically.”  Criminal defendants typically seek leniency at sentencing
in return for cooperation. Ex-Intel Corp. executive Rajiv Goel
was sentenced to probation in September after testifying against
Rajaratnam.  Added incentive for Martoma to cooperate may come from
the Dec. 17 guilty verdicts of ex-Diamondback Capital Management
LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman  and Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson in a $72 million insider scheme.
Newman and Chiasson, who left SAC Capital to start Level Global,
face as many as 20 years in prison at their April sentencing.  Increased Pressure  “Two very high-profile convictions increase the
pressure,” said John Sylvia, who co-chairs the securities
litigation practice at Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky and Popeo.  If there’s no indictment next week, Sylvia doubts
prosecutors will offer details of potential plea talks in their
upcoming court filing, which may contain boilerplate language
designed to meet legal requirements for a postponement.  “They probably want to keep things shrouded in a little
bit of mystery,” he said in a telephone interview. Doing so
would “keep the heat on other people” prosecutors may be
targeting, said Sylvia, who isn’t involved in the case.  During the trial of Chiasson and Newman, the judge ruled
Level Global’s other co-founder, SAC Capital alumnus David Ganek,
and SAC Capital fund manager Michael Steinberg, were unindicted
co-conspirators. Neither has been charged with a crime. The
trial also revealed e-mail messages the government has obtained
in its investigation involving another SAC portfolio manager,
Gabe Plotkin. He hasn’t been charged with a crime either.  Portfolio Managers  Plotkin, who hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, is one of
10 portfolio managers at Sigma focusing on consumer stocks. He
joined SAC in 2006 and is among the firm’s top portfolio
managers, overseeing more than $1 billion, according to a person
with knowledge of the firm.  At the same time, Martoma may be innocent and unwilling to
plead or have no information implicating Cohen or others at SAC.
Then, the U.S. case would begin and end with Martoma.  “He’s got to have the facts,” said Miller, who is now in
private practice at Cozen O’Connor. Otherwise, “the government
would have no interest.”  It could take anywhere from a few days to many months for
the two sides to hammer out a deal, should there be one.  WorldCom Precedent  Scott Sullivan, the former finance chief at WorldCom Inc.,
didn’t appear in court to plead guilty and disclose his
cooperation until 1½ years after his indictment for accounting
fraud at what was then the second-largest U.S. long-distance
company.  Sullivan testified against former Chief Executive Officer
Bernard Ebbers, who was convicted and sentenced to prison for 25
years. Sullivan, another Boca Raton resident, served five years
for his role in the $11 billion fraud.  Jon Horvath, an analyst at SAC unit Sigma Capital
Management LLC, fought insider charges from his February arrest
until September, when he pleaded guilty a month before trial and
agreed to cooperate. After his 2010 arrest, French physician
Yves Benhamou agreed to help prosecutors build a case against
FrontPoint Partners LLC fund manager Joseph Skowron, who later
pleaded guilty.  A near-certainty is that there won’t be a preliminary
hearing on the Martoma matter next week, Miller said. Under the
law, prosecutors, rather than indicting Martoma, may present
evidence to a judge establishing “probable cause” to accuse
him of insider trading. Such a probable cause determination will
in turn allow them to proceed toward trial.  Rather than holding a hearing and subjecting government
witnesses to cross-examination by a defense lawyer, prosecutors
would simply ask a grand jury to indict him, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-mj-02985, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  