-- Sanofi to Pay $109 Million to Settle False Claims Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sanofi-to-pay-109-million-to-settle-false-claims-case.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s biggest drugmaker,
reached a settlement to pay $109 million over allegations that
its U.S. units gave doctors free doses of a medicine to win
their business and subvert Medicare’s drug reimbursement system.  Sanofi sales representatives entered into “illegal
sampling arrangements” with physicians, giving them the
arthritis drug Hyalgan as kickbacks and “promising to provide
negotiated” amounts of the medication to lower its effective
price in violation of the  False Claims Act , the U.S. Justice
Department said yesterday in a statement.  “Kickback schemes subvert the health-care marketplace and
undermine the integrity of public health-care programs,”  Stuart
Delery , who heads the department’s civil division, said in the
statement. “We will continue to hold accountable those who we
allege are providing illegal incentives to influence the
decision-making of health-care providers in federal health-care
programs.”  The settlement resolves a 2010 whistle-blower lawsuit filed
in federal court in  Boston  by Mark Giddarie, a former Sanofi
sales representative. He’ll receive $18.5 million of the
government’s recovery, according to the department.  Sanofi, in an e-mailed statement, said it cooperated in the
government’s probe and expects to enter into a corporate
integrity agreement with the inspector general of the  Department
of Health  and Human Services. The company said it voluntarily
stopped giving samples of the drug in 2009.  “Before the government initiated the investigation that
led to this settlement, Sanofi identified concerns with Hyalgan
sampling through the operation of its compliance program and
immediately took strong, practice and effective steps to address
these issues,” according to the statement.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Giddarie v. Sanofi-Aventis U.S.
Inc., 10-cv-10070, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 