-- SCA to Cut Costs at Forest Unit for Profit Boost by 2015
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-19T10:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sca-to-cut-costs-at-forest-unit-for-profit-boost-by-2015.html
Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) ,  Europe ’s
largest paper-tissue maker, said it will cut expenses and
increase efficiency in forest-product operations to boost
earnings by 1.3 billion kronor ($198 million) annually.  The measures will cost 370 million kronor, of which 250
million kronor will affect  cash flow  while the rest will be
posted as impairment losses, Stockholm-based SCA said in a
statement today. The full 1.3 billion-krona earnings effect will
come in 2015, it said.  SCA, also Europe’s biggest private forest owner, has
increased its focus on consumer-hygiene products to skirt most
of the decline that has gripped the Nordic  paper industry  in the
past few years. The manufacturer hasn’t escaped effects of the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis entirely, and it announced last
month a plan to cut 1,500 jobs at the hygiene unit, becoming the
latest Swedish exporter to reduce the workforce.  The forest-products reorganization is starting “against
the backdrop of the prevailing economic and currency
situation,” the company said. “The program includes a
structured plan to reduce fixed and variable costs, income
improvements by way of increased production and streamlining
activities, and a changed product and market mix.”  The efficiency project at SCA’s Swedish operations includes
previously announced shutdowns of sawmills in Vilhelmina and
Holmsund, as well as spending cuts at the Ortviken paper mill,
the SCA Transforest terminals in Sundsvall and Umeaa, and the
research and development center. Most of the 200 jobs being
eliminated were already announced earlier, SCA said.  Stock Rises  SCA  rose  as much as 2.5 percent to 139.8 kronor and was
trading up 2.3 percent at 139.5 kronor as of 11:35 a.m. in
Stockholm, the highest price since at least 1990. The shares
have gained 37 percent this year, valuing the paper maker at
98.3 billion kronor.  Competing paper maker  Holmen AB (HOLMB) , phone company  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN) , steel producer SSAB, truckmaker Volvo AB and its former
auto-manufacturing unit Volvo Cars are among Swedish companies
that have announced jobs cuts since late August.  Costs totaling 175 million kronor will be booked in the
fourth quarter, with another 195 million kronor posted in the
first half of next year, SCA said.  The manufacturer is also selling its publication paper mill
in Laakirchen,  Austria , to Heinzel Group, SCA said separately.  SCA will get an initial 100 million euros ($133 million)
for the mill, which generated sales of 335 million euros last
year with a workforce of 500 employees and annual capacity
exceeding 500,000 tons. Another 100 million euros may be earned
as part of a two-year profit-sharing model, SCA said.  The  disposal  will result in an impairment of 50 million
euros that will reduce SCA’s profit in the fourth quarter. The
Swedish company also said it signed a sales cooperation
agreement with Heinzel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  