-- LSE Said to Cut LCH.Clearnet Bid by 30% on Capital Rules
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-12-19T16:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/lse-said-to-cut-lch-clearnet-bid-by-30-on-capital-rules.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  cut
its bid for a majority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. by 30
percent after European regulators forced the clearinghouse to
boost capital, three people with knowledge of the matter said.
LSE shares rose to a 4 1/2-year high.  Under the revised terms LSE presented to LCH.Clearnet,
shareholders would get 13 euros a share in cash and a 1 euro
special dividend, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified as the discussions are private.  Europe ’s oldest
independent bourse had  originally  offered 19 euros in cash plus
the 1 euro dividend for as much as 60 percent of LCH.Clearnet,
valuing the clearinghouse at 813 million euros ($1.08 billion).  The European Securities and Markets Authority has proposed
that 95 percent of a clearinghouse’s cash deposits placed with
financial institutions must be collateralized with debt
instruments meeting certain conditions of liquidity and credit
risk, LSE said in September. If adopted, the rules would force
London-based LCH.Clearnet to increase capital by 300 million
euros to 375 million euros.  LCH.Clearnet continues to negotiate with LSE about the
purchase price and last week rejected an offer of less than 14
euros a share, the people said. The companies are still
discussing the implications of the European regulation and
possible changes to takeover terms, LSE said in a statement
today in response to the Bloomberg News story.  Shares Climb  LSE rallied 2.9 percent to 1,106 pence at the close of
trading in  London , the highest price since May 2008.  “This would be very positive for the transaction and LSE
shareholders,” Peter Lenardos, exchange analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London, wrote in a report today. “While we have
previously believed a cut in the purchase price was warranted
and likely, we are surprised and pleased that the size of the
cut is so substantial.” He rates LSE outperform, the equivalent
of buy.  LCH.Clearnet’s SwapClear service began processing interest-
rate contracts between banks in 1999. The company attracted
interest from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  before it
accepted the LSE bid. LCH.Clearnet shareholders, who include
banks and brokers that use its services, will retain at least 40
percent ownership after the transaction.  Rolet Strategy  LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  is trying to
diversify the exchange’s business away from traditional equities
trading after losing market share to new entrants. LSE was
forced to scrap a bid for TMX Group Inc., the operator of the
Toronto stock exchange, last year after failing to win support
from the Canadian company’s shareholders.  Other exchanges have also been hit by the proposed European
rules. NYSE Euronext, owner of the biggest U.S., French and
Dutch stock exchanges, in November fell the most in a year after
saying it needs to almost double the amount of capital set aside
for its European clearinghouse.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default. They
have become more attractive as regulators seek more central
processing of derivatives transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  