-- Sex Requirement for Horses Upheld by Australian Judge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-19T07:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sex-requirement-for-thoroughbreds-upheld-by-australian-judge.html
Racehorses must have physical sex
for their foals to be considered thoroughbreds, an Australian
judge ruled, upholding an international requirement that
prohibits the use of artificial insemination.  Federal Court Justice Alan Robertson in Sydney today
dismissed a bid to make the country the first to allow
artificial insemination for thoroughbreds, following a trial
that spanned four months and concluded Dec. 19, 2011. He cited
potential international consequences as a reason for his ruling.  Bruce McHugh, a former chairman of a Sydney racing club,
sued thoroughbred authorities to legalize the use of artificial
insemination, arguing the ban on the practice was an illegal
trade restraint as he seeks to start a breeding business. The
suit, which threatened to upset traditions behind horseracing’s
appeal to kings, queens, sheikhs and billionaires, according to
Tony Bannon, attorney for the defending Australian Turf Club,
could have “downgraded” the status of thoroughbred races held
in  Australia , if upheld, Robertson said.  McHugh had also argued the ban violated the country’s
 competition and consumer act .  Robertson said both the arguments failed. McHugh can set up
a separate register for horses bred artificially, the judge
said, so competition isn’t lessened by the practice.  The law requires that the plaintiff must show trade
restraint was unreasonable when it was established for it to be
illegal. Since the rule was imposed many decades ago, it was
reasonable at that time, Robertson said.  No Consideration  “Whether thoroughbreds bred by artificial insemination
should or should not be permitted to race” wasn’t a
consideration, the judge said. “The application fails on the
legal grounds on which it was brought.”  The multibillion-dollar thoroughbred breeding industry sees
the world’s most-prized horses being sent around the globe by
their owners, including Dubai’s ruler Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, as so-called shuttle stallions to physically mate.  McHugh claimed the rule requiring horses to have physical
sex makes breeding expensive and dangerous and prevents him from
getting into the business.  He is former chairman of the Sydney Turf Club, which last
year merged with the Australian Jockey Club to become the
Australian Turf Club.  Fees  for a mating episode have exceeded $330,000, according
to  breednet.com , a website on the breeding industry in
Australia, the world’s second-biggest thoroughbred racing
jurisdiction behind the U.S.  Small Breeders  The vast majority of breeders in Australia are small
operators, who have an average of three mares and whose voice is
being ignored, McHugh’s lawyer Ian Tonking said during the
trial. They would benefit from not having to ship their mares to
stud farms and gaining access to the sperm of top-rated horses
worldwide, he said.  The use of artificial insemination would change the
industry into one where a stallion never dies, with semen stored
long after a stud’s death, Bannon said.  “Literally, a dead horse is being flogged,” the attorney
said.  New Zealand breeder Janice McDonald said her business came
to a standstill when her Australian race horse  Heroicity  died at
stud in the U.S. in 2005.  Stud Books  “Being able to use his frozen semen would allow me to
continue what I set out to achieve and surely everyone is
entitled to have their dreams, not just wealthy folk,” McDonald
wrote in an e-mail that she sent to Bloomberg News. “I do not
feel Heroicity was given a true opportunity to show what he was
capable of producing.”  To be eligible to race, thoroughbreds must be registered in
a recognized stud book. The Australian  Stud Book  dates back to
1878, when the first one was compiled by William C. Yuille,
sporting editor of the Melbourne Weekly Times newspaper,
according to the organization’s website. The book preserves an
official record and ensures the integrity of the thoroughbred
breeding industry, the organization said.  Racing associations in other countries also keep stud
books. More than 70 stud book authorities are members of the
 International Stud Book Committee .  The prohibition of any form of artificial insemination for
thoroughbreds has been in place in Australia since at least
1949, to prevent fraud and reduce errors in the registration of
thoroughbreds, Tonking said. Since horses are now electronically
tagged and identified by their DNA, that argument no longer has
any justification, he said.  The International Stud Book Committee has always recognized
that a challenge to the ban on artificial insemination may
occur, it said. Lifting the ban wouldn’t be in the interest of
the industry, the group said on its  website .  The case is Between Bruce McHugh and the Australian Jockey
Club Ltd. NSD1187/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  