-- Sharp Shares Extend Gains as Margin Traders Look to Cut Losses
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-12-19T02:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sharp-shares-extend-gains-as-margin-traders-look-to-cut-losses.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s worst-
performing major stock, gained in Tokyo for a seventh straight
trading day as investors sought to cover short positions.  Sharp rose as much as 8.3 percent to 354 yen and traded at
328 yen as of the 11:30 a.m. break, headed for the highest level
since July 13. Sharp has declined 51 percent this year,  the
worst performer  on Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average,
which has advanced 19 percent.  The number of shares held in  margin accounts  that will
profit if the stock falls rose 64 percent in the past week to a
record 58 million, suggesting traders are losing money and
looking to cut their losses, data from Japan Securities Finance
Co. show. Sharp has doubled in four weeks, erasing declines
after the maker of Aquos televisions widened its annual  loss
projection  twice to 450 billion yen ($5.4 billion).  “The stock is being bought back on short covering,”
 Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today. “Short positions
have snowballed, with investors borrowing shares as much as they
can to sell them.”  Osaka-based Sharp has rallied since it announced an
agreement on Dec. 4 to sell as much as 9.9 billion yen of shares
to San Diego-based  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   Sharp, which warned last month about its ability to survive,
turned to Qualcomm, the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips,
after failing to get a planned 67 billion-yen investment from
Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group and hemorrhaging 103 billion
yen in cash from operations in the fiscal first half.  “Individual investors are main buyers of the stock, and
probably some hedge funds,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based
analyst at  Iwai Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)  “The rally may end at some
point, as there’s no change in the situation for Sharp.”  Japan Securities Finance, which lends money for margin
trades, said on Dec. 14 it may set limits on margin trades for
the company. Osaka Securities Finance issued a similar warning
the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  