-- Simpson Thacher, MoFo, Winston & Strawn: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-19T12:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/simpson-thacher-mofo-winston-strawn-business-of-law.html
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP  is
representing  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , the biggest tracker of U.S.
television ratings, which agreed to buy  Arbitron Inc. (ARB)  for about
$1.26 billion in cash to gain access to the largest source of
data on the country’s radio listeners.  Morrison & Foerster LLP 
served as legal adviser to Arbitron.  Simpson Thacher partners Gary Horowitz and Marni Lerner are
leading the team. Additional Simpson Thacher partners included
Joe Tringali, antitrust; John Creed, tax; Alvin Brown, executive
compensation and employee benefits; and Lori Lesser,
intellectual property.  The MoFo transaction team was led by corporate partners
Lawrence Yanowitch and Charles Katz.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP New York partner Phillip R. Mills
is on a team advising J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as financial
adviser to Nielsen.  The $48-a-share offer is 26 percent higher than Arbitron’s
closing price Dec. 17. Excluding acquisition costs, the purchase
will add about 13 cents to earnings per share in the year after
it’s completed, Nielsen said yesterday in a statement. The New
York-based company is financing the entire transaction.  If it passes regulatory hurdles, the deal will extend
Nielsen’s dominance in television to radio. The company wants to
offer its advertisers a unified system that measures audiences
across multiple forms of media, making it easier for them to
make ad-buying decisions -- whether on TV, radio or the Web. The
move follows a partnership with Twitter Inc. that will monitor
discussions of TV shows on the social network.  For more, click here.  News  SEC Said to Weigh Ex-CFTC Enforcement Chief as General Counsel  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Elisse Walter
may hire as her top lawyer a former enforcement director from
the main U.S. derivatives regulator.  Geoffrey Aronow, a partner at  law firm  Bingham McCutchen
LLP, has been interviewed by Walter and is the leading candidate
to become the agency’s general counsel, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the hiring process isn’t public.  Aronow would replace Mark Cahn, who is stepping down in
January. As the chief lawyer at the agency, the general counsel
plays a central role evaluating rules, advising the chairman and
representing the SEC in legal disputes.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment. Aronow
didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  A graduate of Yale University and  Yale Law School , Aronow
was director of enforcement at the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission from 1995 to 1999, according to his biography on
Bingham McCutchen’s website. He also serves on panels for
appeals of enforcement and disciplinary cases by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-
regulator, the biography said.  Some of Aronow’s recent clients include accounting firm
KPMG LLP, whose Chinese affiliate is in a dispute with
regulators over its refusal to turn over audit documents, and
Christine Serwinski, who was chief financial officer at  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s North American broker-dealer before it
collapsed in 2011.  Aronow “would adapt extremely well to the role of
regulator,” said Daniel Nathan, a partner at the Morrison &
Foerster LLP law firm who was his deputy at the CFTC. “He would
be a perfect choice.”  Walter, who became chairman after  Mary Schapiro  left last
week, is moving to fill a number of high-level vacancies at the
securities regulator. Aronow would be her first outside hire;
Walter named acting directors of the agency’s corporation
finance and trading and markets divisions on Dec. 17.  Highest-Paid Lawyers Bill $1,200 an Hour or More, Survey Finds  A real-estate investment trust partner in the Dallas office
of Locke Lord LLP, who bills $1,285 an hour, had the highest
billing rate in a  survey  by the National Law Journal.  Associates at Dinsmore & Shohl in Cincinnati had the lowest
rate for associates, billing $130 an hour, according to the
newspaper.  Dickstein Shapiro LLP had lawyers near the top with a rate
that peaked at $1,250. Lawyers at DLA Piper LLP and Hogan
Lovells LLP were also high on the list, with some billing $1,200
an hour, according to the survey.  The National Law Journal found that the firm-wide median
cost for an hour of a lawyer’s time this year was $432 an hour.
The highest-paid partners in the survey, which included 55 firms
from the largest by headcount, earned a median of $773.  Video  Obama’s Supreme Court Shortlist Puts Kamala Harris at Top  An aging U.S. Supreme Court has observers wondering which
justice will step down next.  Antonin Scalia  and  Anthony Kennedy , both appointed by
 Ronald Reagan , are 76. If either retires, President Obama could
create a liberal majority. A replacement for  Stephen Breyer , 74,
would probably maintain the court’s conservative/liberal
balance.  Most observers believe  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  will retire
first. Appointed by President Clinton, she’s the oldest justice
at 79 and has been treated for cancer twice.  SCOTUSblog’s  Tom Goldstein  said California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  would be the most likely to replace her. He says
she’s “a female  Barack Obama  in some sense.”  Bloomberg News  reports that other names circulating for
Ginsburg’s seat include Minnesota Senator  Amy Klobuchar ,
Assistant U.S. Attorney General Virginia Seitz and Illinois
Attorney General Lisa Madigan.  To see the video, click here.  Lawyer Says Madoff May Be One Clients’ Better Investments  Arthur Jakoby, co-chairman of the securities and
commodities litigation and regulatory practice group at Herrick
Feinstein LLP, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about
his representation of Beacon Associates LLC and Andover
Associates LLP in the settlement of litigation arising out of
the collapse of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  Firm News  Dewey & LeBoeuf Files Projections; Aviva Sues Top Executives  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s secured creditors are projected to
recover from 47 percent to 77 percent under the proposed
reorganization plan, while the recovery by unsecured creditors
should range from 5.2 percent to 14 percent.  The defunct law firm filed the projections this week in
anticipation of a Jan. 3 hearing for approval of disclosure
materials. The midpoint recoveries for secured and unsecured
creditors are 58 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively.  Dewey also filed a report this week disclosing collections
in November while  Aviva Life & Annuity Co. (AV/)  sued the firm’s three
former top executives, alleging they induced the life insurer to
buy $35 million of secured notes in April 2010.  When Dewey filed the proposed liquidating Chapter 11 plan
in November based on a court-approved settlement with partners,
disclosure materials didn’t include an estimate for creditors’
recoveries. In court papers filed this week, the firm estimates
that available asset proceeds for distribution to creditors will
range from $146.8 million to $246.7 million.  The official committee representing former partners filed
its brief this week appealing approval of the partner
settlement. The partner committee contends that the firm gave
away its most valuable claims for 17 cents on the dollar.  The committee also contends the amount a partner pays for a
release from claims “bears no relationship to that partner’s
degree of culpability.”  Aviva claims in a complaint filed Dec. 14 in U.S. District
Court in Des Moines, Iowa, that the firm represented that it was
“financially sound” when there was $100 million in
“undisclosed debt to certain highly compensated partners.”  According to Des Moines-based Aviva, Dewey kept the
obligations a secret even from the firm’s own partners to avoid
the “possibility of a mass defection.” Aviva alleges the firm
misstated “revenues by over $100 million per year.”  The former Dewey executive named in the complaint are
 Steven Davis , the former chairman; Stephen DiCarmine, the former
 executive director ; and Joel Sanders, the ex-chief financial
officer. The firm itself wasn’t named in the suit on account of
the pending Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  The lawsuit is “preposterous,” said Ned Bassen of Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP, the law firm representing DiCarmine and
Sanders. “What they are saying is false,” Bassen said in an
interview. “There were no misrepresentations.”  An attorney for Davis didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Dewey’s November operating report filed in bankruptcy court
shows $2.6 million in fee collections, bringing the total
collected during the Chapter 11 case to $71 million. Operating
expenses exceeded collections in November by $3.5 million,
largely as a result of $2.8 million from charging off
uncollectible receivables.  Cash declined about $475,000 in November to end the month
at $23.7 million. No cash was paid during the month to pay down
bank debt.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.
At the outset of bankruptcy, there was secured debt of about
$225 million and accounts receivable of $217.4 million, the firm
said.  The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities
of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
partner committee’s appeal from the partner settlement is
Official Committee of Former Partners v. Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (In
re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP), 12-cv-08488, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Cozen O’Connor Names Partner Bloch as New Firm General Counsel  Cozen O’Connor’s board of directors elected Sandra A. Bloch
as the firm’s new general counsel. Bloch will continue her
corporate law practice while taking on her new role.  She succeeds Henry A. Gladstone, who will step down from
the position at the end of December after a 10-year tenure, to
resume serving his clients.  “I am excited to take on the challenge of general counsel
for the firm at a time of significant change in the legal
industry,” Bloch said. “The perception of the profession and
how it does business is dramatically different than it was just
five years ago.”  Bloch is a member of Cozen O’Connor’s corporate practice
group. She focuses her practice on mergers and acquisitions,
financings and commercial contracts, including executive
employment agreements.  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 21 offices in the U.S.,
Toronto and London.  Moves  Littler Hires James Witz to Co-Chair Chicago Practice  Littler Mendelson PC hired James M. Witz as a shareholder
in Chicago. He will co-lead Littler’s Chicago unfair competition
and trade secrets practice with shareholder David Haase, while
continuing his general employment litigation and counseling
practice.  Witz joins Littler from Freeborn & Peters LLP, where he was
a partner and head of its non-competition and trade secret
practice, the firm said.  Witz has more than 20 years of litigation experience. He
focuses on non-competition and trade secret disputes and has
obtained multiple seven-figure trial verdicts for clients, the
firm said.  Littler Mendelson has more than 950 attorneys at 56 offices
throughout the U.S. and internationally.  Litigation  Winston & Strawn Ex-Partner Gets Time Served in Starr Fraud  Former Winston & Strawn LLP partner Jonathan Bristol was
sentenced to time served for helping launder almost $19 million
in financial adviser  Kenneth I. Starr ’s investment fraud.  Bristol, 57, had faced as long as 87 months in prison under
federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, after
pleading guilty last year to a charge of conspiracy to launder
money.  Bristol admitted he conspired with Starr to defraud
customers out of more than $18.8 million by accepting money
Starr transferred into two escrow accounts he controlled, then
wiring the funds out to Starr for his personal benefit.  “A non-guidelines sentence is appropriate,” U.S. District
Judge Debora Batts said yesterday in Manhattan. “More than one
defendant has contributed” to the crime, Batts said, adding
“the court may apportion liability.”  Batts also ordered Bristol to forfeit $18.8 million jointly
with Starr. She said that Starr, who pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to 7 1/2 years in prison, was ordered to forfeit $30.1
million in May 2011 by the federal judge who was presiding over
his criminal case.  Before he was sentenced, Bristol said he’d wanted Starr’s
approval and been swayed by the glamour of Starr’s celebrity
clients, who he said included photographer  Annie Leibovitz ,
actress  Lauren Bacall  and film director and writer Norah Ephron.  Bristol admitted that he allowed Starr to wire funds in and
out of his escrow account, knowing that the funds were proceeds
of Starr’s fraud, prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said.  His lawyer, Susan Kellman, described her client in court as
a self-made man who left home as a teenager and attended Amherst
College and University of Virginia Law School before becoming a
partner at Winston & Strawn. She said he suffers from
depression.  Kellman said that Bristol has surrendered his license to
practice law in both New Jersey and New York.  The case is U.S. v. Bristol, 10-cr-1239, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Simpson Thacher Lawyer Argues to Defeat Bid-Rigging Suit  Joseph Tringali, an attorney at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP, argued for defendants in a lawsuit, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Bain Capital Partners LLC, which are urging a
federal judge to reject investor claims that buyout firms and
their bankers colluded to rig bids on takeovers.  The defendants, which also include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
Carlyle Group, KKR & Co.,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , argued yesterday before U.S. District
Judge Edward Harrington in Boston that the lawsuit by
shareholders in acquired companies should be dismissed.  Individuals and pension funds that held shares in companies
including  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) , Neiman Marcus Group Inc.
and  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  sued in 2007 and 2008, claiming “a
conspiracy among private-equity firms to rig bids, restrict the
supply of private-equity financing, fix transaction prices and
divide up the market for private-equity services for leveraged
buyouts.” They are seeking a jury trial and money damages.  “If true, we have some pretty serious violations of the
antitrust laws,” Darren Bush, a professor of antitrust law at
the University of Houston Law Center, said in an interview. “If
this conduct is really going on and it’s really problematic, it
ought to have a trial.”  Tringali said the investors have provided no evidence of
the overarching conspiracy they claim. He cited communications
from suitors who lost out on deals or quit bidding, describing
them as “words of competitors, not conspirators.”  “It is the company who decides who is going to bid,” he
said, “and it’s the company who decides whose price they’re
going to accept and how they are going to conduct that
process.”  The firms said in court papers that the transactions
“simply represent the normal workings of the mergers-and-
acquisition business.”  In October, an amended complaint was unsealed, disclosing
e-mails among private-equity firm executives about potential
buyouts. In an e-mail referring to a Freescale deal, Blackstone
Group President  Tony James  told KKR co-founder  George Roberts ,
“Together we can be unstoppable but in opposition we can cost
each other a lot of money.”  “The challenge for the defendants is: How on earth do I
walk away from those e-mails?” said Bush, the law professor.
“Alternatively, it’s to say: Yeah, I said that but it’s still
not a violation of antitrust law.”  Plaintiff Kirk Dahl said he and others in the proposed
class of investors owned shares in Freescale in 2006 when the
chipmaker announced a buyout by firms including Carlyle and
Blackstone for $17.5 billion. HCA was bought by companies
including KKR and Bain for $32.1 billion.  “You have the guys who are controlling this industry
basically agreeing not to compete, and those agreements
suppressed prices,” Patrick Coughlin, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs at Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, said in a phone
interview. Prices were at least 10 percent lower than they could
have been, he said.  The cases are Dahl v. Bain Capital, 08-10254, and Klein v.
Bain Capital, 07-12388, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  