-- Slovenian Top Court Prevents Bank Plan, Wealth Fund Vote
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-19T14:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/slovenian-top-court-prevents-bank-plan-wealth-fund-vote.html
Slovenia’s  Constitutional Court 
rejected two referendums, easing concern the euro-region nation
may be forced to seek an international bailout.  Slovenia passed a law in October allowing for the creation
of a state-owned institution to take over bad loans from banks
and a separate law enabling a government-owned body to manage
public companies and speed up privatization. Trade unions
demanded referendums on the laws while the government had asked
the court to ban these popular votes.  “There would be unconstitutional consequences” if these
referendums went ahead, the court, based in the capital
Ljubljana, said in a posting on its website today. Judges ruled
8-1 to block the referendums.  Slovenian officials, including Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ,
have warned that the referendum on the so-called bad bank plan
would jeopardize efforts to recapitalize lenders such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and probably force the Adriatic nation to
join  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal , Cyprus and  Spain  in seeking a
rescue package to prop up its ailing financial industry.  “This is a major positive signal for Slovenia that there
is a limit to the referendum abuse practice and it also sets
groundbreaking legal precedent,” Andraz Grahek, an independent
financial adviser in Ljubljana, said in a phone after the
ruling. “It will also allow the government to focus on the
execution of these plans. The finance minister has won the
battle, but the tug of war may well continue.”  Bank Funding Plan  The bank  funding plan foresees the creation of a government
agency that would take up bad loans from lenders in exchange for
government-guaranteed bonds of as much as 4 billion euros ($5.3
billion) that will probably be eligible for further financing at
the  European Central Bank , Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has
said. A further 1 billion euros direct recapitalization for
banks such as  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d. is also foreseen,
Sustersic has said.  Slovenian bonds gained, lowering the yield on the sovereign
dollar-denominated notes maturing in 2022 by 39 basis points, or
0.39 percentage point, to a record low of 5.06 percent as of
3:19 p.m. The yield rose to a record high of 5.78 percent on
Nov. 15 as the threat of referendums surfaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  