-- SM Prime Leads Philippine Stock Jump on China Mall: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-12-19T07:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sm-prime-leads-philippine-stock-jump-on-china-mall-manila-mover.html
SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , the largest
Philippine mall operator, rallied the most in six months in
 Manila  stock trading after Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Lim
said its fifth shopping center in China is 80 percent occupied.  SM Prime shares jumped 5.3 percent to 15.96 pesos in
Manila, the steepest gain since June 18.  SM Investments Corp. (SM) ,
parent of SM Prime, climbed 2.5 percent to 850 pesos, the
highest close since Dec. 13. The two stocks accounted for almost
a quarter of the 2.1 percent gain in the benchmark  Philippine
Stock Exchange Index. (PCOMP)   The company’s SM City Chongqing mall has been attracting
50,000 customers a day since it opened on Dec. 14 and will reach
full occupancy in a year, Lim said in a mobile-phone text
message. SM Prime plans to open two more shopping centers in
 China  in 2014, according to the company’s website. Chinese
corporate earnings may climb as much as 10 percent next year,
with companies benefiting from domestic consumption posting even
greater growth, Russell Investments said yesterday.  “The gestation period for SM Prime malls in China is
longer than in the Philippines, so it’s good and important to
have a high occupancy rate from the start,” Richard Laneda, an
analyst at COL Financial Group Inc., said by phone today. Laneda
has a buy rating on the  stock  with a 12-month price target of 17
pesos.  Manila-based SM Prime has 51 malls in China and the
Philippines with a combined gross floor area of 6.3 million
square meters (68 million square feet). The company opened six
malls this year.  “China is a very promising market,” Laneda said. “SM
Prime malls operating there for more than five years have
margins that are comparable with the  Philippines .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  