-- South Africa’s ANC Asked to Adopt Bold State Intervention
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-12-19T21:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/south-africa-s-anc-asked-to-adopt-bold-state-intervention.html
A South African ruling party panel
recommended “bold state intervention” and “redistributive”
taxes to spread wealth in the economy, while rejecting wholesale
nationalization of mines.  State ownership should only be “strategic” in industries
deemed appropriate, the  African National Congress ’s economic
transformation commission said in a document obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Enoch Godongwana, head of the committee,
declined to comment on the report. The recommendations are the
same as those contained in the ANC’s June policy document.  An ANC study published in February called for a 50 percent
“resources rent tax,” triggered once companies earn returns in
excess of about 15 percent annually, while ruling out the
seizure of mines. The ANC’s policy meeting in June failed to
reach agreement on new taxes, with members referring the issue
to the national conference taking place this week in the central
city of Bloemfontein.  South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of platinum
and chrome, with  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  owning assets in the country.  The report recommends “state ownership, including more
strategic use of existing state-owned companies, as well as
strategic nationalization, where deemed appropriate.”  ANC members will consider the recommendations at the
conference tonight. If adopted, they may become government
policies.  The economic transformation commision considered other
recommendations, including a “use it or lose it” principle on
mining exploration licenses, an export tax on chrome ore, and
classifying  iron ore , coal, copper and nickel as “strategic
minerals” that should be managed in the national interest.  “The state must capture an equitable share of mineral
resource rents and deploy them in the interests of long-term
economic growth, development and transformation,” according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  