-- Springsteen’s Shirt, $2,500 Bracelet Offer Gifts, Charity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/springsteen-s-shirt-2-500-bracelet-offer-gifts-charity.html
If you’re looking for unusual gifts
that also spread holiday cheer to the less fortunate, buy a goat
or a sheep.  A $120 donation to  Heifer International  in  Little Rock ,
Arkansas, will bring a farm animal to an impoverished family in
Nepal. They can benefit from the wool or by selling the animal
to pay for necessities.  The donation can be made in the name of a friend or family
member as your holiday gift, and the recipient gets a card
notifying them of the animal and destination. Heifer also helps
fund projects in the U.S.  Here are some other gifts that help those in need:  Sandy Victims  Through online auctioneer  Charitybuzz.com , you can bid for
the sweaty shirt  Bruce Springsteen  wore during last week’s “12-
12-12: the Concert for Sandy Relief.” Or you could take home a
Fender bass signed by Springsteen,  Paul McCartney , Jon Bon Jovi,
 Eric Clapton  and other headliners. Another choice is the
drumsticks Dave Grohl used that night.  The auction closes Dec. 20. Proceeds go to the  Robin Hood
Foundation ’s  Hurricane Sandy  Relief Fund.  Clean Water  A gift to the New York-based  charity: water  funds the
construction of wells and brings safe drinking water to
 developing countries . You can dedicate your gift to a friend,
and the nonprofit will mail the recipient a card that includes a
wristband.  Winston Bracelet  A Harry Winston bracelet can set you back $100,000. The
luxury jeweler’s  Hope Collection  Bracelet costs only $2,500 and
makes for an especially nice gift. All proceeds will be
distributed to seven nonprofits, including A Better Chicago and
The Society of  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center .  Farm Sanctuary  Started in 1986,  Farm Sanctuary  fights to end animal abuse
at factory and industrial farms. It also rescues animals and
provides a haven at three shelters in  New York  and California.  A donation of $25 or more can be made as a holiday gift for
a friend or family member. Farm animals are also available for
adoption.  Micro Loans  A gift to  Kiva.org , a San Francisco-based microfinance
nonprofit, funds loans to individuals whose low income makes
them ineligible for conventional bank loans. Kiva gift cards can
be given to friends or kin.  The recipient gets to choose the borrower and follow the
use of the funds through e-mails or the website. Loan repayments
go into the lender’s Kiva account and can be reloaned.  Oxfam America  Oxfam America , the U.S. unit of the international poverty-
fighting organization, has a broad range of gifts that can be
made via donations, from farming to education and water
resources. For $25, you can start a farmer’s market in  Latin
America  or Africa or buy books for kids.  A $30 donation will plant a vegetable garden. A donkey cart
costs only $100, midwife training only $150. A pile of manure
costs a mere $12 and could send to that special someone a
special message.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Mark Beech 
on music.  Editors: Jeffrey Burke, Lili Rosboch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 