-- Sri Lanka’s Economy Grew at Slowest Pace Last Quarter Since 2009
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-12-19T09:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sri-lanka-s-economy-grew-at-slowest-pace-last-quarter-since-2009.html
Sri Lanka’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009 last quarter as faltering global demand
hurt exports and a drought curbed farm output.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.8 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, the statistics department
said today. That compares with a 6.4 percent expansion in the
previous quarter and the median 6 percent estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of six economists.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  on Dec. 12 unexpectedly
lowered its policy interest rates for the first time since 2011
after two increases this year to spur growth. The island’s
overseas sales of items from garments to tea have declined for
all except one month this year.  ”Growth slowed down due to weaker external demand and
credit being tighter,” Samantha Amerasinghe, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Colombo, said before the report. “The
central bank is turning to an easing bias because in 2013
they’ll be looking to go back to a growth phase.”  Sri Lanka ’s monetary authority raised borrowing costs in
February and April in the biggest overhaul of economic policy
since the end of its civil war in 2009. It also let the rupee
weaken to tackle a trade deficit that pressured reserves.  The central bank last week cut its reverse repurchase rate
to 9.5 percent from 9.75 percent and the  repurchase rate  to 7.5
percent from 7.75 percent.  Forecast Cut  Gross domestic product may rise 6.8 percent in 2012, lower
than an earlier estimate of 7.2 percent, central bank Governor
Ajith Nivard Cabraal said in September. The monetary authority
has forecast that GDP will increase by about 7.5 percent in 2013.  Sri Lanka’s  inflation  accelerated to a three-month high in
November after a drought hurt farm output. Consumer prices in
the capital, Colombo, rose 9.5 percent from a year earlier, and
could remain “somewhat elevated” before moderating toward the
second quarter of 2013, the central bank said last week.  The country’s rate is among the highest in a basket of 17
Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors
Service said last month that the outlook for the nation’s B1
rating is positive, even as it hinges on the “effective
management of macroeconomic challenges.”  The rupee has weakened about 11 percent against the dollar
this year and rose 0.3 percent as of 2:34 p.m. today. The
 Colombo  All-Share Index of stocks closed 0.1 percent higher.  Agriculture fell 0.5 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, today’s report showed. Services rose 4.6 percent
and industry grew 7.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  