-- Stada Surges as Takeover Speculation Resurfaces: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-12-19T09:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/stada-surges-as-takeover-speculation-resurfaces-frankfurt-mover.html
Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , the German
generic-drug maker that has spent more than 250 million euros
($331 million) on acquisitions this year, gained the most in two
months on a report it may be a target itself.  The shares rose as much as 4.9 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Oct. 15, and traded up 3.9 percent to 23.63
euros as of 10:20 a.m. Volume exceeded the stock’s six-month
daily average.  Claudio Albrecht, who has been working as chief executive
officer of  Actavis Group hf , an Icelandic competitor which has
been taken over, is sounding out interest among institutional
investors to sell their Stada stock, Platow Brief said today,
citing bankers it didn’t identify. Albrecht’s move could help
 Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  make a second attempt to buy
Stada, even if it means resorting to a hostile approach, Platow
also said.  Albrecht, who plans to replace Chief Executive Officer
Hartmut Retzlaff at Stada in the event of a successful takeover,
also has a potential investor from the U.S. at hand, according
to the report, which didn’t identify the second interested
party.  The report revives speculation that Stada may be vulnerable
to a takeover after people familiar with Sun’s intentions said
in August the Indian drugmaker was looking at potential
acquisitions in  Europe , including a possible deal with Stada,
which is based in Bad Vilbel.  Shareholder Revolt?  Albrecht may be trying to stir a shareholder revolt after
Stada executives resisted Sun’s approaches, the German
newsletter said. Actavis is being bought itself by  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and Albrecht has said he plans to leave the
company after integration, the Wall Street Journal has said.  Stada declined to comment on the report when contacted by
 Bloomberg News . Actavis spokeswoman Hjordis Arnadottir couldn’t
be reached for comment.  Stada CEO Retzlaff said in August that the German company
is sticking to its strategy of seeking smaller acquisitions. The
 stock  trades at 14 times earnings, compared with an average 19
times for its peers in the global generic-drug industry,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  