-- Libya Security ‘Grossly Inadequate,’ U.S. Report Finds
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-12-20T01:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/state-department-cited-for-libya-security-failures.html
The State Department had “grossly
inadequate” security at a U.S. mission in  Libya  before a deadly
attack by militants and must overhaul procedures to correct
“systemic failures,” an independent review panel said.  The panel, appointed by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
to investigate the Sept. 11 attack in Benghazi that killed U.S.
Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans, found
the department showed “a lack of proactive leadership and
management ability,” though no government employees violated
their duties.  The findings in the report released late yesterday raise
questions about the State Department’s leadership under Clinton,
who is preparing to depart the post as one of the most popular
figures in President  Barack Obama ’s administration. The panel
criticized the performance of “senior levels within two
bureaus” under Clinton without faulting her by name.  “The report makes clear the massive failure of the State
Department at all levels, including senior leadership, to take
action to protect our government employees abroad,”
Representative Mike Rogers of  Michigan , the Republican chairman
of the House intelligence committee, said in a statement today.  Less than 24 hours after the report’s release, the
department said that an assistant secretary of state had
resigned and three other officials had been placed on
administrative leave.  Clinton’s Response  The State Department accepted the resignation of Eric
Boswell, the assistant secretary of state for diplomatic
security, and relieved three other officials of their current
duties, said department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland , in a
statement that didn’t name the three.  The chairman of the review board, former Ambassador Thomas Pickering, said at a State Department briefing today that
responsibility for the security failings went up to the
assistant secretary’s level, “where, if you like, the rubber
hits the road.”  The panel’s vice chairman, retired Admiral  Michael Mullen ,
said Clinton shouldn’t be held personally responsible because it
was “not reasonable in terms of her having a specific level of
knowledge” of matters that her staff didn’t bring to her
attention.  Saying she accepted “every one” of the review board’s
recommendations, Clinton vowed to correct the department’s
failures in a letter to Congress that the State Department
released to reporters before sending them the critical report to
which she was responding.  No Warning  Clinton said her department has begun working to hire
additional diplomatic security for U.S. missions and is working
with the Pentagon to dispatch hundreds of additional Marine
Corps security guards.  No intelligence provided any warning of the attack, in
which armed men breached the compound walls, and there wasn’t
enough time for U.S. military forces to have made a difference
in responding after the assault began, the panel said in the
report.  The review board also found “no evidence of any undue
delays in decision making or denial of support from  Washington 
or from the military combatant commanders,” who provided a safe
evacuation of U.S. government personnel from Benghazi within 12
hours of the initial attack.  The report repeatedly faults the State Department for
producing a “security posture that was inadequate for Benghazi
and grossly inadequate to deal with the attack that took
place,” according to an unclassified version of the report by
the five-member review panel.  ‘Real Confusion’  Within the Diplomatic Security Bureau and Bureau of Near
Eastern Affairs, “there appeared to be very real confusion over
who, ultimately, was responsible and empowered to make decisions
based on both policy and security considerations,” the report
found.  The State Department has asked Congress to transfer $1.37
billion from unused Iraq contingency funds to provide additional
security, including $553 million for more Marine guards and $130
million for diplomatic security personnel, according to a
department official who asked not to be identified discussing
the request to lawmakers.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic
leader in the chamber, said today after a closed-door briefing
for senators by leaders of the review panel that he supports
additional funding for security. Senator  Bob Corker  of
 Tennessee , a Republican member of the Foreign Relations
Committee, said any decision on funding should await a “top-to-
bottom” evaluation of how existing resources are being used.  Campaign Issue  The review board was required to assess whether security
procedures were adequate and properly implemented, as well as
whether adequate intelligence was available.  The Benghazi attack became a flashpoint in this year’s
presidential campaign. Republicans said the Obama administration
failed to provide adequate diplomatic security before the
attack, made inadequate efforts to rescue Americans under siege,
and misled the public afterward about what happened.  Questions from Republican lawmakers over the handling of
the attack by Obama’s administration helped spur the withdrawal
of  Susan Rice  as a possible successor to Clinton. Rice, the U.S.
Ambassador to the  United Nations , was criticized for saying on
television talk shows five days after the attack that the
incident began as a spontaneous protest that was later
“hijacked” by militants.  ‘Terrorist Attack’  James Clapper , the U.S. Director of National Intelligence,
issued a statement through his spokesman 12 days after Rice’s TV
appearances saying the intelligence community had revised its
initial assessment and determined the assault was “a deliberate
and organized terrorist attack.”  The review board “concluded that no protest took place”
at either the Benghazi mission or the CIA annex.  On the night of Sept. 11, as protests over an anti-Islamic
video erupted in Cairo and other Arab cities, militants stormed
the U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi and set it on fire,
leading to the deaths of Stevens and information specialist Sean
Smith. The militants later fired mortars at the CIA compound
where some people from the diplomatic mission had sought refuge.  As the CIA annex took mortar fire, some rounds landed on
the roof, killing Americans Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty, two
former Navy SEALs who were working as security personnel.  Libyan Militias  Lawmakers and State Department officials have debated for
months whether the security was adequate, given threat
assessments in the region at the time, and whether requests for
additional security at the Benghazi mission had been denied.  The State Department’s dependence on a poorly skilled
Libyan militia, the February 17 Martyrs’ Brigade, and unarmed
locally contracted guards for security support “was
misplaced,” according to the report. The review board found
“little evidence” the militia guards alerted Americans to the
attack or summoned fellow guards to help, “despite the fact
that February 17 members were paid to provide interior
security.”  The review board also pinned some responsibility on
Stevens, who it said made the decision to travel to Benghazi
from the capital of Tripoli. The panel said he “did not see a
direct threat of an attack of this nature and scale on the U.S.
mission in the overall negative trendline of security incidents
from spring to summer 2012.”  ‘Profoundly Lacking’  The report said officials in Washington, whom it didn’t
name, gave “unusual deference” to Stevens because of “his
status as the leading U.S. government advocate on Libya
policy.”  The panel also found the Libyan government’s response to
the attack to be “profoundly lacking” because of “both weak
capacity and near absence of central government influence and
control in Benghazi.”  Clinton had been scheduled to testify publicly about the
report tomorrow at two open congressional hearings. She canceled
her plans after developing a stomach virus, fainting from
dehydration and suffering a concussion, according to the State
Department. Deputy Secretaries  William Burns  and Thomas Nides
will replace Clinton at those hearings.  Corker said today that “it’s imperative” that Clinton
testify in open session about the security failings before she
leaves office.  A Bloomberg National Poll found that Clinton, who has been
urged by some Democrats to run for president in 2016, is viewed
positively by 70 percent of Americans. That compared with
Obama’s 55 percent favorable rating in the poll conducted Dec.
7-10.  By law, Clinton was required to appoint a review board
within 60 days of any incident at a U.S. embassy or consulate
that results in “serious injury, loss of life, or significant
destruction of property.”  Four of the board members were appointed by Clinton, and
one by Clapper. Clinton received the report Dec. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  