-- Statoil Pays $590 Million to Expand in Marcellus Shale Area
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-12-19T15:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/statoil-pays-590-million-to-boost-ownership-in-marcellus-shale.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, bought 70,000 acres in the Marcellus area in
the U.S. to boost oil production amid falling gas prices there.  The assets, which are currently producing at about 5,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day, have a so-called risked
resource base, a measure of reserves, of 300 million to 500
million barrels of oil equivalent, the Stavanger-based group
said in a  statement  today. The acreage in  Ohio  and  West Virginia 
has been bought from Grenadier Energy Partners LLC, Protege
Energy II LLC and PetroEdge Resources II LLC, spokesman Baard
Glad Pedersen said by phone.  “A majority of the net acres in this transaction are
located in the liquid-rich part of the Marcellus,” Statoil
said. “The market for these products is substantially better-
paying than the current market for dry gas in the U.S.”  Statoil is expanding abroad to compensate for dwindling oil
production from aging fields off  Norway , and plans to boost U.S.
output to more than 500,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in
2020 from 166,000 barrels in the third quarter this year. That
increase will account for about two-thirds of the company’s
total production gains in the period as it seeks to exceed
global output of 2.5 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.  About half of Statoil’s planned production increase in the
U.S. will come from so-called unconventional resources.  ‘Significant Potential’  The company, in which the Norwegian government has a 67
percent stake, entered the Marcellus area in 2008, the Eagle
Ford area in  Texas  in 2010 and the Bakken and Three Forks areas
in  North Dakota  and  Montana  last year.  Statoil will become operator of the new areas, which bring
its total acreage in the Marcellus region to more than 750,000
acres. Statoil currently produces almost exclusively shale gas
at Marcellus, which yielded a working interest of about 63,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in the third quarter, according
to the company.  Statoil sees “significant ramp-up potential” of output
from the newly-acquired areas from 2014, said Torstein Hole,
senior vice president for the company’s U.S. onshore operations.
He declined to give estimates for future output, saying it will
depend on the development of U.S. gas prices.  “If we see an upward trend in gas prices toward the end of
2013 and that provides the basis for profitable production in
large parts of this area, we’ll have a significant increase in
activity,” he said in a videoconference from Houston.  Falling Prices  For the time being, Statoil will concentrate on developing
the parts of its new assets where the liquids concentration is
the highest, he said. At the same time, Statoil will drill
enough gas wells there, and in the rest of Marcellus, to meet
its contractual obligations.  “We will need to see higher prices than today to
significantly increase activity in the dry-gas areas in the
Marcellus,” Hole said.  After trading at more than $4 per million British thermal
units last month, the Henry Hub natural gas spot price has since
fallen to about $3.3 today. The U.S.  Energy Information Agency 
said on Dec. 11 that it expects the price to average $2.78 in
2012 amid record output, before rising to $3.68 next year.
That’s still below the $4 average in 2011. Statoil in October
cut its planned U.S. gas production by 25,000 barrels of oil
equivalent because of the low prices.  The current output of 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
is “mainly dry gas,” said Irene Rummelhoff, Statoil’s director
of business development for  North America . While Statoil won’t
say how much oil it expects to be able to produce relative to
gas, the company expects a “significant addition to
profitability,” Hole said.  Statoil won’t provide estimates of the liquids to gas
proportion because it’s seeking to buy more acreage in the
region, Rummelhoff said. “We will continue, but to a lesser
degree,” she said. “We will buy additional areas all along,
that’s a part of the onshore activity here in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  