-- Strauss-Kahn Loses Appeal to End French Prostitution Inquiry
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-19T10:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/strauss-kahn-loses-bid-to-end-french-prostitution-investigation.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , lost a bid to halt a
French investigation into his links to a prostitution ring.  Strauss-Kahn will fight today’s appeals court ruling, which
maintained the charges that he was involved in procurement of
prostitutes, his lawyers said in an e-mailed statement.  The court “refused to condemn the numerous and grave
violations of defendants’ rights,” Frederique Baulieu, Henri
Leclerc and Richard Malka said in the statement. “He will
ultimately be cleared of the absurd accusations of procurement -
- accusations which contradict all good legal sense.”  Strauss-Kahn this month settled a civil lawsuit in the
Bronx brought by a  New York  hotel maid who accused him of
“violent and deplorable acts” during a May 2011 encounter at
the Sofitel in  Manhattan . He resigned his IMF post four days
after being pulled off an Air France flight to face a criminal
investigation into her claims he attempted to rape her. She
filed the suit as prosecutors prepared to drop their case over
concerns about her reliability.  French investigators in Lille are conducting a wide-ranging
probe into claims of a prostitution ring operating there.
Strauss-Kahn, 63, asked the appeals court in Douai to end the
investigation, arguing the charges are too vague, that evidence
has been kept from his attorneys, facts were distorted and
judges created “a definition of procurement that isn’t covered
by the law,” according to the statement.  Libertine Existence  “All that he is really being accused of is a libertine
existence,” Leclerc said in March after Strauss-Kahn was
charged.  Paying for sex is legal in  France , while procuring
prostitutes for someone else isn’t. Under the French penal code,
procurement in the context of a prostitution ring can be
punished by as much as 20 years in jail and 3 million euros
($4 million).  Turning to France’s highest appeals court “is normal and
what they should do; there are serious charges,” said
Christopher Mesnooh, a Paris lawyer not involved in the matter.  “They’d have to find some fault in the reasoning of the
appeals court,” which isn’t public, to overturn the decision,
he said. Following the settlement with the maid, “the momentum
was in his favor; they were counting on a dismissal.”  Prosecutors dropped a preliminary inquiry into claims by a
prostitute questioned in the case that Strauss-Kahn was involved
in a gang rape in  Washington  in 2010 when the woman contacted
them to say she wouldn’t file a criminal complaint.  A year earlier Strauss-Kahn persuaded Paris prosecutors to
drop a preliminary inquiry into an attempted rape claim by a
writer, Tristane Banon. The prosecution said they couldn’t find
grounds to pursue the attempted rape allegation and that the
deadline had passed for her to claim sexual assault from the
2003 encounter with Strauss-Kahn.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 