-- Sweden Can’t Ignore Debt Burdens Way Above Norm, Ingves Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-12-19T10:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/sweden-can-t-ignore-debt-burdens-way-above-norm-ingves-says-1-.html
Sweden ’s central bank will need to
be vigilant for years to come to ensure household debt burdens
“way above” levels elsewhere don’t destabilize the largest
Nordic economy, GovernorStefan Ingves said.  “It’s very, very important to ensure that debt doesn’t go
up,” Ingves said in response to questions in Stockholm
yesterday. “We’re going to have to keep a very, very close eye
on that side, probably for several years to come.”  Though Ingves, who is also the chairman of the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , has repeatedly warned against
keeping rates low too long, his bank yesterday cut its main rate
for a fourth time in a year to protect Sweden from  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The decision followed reports of mass job cuts as
manufacturers adjust to shrinking markets in Europe, where
Sweden sends about 70 percent of its exports.  It was “general economic conditions” that drove the
decision to cut, Ingves said. “That was what really mattered
this time, and the fact that inflation is below our target.”  The central bank cut its forecasts for 2013 and now sees
gross domestic product expanding 1.2 percent, compared with an
October estimate for 1.8 percent. Unemployment will average 8.1
percent next year, versus a previous prediction for 7.9 percent,
it said. Headline inflation will slow to 0.3 percent this year,
versus the bank’s targeted 2 percent, it said.  ‘Value Judgment’  That doesn’t mean the central bank is any less concerned
about credit growth, Ingves said. Household debt has risen to a
record 173 percent of disposable incomes this year from 90
percent in the mid-1990s to finance rising property prices. It
will stay largely unchanged at 174 percent next year if the
central bank sticks to its forecast of no more rate cuts, the
Riksbank said yesterday.  “That’s way above many other countries and many other
countries have ended up having great difficulties,” Ingves
said. “In the end it takes a value judgment I have said it
wouldn’t be good if we went above 200 percent.”  The krona surged 0.7 percent against the dollar to 6.5578
as of 11 a.m. in Stockholm. Versus the euro it gained 0.4
percent to 8.7018, making it today’s best-performing major
currency tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on Sweden’s benchmark
10-year bond rose three basis points to 1.59 percent.  Regulator Aid  Sweden’s financial regulator and banks also need to play a
part in helping to keep debt from spiraling out of control since
monetary policy is a “blunt instrument,” he said.  Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , SEB AB and
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  need to meet stricter  capital
requirements  than those set under Basel III. Sweden’s banks also
face higher risk-weight requirements on their mortgage assets to
counter unsustainable private debt growth.  The regulator has also urged banks to require more
amortizations on mortgages after the financial watchdog in
October 2010 capped borrowing at 85 percent of the value of a
property.  “If we can’t do it because here monetary policy is a blunt
instrument then others will have to do other things by
increasing capital charges on banks, by keeping a close eye on
the loan-to-value ratio, maybe look more into loan-to-income and
issues of that nature,” Ingves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  