-- Swiss Stocks Rise for Second Day; UBS, Julius Baer Rise
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-12-19T16:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/swiss-stocks-rise-for-second-day-ubs-julius-baer-rise.html
Swiss stocks  climbed for a second
day on signs of progress in U.S. budget talks and as a report
showed German business confidence increased for a second month
in December.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth manager,
aided a rally in financial shares. Transocean Ltd. rose as Brent
crude gained.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.5 percent to
6,946.07 at the close of trading in Zurich. The gauge has
rallied 17 percent this year as the  European Central Bank  and
the  Federal Reserve  expanded bond purchases. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also advanced 0.5 percent today.  “It became clear to us a few weeks ago that the worries
around the fiscal cliff and the worries around Greece were too
big,”  Alain Bokobza , head of strategy at Societe Generale in
Paris, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “That makes it
somewhat of a bull market and it will continue.”  Stocks rose for the first time in four days yesterday as
President Barack Obama softened his position on tax increases.
That led to optimism U.S. lawmakers will agree on a compromise
budget, preventing more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts -- known as the fiscal cliff -- from
coming into force at the beginning of next year.  Tax Threshold  The U.S. House of Representatives may vote tomorrow on
Speaker  John Boehner ’s “plan B,” which would raise tax rates
on income over $1 million, rather than the $400,000 threshold
the president proposed in his latest offer. The Obama
administration and Democrats rejected the Boehner plan, released
yesterday, as inadequate.  Greece had its credit rating raised by Standard & Poor’s
following the country’s debt buyback. The ratings company cited
the determination of euro-area governments to keep Greece in the
17-nation currency zone.  “The euro-zone breakup scenario is collapsing,” Bokobza
said in a separate interview. “The U.S. is working on a good
deal” for the budget, he added.  In Germany, the Ifo institute’s  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 102.4 this
month from 101.4 in November. That’s the second straight
increase after sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low in October.
Economists predicted a gain to 102, according to the median
forecast of 43 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Julius Baer  Julius Baer  rallied 1.7 percent to 33.75 francs. Swiss Re
Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, added 1.9 percent to
67.15 francs.  Shares of banks and financial companies were among the best
performers in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , the region’s
benchmark, today.  Transocean increased 0.8 percent to 42.35 francs. Brent
crude rose for a second day in London.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss timepieces,
gained 1.4 percent to 466 francs. Credit Suisse Group AG
reiterated it outperform rating, similar to buy, on the stock
and raised its price target to 540 francs from 480 francs.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest agrochemical company, rose
1.2 percent to 376.50 francs, climbing for a fourth day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  