-- U.K. Lack of Planning for Scots Independence Is ‘Unsustainable’
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-k-lack-of-planning-for-scots-independence-is-unsustainable-.html
The U.K.’s lack of contingency
planning for Scottish independence means it is failing to serve
voters, former Chancellor of the Exchequer  Nigel Lawson  said.  “How are the people to judge this if you are not prepared
to say what the consequences would be?” Lawson, who was
chancellor between 1983 and 1989, told Scottish Secretary
 Michael Moore  yesterday. “That is totally unsustainable. You
will let down the people of  Scotland  very badly.”  Lawson, 80, was speaking at a House of Lords hearing into
the economic implications for the rest of the U.K. should
Scotland become independent, the flagship policy of the semi-
autonomous government in Edinburgh. A referendum is scheduled
for the fall of 2014 following an agreement between Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond .  His comments were supported by Christopher Tugendhat, a
former Conservative cabinet minister and European Union
commissioner, and Denise Kingsmill, a former deputy chairwoman
of the  Competition Commission .  It would be a “dereliction of duty” if the Ministry of
Defence was not doing contingency planning about the possibility
of having to remove the U.K.’s independent nuclear deterrent
from its base near Glasgow, Tugendhat told Moore.  Most large companies do scenario planning and it would be
“irresponsible” of the U.K. not to focus on the consequences
of independence in advance of the referendum, Kingsmill said.  Scottish Talks  The U.K. will set out the issues surrounding independence
in a series of papers to be published next year, Moore told the
lawmakers. That was different from having negotiations with the
Scottish government in advance of the referendum, he said.  “I don’t think we have the locus or the responsibility to
have pre-negotiations,” he said. “There will be elements of
this that will be inelegant and messy.”  The U.K. government’s starting position on monetary policy
in the event of Scottish independence is that the  Bank of
England  won’t automatically be Scotland’s central bank, Moore
said. Salmond has said he plans to keep the pound as Scotland’s
currency and the Bank of England as its interest-rate setter.  The agreement between the two governments on the process
for the referendum “doesn’t mean that the U.K. will accept
every assertion of the Scottish government,” Moore said. “It
doesn’t give them a free pass to their policy wishes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  