-- U.K. Has 1,000 Developing Trident Successor
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-19T11:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-k-has-1-000-developing-trident-successor.html
More than 1,000 people are now
employed in developing a successor to Britain’s submarine-based
Trident nuclear deterrent, risking accusations from Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats that the program is
being pursued in the face of their opposition.  “There has been a steady increase in the number of people
working on the program at  BAE Systems (BA/)  shipyard at Barrow-in-
Furness” in northwest  England , the defense ministry said in a
report published today. “The total has now passed 1,000 and
will increase further as work progresses.”  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond, from Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party , has risked inflaming coalition
tensions by saying an upgrade of Trident would be cheaper than
alternatives being examined by the Liberal Democrats. The
government announced in May 2011 it would spend 3 billion pounds
($4.9 billion ) on designing a replacement, at the same time as
setting up a review of alternatives headed by the Liberal
Democrat chief secretary to the Treasury,  Danny Alexander .  The review, to be published either later this year or early
in 2012, will help the Liberal Democrats decide on their
position on a replacement for Trident in the run-up to the next
general election in 2015.  Hammond pledged 353 million pounds for the development of
submarines on Oct. 29. Clegg said some people were “jumping the
gun” after U.K. media reported that the investment amounted to
a government commitment to retaining Trident.  “We are committed to maintaining the continuous at-sea
deterrent,” Hammond said Nov. 1. “Our Trident missiles and the
warheads on them have many, many years of life left in them. The
question is only around whether we replace the Vanguard Class
submarines when they start to go out of service in 2028.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  