-- U.K. Lawmakers Mull Call for Added Scrutiny of Bank Law
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-k-lawmakers-mull-call-for-added-scrutiny-of-bank-law.html
U.K. lawmakers may call on
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to give them extra
powers to block detailed legislation aimed at regulating banks
in a report to be published later this week.  Members of the  Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards  may demand that lawmakers be given automatic powers to
scrutinize so-called secondary legislation, after urging such a
move in hearings. The panel is still agreeing on the final
wording of the report. The government normally implements such
detailed legislation on its own under powers granted by
Parliament.  “We want to see the color of the secondary legislation so
that we can judge the effectiveness of the primary legislation
on which it depends,”  Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative chairman
of the cross-party panel, said during a hearing with Osborne in
 London  on Nov. 21.  The commission of lawmakers from both houses is
scrutinizing the  Financial Services Reform Bill , which will
implement plans to erect firewalls around lenders’ retail units.
A separate report by the panel into ethics in the banking
industry commissioned by Osborne in the wake of the Libor-
rigging scandal will be released next year.  The legislators on the panel are trying to overturn a
method of passing the secondary legislation, which effectively
allows the Treasury to propose the laws and implement them
unless parliamentarians raise objections. Instead, they are
seeking an affirmative mechanism that requires the secondary
laws to automatically face scrutiny by lawmakers.  ‘Policy Problem’  “There is a policy problem here,” opposition  Labour Party 
lawmaker Pat McFadden said during the hearing with Osborne.
“The policy problem is the banks’ ability and record to lobby
and to get round things. The way that you have set this up is to
leave an awful lot” to the discretion of a regulator.  A demand from the committee for more powers would set the
committee up for a clash with Osborne. The chancellor can ignore
their recommendations, though he might then face a backlash from
rank-and-file lawmakers in Parliament. Osborne set up the panel
to look at conduct in the banking industry following the Libor
scandal earlier this year and extended its powers to provide
pre-legislative scrutiny of the banking bill.  Tyrie complained to Osborne Nov. 21 that the chancellor had
not passed on details of legislation to the panel. Osborne
warned the commission against “unpicking a consensus” over
“ring-fencing,” as the plans are known in Britain.  Treasury minister Greg Clark said during his testimony
alongside Osborne that the government would decide which parts
of secondary legislation need extra scrutiny and that “there
will be a lot of opportunity” for such oversight in future.  Breakup Powers  Lawmakers also called in hearings for the bill to be
toughened so that regulators have the power to break up banks if
they fail to comply with the firewall regulations. Such a move
would be aimed at deterring aggressive lobbying by banks to
water down implementation of the rules.  Successive witnesses at the committee’s hearings have
expressed concern that proposals by the  Independent Commission
on Banking , led by Oxford University Professor  John Vickers ,
which provided the basis of the legislation, will be diluted by
the banks before they are properly implemented.  Andrew Haldane , the Bank of England’s executive director
for financial stability, said on Nov. 7 that proposals have a
“gray area” that may be manipulated by banks. The threat of
full separation is “quite a clever way of ensuring that Vickers
is implemented faithfully and achieves what it is meant to
achieve,” Haldane said.  Even Vickers, who said the powers he proposed would in
themselves be enough to make the banking system safer, told the
panel on Nov. 12 he would not be opposed to putting powers on
the statute book that would strengthen the firewall.  As well as regulation, the parliamentary commission will
develop proposals on banking governance, transparency and
conflicts of interest. Vickers recommended in 2011 that banks
separately capitalize and manage consumer-banking activities to
strengthen the financial system.  The Treasury said it had no comment on the panel’s possible
recommendations before the publication of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  