-- U.S. House Panel to Try Again With Full Agriculture Bill in 2013
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-12-19T21:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-s-house-panel-to-try-again-with-full-agriculture-bill-in-2013.html
The House Agriculture Committee will
go back to the drawing board on the farm bill in the next
Congress, after unsuccessful efforts to include the legislation
in any deal to avert more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts set to trigger on Jan. 1.  “I see no reason to delay,” the committee’s chairman,
 Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, told reporters today.  Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the
committee’s top Democrat, said the panel probably will begin
consideration of the bill, designed to set farm policy for five
years, on Feb. 27. The old law expired Sept. 30. “What else are
we going to do? we have no other choice,” Peterson said.  Some farm-state lawmakers had been talking about trying to
get the agriculture bill included in a larger deal to avert the
tax increases and spending cuts that have been labeled the
fiscal cliff. With time running out, and facing opposition from
House Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of  Ohio , the conversation
has changed.  Instead, House leaders are considering doing an extension
of the bill, according to a Republican leadership aide. Details
on what that might look like haven’t been revealed.  Lucas said he ordered committee staff months ago to draft a
“buffet of legislation” as a contingency for just such a
scenario.  Piecemeal Extensions  Peterson had opposed piecemeal extensions of the farm bill,
which sets spending levels for crop subsidies and nutrition
programs, including  food stamps . Now he says he would consider
backing a short-term measure to revive expired conservation
programs and to prevent farm policy from reverting back to
legislation passed in 1949, which could result in a doubling of
wholesale dairy prices on Jan. 1.  Inaction on a full five-year agriculture bill has prompted
farm-state lawmakers who’d earlier resisted splitting the
measure to try and attach parts of it to other legislation in
hopes of getting something passed by year’s end.  The Senate is considering adding funds for livestock
ranchers reeling from drought to a $60.4 billion disaster relief
bill for superstorm Sandy. The chamber intends to complete work
on that legislation this week.  Oregon Democrat Jeff Merkley yesterday filed an amendment
to the bill that would provide livestock disaster assistance as
well as aid for tree and fruit growers. Senate Agriculture
Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow  of  Michigan  is a co-
sponsor, along with three other Democrats.  Stabenow’s endorsement may boost the amendment’s chances,
as she and other farm-state lawmakers have opposed efforts in
the past to separate drought relief from the farm bill.  “We are still working very hard to complete a farm bill,
to have the House take action, but in the meantime we have
disasters that have occurred,” Stabenow said late yesterday on
the Senate floor.  The House Agriculture Committee approved a farm bill in
July, a month after the Senate approved its version. Both bills
would cost about $1 trillion if scored over a 10-year period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  