-- U.S. Can Protect Gun Rights and Public Safety
-- B y   C r a i g   R .   W h i t n e y
-- 2012-12-19T23:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-s-can-protect-gun-rights-and-public-safety.html
After the  slaughter  of 20 first-
graders and six adults at a school in Newtown,  Connecticut , some
gun-rights advocates are saying that if only the teachers had
been carrying weapons, the gunman, firing a semiautomatic rifle,
might have been stopped before killing so many people.  Supporters  of this right have said for decades that more
guns in the hands of law-abiding citizens would lead to less
violent crime of all kinds, because criminals would be deterred
by not knowing whether potential victims were carrying heat.  If students at Virginia Tech in 2007 had been allowed to
pack pistols on campus, this argument goes, Seung-Hui Cho might
have been stopped before he killed 32 of them; if midnight-movie
patrons at an Aurora,  Colorado , theater in July had been armed,
they could have cut a gunman’s massacre short of the 12 who died
and the 58 who were injured.  State legislatures all over the country have been  buying 
the argument, with the result that by 2011 about 8 million
Americans had permits to carry concealed weapons for self-
defense. Only the District of Columbia and  Illinois  had laws on
the books barring “concealed carry” (though several other
states and places such as New York City have barred it
effectively in practice by turning down permits for virtually
everybody who applies).  Congress let a 10-year ban on  assault weapons  -- based on
rifles designed for military use, where killing is the primary
object -- expire in 2004, and now as many as 3.5 million of
these guns may be in private hands.  Governor’s Veto  Suddenly Americans are questioning whether so much easy
access to increasingly lethal weapons really makes them safer. A
few days before Newtown, the Republican-controlled Michigan
Legislature passed a bill giving teachers the right to carry
concealed weapons in schools. Four days after the massacre, the
Republican governor, Rick Snyder, who had reportedly been ready
to sign the bill, vetoed it instead.  That action bucked a strong trend that has lasted for many
years. Florida granted its millionth concealed-carry license
 this week , making it more pistol-packing than any other state.  It is true that violent crime rates in the state have gone
down every year since 1992, five years after the rules were
loosened. In the U.S. as a whole, violent crime rates, including
murder, which is mostly committed with handguns, are about half
as high as they were 20 years ago. But is this really cause and
effect?  A distinguished conservative jurist, Richard A. Posner of
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit in  Chicago ,
doesn’t think so. Even though he issued an  opinion  Dec. 11
striking down the Illinois ban on concealed-carry outside the
home as unconstitutional, he said there was no conclusive
empirical evidence to prove the more-guns-equals-less-crime
connection that the gun owners’ lobbies are so fond of making.
More people carrying guns in public isn’t the same thing as more
people having guns, he wrote in his ruling. He cited a study
showing that gun ownership has in fact gone down somewhat in
recent years.  More people who have handguns take them along when they
leave home than they did in decades past. “A gun is a potential
danger to more people if carried in public than just kept in the
home,” Posner said. “But the other side of this coin is that
knowing that many law-abiding citizens are walking the streets
armed may make criminals timid.”  Posner’s Concession  He conceded that “the net effect on crime rates in general
and murder rates in particular of allowing the carriage of guns
in public is uncertain both as a matter of theory and
empirically.” Yet  his ruling  gave the benefit of the doubt to
the argument for carrying and put the onus on Illinois to prove
the opposite: “Illinois had to provide us with more than merely
a rational basis for believing that its uniquely sweeping ban is
justified by an increase in public safety. It has failed to meet
this burden.”  The cases in the ruling -- Moore v. Madigan and Shepard v.
Madigan (Lisa Madigan is Illinois attorney general) -- involved
an Illinois woman, Mary Shepard, who had been viciously attacked
and beaten in the church where she worked as treasurer. She had
concealed-carry licenses in Utah and  Florida , and wanted one for
self-protection in Illinois outside her home there.  Judge Posner’s ruling, which reversed the lower courts, was
based on two Supreme Court decisions --  District of Columbia v.
Heller  in 2008 and  McDonald v. Chicago  in 2010 -- which found
that the Second Amendment gives Americans the right to own and
use weapons primarily for self-defense. That, he wrote, was at
least as important outside the home as inside. The ruling was
stayed for 180 days to give the state a chance to revise the
law.  I think Judge Posner and the Supreme Court were right in
saying the Second Amendment gives Americans an individual right
to keep and use firearms. But when the Founders wrote and
adopted it, the amendment was connected with a civic duty, to
use those firearms for the common defense when militia duty
called. Today, surely, law-abiding gun owners feel a civic
responsibility to contribute to public safety, as President
 Barack Obama  noted this week in his news conference.  Gun-rights lobbies say they do that by carrying weapons.
Yet after Newtown, it is hard for most of us to understand how
easy access to military-style, rapid-fire, semiautomatic weapons
such as the one  Adam Lanza  used to kill all those children makes
us safer. Even the National Rifle Association has said it is
prepared to discuss ways “to make sure this never happens
again.”  Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in the 2008 Heller ruling,
“Nothing in our opinion should be taken to cast doubt on
longstanding prohibitions on the possession of firearms by
felons and the mentally ill, or laws forbidding the carrying of
firearms in sensitive places such as schools and government
buildings, or laws imposing conditions and qualifications on the
commercial sale of arms.” Those words are worth remembering.  Closing Loophole  The main mechanism for keeping firearms out of the hands of
felons and the mentally ill is the  National Instant Criminal
Background Check System , run by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. If you try to buy a gun from a federally licensed
firearms dealer and your name is on the list of disqualified
buyers, the dealer will refuse to sell to you.  Yet anyone can buy a firearm from a private seller, at a
gun show or elsewhere, without having to be cleared by the
system, and as many as 40 percent of all gun sales are made
privately. Leaving this gun-show loophole open is madness, yet
the  NRA  has fought tooth and nail all attempts to close it.  A better system of detecting and treating people with a
mental illness that makes them prone to violent behavior, and
making sure their names are promptly put on the check list,
could make mass shootings such as Columbine and Virginia Tech
less likely to happen.  If the Newtown tragedy doesn’t lead, at last, to productive
dialogue on all sides about better ways to balance gun rights
with the right to live in safety, then the next mass shooting
will be just a matter of time.  (Craig R. Whitney, a former assistant managing editor and
foreign correspondent for the  New York  Times, is  author  of
“ Living with Guns : A Liberal’s Case for the Second Amendment,”
published by Public Affairs last month. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Craig Whitney at  crwhitney65@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 