-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Dec. 14 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-12-19T15:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-dec-14-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.6 million barrels per
day during the week ending December 14, 227 thousand barrels per
day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
91.5 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging nearly 8.9 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging just under 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.4 million barrels per day last
week, down by 100 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
over 8.3 million barrels per day, 288 thousand barrels per day
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 521 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 242 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 1.0 million barrels
from the previous week. At 371.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
increased by 2.2 million barrels last week and are above the
upper limit of the average range. Finished gasoline inventories
decreased while blending components inventories increased last
week. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by 1.1 million
barrels last week and remained well below the lower limit of the
average range for this time of year. Propane/propylene
inventories decreased by 2.0 million barrels last week, but
remained well above the upper limit of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 1.9 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged over 19.0 million barrels per day, up by 2.8 percent
from the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged about 8.5 million barrels
per day, down by 2.9 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged just under 3.8
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 2.7
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 5.8 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  