-- U.S. Automaker Inventory Surge Seen Spurring Year-end Discounts
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-12-19T16:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/u-s-automaker-inventory-surge-seen-spurring-year-end-discounts.html
U.S. automakers led by  General
Motors Co. (GM)  began December with the most vehicle supply since
2009, which may spur “aggressive” discounting before the end
of the year, according to a Bloomberg Industries analysis.  Inventory of U.S.-branded vehicles was 90 days to start the
month, which compares with 55 days for Japanese-branded
vehicles,  Kevin Tynan , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries, wrote
today in a report. Supply for U.S. automakers is the highest
since May 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries shows.  “While potentially harmful to manufacturer margins,
dealers’ sales may rise as carmakers intent on paring inventory
use aggressive incentives and discounts bring buyers to
showrooms before the year end,” Tynan, who is based in
Skillman,  New Jersey , wrote in the report.  GM’s inventory of full-size pickups swelled to 139 days at
the end of November from 110 a month earlier as the Detroit-
based automaker said it was caught off guard by competitors
clearing out 2012 model-year pickups. GM, which said today it
will purchase shares of its stock from the  U.S. Treasury , showed
redesigned Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra trucks this month.  “With the new full-size truck platform launching, they
probably are in a little bit more desperate position to get
supply more aligned with demand,” Tynan said of GM in a
telephone interview.  Industrywide new-vehicle supplies were 3.1 million vehicles
as of Dec. 1, the highest level in the U.S. since December 2008,
according to Bloomberg Industries. Supply and demand are
“reasonably aligned” at 68 days’ inventory.  The annualized industrywide light-vehicle sales  rate ,
adjusted for seasonal trends, accelerated to 15.5 million in
November, the best monthly pace since January 2008, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  