-- UBS $1.5 Billion Libor Settlement Signals More to Come
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-12-20T05:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/ubs-1-5-billion-libor-settlement-signals-more-to-come.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s $1.5 billion settlement for
manipulation of interest rates and criminal charges against two
former traders paves the way for additional sanctions in a
global investigation of more than a dozen banks and brokers.  Switzerland’s biggest bank settled with U.S., U.K. and
Swiss regulators for manipulating rates thousands of times over
six years through relationships with multiple banks and brokers.
Two traders were charged with conspiracy in a criminal
complaint, while UBS’s Japanese affiliate pleaded guilty in the
U.S. to felony wire fraud.  Hong Kong authorities  today said
they’ve started a probe into potential misconduct by the bank.  “UBS sometimes acted alone, sometimes in two-way collusion
with at least four other banks and sometimes it violated the law
with the assistance of one or more of five inter-dealer
brokers,” David Meister, head of enforcement at the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said in a news conference
in Washington.  The UBS settlement is the second in the investigation of
global interest rate benchmarks after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to pay
290 million pounds in June. Regulators have sought information
from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the U.S.,  Europe 
and  Japan  that underpin more than $300 trillion in contracts
worldwide.  Probes Continue  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has started an
investigation to see if there was wrongdoing by UBS in its
submission of data for setting the Hong Kong Interbank Offered
Rate, according to a statement from the de-facto central bank
today. The HKMA is also reviewing whether the potential
misconduct may have had a material impact on the rates.  The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is in settlement
negotiations with regulators, according to people with knowledge
of the matter. Meanwhile, traders at Deutsche Bank AG,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are under investigation,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not
to be identified because the probes are continuing.  The UBS settlement for the first time details how brokers
played a role in the manipulation.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest
broker of transactions between banks, said in May that it had
received requests from government agencies probing banks’
submissions to the London interbank offered rate.  “I suspect this is the tip of the iceberg from the
perspective of regulators going after financial firms,” Andrew
Lo, professor of finance at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Pervasive’ Behaviour  Regulators found that traders at the Zurich-based bank made
more than 2,000 requests to its own rate submitters, traders at
other banks and brokers to manipulate rate submissions through
2010. At least 45 bank employees, including some managers, knew
of the “pervasive” practice and a further 70 people were
included in open chats and messages where attempts to manipulate
Libor and Euribor were discussed, the U.K. Financial Services
Authority said.  Lanny Breuer, assistant attorney general and head of the
U.S. Justice Department’s criminal division, said the
manipulation of global interest rates is “one of the most
significant scandals ever to hit the global banking industry,”
and UBS may have been one of the worst actors.  “The bank’s conduct was simply astonishing,” Breuer said
at the news conference in Washington.  The U.S. Justice Department said Tom Alexander William Hayes and Roger Darin were part of a conspiracy to commit wire
fraud from September 2006 to 2009. Hayes, 33, served as a senior
yen swaps trader at UBS in  Tokyo , while Darin, 41, worked as a
short-term interest rates trader at UBS in  Singapore , Tokyo and
Zurich, the U.S. said.  Getting Rich  “Make no mistake, for UBS traders, the manipulation of
Libor was about getting rich,’” Breuer said.  Prosecutors allege that Hayes and Darin “conspired with
others known and unknown within UBS to cause the bank to make
false and misleading yen Libor submissions to the British
Bankers’ Association.”  Darin didn’t respond to a voice-mail message, and efforts
by Bloomberg News to contact Hayes and his lawyer were
unsuccessful. Wire fraud and conspiracy convictions carry a
maximum prison sentence of 30 years and a $1 million fine for
each count. Antitrust convictions carry a 10-year maximum
sentence and $1 million fine.  Hayes, in a March 2009 message, asked a broker to help
influence nine of the 16 banks contributing to the Yen Libor
rate, naming the unidentified banks in separate messages.  Champagne Shipments  “Got it mate,” came the response from the broker,
identified only as “Broker-C” in the Justice Department
documents.  In a separate conversation earlier in the month, Hayes
again requested a broker to push for two separate banks to lower
their submissions.  Brokers were compensated for assisting Hayes in
manipulating Libor through a special bonus and “other perks,”
according to the Justice Department. Hayes, noting how helpful a
broker had been, said in an August 2008 message to a colleague
“Yeah… I reckon I owe him a lot more.”  “He’s ok with the annual champagne shipment, a few
[drinking sessions] with [his supervisor] and a small bonus now
and then,” the broker responded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  