-- UBS’s ‘Captain Caos’ Breaks New Ground in Libor Scandal
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-19T15:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/ubs-s-captain-caos-breaks-new-ground-in-libor-scandal.html
At a time when it seemed global
banks’ transgressions, from interest-rate rigging to  money
laundering , could hardly get worse,  UBS AG (UBSN)  managed to  break new
ground  with this week’s revelations of Libor manipulation. Its
admission of guilt also indicates the direction criminal
prosecutions might take in the growing scandal.  In its $1.5 billion settlement with various countries’
authorities, UBS admitted to thousands of instances of interest-
rate manipulation, involving more than 100 employees and
managers, in currencies including the Japanese yen, the British
pound, the Swiss franc, the  U.S. dollar  and the euro. The
actions affected the London interbank offered rate, the global
benchmark that influences the value of hundreds of trillions of
dollars in mortgages, corporate loans and derivatives.  What sets UBS apart is not only the sheer extent of the
behavior, but also the level of collusion with traders at other
banks and the outright bribery of brokers who helped coordinate
the manipulation.  One instance, which we call the “captain caos” scheme,
deserves its place in the hall of fame of financial chicanery.
According to the  final notice  from the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, traders at UBS colluded with their peers at other
banks “by entering into facilitation trades that aligned their
respective commercial interests,” so they could all benefit from
manipulating  interest rates  in Japanese yen.  Captain Caos  A UBS trader, according to the FSA notice, promised this to
a broker aiding in the rigging effort: “I’ll pay you, you know,
50,000 dollars, 100,000 dollars ... whatever you want ... I’m a
man of my word.” The spelling-challenged traders and brokers who
took part in the scheme came to address one another with
monikers such as “the three muscateers” and “captain caos.”  The yen manipulation stands out in another significant way:
In a deal with the U.S. Justice Department, UBS’s Japanese
subsidiary admitted to  wire fraud . As we previously  noted , wire
fraud is one of the primary statutes U.S. prosecutors could use
in pursuing criminal charges against individuals involved in
Libor manipulation. The statute prohibits the use of any
interstate or international communication in furtherance of an
effort to deceive for personal gain. It carries a sentence of as
much as 30 years in prison.  Some arrests of lower-level traders and brokers have
already been made in the U.K., and charges against individuals
are expected in the U.S. Investigators would do well to pay
closer attention to the involvement of executives: Given the
pervasiveness of the misbehavior and the length of time it went
on, it’s hard to imagine that they were clueless. The FSA
notice, for example, says that at least five senior UBS managers
were aware of the manipulations to benefit the bank’s trading
positions. In the U.S., conspiracy to commit fraud is also a
crime, carrying a prison term of as much as five years.  The $1.5 billion in fines for UBS, more than triple the
amount U.K. bank Barclays Plc agreed to pay in a settlement in
June, brings the total levied this year on big European banks
for various misdeeds to $6.1 billion, according to  Bloomberg
News . Making banks pay handsomely for their sins is an entirely
appropriate way to send a signal that such behavior will not be
tolerated. Hefty fines might also shock shareholders, who will
bear the brunt of the financial pain, into demanding that
executives are held accountable.  Criminal indictments, though, would do more to change the
culture among the individuals who performed, aided and abetted
deceitful acts, and to restore faith in markets. Authorities
should also force banks to divulge information on their true
borrowing costs over the period in question, so the financial
effect of their transgressions -- and the required compensation
to investors --  can be calculated .  Regulators, prosecutors and criminal courts around the
world have their work cut out for them in establishing the truth
and punishing the guilty. The UBS and Barclays cases are just
the beginning.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 