-- TUI Sees Dividend Restoration as Tourism Resists Slowdown
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-12-19T14:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/tui-forecasts-higher-revenue-after-full-year-pretax-profit-rises.html
TUI AG (TUI1) , the owner of Europe’s
largest travel company, said it expects a “slight” increase in
revenue this fiscal year and plans to restore dividends soon as
tourism in the region resists the weak economic climate.  The shares rose as much as 5 percent in Frankfurt, the
steepest gain in a month, as Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel said dividend payments are likely to resume in the
“near future,” having been absent since 2008.  Frenzel, who will be replaced by Friedrich Joussen in
February, has been trying to focus TUI on its tourism business
by putting units such as shipping up for sale. The tour industry
is “less severely” affected by macro-economic crises, TUI
said. The company’s  business model “has proven to be stable
and sustainable despite a challenging economic framework in our
key source markets in  Europe ,” Frenzel said in a statement.  TUI today reported a 4.9 percent gain in revenue to 18.3
billion euros ($24.3 billion) for the year through September,
matching estimates. Adjusted operating profit rose 24 percent to
746 million euros and Hanover, Germany-based TUI said it expects
operating earnings this year to be on a par with that.  “TUI is working on the expansion of its emerging-markets
business,” Frenzel told journalists at a news conference in
Hanover today. The company plans to play an increasingly bigger
role in the cruise business, he said.  Payout Differentials  Frenzel said TUI wouldn’t propose a dividend last year even
as the company already has the necessary operating earnings. A
payout depends on other differentials, including the company’s
earnings per share, restructuring costs and the equity resulting
from its stake the Hapag-Lloyd shipping business, the CEO said.  “We would wish to focus on further strengthening the
company’s substance in weighing off opportunities and risks for
the current financial year,” he said.  TUI shares were up 4.3 percent at 8.17 euros at 2:51 p.m.
local time, extending their gain this year to 70 percent.  Pretax profit increased 22 percent to 252.7 million euros
in the year through September, in line with the average estimate
of in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  Operating earnings gained more than 20 percent at the TUI
Travel and TUI Hotels and Resorts units.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , which accounts for more than 95 percent of
TUI’s revenue, said on Dec. 4 that it plans “sustainable future
growth” with annualized underlying operating profit growth of 7
percent to 10 percent in the next five years.  ’Optimistic’ Estimates  TUI posted a net loss of 15.1 million euros compared with
profit of 23.9 million euros last year, after a loss widened at
Hapag-Lloyd.  “Our estimates were more optimistic due to a higher
expectation regarding the income from Hapag-Lloyd,” Herbert Sturm, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in a note to
clients today. “The outlook for the current financial year
2012/13 seems for us realistic but cautious.”  Hapag-Lloyd said yesterday it is discussing a possible
merger with Hamburg Sued. Earlier this year, the German city-
state of Hamburg increased its stake in Hapag-Lloyd, Europe’s
fourth-largest container line, to 37 percent by buying a part of
TUI’s holding. TUI still owns 22 percent, which it might divest
in an initial public offering or sell to third-party investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  