-- UN Refugee Agency Asks Kenya to Clarify Order for Camp Returns
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-19T13:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/un-refugee-agency-asks-kenya-to-clarify-order-for-camp-returns.html
The United Nations Refugee Agency
said it’s seeking clarification of an announcement by the Kenyan
government directing Somali refugees and asylum seekers to
report to the Dadaab refugee camp in northeastern  Kenya .  The Department of Refugee Affairs published a newspaper
advertisement yesterday saying the government stopped
registering all refugees and asylum seekers in urban areas with
immediate effect. Under the new rules, these groups will “be
registered and hosted at the refugee camps,” Badu Katelo, the
department’s acting commissioner, said in the statement.  The government previously indicated that only people who
had fled their countries for asylum in Kenya, not documented
refugees, would go to the Kenyan camps, Kitty McKinsey, a UNHCR
spokeswoman, said by phone from the capital, Nairobi.  “Many refugees, with identity and working documents, have
been living in Nairobi for many years, contributing to the
economy and supporting themselves,” she said. “We are trying
to get clarification because the press statement is contrary to
what they had told us.” The UN describes people who have
pending applications for refugees  status  as asylum seekers.  The Dadaab refugee camp, located near the Somali border,
hosts about 450,000 people, predominately Somalis, which is
about five times the intended capacity when the facility was
built 20 years ago, according to the UN’s website.  As part of the changes announced by the Kenyan government,
asylum seekers from outside Somalia must now report to the
Kakuma refugee camp near the border with South Sudan, according
to the statement by Katelo. The UN-run site holds 80,000 mainly
Somalis, as well as Sudanese, Ethiopians and Congolese.  Al-Qaeda  Kenya has blamed al-Qaeda’s affiliate in Somalia, al-
Shabaab, for a spate of attacks in the country including the
kidnapping of tourists and aid workers and the murder of a
British holiday-maker at a luxury coastal resort last year.  There have been at least four grenade attacks since Sept.
30 in the Nairobi suburb of Eastleigh, which is populated by
Somali immigrants, including a Dec. 5 incident that left five
people dead and injured a member of parliament, Yusuf Hassan.  East Africa’s largest economy deployed troops in
neighboring  Somalia  in October 2011 to end the threat of al-
Shabaab. The Kenyan soldiers have become part of the African
Union peacekeeping mission supporting Somalia’s military.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  