-- Lundbeck 70% Holder Makes Bid Unlikely After Stock Plunge
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-12-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/lundbeck-70-holder-makes-bid-unlikely-after-stock-plunge.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Danish
drugmaker with as many as three new products reaching the market
over the next year and a stock price at a 13-year low, should be
takeover bait for bigger pharmaceutical companies. Majority
ownership by a single shareholder makes that unlikely.  Lundbeck, based in Copenhagen, yesterday reduced its sales
and profit forecasts for the next two years. The stock plunged
the most in more than three years.  The  Lundbeck Foundation , which supports research in medical
and natural sciences, owns 70 percent of Lundbeck and would need
to approve any takeover bids if the company were to be
approached. Under its statute, which states that the foundation
will act “in the best interest of the company,” that is
unlikely to happen, said Bertil From, the foundation’s chief
financial officer.  “Until now, it has been interpreted as, we should continue
to be the majority shareholder of the company; that’s also the
case now,” From said in a telephone interview. “They have the
best pipeline ever, and we are here to support the company to
get the most value out of it.”  The foundation’s control means that Lundbeck will be spared
the fate of Genzyme Corp. and Illumina Inc., which were the
subjects of hostile takeover offers after their shares plunged.
Paris-based Sanofi acquired Genzyme for $20.1 billion last year,
while Basel,  Switzerland-based Roche Holding AG  walked away from
Illumina this year after failing to win support from the San
Diego-based company’s shareholders.  ‘No Discussion’  The foundation’s board of trustees has the right to decide
to sell the company, From said. Still, “there is no discussion
about that,” he said.  Any takeover approaches for Lundbeck would first be vetted
by the drugmaker’s  board of directors , and if they recommend an
offer, the foundation would then evaluate it, From said.  Simon Augustesen, a spokesman for the Copenhagen-based
company, declined to comment on whether Lundbeck has received
any takeover offers.  Grete Lundbeck, the widow of company founder Hans Lundbeck,
established the foundation in 1954 “to maintain and expand the
activities” of the company, and to provide funding for
scientific research, according to its  website . The foundation
owns 34 percent of  ALK-Abello A/S (ALKB) , a maker of allergy vaccines,
and 36 percent of ambulance-services provider  Falck A/S , and
manages Lundbeckfond Ventures, a life-sciences venture-capital
investor.  Carlsberg, Novo  The ability to sell the stake in Lundbeck is unusual among
foundations with controlling stakes in Danish companies, said
 Caspar Rose , a professor of law and business at Copenhagen
Business School’s Center for  Corporate Governance . Still, it’s
“very unlikely” the Lundbeck Foundation would sell, he said.  “I would not say Lundbeck is a potential target for
anyone,” Rose said in a phone interview. “Lundbeck needs to be
in much more serious difficulties before it’s relevant for the
foundation board to determine whether it should try to merge
Lundbeck with a larger firm.”  Beermaker Carlsberg A/S and drugmaker Novo Nordisk A/S are
among the Danish companies with foundations as controlling
shareholders.  In cutting its forecasts, Lundbeck cited higher costs for
product research and marketing and generic competition for older
drugs. The stock dropped 15 percent to close at 82.15 kroner,
giving the company a market value of 16.1 billion kroner ($2.9
billion). Yesterday’s drop was the biggest since June 8, 2009,
and the closing price was the lowest since Feb. 4, 2000.  The lower sales and profit forecasts won’t change the
foundation’s mindset over its ownership, which is an advantage
for Lundbeck, Rose said.  “They have sufficient power to not overreact, compared
with a company that has highly dispersed ownership,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  