-- UniCredit Seeks the ‘Right Buyer’ for Kazakhstan Unit ATF Bank
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-19T11:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/unicredit-seeks-the-right-buyer-for-kazakhstan-unit-atf-bank.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the biggest western
lender in eastern Europe, would sell its Kazakh lender, ATF
Bank, if there is an offer by the “right buyer” and its
reputation is not put at risk, a company executive said.  “We mentioned always that everything depends on the
price,” the head of UniCredit’s eastern European division,
Gianni Franco Papa, told journalists in Vienna late yesterday. A
sale of the unit, owned by UniCredit’s Bank  Austria  arm, also
depends on who would buy it. “We have also a reputation to
defend,” Papa said. The decision would be made by the Milan-
based company’s board of directors, he said.  UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is
selling assets in a five-year plan to cut costs and boost
profit. Ghizzoni told  Bloomberg News  in a March 2011 interview
that the company would consider selling Almaty-based ATF Bank.  UniCredit is in talks to sell a stake in ATF to a Kazakh
investor, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.
It received a $570 million bid by investors, including the mayor
of Almaty, Austrian newspaper Die Presse reported last week
without saying where it got the information. Papa declined to
elaborate.  UniCredit’s Bank Austria, which owns 99.7 percent of the
fifth-largest Kazakh lender, bought ATF for $2.1 billion in
2007. It has written down the unit’s value as the nation’s
banking industry suffered a surge in bad loans.  Papa said ATF bank was now in a better shape. “If I look
at the situation three or four years ago and what we achieved in
the last couple of years, overall we’re very happy with the
performance, compared to before,” he said.  Fragmented Regulation  While growth in the 18 countries in the former communist
part of  Europe  where UniCredit is active will continue to be
higher than in western Europe, the region’s fragmented
regulation is one of the biggest risks, Papa said.  Central and eastern Europe “is one of the main engines of
the development of the group,” Papa said. In the first nine
months of this year, eastern Europe including  Poland  generated
1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) in net operating profit, 59
percent of  UniCredit’s total .  Business in the region is complicated by national
restrictions on capital movement and inflexible accounting
standards in some of the countries, Papa said.  “We have a regulator in every country, a regulator in
Austria and then we have the ultimate regulator that is  Bank of
Italy ,” he said. National regulators’ “ringfencing, or rather
protecting the home turf, is creating some problems because you
can’t move capital across the region,” he said. “In some cases
you can’t pay dividends.”  UniCredit would welcome the European Union’s planned single
bank supervision under the  European Central Bank ’s umbrella
being applied to the bloc’s eastern members as well as having
more uniform rules, Papa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  