-- Turkey Yields Jump Most in 3 Months on Interest-Rate Corridor
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-19T15:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/turkey-yields-jump-most-in-3-months-on-interest-rate-corridor.html
Turkey’s bond yields jumped the most
in more than three months after the central bank left its
overnight borrowing rate unchanged, signaling a less dovish
monetary policy than investors’ expected.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt rose 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 5.91 percent, the biggest advance since
Sept. 3, by the 5:00 p.m. close in Istanbul, paring this year’s
gain to 510 basis points. The lira weakened 0.2 percent against
the dollar at 1.7814, reducing its gain this year to 6.1
percent, the third-largest among 10  emerging markets  in  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa .  The central bank, led by Governor Erdem Basci, kept the
bottom end of its so-called rates corridor unchanged at 5
percent yesterday. The median estimate of seven economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 25 basis-point cut. Basci
maintained the overnight lending rate at 9 percent and lowered
the one-week repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 5.5 percent,
in line with estimates.  “‘The central bank was not as dovish as expected at
yesterday’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting,” Cengiz Erguen,
a director of local markets trading at Commerzbank AG, said in
e-mailed comments from  London . “The 25 basis-point cut at the
benchmark rate was very cautious and everyone had been betting
on a 25 basis cut at the lower end of the band and people got
slightly nervous when this did not come.”  Economic Growth  Turkey ’s economic growth fell to 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, the slowest pace since the 2009 recession.  Credit growth showed “a marked increase” and the
contribution of domestic demand to economic growth “is expected
to increase in the forthcoming period,” the bank said
yesterday.  “The market saw the text from the central bank as very
hawkish,” said Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income trader at  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “There will be no
interest-rate reductions driven by economic growth.”  Turkey’s economic growth may slow to 3 percent this year
from 8.5 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of 24
analysts on Bloomberg.  Basci introduced the rates band in October of last year
that allows him to adjust  interest rates  on a daily basis. It
was created to balance above-target inflation, slowing economic
growth and high volatility of the lira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  