-- Venezuelan Billionaire Seen Benefiting From Socialism
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-12-19T17:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/venezuelan-billionaire-seen-benefiting-from-socialism.html
Last January, when he was still
making the marathon speeches that are his trademark, Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  took to state television and threatened
once again to nationalize his country’s banks. Pointing into the
camera, he addressed one banker by name: Juan Carlos Escotet.  Chavez called on the owner of Banesco Banco Universal CA,
 Venezuela ’s second-largest lender, to comply with his demand
that the financial industry hand over cash to the government for
agriculture loans.  “Escotet, let me know if you can,”  Chavez said  on his
weekly “Alo Presidente” program, since suspended for this
year’s presidential campaign and a fresh round of cancer
treatments. “If not, give me the bank, compadre. Tell me how
much the bank costs, and we’ll nationalize it right away.”  Chavez, who has carried out more than 1,000 government
takeovers since taking office 14 years ago, didn’t follow
through on his threat. In fact, his reign has proved a boon to
banks, which thrive on the currency controls and high  interest
rates  that have sunk much of Venezuela’s productive economy.
Spanning across the Caribbean to Miami and  Panama , Escotet’s
closely held financial empire has allowed him to amass a fortune
worth at least $1.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Escotet, 53, started getting calls from Chavez  on live TV 
when he became head of the country’s banking association in
2010. Since stepping down last year, he’s kept a lower profile.
He has never appeared on an international wealth ranking, and he
declined to comment for this account.  21st-Century Socialism  “The threat is not against banks as an industry, but
against the banker as owner of the bank,” said Francisco
Faraco, a Caracas-based financial-risk consultant. “It’s
undeniable that bankers are at risk because of their wealth and
their name.”  As part of the project he calls 21st-century socialism,
Chavez has imposed price caps on companies that include Procter
& Gamble Co. and Colgate-Palmolive Co. Amid currency controls in
place since 2003, companies such as armored-car provider Brinks
Co. resorted to the parallel market to buy dollars and
repatriate dividends until Chavez banned the practice outright
in 2010.  The scarcity of dollars for imports, combined with
shrinking local industry, means that Venezuelans often face
shortages of basic foodstuffs such as sugar and milk. Chavez
also has shut down brokerages and jailed bankers. One of them,
Ricardo Fernandez Barrueco, has been in prison for more than
three years as he awaits trial for allegedly misusing depositor
funds.  Subsidized Lending  Still, Chavez’s socialist project depends on capitalist
banks. He needs institutions such as Escotet’s to fund
Venezuela’s ballooning public debt, according to Faraco. That’s
what feeds the social programs that have cut poverty and made
the president popular, carrying him to re-election by more than
10 percentage points in October. Even with Chavez in Cuba,
recovering from his fourth cancer surgery since last year, his
allies won 20 out of the 23 gubernatorial races in regional
elections this past weekend.  Investing in  government bonds  is profitable for banks
because of Venezuela’s high borrowing costs -- the second-
highest among major developing nations, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Banks charge even higher rates to consumers, who are
motivated by 18 percent annual inflation to buy goods such as
washing machines and cars on credit. That more than compensates
for the subsidized lending Chavez mandates for areas such as
agriculture and housing.  The public spending boom also has generated a flood of
Venezuelans bolivars that are mostly trapped in the country due
to currency controls. Because of that, banks can offer near-zero
 interest rates  on deposits, according to Ricardo Villasmil, an
economist at the Universidad Catolica Andres Bello in Caracas
who advised the opposition in the October elections.  Spending Binge  Taken together, these factors place Venezuela’s banks among
the most profitable in the world. Aided in part by the
government’s election-year spending binge, they generated an
average return on equity of 53 percent as of October, according
to the country’s banking regulator. That measure of
profitability compares to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s peak of 34
percent in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s paradoxical, because the banks are making money
almost without doing anything,” said Villasmil.  Banesco holds more than 100 billion bolivars ($23.3
billion) in assets. It’s second only to Banco de Venezuela SA,
which Chavez expropriated from  Spain ’s Banco Santander SA in
2009. The avowed Marxist paid Santander $1.1 billion, or about
95 percent of the unit’s book value at the artificially strong
official  exchange rate . Book value is defined as total assets
minus liabilities.  Panamanian Lender  Escotet controls 58.9 percent of Banesco in Venezuela,
according to documents filed with Spain’s company registry by
Banesco Corporacion Holding Hispania SL, his Madrid-based
investment vehicle. The Venezuelan flagship had a book value of
7.9 billion bolivars as of Sept. 30,  financial statements  on its
website show. Based on the price Chavez paid for Santander’s
Venezuelan operations, at Caracas-based financial consultancy
Ecoanalitica’s inflation-adjusted exchange rate of 8.4 bolivars
per dollar, Escotet’s stake is worth about $525 million. The
official exchange rate is currently 4.3 bolivars per dollar.  Escotet’s second-largest asset is Panama-based Banesco SA.
Because the unit operates in dollars outside Venezuela and is
not subject to seizure by Chavez’s government, its value is
based on the price-to-book and price-to-earnings multiples of
five publicly traded Latin American banks: Bancolombia SA,
Scotiabank Peru SA,  Chile ’s Banco de Credito & Inversiones,
 Mexico ’s Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and  Brazil ’s Itau Unibanco
Holding SA. The Panamanian lender  reported  a book value of $264
million and a 12-month profit of $47 million as of June 30,
according to its website, making his 70.4 percent stake worth
$430 million.  Smaller Units  Escotet also owns TodoTicket 2004 CA, which administers
employee benefits for companies and government entities.
Together with his Venezuelan insurance provider and Miami-based
 Banesco USA , the billionaire’s smaller units are valued at a
combined $120 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
After accounting for dividends, reinvestments and market
performance, Escotet probably controls at least 1.6 billion
bolivars in cash and other investable assets, or $200 million at
Ecoanalitica’s real exchange rate, according to the ranking.  “It’s not that Venezuelan bankers are sharks,” Faraco,
the financial-risk consultant, said of the industry’s
profitability. “This is a consequence of the economic policies
of Chavez’s government.”  ‘Education, Perseverance’  One of eight children of Spanish immigrants, Escotet got
his start as an errand boy at a Venezuelan bank in 1976,
according to an interview published last year in the magazine
Mercado de Republica Dominicana. He studied for his college
degree at night while working full-time at a lender called Banco
Union, then owned by the second generation of the local
Salvatierra banking family.  “Banking doesn’t run in my family,” Escotet told the
magazine. “What runs in my family is a lot of education and a
lot of perseverance.”  Faraco met Escotet when the billionaire was an executive at
the Sociedad Financiera Latinoamericana, trying to come up with
a name for his incipient banking empire.  “The first time I saw the word Banesco was on this sofa
here in my office,” Faraco said. “He had a notebook with him
that was full of logos and a name. At that time he didn’t have a
bank, but he had plenty of desire for one.”  ‘Plan B’  By the early 1990s, Escotet had accumulated enough cash to
take over the small Bancentro lender from local businessmen. He
founded his Panama unit in 1992. Seizing on a financial crisis
in Venezuela, he scooped up a half-dozen savings and loan
institutions by the middle of the decade.  Another opportunity presented itself when the Salvatierra
family took out a $150 million loan from Citigroup Inc. to fend
off a hostile takeover of Banco Union in the late 1990s. Cash-
strapped, they accepted an offer from Escotet in 2000 to
renegotiate the debt with Citigroup, merging Union into Banesco
as part of the deal.  Along with his banks in Panama and Miami -- home to the
world’s largest community of Venezuelan expatriates -- Escotet
has opened branches in  Colombia , Curacao, the  Dominican Republic 
and  Puerto Rico . Most Venezuelan businessmen create this sort of
“plan B” outside the country, according to Faraco. Married
with three children, Escotet still lives in Caracas.  Hostility, Affinity  In a speech earlier this month, when Chavez announced that
his cancer had returned, he anointed Vice President  Nicolas
Maduro  as his preferred successor. Under the constitution, if
the president is unable to continue his post, general elections
must be called within 30 days. Maduro, a former bus driver and
union leader, has pledged to maintain Chavez’s 21st-century
socialism.  Despite Chavez’s hostility toward capitalism, Escotet has
expressed some affinity with the ailing president’s vision. In
an  interview  last year on state TV, while still serving as head
of the banking association, he defended his industry against
criticism for its role in financing housing projects -- a
priority of Chavez’s government -- that had gone under.  “Nothing can affect us bankers more than social problems,
because in the end, these are our customers,” Escotet said.
“We bankers are here to bet on everything that is beneficial
for Venezuela.”  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York . The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  