-- Venezuela’s Chavez Suffers Respiratory Infection After Surgery
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-12-19T04:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/venezuela-s-chavez-suffers-respiratory-infection-after-surgery.html
Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez 
suffered a respiratory infection after cancer surgery in Cuba
that was treated by doctors and controlled on Dec. 17,
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said yesterday.  Chavez is currently in stable condition, Villegas said in a
national address on television and radio.  “The medical team said the president should have absolute
rest in the coming days and receive the prescribed treatment
with the greatest rigor to maintain stability of his vital
signs,” he said. “This is typical of patients who have
undergone serious surgery, as President Chavez did.”  Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said on Dec. 13
that Chavez suffered complications including bleeding after
having a fourth surgery in 18 months for an undisclosed form of
cancer on Dec. 11. Chavez, 58, may not be well again in time to
be sworn in for a third term on Jan. 10, Villegas said on Dec.
12.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before his new
term begins on Jan. 10, Maduro would see out the rest of the
current term and then hand over power to the National Assembly
president who must call for an election within 30 days. Chavez
said on Dec. 9 that Venezuelans should elect Maduro as his
successor if he is prevented from completing the third, six-year
term he won in elections in October.  Baseball-Sized Tumor  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area.  Diosdado Cabello, president of the National Assembly and a
close ally of Chavez, said yesterday that he expects the
president to be sworn in for a new term next month, dismissing
speculation that the ailing leader would skip a planned
inauguration while he battles cancer in Cuba.  “We don’t have any other scenarios,” Cabello said on
state television. “There is a date established in the
constitution. We want the president to recover and be healthy,
and God willing, that’s how it will be.”  Cabello didn’t give any other details of Chavez’s recovery
from cancer surgery.  The socialist party Chavez leads, known as PSUV, won
governorships in 20 of 23 states in regional elections held on
Dec. 16. Maduro said on Dec. 17 that he had not spoken to Chavez
about the results of the election.  Venezuelan dollar bonds have returned 45.6 percent in 2012
as investors speculated that Chavez would not be able to
complete his term, the second-biggest return in  emerging markets 
after the  Ivory Coast , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  