-- VTB Sees Company Bond Rules for Foreigners by Mid-2013
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-20T16:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/vtb-sees-euroclear-access-to-russia-company-debt-in-2nd-quarter.html
(Corrects story published Dec. 19 to remove reference to
Euroclear in headline.)  Foreigners may gain direct access to
Russia’s corporate bond market in the second quarter next year
once the  Finance Ministry  clarifies tax and ownership disclosure
rules, according to VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender.  Russia named a central depositary on Nov. 6, clearing one
of the last barriers for foreign investors to buy and sell
ruble-denominated debt through international settlement systems.
Euroclear Bank SA plans to start servicing government ruble debt
by the end of this year or in the first quarter, Stephan Pouyat,
head of product management global reach, said at a conference in
 St. Petersburg  earlier this month.  The delay in opening corporate Russian bonds to
international investors is due to the lack of clarity on bond
coupon taxes and ownership, Nadezhda Ushakova, the head of VTB’s
depositary, said in a phone interview today from Moscow.  The Finance Ministry will make clarifications “definitely
next year, most likely in the second quarter,” she said. “Once
we receive the clarifications, nothing will be preventing us
from starting to work with these instruments.”  Removing the coupon tax would make corporate bonds
transparent and easier to trade, she said.  “Euroclear expects the Finance Ministry to consider
cutting the corporate bond coupon tax to zero. That would be
very desirable,” she said.  Russia  failed to sell all the debt tendered at its biggest
consecutive bond offerings in 18 months at auctions today and
last week, as the Treasury sought to take advantage of demand in
what may be the last sale before the domestic market opens
directly to foreigners.  Local depositaries are currently making final
infrastructure changes and goverment ruble bonds will “most
likely” open to Euroclear next month, Ushakova said.
Euroclear’s press representative didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail from Bloomberg seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  