-- Wall Street Holdings Leanest Since ’04 at ’65 Rates: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/wall-street-holdings-leanest-since-04-at-65-rates-muni-credit.html
Wall Street securities firms may
have unloaded their municipal-debt holdings at exactly the right
time.  With yields approaching the lowest since the 1960s, brokers
and dealers cut their inventory of U.S. local bonds to $29
billion in the three months through September, the least since
the first quarter of 2004, according to Federal Reserve data
released Dec. 6.  The pullback may have shielded them from the $3.7 trillion
muni market’s biggest losses since 2010. After a  six-month  rally
that pushed yields to 47-year lows, demand for the securities
has faltered. Investors betting lawmakers will curb munis’ tax-
exempt status are looking to unload more than  $1 billion  of the
debt, the most in two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A lot of people are trying to get out of a very small
door here and it’s kind of ugly,” said David Manges, muni
trading manager at BNY Mellon Capital Market LLC in Pittsburgh.  The thinned inventory for brokers and dealers, the market’s
middlemen, threatens to heighten volatility amid the market’s
losses and cost local issuers money, said Matt Fabian, a
managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors, and  Peter Hayes , head of muni debt at New-York
based BlackRock Inc.  ‘Pulls Back’  “Liquidity this time of year is always a bit challenged,
everybody pulls back risk, pulls back their balance sheet,”
said Hayes, whose firm oversees about $105 billion of local
bonds.  Munis have lost 1.5 percent in December, on pace for the
steepest monthly loss since the end of 2010, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. That was when banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  incorrectly predicted in an interview on CBS Corp.’s
“60 Minutes” that local defaults were set to reach “hundreds
of billions of dollars” in the following year.  Declines in tax-exempts began last week as cities and towns
from  California  to New York issued  $10.5 billion  of long-term,
fixed-rate debt, the most since June, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “That started the adjustment along with this risk-on rally
and the year-end liquidity issues,” Hayes said.  Losses gained momentum as speculation mounted that
President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders were getting
closer to a deal to avoid more than $600 billion of spending
cuts and tax increases set to start in January. Bets on a
potential agreement are pushing investors to buy stocks rather
than bonds, Hayes said.  Stocks Lure  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen  2.2 percent  this
month.  Obama has proposed limiting the value of the muni-bond tax
break for higher earners to 28 percent. At the same time, he
wants to make top earners pay higher taxes on ordinary income,
 capital gains  and dividends.  Munis have fallen faster than Treasuries this month.  Yields on AAA munis due in 10 years reached  1.75 percent 
yesterday, the highest since September, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  interest rate  is about  96 percent  of the
1.82 percent yield on benchmark 10-year Treasuries. That ratio
is up from 85 percent last week, showing munis have cheapened
relative to federal debt.  Institutional bondholders such as mutual funds put $1.2
billion of munis up for sale Dec. 17, close to a two-year high
of $1.4 billion last week, Bloomberg data show.  While dealers typically hold back on buying munis toward
year-end, the selling wave in advance of possible tax changes
has forced yields higher than expected, BNY Mellon’s Manges
said.  “If you have less aggressive brokers and dealers, then in
theory issuers are paying higher prices to access the market,
and buy-and-hold investors are getting better income,” said
Fabian at MMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  