-- Wells Fargo Pays $60 Million More in U.S. Loan-Bias Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-19T16:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/wells-fargo-pays-60-million-more-in-u-s-loan-bias-case-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will offer almost
$60 million in cash rebates to more than 3,900 minority
borrowers who were put into nonprime loans when they were
eligible for prime ones under a bias settlement with the U.S.  The  Justice Department , in a filing today in federal court
in  Washington , said the money was in addition to the
$125 million payment and $50 million assistance fund that Wells
Fargo agreed to in a settlement approved in September by a
federal judge.  The size of the fund, which was deposited Dec. 13 into an
escrow account, was based on an internal review by the bank of
loans to minority borrowers. The parties agreed that San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo will pay an average of $14,850 per
borrower, according to the filing.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. mortgage lender, denies the
government’s allegations that the bank caused minority borrowers
to pay higher fees, costs and interest than similar white
borrowers. The bank, which controls about a third of the market
for all  new home loans , said it agreed to settle solely to avoid
litigation, according to the consent order.  Tom Goyda, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said that as part
of the settlement the bank agreed to conduct a statistical
analysis of subprime mortgages originated through its retail
channel from 2004 to 2008 to black and Hispanic borrowers who
might have qualified for prime loans.  “This just quantifies that and the amount we could pay out
to those borrowers,” Goyda said in a telephone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 12-cv-01150, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 