-- West Texas Sour Weakens as El Paso Refinery Reduces Crude Runs
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-12-19T21:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/west-texas-sour-weakens-as-el-paso-refinery-reduces-crude-runs.html
West Texas Sour weakened against the
U.S. benchmark crude as  Western Refining Inc. (WNR) ’s El Paso plant in
Texas reduced production after an unplanned outage on a fluid
catalytic cracker.  The malfunction occurred Dec. 14 on the south side of the
128,000-barrel-a-day plant,  Gary Hanson , a Tempe, Arizona-based
spokesman for the company, said by e-mail. The refinery should
be back to full capacity this weekend.  The plant processes both benchmark West Texas Intermediate
and West Texas Sour crudes, according to Western’s  website .  WTS, a light, high-sulfur grade loaded in Midland, Texas,
weakened $2.75 to a discount of $18 a barrel to WTI in Cushing
Oklahoma, at 3:58 p.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It’s the largest spread since Nov. 21.  West Texas Intermediate in Midland weakened 75 cents to a
$14.25-a-barrel discount to the U.S. benchmark crude in Cushing.  Canadian crudes strengthened against the U.S. benchmark as
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  finished planned maintenance on the Pegasus
pipeline system.  Amber Gardner, an Exxon spokeswoman based in Houston, said
station work had been completed along the 96,000-barrel-a-day
line, which carries crude to the U.S. Gulf Coast from Patoka,
 Illinois . The pipeline was shut during the maintenance, which
began Dec. 6, a person with knowledge of the work said Nov. 14.  West Canada Select’s discount to WTI narrowed $2 to $33 a
barrel. The price reflects Canadian crude on the  spot market  for
February delivery.  Syncrude, a light, sweet oil made from upgraded bitumen in
Canada, strengthened $1.50 to a $1-a-barrel premium over WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  