-- Wheat Heads to 5-Month Low on Moving Average: Technical Analysis
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-12-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/wheat-heads-to-5-month-low-on-moving-average-technical-analysis.html
Wheat futures, already heading for
their biggest monthly decline in more than a year, may extend
decline to a five-month low, according to technical analysis by
Dan Hofstad, a risk management consultant at INTL FCStone.  The contract for March delivery on the Chicago Board of
Trade slipped below its 200-day moving average for four straight
sessions to close yesterday at $8.1125 a bushel. A drop below $8
will send prices slumping over two or three days to $7.65 a
bushel, the lowest since July 2, as hedge funds and other large
speculators liquidate bullish  bets  that already are the lowest
since June, Hofstad said in an e-mail from  London .  Prices that reached a four-year high in July, during a U.S.
drought, have tumbled 6.1 percent this month, heading for the
biggest drop since September 2011. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture said Dec. 11 that world stockpiles as of May 31 will
total 176.95 million metric tons, more than the 173.61 million
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “Wheat broke the 200-day moving average, which was major
support, now the only support below us is $8, which is a
psychological level,” Hofstad said. “Improving crop and
weather for winter wheat in  Ukraine  and Russia, and weaker cash
markets in the U.S.” have led to the lower prices, he said.  Wheat futures still are up 24 percent this year, the most
of 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index, after drought curbed production in  Russia , Ukraine,
 Australia  and the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  