-- Wheat Rises as Egypt Grain Buying Revives Demand Outlook
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-19T16:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/wheat-advances-for-second-day-on-signs-of-rising-import-demand.html
Wheat rose to a one-week high as
purchases of U.S. grain by Egypt, the world’s biggest importer,
revived prospects for export demand.  Egypt bought 180,000 metric tons today, said Nomani Nomani,
vice chairman of country’s state grain buyer. The purchase
included 110,000 tons of high-protein, hard-red winter wheat,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a  report .  Japan ,
Asia’s largest importer after  Indonesia , said it plans to buy
121,026 tons from the U.S. and  Canada  tomorrow. Prices through
yesterday were down 6.1 percent this month on concern that
shipments had slowed.  “We did a little bit of business with Egypt today, and
that shows we are finally competitive again,”  Jeff McReynolds ,
the owner of McReynolds Marketing and Investments in Hays,
Kansas, said by telephone. “To get the price back up to where
we were before the last supply and demand report, we’re going to
have to have a continuation of good export news.”  Wheat futures for delivery in March climbed 0.4 percent to
$8.145 a bushel at 10:02 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
after reaching $8.2275, the highest since Dec. 12. Prices
through yesterday climbed 24 percent this year, the most of the
24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter of the grain.  Wheat production in  Argentina , South America’s largest
shipper, may fall to 9.4 million tons, 7 percent less than
forecast, the Rosario Cereals Exchange said Dec. 14. That’s
below the 11.5 million tons  predicted  by the USDA on Dec. 11.  “In terms of weather, the situation remains very
unfavorable for planting in Argentina due to excessive rain,”
Paris-based farm adviser Agritel wrote on its website.
“Regarding the wheat exports, those could well be suspended.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net  or
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  