-- Wind-Power Deals Total $7.6 Billion Luring Brazil’s Weg
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2012-12-19T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/wind-power-deals-total-7-6-billion-luring-brazil-s-weg.html
Weg SA (WEGE3) , the only Brazilian wind-
turbine maker, is vying for a slice of $7.6 billion in contracts
set to be awarded in the next decade even as a supply glut and
slumping demand drive prices to a record low.  Developers at an auction last week offered to sell power
from projects to be built through 2017 for an average 87.94
reais a megawatt hour, 12 percent less than the mark set in
August 2011, according to the Sao Paulo-based CCEE electricity
trading board. Wind-farm companies agreed to build 282 megawatts
of projects in 2012, down from 2,905 megawatts last year.  Weg is a latecomer to a Brazilian wind-power market that
has drawn nine foreign manufacturers since 2009, when the first
auction was held. After winning its first contract to build  wind
turbines  in September, Weg probably is counting on below-market
government financing and local-content rules to help top rivals,
said Mario Bernardes Junior, a  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  analyst.  “Weg has invested a good amount of capital expenditure in
wind power equipment,” Bernardes said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. “The company is a market leader in other segments
and it can be in wind power as well.”  Companies including Denmark-based  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ,
the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker, opened local offices and
assembly plants in  Brazil  as U.S. and European policy makers cut
subsidies for the renewable energy. Total installations are
expected to drop 9.4 percent globally next year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  ‘Difficult Times’  “Wind energy is going through very difficult times,”
 Fatih Birol , chief economist of the  International Energy Agency ,
told reporters yesterday in  Rio de Janeiro . “We have seen
increases of wind and renewable energy investments for 10 years
in a row and for the first time this year we are seeing a
decline. This is mainly because of the financial crisis and the
governments are reducing their support.”  Weg, a maker of electric motors and power transformers,
opened a wind-turbine plant in Jaragua do Sul, where the company
is based, after previously delaying the project because it
didn’t want to enter into a “price war,” Chief Financial
Officer Laurence Beltrao Gomes said in April.  The company’s press office declined to comment about
competition in Brazil and its plans.  About 40 billion reais is expected to be invested in
Brazilian wind-power projects through 2020, Banco do Brasil’s
Bernardes said. Turbine manufacturers have signed deals on 24
billion reais already, and Weg can likely capture at least 10
percent of the remaining 16 billion reais, he said.  Weg’s Rise  Weg surged 45 percent in  Sao Paulo  trading this year
through yesterday, beating the 14 percent gain for the Bloomberg
World Machinery-Diversified Index of 133 stocks. Weg trades at
21 times estimated 2013 earnings, compared with an average of 14
for the index.  In March 2011, Weg created a joint venture with  Spain ’s M
Torres Olvega Industrial SL to build turbines in Brazil. The
venture, initially able to supply about 120 megawatts of
installed capacity, expects to generate about 500 million reais
of revenue a year, according to a regulatory filing.  Weg “is well-positioned because it has the technology and
is 100 percent national,” helping it meet local-content rules
for financing from national development bank BNDES, Bernardes
said. “Obviously, foreign companies have technology and that
differential, but Weg has a positive perspective because of that
government incentive.”  Cheap Financing  BNDES, the main lender for wind power in Brazil, offers
loans below the benchmark Selic lending rate, currently at 7.25
percent.  Vestas,  India ’s  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and other foreign
producers initially qualified for the loans with plans to buy or
make at least 60 percent of the parts to build turbines and
towers using local content. They were later cut off after a
BNDES audit this year ruled they weren’t complying with the
rules. The companies declined to comment about the issue.  As of Jan. 1, the minimum requirement will be increased.  Weg’s wind strategy is unfolding in a slowing economy that
may revive next year. Growth in Brazil is expected to drop to 1
percent in 2012, according to a weekly central bank survey of
economists, from 2.7 percent in 2011. The economists forecast
the expansion to accelerate to 3.4 percent in 2013.  While the  wind-energy  market continues to be weak, Weg will
be a strong competitor as Brazil’s economy rebounds, said Carlos
Manuel Pereira de Sousa, a strategist at Rio de Janeiro-based
investment consultant Lopes Filho & Associados.  “This is a company that dazzles because it always
anticipates what is going to happen,” Pereira de Sousa said.
“Investors can sleep well knowing they won’t lose money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  