-- World Bank Sees Asian Recovery as Worst Over for China: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-19T04:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/world-bank-says-emerging-asia-should-hold-rates-as-growth-gains.html
The World Bank said growth in East
Asia’s emerging nations will accelerate next year as  China ’s
economy recovers, reducing the need for policy makers to cut
interest rates.  Developing East Asia will probably expand 7.5 percent in
2012 and 7.9 percent in 2013, the Washington-based lender said
in a report today, raising the forecast for this year from an
October prediction of 7.2 percent. The region is expected to
account for about 40 percent of global growth in 2012, it said.  “We see a bit of an uptick next year in part because of
China’s recovery that is going on already,” Bert Hofman, World
Bank chief economist for East Asia and the Pacific, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “We see most of the
economies to be almost at full capacity, so further stimulus at
this point wouldn’t make much sense, it would just result in
higher inflation.”  The region still faces risks from Europe and the U.S.,
where spending cuts and tax increases are due to take effect in
January if lawmakers don’t resolve a fiscal policy dispute, the
World Bank said, even as recent reports showed a global recovery
may be gathering momentum. Asian nations have loosened fiscal or
monetary policies this year to protect growth, with rate cuts in
China and Thailand and higher spending by Philippine President
Benigno Aquino and Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak.  “We are pretty much already at the bottom of the rate-
cutting cycle for most of the region,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore.
“The dynamics of inflation and growth for East Asia don’t
warrant further easing.”  China Effect  The World Bank raised its growth prediction for emerging
East Asia after third-quarter data showed government measures to
support expansion in China gave “quite a boost” to the economy,
and may continue to do so next year, Hofman told reporters in
Singapore today. World trade has also improved since August, and
the risks from Europe “are now considerably less than six months
ago,” he said.  “We expect quarter four also to be good and that then feeds
into a very strong next year and that lifts the region up as a
whole,” he said in the interview. “Even outside China, domestic
demand is driving growth in  Indonesia ,  Malaysia , the  Philippines ,
so there also growth is quite strong.”  China’s economy may grow 7.9 percent in 2012, compared with
9.3 percent in 2011, the World Bank said. Asia’s largest economy
may expand 8.4 percent next year, and the country’s slowdown
“appears to now have bottomed out,” it said. Growth in 2013
will be a result of a “combination of lagging effects of
earlier monetary expansions, local government fiscal stimuli,
accelerated approval of central investment projects, and an
upswing in the business cycle,” according to the report.  Japan Recession  China has set its initial target for economic growth at 7.5
percent for a second year and tightened its inflation goal to
the lowest level since 2010, two bank executives and a
regulatory official said this month, asking not to be named as
they weren’t authorized to disclose the details.  While Asia’s developing economies are expanding,  Japan  is
in a technical recession. Its exports fell for a sixth month in
November and the trade deficit swelled, data released today
showed, underscoring the challenge that incoming Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe faces in reviving growth.  Asian stocks advanced today and the yen weakened amid bets
U.S. lawmakers will reach a budget deal and the Bank of Japan
will add to economic stimulus. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added
0.9 percent as of 1:52 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Elsewhere in Asia,  Taiwan  will probably keep its benchmark
 rate unchanged  for a sixth straight meeting, while Malaysia may
say inflation  quickened  in November, Bloomberg surveys showed
ahead of releases today.  Receding Inflation  “Monetary policy stances in the region are largely
appropriate in the current environment, in which negative shocks
remain a dominant concern,” the World Bank said. “Receding
inflation in most countries suggests that there is no need for
immediate monetary tightening in the region in the absence of
major shocks.”  In  Europe , a report may show German business confidence
rose this month, while the Bank of England will publish minutes
of its December meeting where officials left their bond-buying
program on hold as they assessed the need for more stimulus.  A report in the U.S. today may show housing starts fell to
an 872,000 annual rate in November, while building permits, a
proxy for future construction, probably rose to an 875,000
annual pace, according to Bloomberg surveys.  China has refrained from loosening monetary policy further
since July even as Japan joined peers in the U.S. and Europe in
expanding easing.  Taylor Rule  “Given China’s still significant fiscal space and the
already accommodative monetary stance, the burden of any
countercyclical response should fall on fiscal policy,” the
World Bank said today.  The Taylor rule suggests that monetary policy is already
“relatively relaxed” in Indonesia, the Philippines and
 Thailand , the World Bank said today. John Taylor, an economist
at Stanford University, published in 1993 an interest-rate
formula, which measures where a central bank should set its
policy rate based on inflation and growth.  “Consequently, further easing may be constrained in these
countries unless conditions change dramatically,” the World
Bank said.  Policy makers should monitor short-term capital flows into
their financial systems if liquidity in the global economy
increases further amid renewed stimulus by the European Central
Bank and the Bank of Japan, the lender said.  While a resurgence in capital inflows into the region
hasn’t led to strong currency appreciation, such pressures may
accumulate if the fund influx continues, it said.  “The bulk of the capital flowing into the region consists
of foreign direct investments, which creates jobs and growth in
production capacity,” Hofman said. “Nevertheless, monetary
authorities should closely monitor developments in their capital
accounts. Appropriate exchange-rate arrangements and capital-
market development could provide a cushion against undesirable
effects of capital inflows, while macro-prudential measures
could guard against excessive credit growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  