-- Yen Trades Close to 20-Month Low After BOJ; Euro Strengthens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-20T22:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/yen-gains-versus-major-peers-on-fiscal-cliff-concern-before-boj.html
The yen traded at an almost 20-month
low against the dollar after the  Bank of Japan  boosted monetary
stimulus and agreed to review its 1 percent inflation target.  Japan ’s currency has fallen against all its major
counterparts this month as newly elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to double the
inflation goal. The 17-nation euro was close to an eight-month
high against the dollar as regional  consumer confidence  rose
from a three and a half year low. Sweden’s krona was the biggest
winner against the dollar and euro.  “Shirakawa was more dovish than expected, as we did have a
balance-sheet increase and the fact that he was willing to think
about moving the goal post was encouraging,” said  Greg Anderson , the North American head of G-10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “The whole world is short yen at
this stage and they are turning positions. That was the response
you got last night, but the more dovish response from the BOJ
means you should be adding to short-yen.” A short position is a
bet that an asset will decline in value.  The yen was little changed at 84.39 per dollar at 5:02 p.m.
New York, after falling yesterday to the least since April 12,
2011. Japan’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 111.76 per euro. The
common currency advanced 0.1 percent to $1.3244. It appreciated
to $1.3308 yesterday, the strongest since April 3.  Extreme Moves  The yen may gain versus the dollar and euro as the 14-day
relative strength index for the Japanese currency was at 22.8
versus the greenback and 19.1 against the shared currency. A
reading below 30 indicates an asset’s value may have declined
too far, too quickly.  Sweden’s krona gained 0.7 percent to 6.5057 per dollar and
advanced 0.6 percent to 8.6165 versus the euro.  The euro has gained this week as an index of household
 confidence  climbed to minus 26.6 this month from minus 26.9 in
November, according to the European Commission in Brussels. A
German report yesterday showed business confidence was higher
than economists forecast in December and  Standard & Poor’s 
raised Greece’s credit rating from selective default on Dec. 18.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell for a fifth day, declining 0.1
percent to 79.236 after falling to 79.008 yesterday, the lowest
level since Oct. 18. Losses in the gauge, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major trading partners,
accelerated after a Commerce Department report showed the  U.S.
economy  grew at 3.1 percent annual rate in the third quarter,
more than previously forecast.  Deficit Deal  Lawmakers are struggling to reach agreement to avert more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to
start in January.  The  House of Representatives  will vote today on Speaker
 John Boehner ’s Plan B -- tax increases on annual income of more
than $1 million -- and a separate spending-cut bill. The White
House has said it would veto the plan and leaders of the
Democratic-controlled Senate say they won’t consider it, leaving
an uncertain path forward for lawmakers.  The BOJ kept its credit-lending program at 25 trillion yen
and left its key  interest rate  unchanged between zero and 0.1
percent at its two-day meeting in  Tokyo . Abe, whose party swept
to victory in the Dec. 16 election, will have a chance to
reshape the BOJ early next year when the terms of Governor
Shirakawa and his two deputies expire.  “There’s a sell on the fact,” said Jane Foley, a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in  London ,
referring to the BOJ decision. “The market got a little bit
over-excited about the inflation target. The move we saw in the
yen was over-extended and we’re now seeing some pullback.”  The yen is likely to trade at 83 per dollar at the end of
June, Rabobank’s Foley said.  Japan’s currency has tumbled 12.9 percent this year, the
worst performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has
weakened 3.5 percent and the euro has dropped 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  