-- Youku May Post Profit in Second Quarter, Macquarie Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-19T05:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-19/youku-may-post-profit-in-second-quarter-macquarie-says.html
Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  may post a profit
in the second quarter of next year, its first since listing in
2010, as China’s largest online video company benefits from
lower content costs, analysts at  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  said.  The improved profit outlook should boost Youku’s shares to
$21 in the next 12 months, analysts led by Jiong Shao at
Macquarie in Hong Kong, wrote in a report yesterday. The broker
raised its rating on the stock to outperform from underperform
with Youku’s American depositary receipts  jumping  14 percent to
close at $19.24 in  New York  trading overnight.  The company in August completed its purchase of Tudou
Holdings Ltd. to reduce costs and extend its lead over websites
run by  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  Industry
consolidation this year has cut the company’s two largest
expenditures, content and bandwidth, Chief Executive Officer
Victor Koo said in an interview in September, without projecting
when the company would make a profit.  “With the worst of negative impact from Tudou likely
behind us, we believe the new Youku Tudou may have reached an
inflection point and revenue growth may start to accelerate,”
Macquarie’s Shao wrote in the report. “Content costs have
declined significantly and are unlikely to move much higher.”  Youku had a net loss of 91.5 million yuan ($15 million) in
the third quarter, its first since the acquisition of Tudou, it
said in November.  The company is projected to post losses through the second
quarter of next year before reporting a  profit , excluding some
costs, in the third quarter, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Third-quarter adjusted profit is forecast
at 32.1 million yuan, according to the average of four analyst
 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Jean Shao, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Youku Tudou,
declined to comment on the Macquarie report or the outlook for
profit.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  