-- 
‘Octopussy’ Zvi Goffer Watches Raj Rajaratnam Insider Trial

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-12T18:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/-octopussy-goffer-watches-rajaratnam-insider-trading-trial-from-gallery.html
The gallery at the Raj Rajaratnam
insider-trading trial attracts many of the same onlookers each
day. None may be more interested in the outcome than a former
Galleon Group LLC trader who today was sitting in the third row.  Zvi Goffer has been in attendance often during the
proceeding, and for good reason: He is among five ex-traders who
go on trial next month in their own insider-trading case. Four
days ago, federal prosecutors in  New York  filed new charges
against him and four co-defendants. All deny wrongdoing.  Goffer, 35, declined to comment during the lunchtime break.
As he sat in court today listening to former Galleon President
Richard “Rick” Schutte testify about the firm’s research
operation, the courtroom monitor displayed e-mails written by
Galleon analysts to one of Goffer’s own co-defendants, Craig Drimal, a former colleague.  Prosecutors have placed Goffer at the center of what they
say is a related insider-trading scheme and claimed his
accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a reference to the 1983
James Bond  movie , because of his many sources of information.
Goffer’s lawyers dispute the characterization.  Beginning May 9, another jury is scheduled to be sitting in
the same Lower  Manhattan  courthouse will be asked to decide
who’s right, and Goffer will be sitting on the other side of the
bar.  Will Rajaratnam Testify?  Now that Rajaratnam’s defense is under way, the biggest
question is whether he’ll testify. In public at least, defense
lawyer  John Dowd  isn’t saying, and the clues the attorney has
provided haven’t been helpful.  On April 8, Dowd told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell
that the defense may complete its case by April 15. The defense
team is still presenting Schutte, its third witness.  It has
another three to go, including an expert economist who will
review many of the stock trades at issue. That would leave
little time for Rajaratnam to testify.  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment today. Meanwhile, press reports have been inconsistent,
with some saying early in the trial that he would testify and
others saying later on that he wouldn’t.  Prosecutors have also been in the dark.  “A big variable in this case is whether or not Mr.
Rajaratnam himself is going to testify,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jonathan Streeter told the judge on April 8.  Dowd replied that he will advise the prosecutors when it is
appropriate to do so.  “And I will,” he said.  Another Month?  At the trial each side has permitted the other to introduce
documents even when they have a legal right to object. That
civility may be breaking down.  This morning, when prosecutors objected to some documents
the defense wanted to offer, saying they may not be authentic
Galleon documents, Dowd fought back. He said he would get the
records into evidence even if he had to summon other witnesses
to prove their authenticity.  “We’ll keep this trial going to May,” Dowd said, with the
jurors out of the courtroom.  Legal Skirmishes  No trial passes without courtroom skirmishes in which
adversaries battle over the admission of evidence and vie for
favorable legal rulings. Lately, the defense has been winning
many of them.  Holwell today said the defense may ask a witness --
Geoffrey Canada, creator of the Harlem Children’s Zone, a New
York City nonprofit group -- whether Rajaratnam was
“generous.” Prosecutors called that an improper question for
someone called to testify about Rajaratnam’s good character.  Holwell said that because prosecutors had called Rajaratnam
“greedy” in their opening statement, Rajaratnam may respond
with proof of his generosity. Canada will testify after Schutte.  The judge allowed the defense to offer evidence of jottings
on Rajaratnam’s calendar, over a government claim that the
writing was hearsay. Holwell also permitted Schutte to say that
he thought a particular analyst’s report led him to conclude a
stock was “a good buy,” while a prosecutor claimed the
testimony wasn’t relevant.  Yesterday, Holwell allowed Rajaratnam to present testimony
from two people who contradicted statements made by a key
government witness. Prosecutors had argued that the testimony
was inadmissible under legal rules. On April 8, the judge
rejected a government request to bar much of the anticipated
testimony from the expert economist.  The prosecution did score a victory when Holwell decided on
Nov. 24 to admit wiretap recordings of Rajaratnam’s phone calls.
Those tapes are now at the heart of the U.S. case.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  