-- 
Acker Beats 94% of Equity Peers Shunning Manhattan

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-04-12T14:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/acker-beats-94-of-equity-peers-shunning-manhattan-from-toronto.html
(Correct Microsoft’s debt in 17th paragraph.)  Brian Acker, the Toronto-based
manager of a fund that buys large U.S. companies and beat 94
percent of peers in the past year, says he’s found the secret to
beating  Wall Street : staying away.  Acker, whose Acker Finley Select U.S. Value 50 Fund has
returned 31 percent since the end of 2009, says being about 560
kilometers (350 miles) from the New York Stock Exchange keeps
him away from the buzz of corporate news that could throw off
his quantitative strategy, which relies on statistical analysis
to pick shares.  “Everyone wants to get on the hottest stock, the hottest
news, and I think returns from that are marginal at best,”
Acker, 51, said. His company manages about C$560 million ($586
million). “The market is wired in such a way, all the
advantages are gone from the floor being close,” he said. “The
farther away, the better.”  Among 205 funds that purchase the biggest American
companies from outside the U.S., only three have gained more
since April 2010 than the Select U.S. Value 50 Fund. Among 85
large-cap funds based in  Canada , only the  Montrusco Bolton
Quantitative Canadian Equity Fund (MONTBQCE)  had a higher return in 2010.  Acker, the chief executive officer of  Acker Finley Inc. ,
achieved the returns even though the fund had more invested in
technology and health-care companies than in other industries.
Those groups lagged behind the rest of the U.S. stock market
over the past year.  Value Stocks  The C$47 million fund focuses on value stocks, or companies
with low share prices in relation to earnings. U.S. large-cap
value stocks have lagged behind  growth stocks  -- or companies
with the fastest profit increases -- over the past year,
according to Russell Investments indexes.  Acker bought stocks such as Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based
 CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest U.S. provider of  prescription
drugs , as well as Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)  of Deerfield,  Illinois , the biggest U.S. drugstore
chain. He invested in the companies following declines and sold
before they declined again.  He bought Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker,
for $24.65 a share in October and sold it at $27.81 on Jan. 4.
Microsoft has fallen 6.9 percent to $25.98 in 2011.  Acker uses a formula when choosing stocks, calculating a
“model price” for each Standard & Poor’s 500 Index company
based on three factors: “intrinsic business value” or what its
balance sheet says about its ability to generate profit; how
likely the balance sheet is to be affected by changes to the
share price; and projected earnings growth.  Ranking Companies  He then ranks the largest 100 companies and the other 400
companies in the  S&P 500  by how much they would have to gain to
match their model price. The 10 or so highest-ranked companies
from the first group and 40 highest-ranked companies from the
second group are added to or kept in the fund.  His biggest holdings include Houston-based  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) , an oil producer, New York-based  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest
U.S. insurer, and Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based drugmaker
Merck & Co. The fund has a minimum investment of C$150,000 for
non-accredited investors.  Acker said he doesn’t stray from companies that are in the
S&P 500 and has ruled out adding large-cap companies such as
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the offshore driller, and  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP) , a pipeline company, that are ineligible for the
index.  ‘Holier Than Thou’  “What I see constantly that drives me crazy is people say
they beat the S&P 500, but they don’t have S&P 500 companies in
the portfolio,” he said. “I don’t want to sound holier-than-
thou, but I have a perverse feeling of satisfaction that I can
actually beat the S&P 500 with S&P 500 names.”  The fund added  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the
world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, in early March,
when it was trading at about $52 a share. Acker’s model came up
with a valuation of $79.27 for the Phoenix-based company. Acker
said other investors have probably driven down the shares amid
speculation Chinese economic growth will slow, curbing demand
for metals.  “We don’t make any macro guesses,” Acker said. “We
invest the way we invest all the time.”  Acker said he plans to reinvest in Microsoft over the next
month because his model price is 47 percent above the software
company’s current share price. The stock has fallen 10 percent
since Jan. 27, when the company reported second-quarter unearned
revenue, a measure of multiyear contracts, below the average
analyst estimate.  Intrinsic Value  Microsoft’s balance sheet indicates the shares have an
intrinsic value far higher than the current market value, he
said. Microsoft has 19.95 cents in debt for each dollar of
equity, 21 percent less than the S&P 500 Information Technology
Index as a whole. The company had $4.02 billion in cash on Dec.
31.  Acker said he’s not the only investor who recognizes that
Microsoft shares are undervalued.  “People aren’t really missing it, it’s just that no one
really cares,” he said. “Everyone’s turned into a momentum
guy. Unless the stock hits a three-month high or a six-month
high, no one’s ever going to look at it again.”  The strategy hasn’t always worked. During the 2007-09  bear
market  that was the worst worldwide slump since the 1930s, the
fund declined 73 percent, compared with a 55 percent drop for
the S&P 500. Acker blamed the underperformance of value stocks
during the period. Before the S&P 500 reached its peak in
October 2007, the fund had outperformed the equity benchmark 10
out of 14 quarters.  Away From  New York   While Acker may benefit from his location, other fund
managers aren’t taking advantage of their distance from New
York.  Among 4,363 actively managed mutual funds with at least
$150 million in assets and specializing in U.S. stocks, those
with managers based in New York averaged an 18 percent return
over the past year. Funds run by managers elsewhere in the U.S.
averaged a return of 17 percent, while funds with managers based
outside of the U.S. returned 12 percent, on average, according
to Bloomberg data.  Acker, who co-founded his company with the late Joe Finley
in 1992, said he can’t say why other managers outside of
 Manhattan  have not matched his success.  “I’m sure there are times it’s beneficial to be outside
New York, and I’m sure there’s times there’s benefit to be
inside,” said Acker, who was an accountant at Clarkson, Gordon
& Co. and later a broker at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s
Wood Gundy unit before starting Acker Finley. “We pride
ourselves on not talking to the Street and knowing what other
people do.”  After having run the U.S. fund for more than seven years,
Acker said he has it down to a science and does little
tinkering. That leaves him free time.  “I do a lot of golf,” he said. “A lot of our day-to-day
work is client relationships, and we let the system do its
work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  