-- 
‘We’ve Been Hit by Air France,’ Comair Crew Told Controllers

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-04-12T23:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/air-france-a380-superjumbo-clips-tail-of-commuter-jet-at-kennedy-airport.html
U.S. investigators will focus on
pilot actions and air-traffic control instructions to determine
why an Air France Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo jet clipped a  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  commuter plane at New York’s Kennedy airport.  “Roll the emergency trucks,” a pilot on the regional jet
told controllers after the collision late yesterday, according
to a recording on the website LiveATC.net. “We’ve been hit by
Air France.”  No one was hurt when a wing of Air France Flight 7 struck
the tail of Delta’s Comair Flight 6293, spinning the small plane
around about 90 degrees. The accident occurred at a taxiway
intersection after the regional jet landed and as the A380
prepared for takeoff, the  Federal Aviation Administration  said.  Authorities believe the Comair pilot, who was instructed to
taxi to the ramp after landing, stopped partly in the ramp area
and partly in the taxiway when struck, said a federal aviation
official, who requested anonymity because the investigation is
ongoing.  Anthony Black , a Delta spokesman, declined comment.  Airlines’ Response  “This could be a simple problem of Comair not pulling up
quite far enough, and other people not noticing,” said William
Voss, chief executive officer of the non-profit Flight Safety
Foundation in Alexandria,  Virginia , in an interview.  “Comair might not have stopped in an outrageous spot for
every other airplane in the world,” though the A380’s wingspan
may have erased any margin for error, Voss said.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  will examine the
steps taken by the pilots and controllers’ instructions, said
Keith Holloway, a board spokesman. The FAA and the  Port
Authority of New York  and  New Jersey , which operates  John F.
Kennedy International Airport , also are investigating.  Airbus’s A380 has a wingspan of 262 feet (80 meters) and is
the largest  passenger jet  made. It was carrying 520 people when
it hit the 107-foot-long  Bombardier Inc.  CRJ700, which flew 62
passengers and four crew members from  Boston .  Because of the A380’s size, controllers may have had
difficulty seeing the Bombardier plane as the larger jet passed,
while keeping the Air France pilot from seeing that the wing
wouldn’t clear the smaller aircraft, consultants said.  “It’s really hard to miss an A380, but the other airplane
could be totally not visible from the tower,” said Richard Healing, a former NTSB member who is a senior partner at R Cubed
Consulting in  Washington . “They will certainly look at what the
communications were, who was told to taxi and who was told to
hold. They’ll be looking at it from inside the airplanes and
from traffic control.”  NTSB Review  The NTSB asked to review voice and flight-data recorders
from both aircraft, and also will study air-traffic control
recordings and ground-movement radar, according to a statement.
The collision happened at 8:25 p.m.  New York  time, the agency
said.  Black said Delta, based in Atlanta, was supporting the
inquiry without commenting on why the accident may have
occurred. Brigitte Barrand, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Air
France, said it was too early to speculate on a cause.  The A380’s cockpit was “well beyond” the smaller jet when
the collision occurred, said George Hamlin, president of Hamlin
Transportation Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia, and a former
Airbus executive.  “All the A380 had to do, if it’s been cleared to use the
taxiway, is stay on the center line,” Hamlin said. “The crew
would have been concentrating on looking ahead and not to the
side.”  Comair Damage  Comair Flight 6293, which landed about 8 p.m. New York
time, suffered “damage to the tail,” said Black, the Delta
spokesman. “In terms of classifying that, I can’t. Obviously,
it’s going to need some structural repair.”  An Airbus engineering team is working with Air France to
assess damage to the A380 and any needed repairs, according to
an e-mail from Maryanne Greczyn, a spokeswoman for the
planemaker in Herndon, Virginia.  An Air France A380 was involved in an accident on Oct. 30
while parked at Paris Charles de Gaulle airport when it was
brushed by the wing of an  Airbus A330 . The airline is a unit of
 Air France-KLM (AF)  Group.  “It would have been a very interesting ride for the
passengers on the CRJ,” said  Paul Hayes , director of safety at
London-based consultant Ascend. Though accidents while taxiing
cause significant damage “once or twice a year,” the size of
the A380 produced a more “spectacular” outcome, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  