-- 
Air France Recorders in 2009 Crash Closer to Being Retrieved as Tail Found

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-04-12T17:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/air-france-crash-search-closer-to-black-boxes-as-tail-is-found.html
Flight recorders that could reveal
why an Air  France  plane crashed into the Atlantic Ocean in 2009
killing 228 people are closer to being retrieved after a diving
robot found the section of fuselage where they were mounted.  The tail from the Airbus SAS A330-200 jetliner has been
discovered, Nelson Marinho, president of an association for
families of the crash victims, said today in a phone interview
from Paris after meeting yesterday with Jean-Paul Troadec,
director of the BEA, France’s air-accident investigator.  The recorders themselves haven’t yet been found, BEA
spokeswoman Martine Del Bono said today. Known as black boxes,
the devices store detailed technical information and records of
cockpit conversations and are designed to survive heavy impacts.  Debris from Air France Flight 447 was located at a depth of
3,900 meters (12,800 feet) earlier this month after a fourth
search attempt. The A330 went down on June 1, 2009, after
departing  Rio de Janeiro  for Paris Charles de Gaulle airport.  Another search vessel will leave  Senegal  on April 21 to
head for the site, French Transport Minister Thierry Mariani
said yesterday in a statement. Attempts will also be made to
recover bodies that have been sighted with the wreckage.  The discovery of the A330 fragments renews hopes that the
cause of the crash will be found,  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said on April 3. Both
Air France and Airbus have been charged with manslaughter over
the accident, the worst in the Paris-based carrier’s history.  Speed Sensors  The BEA has said a contributing factor may have been the
icing up of speed sensors, or Pitot tubes, causing unreliable
readings. The agency made the suggestion after reviewing data
transmitted in the last minutes before the crash.  At least 13,000 photos have been taken of the debris zone,
which includes an engine, the fuselage and pieces of wing and
landing gear. None of the images gives an initial explanation of
why the A330 fell from the sky, according to BEA chief
investigator Alain Bouillard, who will lead the recovery effort.  The wreckage is spread over a flat and sandy zone north of
the plane’s last known position, Troadec has said. Recorders of
the type used on the A330 have never spent so long at depth, he
said, raising uncertainty that they will still be readable.  747 Recovery  Other black boxes found more than a year after an accident
have yielded information. In the case of a South African Airways
Boeing Co. 747 that crashed in the  Indian Ocean  in 1987, a deep-
water recovery team found the voice recorder in 16,000 feet of
water more than a year later.  Air France CEO Gourgeon said last month there’s no evidence
that the crash was caused by the Pitot tubes, which were made by
 Thales SA. (HO)  Bouillard also said last year that speed-sensor
failure couldn’t alone explain the crash, and that aviation
records in  Europe  and the U.S. document dozens of incidents
where the probes failed and pilots retained control.  Air France shares close 2 percent higher at 11.56 euros
today, paring declines this year to 15 percent. Airbus parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. fell 1.1 percent to
20.66 euros and has advanced 18 percent so far in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  