-- 
Quake-Prone Taiwan Halts Nuclear Expansion as Japan Struggles at Fukushima

-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-04-13T06:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/taiwan-halts-plans-to-build-atomic-reactors-after-japan-crisis.html
Taiwan  Power Co., which operates
the island’s three atomic-power plants and is building a fourth,
halted plans for additional reactors after an earthquake and
tsunami crippled a nuclear plant in Japan.  Taipower, as the utility is known, canceled a tender to
hire advisers for two more reactors to its No. 4 nuclear plant
under construction, Chief Engineer Roger Lee said yesterday. The
 government  has frozen a review of the state-run utility’s
application to extend the life of its 33-year-old  No. 1  plant,
since the earthquake, which also sparked tsunami warnings for
Taiwan’s northern coastline.  “Taipower would rather take more time and spend more money
so the public won’t worry,” Lee said in an interview in the
capital Taipei. The company is studying how to strengthen the
stations’ ability to withstand quakes and tsunamis, he said.  Taiwan and  Japan  lie on the Pacific Ring of Fire, an area
prone to earthquakes that also stretches from  Chile  to
California and  Indonesia , where a 2004 earthquake sparked a
tsunami that killed more than 220,000. Taipower’s three plants,
like the stricken 40-year-old Fukushima Dai-Ichi station north
of  Tokyo , were built on the ocean. They provide about 20 percent
of the island’s power and are as close as five kilometers (3
miles) from an active quake fault line, according to Lee.  Nuclear power plants in quake-prone areas need to be
redesigned to make them more resistant, an investment that would
reduce their original cost advantage, said George Hsu, a
professor in the department of applied economics at National
Chung Hsing University in central Taiwan.  Beach Resorts  “It’s a matter of benefit and cost,” Hsu said by phone
today. “You have to pay a cost to give up nuclear power, and
consider whether the cost is bearable.”  Taiwan’s  No. 2  plant is 22 kilometers from Taipei and No. 3
is in a national park and six kilometers from the southern
seaside town of Hengchun, site of several beach resorts.  The utility had considered adding as many as 10 reactors on
the existing sites to reduce reliance on coal and gas, Taipower
Vice President Hsu Hwai-chiung has said.  Taiwan imports about 99 percent of its energy needs. The
island started commercial operations at its first reactor in
1978, after the global energy crisis. By 1985, it had six
reactors on three sites.  “With nuclear power being a reliable and sustainable power
source, we have to take risks” with the potential for
earthquakes and tsunamis to affect Taiwan, Lee said.  Replacing Nuclear  The generators provided 24 percent of Taiwan’s electricity
in February, compared with 3 percent from burning oil, 23
percent from gas, and 41 percent from coal, according to the
company’s website.  The utility runs reactors 93 percent of the time, compared
with one seventh for solar panels and one third for  wind
turbines , Lee said.  “It isn’t easy to replace nuclear power with renewables,”
he said. Taipower may increase natural gas generators to make up
for the stalled plans to expand reactors, he said.  President Ma Ying-jeou, who took office in May 2008, has
pledged to cut emissions to 2000 levels by 2025. Officials,
including former Premier Liu Chao-shiuan, have called nuclear
power an option to help reduce carbon.  Taipower applied to authorities almost two years ago to
extend the life of its No. 1 nuclear power plant, which is
allowed to operate for 40 years, according to Lee.  Expansion Suspended  “Now the expansion plan is suspended,” he said. Taipower
may take measures, including enhancing their foundations and
erecting higher water gates to strengthen safety at the plants
after the March 11 temblor in Japan, he said.  The magnitude-9 quake off Japan’s northeast coast and the
subsequent tsunami led to what Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
called the country’s worst crisis since World War II.  The total amount of radiation released from the crisis at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant may eventually exceed
that of the Chernobyl disaster, a Tepco official said yesterday.  The 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl power plant in  Ukraine 
spewed debris as high as 9 kilometers into the air and released
radiation 200 times the volume of the combined bombings of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, according to a 2006 report
commissioned by  Europe ’s  Green Party .  Taipower’s expansion in nuclear power has stalled since the
1980s. The start of its No. 4 nuclear station, first proposed in
1980, has been delayed five times to late next year because of
concerns over safety and rising costs.  Stricter Inspections  The company may push this back further as the government
orders stricter inspections before allowing fuel to be loaded,
Lee said last month, after the Fukushima accidents. Construction
was 93 percent completed as of end of February.  After the March 11 temblor, Taiwan issued a tsunami warning
for its northern coast, where Taipower’s No. 1, 2 and 4 nuclear
stations are located. The plants weren’t damaged by the waves.  The No. 4 station’s advanced boiling water reactors,
designed by  General Electric Co. (GE) , have been installed, Lee said.
Taipower is laying cables and inspecting instruments at the
site, he said. Changing the reactor design isn’t necessary as
they are “already the most advanced,” Lee said. The company
doesn’t have a new starting date for the station.  Taiwan sits on faults, or geological fractures, between the
Philippine Sea and Eurasian Continental tectonic plates. Quakes
are more likely there as the plates push together, spurring
concern the area may be unsafe for nuclear plants.  Deadly Quakes  In September 1999, a temblor centered 150 kilometers south-
southwest of Taipei killed about 2,500 people.  In December 2006, Taipower halted its No. 3 nuclear power
station for inspection, after a magnitude 7.1 earthquake struck
near southern Taiwan, killing at least two people. The station
faces potential tsunamis from the Manila Trench in the  South
China Sea , Lee said.  Taipower has avoided fatal incidents at its nuclear power
plants and is taking steps, such as designing standard response
procedures for multiple disasters, to prevent crises similar to
that in Fukushima, he said. Each of the Taipower stations has
three more spare generators than the Dai-Ichi complex, he said.  “If there’s something we haven’t done enough, we’ll
improve,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  