-- 
Alabama County Cuts Workweek to Cope With Loss of Wage Tax

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-04-12T18:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/alabama-county-cuts-workweek-to-cope-with-loss-of-wage-tax-1-.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
commissioners voted to reduce hours for 3,350 employees to the
equivalent of a four-day week to cope with the court-ordered end
of a tax.  “We as a commission understand the pain,” said
commission president David Carrington in an interview after the
vote. “I will work with every ounce of energy I have to find a
solution, but we need to right-size government.”  Commissioners voted 5-0 for the change. A resolution to
temporarily close four satellite courthouses passed 3-2. The
cuts, which will save about $9 million, were proposed after the
state  Supreme Court  last month struck down a wage and business-
license tax that generated about $73 million a year, almost a
quarter of the county’s general-fund budget.  Encompassing Birmingham, Alabama’s biggest city, the county
has sought since 2008 to avoid the biggest-ever U.S. municipal
bankruptcy after interest costs on more than $3 billion of sewer
debt soared during the financial crisis.  The county may have to cut 1,200 employees if the business
tax isn’t restored and creditors demand accelerated repayment of
$105 million of general obligation bonds, a financial adviser
said yesterday.  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) , which last month began assessing the
county’s options, said that in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1,
the 660,000-person county would have to reduce its road budget
by 40 percent, eliminate services for the elderly and raise
employee health-care contributions.  Shutting Down  The shortened workweek will begin April 25. On that day,
the courthouses, where residents can pay property taxes and
renew car tags, will close.  Jefferson County will run out of cash by the end of July
and will need up to $35 million to get through the fiscal year,
county officials have said.  To finish this fiscal year without additional state aid,
the county would have to cut 350 employees, consolidate services
and reduce Sheriff’s Department spending by 7 percent,  West Palm
Beach , Florida-based FTI said.  Commissioners have asked lawmakers to consider redirecting
a portion of the county sales tax that subsidizes the health
department and a hospital into the general fund. They’re also
seeking more power to raise local taxes.  “We have responsibility without authority,” Carrington
said. “That’s lousy in the military, lousy in business and
lousy in government.”  He said he was frustrated that residents and employees
aren’t pushing state lawmakers harder to devise a solution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham, Alabama, at
.
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  