-- 
Malaysia Plans 30 Billion Ringgit Rail Sukuk, Official Says

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-12T07:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/malaysia-plans-30-billion-ringgit-rail-sukuk-official-says-1-.html
Malaysia plans to sell as much as
30 billion ringgit ($9.9 billion) of local-currency Islamic
bonds under a program to help finance a mass-transit railway in
 Kuala Lumpur , a government official said.  A special financing vehicle will be formed by the
government to raise the funds which will be used for the
country’s biggest infrastructure project to date, said the
official, who couldn’t be named as details of the sale have yet
to be finalized. Domestic sources, including the Employees
Provident Fund, could subscribe to the sukuk issuance, which
would be at least 20 billion ringgit, he said.  “Demand from local investors would be high,” Elsie Tham,
a senior manager at Manulife Asset Management Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur, who helps oversee more than $1 billion of fixed-income
assets, said in an interview today. “We do have a substantial
amount of insurance and pension funds that would require long-
dated paper. These infrastructure bonds would be the type of
bonds these funds would be looking at.”  The government estimates the network and rolling stock will
cost 48 billion ringgit, with the first line scheduled for
completion in five years. The railway is part of a $444 billion
private sector-led investment program being championed by Prime
Minister Najib Razak’s government for the current decade.  “Eagerly Waiting”  Malaysia is revamping its public transportation system amid
increasing traffic congestion in the capital. The planned
railway will cover a 20-kilometer (12-mile) radius around Kuala
Lumpur’s city center and carry 2 million passengers a day, the
government said in a report last year.  A final decision on the financing for the railway project
will be made in the second half of this year, Najib said in an
interview on March 29.  “Everyone is eagerly awaiting details for the issuance,”
Tham said. “The bond will probably have a tenor of at least ten
years. There’s still scarcity in long-dated paper.”  Sales of ringgit-denominated sukuk, bonds that pay returns
on asset to comply with Islam’s ban on interest, total 9.5
billion ringgit so far this year, from 4.9 billion ringgit in
the same period in 2010. Malaysia is the world’s largest sukuk
market. Global issuance for the securities increased to $4.5
billion in 2011, from $2 billion in the same period last year.  -- With assistance from Suryani Omar in Jakarta. Editors: Barry Porter, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net 
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 