-- 
Allied Irish to Cut 2,000 Jobs Following Property ‘Madness’

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-12T16:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/allied-irish-to-cut-over-2-000-jobs-after-property-madness-1-.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the
country’s biggest government-controlled lender, will eliminate
more than 2,000 jobs after posting a record 10.4 billion-euro
net loss ($15 billion) as real estate loans soured.  The bank’s loss widened from 2.3 billion euros a year
earlier, the Dublin-based bank said in a  statement  today. The
loss was wider than the 8.6 billion-euro median estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The job reductions will take
place on a “phased basis over 2011 and 2012,” the lender said.  There was “almost a collective madness” in the Irish
real-estate market during a decade long-boom, said Allied Irish
Executive Chairman David Hodgkinson in an interview with Dublin-
based broadcaster RTE. “Everyone went crazy on property.”  Ireland’s central bank last month ordered Allied Irish, the
second-biggest bank, to raise 13.3 billion euros in additional
capital after stress tests on banks. That was more than the
combined total for three other lenders covered by last month’s
stress tests and may push the bill for rescuing the nation’s
financial system to as much as 100 billion euros.  The bank lost 7 billion euros on real estate loans it
transferred to the National Asset Management Agency, the
country’s so-called bad bank, and a 6 billion-euro impairment
charge on loans, it said. Commercial property prices have
plunged about 60 percent since peaking in 2007. The government
today owns 93 percent of Allied Irish.  Arrears  Irish home loans more than three months in arrears rose to
4.8 percent at the end of December from 2 percent a year
earlier, though the pace of increase “eased somewhat in the
second half of 2010,” the lender said. The lender is
considering partial debt forgiveness for borrowers who are
falling behind in repaying their mortgages, Hodgkinson told RTE.  The bank said it set up a non-core bank including assets to
be sold or wound down. Allied Irish had 15,085 employees at the
end of 2009, the latest figure available, according to Ronan Sheridan, a company spokesman. The figure does not include
employees in the lender’s former Polish unit Bank Zachodni WBK
SA, which it sold earlier this year.  Allied Irish fell 12 percent to 22 euro cents at the 5:10
p.m. in Dublin, valuing the company at 386.3 million euros.  Depositors pulled money from the country’s banks last year
as the country’s credit rating was cut, forcing the state to
accept an 85 billion-euro international bailout. Allied Irish’s
deposits fell by 22 billion euros to 52 billion euros last year.  Stability  Allied Irish had “a lot more stability” in its deposits
since the central bank reported stress test results for the
country’s lenders on March 31,  Alan Kelly , the lender’s general
manager of corporate services, said in an interview today. The
bank bought 8.6 billion euros of deposits from Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., which is being wound down, in February.  With deposits ebbing and investors shunning Irish bank
debt, the Irish financial system is relying on central bank
lending to stay afloat.  Allied Irish’s 36.6 billion euros of central bank funding
equates to “25 percent of the balance sheet,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Goodbody
Stockbrokers. “However, the bank’s acquisition of deposits from
Anglo Irish and the sale of its Polish unit will likely have
reduced this since the year-end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  