-- 
Alstom Open to Acquisitions in India for Growth, Chairman Says

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-04-12T14:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/alstom-open-to-acquisitions-in-india-for-growth-chairman-says.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-
biggest manufacturer of power equipment, is open to making
acquisitions and forming partnerships in  India , Chairman Patrick Kron said.  The company will seek deals aimed at producing wind-power
equipment and railway coaches in India, said Kron, who was in
New Delhi to mark Alstom’s century-old presence in India.  Alstom, which has ventures in  China  to build power
equipment, has three such factories in India and is making a
fourth to produce steam turbines with  Bharat Forge Ltd. (BHFC) , as
demand shifts from developed markets to Asia and  South America .
It’s counting on India’s need for infrastructure to sustain
economic growth of more than 8 percent.  “There is no doubt that the Indian market is massive and
will continue to remain so for many years,” Kron told
reporters. “Our aim is to locate resources here either on our
own or through partners to serve the domestic market as well as
to get a broader geographical footprint.”  Alstom expects to start production at its steam turbine
facility in the coastal state of Gujarat and the urban transit
rail car factory in the southern city of Chennai by early 2013,
Kron said.  Western  Europe  and  North America , which traditionally
generated two-thirds of Alstom’s orders, accounted for about
one-third in the first nine months of the last fiscal year.  Nuclear-Power Concerns  He said the company’s technological prowess and the ability
to form partnerships will help it compete as rivals also line up
to service faster-growing markets. “We have the weapons to
defend ourselves and go on the offense,” Kron said.  The concerns over the nuclear accident in Tokyo Electric
Power Co. Inc.’s Fukushima plant may lead to delays in awarding
new projects in some countries, as governments discuss more
stringent safety measures for atomic plants, Kron said.  Nations including India and China are discussing ways to
prevent a Fukushima-like crisis as the biggest nuclear accident
in more than two decades raises questions about the
sustainability of atomic energy.  Alstom, which has orders to supply rail cars for the urban
transit railway in Chennai, hopes to win more orders from other
Indian cities.  “I hope Chennai is not the only city building the metro
rail,” Kron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 