-- 
Hammerson Chief Atkins Sees Annual Earnings Matching 2010 on Rental Income

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-04-12T06:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/hammerson-chief-atkins-sees-annual-earnings-matching-2010-on-rental-income.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , the U.K.’s third-
largest real estate investment trust, will probably match its
2010 earnings with fewer properties this year as rising rental
income compensates for disposals, Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said.  “Earnings will be flat for the next 12 months,” Atkins,
45, said in an interview at his company’s office in  London ’s
Mayfair district last week.  Hammerson reported a 140.2 million-pound ($228 million)
profit excluding proceeds from disposals and asset value changes
last year, 12 percent more than in 2009. Atkins sold about 15
percent of the company’s real estate in 2010, raising 555
million pounds. The remaining assets will generate a 3 percent
increase in revenue, he said.  Since replacing John Richards 18 months ago, Atkins has
increased asset sales, reduced debt, made some investments and
tried to squeeze higher rents from Hammerson’s properties.  Hammerson owned 5.3 billion pounds of real estate at the
end of last year, 86 percent of it malls or retail parks in
Britain and  France . The company’s assets include stakes in
Birmingham, England’s Bullring, north London’s Brent Cross and
the Italie II mall in southeast Paris.  “Hammerson wasn’t very good at getting the best rental
growth from its properties,” said Nan Rogers, an analyst at
 Collins Stewart  in London with a “hold” recommendation on the
stock. Atkins “has made looking after retail customers a bigger
feature.”  Retailer Focus  The CEO reorganized the company’s retail leasing team into
specialist retailer customer accounts, brought the managing
agents of the properties in-house and hired new senior managers
from different retail backgrounds.  In France, where Hammerson has a quarter of its properties,
Atkins committed 30 million euros ($43 million) to refurbish
existing assets, hired new senior managers and sold stakes in
the O’Parinor and Saint Quentin en Yvelines malls. Atkins said
the company hadn’t invested enough in the country in the past
five years.  “I’m confident now that the performance in France will
improve,” Atkins said. “It’s something that I’m very focused
on at the moment.”  Rental income generated by all the properties Hammerson
owned last year increased 3.5 percent and acquisitions added
additional revenue from leasing.  Investor Returns  Hammerson returned 18 percent to investors from dividends
and share price gains in the 12 months through April 8. That’s
sixth-best out of the 20 stocks in the  FTSE 350 Real Estate (F3REAES) 
Investment Trust Index.  Of the 21 analysts who cover the company, 13 have “hold”
recommendations on the shares and the rest rate the stock a
“buy,” reflecting the company’s medium-term prospects as
Atkins repositions the company.  Atkins is a “safe pair of hands,” said Rogers at Collins
Stewart. “Will Hammerson catch the wind in the markets? I’m not
so sure.”  Proceeds of the asset sales helped lower Hammerson’s net
debt to 52 percent of the value of its properties at the end of
2010 from 72 percent a year earlier.  Atkins is renegotiating 700 million pounds of borrowing
facilities that expire within the next 18 months. Hammerson
probably won’t renew all the facilities, reducing the company’s
“headroom by several hundred million,” Atkins said.  Mall Purchases  Hammerson acquired six malls and retail parks from  Kuwait ’s
St. Martins Property Investments Ltd. and bought its investment
partner TIAA-CREF’s share in a retail park in Falkirk for 277
million pounds in the first quarter. It also bought one U.K.
retail park and gained 100 percent ownership of another in the
past nine months.  Atkins said he plans to bring in higher-paying fashion
retailers to replace the existing home-improvement and furniture
tenants in those parks.  The company is proceeding with construction work on Les
Terrasses du Port mall in Marseille, France, and a smaller
retail and office project on Paris’s Rue du Faubourg St Honore.  Developments the company may start in the next 18 months
include retail parks in Mantes and Beauvais in France, and a
regeneration project in Didcot,  England , Atkins said. The
company is seeking planning consent for Principal Place, an
office building with an adjacent residential tower on the border
of the  City of London  financial district.  “There’s more hidden value in these projects than people
realize,” said Harm Meijer, an analyst at JP Morgan Chase &
Co., who has an “overweight” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  