-- 
Manchester City, United Vie for Udinese Striker Sanchez: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-04-12T08:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/manchester-city-united-vie-for-udinese-striker-sanchez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  City Targets  Manchester City  has joined Chelsea, Inter Milan and
Manchester United in targeting 50 million-euro ($72 million)
Udinese striker Alexis Sanchez,  the Telegraph said .  The 22-year-old, who played in last year’s  World Cup  with
Chile, had positive discussions with City last weekend, and
Udinese is resigned to losing him to the Premier League club,
the newspaper said.  Sanchez would replace  Mario Balotelli , should City be
willing to lose as much as 24 million pounds ($39 million)
selling the unsettled player back to an Italian club, the
newspaper said.  City is ready to sign AC Milan midfielder Clarence Seedorf
when his contract ends after this season,  the Daily Mail  said.  Enrique to Reds  Newcastle defender Jose Enrique may follow striker Andy Carroll to Liverpool in a 15 million-pound trade,  the Daily Mail
said .  Former Liverpool player Phil Thompson, who’s friendly with
Reds coach  Kenny Dalglish , said he believed the player had
already agreed to the move, the newspaper said.  Arsenal Squabble  Arsenal’s Robin van Persie and Abou Diaby had to be
separated during the break of last weekend’s win at Blackpool
because the Dutch forward was angry the midfielder got booked
for kicking the ball away, the  Mirror said .  Van Persie was still angry that Diaby was sent off at
Newcastle earlier in the season, when the Gunners blew a four-
goal lead, the newspaper said.  No Fear  Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  says he’s not afraid of being
fired if the Blues fail to win the Champions League this season,
 the Guardian said.   The Blues, trailing 1-0, play at  Manchester United  tonight
in the quarterfinals. The Italian said he feels “excitement”
about the end of the season and wants to finish the last 12
months of his contract, the newspaper said.  Spurs Exit?  Tottenham goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes is worried players may
leave it fails to finish fourth and qualify for the Champions
League next season,  the Mirror said.   Spurs host Real Madrid tomorrow, after a 4-0 defeat in the
first game of the two-match Champions League quarterfinal. Gomes
said he’s concerned  Gareth Bale  and Rafael van der Vaart could
seek a transfer, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 