-- 
Manchester United, Barcelona Advance to Semifinals in Champions League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-12T22:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/manchester-united-barcelona-advance-to-champions-league-semifinals.html
Manchester United  beat Chelsea 2-1
to reach the semifinals of soccer’s Champions League, while
Barcelona advanced with a 1-0 win at Shakhtar Donetsk.  Javier Hernandez  and Park Ji-Sung scored a goal in each
half for United last night to give the three-time European
champion a 3-1 victory over two games with its Premier League
rival, which had Ramires sent off in the second half. United
will play Schalke or defending champion Inter Milan in the
semifinals of  Europe ’s top club competition.  “We played very, very well and won against a very good
team,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told Sky Sports. “We were
the better team on the night.”  Lionel Messi ’s 48th goal of the season, a club record,
completed Barcelona’s 6-1 series win over Shakhtar. Barcelona
will meet Spanish archrival Real Madrid or Tottenham in the last
four.  Manchester continued its home domination to reach the
semifinals for the fourth time in five years. The Red Devils are
unbeaten in 28 games in all competitions at Old Trafford since a
2-1 loss to Chelsea on April 3, 2010.  Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres  and Nicolas Anelka put early
attempts wide, while Blues goalkeeper Petr Cech caught United
striker  Wayne Rooney ’s long shot. Manchester goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar then stopped  Frank Lampard ’s shot and Anelka’s
effort went over the United crossbar.  No Goal  Hernandez was ruled offside in the 27th minute as he headed
in Rooney’s cross. Van der Sar then raced out of his area to
knock the ball away from Anelka after a mistake by Nemanja Vidic.  United scored just before halftime. Ryan Giggs carried the
ball into area and sent a pass to the far post that Hernandez
tapped in.  Early in the second half, Lampard and  Didier Drogba , a
halftime substitute for Torres, shot wide for Chelsea. Van der
Sar also lunged to punch out Drogba’s free kick, while Cech made
a diving save against Nani.  Chelsea went down to 10 men in the 70th minute after
Ramires received a second yellow card for a challenge on Nani.  Drogba made it 2-1 overall when he beat Van der Sar with a
shot in the 77th minute.  Quick Response  Any chance of a Chelsea comeback ended less than a minute
later when Park scored after controlling a pass from Giggs.  “Us scoring so quickly after they scored knocked the
stuffing out of them,” Giggs told  Sky Sports .  Schalke is the favorite to face United for a place in the
final. The German team hosts Inter tonight after a 5-2 win in
the first game in Milan.  At the Donbass Arena in Ukraine, Messi scored his
competition-leading ninth goal as Barcelona moved into the
semifinals for the fifth time in six seasons.  The FIFA World Player of the Year took a pass from Dani Alves, went past two defenders and sent a left-footed shot past
Andriy Pyatov in the 43rd minute. It broke the club record of 47
goals in a season that Argentina international Messi shared with
former Brazil international Ronaldo, who retired in February.  Record nine-time European champion Real is on course to
meet three-time winner Barcelona in the semifinals.  Madrid  takes
a 4-0 lead into tonight’s meeting with at White Hart Lane in
London.  Archrivals to Meet  Barcelona goalkeeper Victor Valdes said he’s looking
forward to “intense but enjoyable encounters” against Madrid in
the coming weeks. Barcelona hosts Real in the league April 16
and four days later the teams meet again in the final of the
Copa del Rey, or Spanish Cup. The opening games of the two
Champions League semifinals are scheduled for April 26 and 27,
with the return legs on May 3 and 4.  “We’re full of eagerness to face Madrid at the weekend and
in the Copa del Rey final,” Valdes said on Barcelona’s website.
“We’re playing even better now than in previous seasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 