-- 
AOL’s Huffington to Add News Staff in Local Site Revamp

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-04-12T21:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/aol-to-add-800-news-employees-to-revive-sales-growth-after-huffington-deal.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , seeking to revive sales
growth after buying the Huffington Post, is hiring as many as
800 full-time employees at local-news operations across the
country and reducing the use of freelancers.  Arianna Huffington , the Huffington Post co-founder who
became the editor-in-chief of AOL’s media operations, said she
intends to increase content at the company’s Patch websites
covering about 800 local markets nationwide. AOL may hire as
many as one full-time journalist per Patch site, though the
final number hasn’t been decided.  “Each site will now have its own team,” Huffington said
in an interview. “It’s always greater and better to have a
team.” Until now, content for each Patch website has been
produced by a single full-time local editor and freelancers.  Huffington, who joined AOL as part of the $315 million
 Huffington Post  deal completed last month, said the Patch sites
will also incorporate bloggers and commentary. Those social
elements helped her turn the Huffington Post news-aggregation
model into a website that grew to attract 25 million unique
visitors per month within six years after it began.  “We are basically going to make Patch a lot more social,”
said Huffington, 60. “It’s a great way to have people in the
town, from the mayor to high-school kids, engaged.”  Huffington said she will name a new editorial executive to
work on the social-media initiative in the coming days.  National Expansion  AOL, spun off from Time Warner Inc. in 2009, has reported
declining sales for five straight quarters. After acquiring the
Huffington Post to help increase online content and boost ad
revenue, AOL in March said it would shed up to 900 employees
from its global workforce. Patch represents about 20 percent of
New York-based AOL’s employee roster, which totals 5,000.  Today, the Huffington Post and AOL were sued in  New York 
over claims that the writers of website content weren’t paid for
their work. The suit, brought by writer Jonathan Tasini, seeks
class-action, or group, status.  “The lawsuit is totally without merit,” Mario Ruiz, a
spokesman for the Huffington Post, said in a statement. “As
we’ve said before, our bloggers use our platform -- as well as
other unpaid group blogs across the web -- to connect and help
their work be seen by as many people as possible.”  AOL rose 18 cents to $19.98 at 4:15 p.m. today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 16
percent this year.  Challenging Market  AOL Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  invested more
than $50 million last year to jump start the expansion of Patch
sites, which aim to attract local online advertising from
neighborhood businesses such as restaurants, hair salons,
florists and car dealers.  Armstrong backed the startup with $4.5 million in 2007,
when he was working at Google Inc. AOL bought the company in
2009, after he became CEO.  The number of Patch sites just exceeded 800 and there is an
upcoming debut of operations in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire  -- the
two states where the 2012 presidential elections will kick off,
Huffington said. There are also two new sites in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , according to Janine Iamunno, a Patch spokeswoman. That’s
up from 100 sites in August 2010.  The Patch sites, designed for communities with populations
of 15,000 to 75,000, face increasing competition for advertising
dollars from local blogs. Rivals also include businesses like
 Groupon Inc. , the coupon site that offers deals-of-the-day to
users, based on their geographic location.  ‘Dicey’ Reader Comments  “We have seen a lot of locally-targeted sites do very,
very well with local advertising, and one that comes to mind is
Groupon,” said Kip Cassino, research director at Borrell
Associates in Williamsburg, Virginia. The local online-
advertising market will probably be worth $15.8 billion in 2011,
he said. By 2015, it will grow to $24 billion, he said.  “But I have real questions about the viability of the
Patch model,” he said in an interview. “Their idea is you’ll
want to go to those sites because you want to know what’s on the
school menu, or who’s on the high school wrestling team. It’s
like the local section of a newspaper. And newspapers always
struggled to get advertisers into the local section.”  Chris Tolles, CEO of  Topix.net , a hyper-local news business
jointly owned by newspaper publishers Gannett Co., Tribune Co.
and  McClatchy Co. (MNI) , said that once the Patch sites introduce more
social forums and commentary, it will be challenging to maintain
a dialog among users that advertisers will be comfortable with.  Topix, which started in 2005 and has $10 million in sales,
has about 5,000 local sites, in communities with populations of
45,000 or less, Tolles said. Each day, the company handles about
1,000 complaints regarding user commentary, he said.  “They’ll get a lot of heated comments and discussions at
the local level,” Tolles said in an interview. “We have a lot
of commentary on our sites that is dicey. But then it’s also
stuff that newspapers are not going to cover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  