-- 
AOL, The Huffington Post Are Sued Over Website Contributors' Compensation

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-12T20:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/aol-the-huffington-post-sued-over-website-contributors-compensation.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  and its newly acquired
Huffington Post were sued over claims that the writers of
website content weren’t paid for their work.  The complaint, filed today in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan, charges that none of the $315 million paid by AOL for
the news and opinion website co-founded by  Arianna Huffington 
and Kenneth Lerer was shared with the writers and other creators
of the site’s content. The suit seeks class-action, or group,
status.  “The HuffingtonPost.com has been unjustly enriched by
engaging in and continuing to engage in the practice of
generating enormous profits by luring carefully vetted
contributors, with the prospect of exposure,” the complaint
said, “while reaping the entirety of financial gain derived
from such content.”  AOL acquired  Huffington Post  in March in order to “create
a next-generation American media company with global reach,”
AOL Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said in a statement
when the deal was announced in February. Combining the
companies’ websites yielded an Internet audience of 117 million
Americans, AOL said. HuffingtonPost.com had almost 25 million
monthly visitors as of February.  The complaint claims that the writers provided the site
with free content worth as much as $105 million, which “should
be returned” to the plaintiff and the class. Huffington Post
derives revenue from advertising on the site.  Freelance Writers  The suit was brought by Jonathan Tasini, who is described
in the complaint as the lead plaintiff in a successful case
against the  New York  Times over the rights of freelance writers.
He was president of the National Writers Union from 1990 to 2003
and sought the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senator from New
York in 2006, according to the complaint.  “The lawsuit is wholly without merit,” AOL said in an e-
mailed statement from Huffington Post Media Group spokesman
Mario Ruiz. “As we’ve said before, our bloggers use our
platform -- as well as other unpaid group blogs across the Web -
- to connect and help their work be seen by as many people as
possible.”  Arianna Huffington was named editor in chief of the newly
created Huffington Post Media Group, which includes other AOL
sites such as TechCrunch, AOL Music, Moviefone and MapQuest. She
and Lerer are also defendants in the lawsuit.  ‘Artificially Low’  The suit alleges that Huffington Post set “an artificially
low price for the valuable digital content created by” Tasini
and other members of the potential class. There are about 9,000
unpaid content providers to  the site , according to the
complaint.  A federal judge will decide whether to grant the lawsuit
class-action status.  The complaint states that Tasini contributed 216 pieces of
content to the site without compensation, and that he and other
writers were encouraged to send links to their stories to
friends and followers on Facebook and Twitter to help build
consumer traffic to HuffingtonPost.com.  Tasini’s pieces included two titled “The Rich Get Richer:
Time for a Change” in 2008, and “New York Times Fuels War
Against the Middle Class” in January. His earliest listed piece
for the Huffington Post, in December 2005, was titled “Why I’m
Running Against Hillary” Clinton.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2001 that the Times and
other publishers violated the copyrights of authors by putting
their articles on websites without permission.  AOL rose 18 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $19.98 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 16 percent this year.  The case is Jonathan Tasini v. AOL Inc., 11-2472, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donald Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  