-- 
APG Joins Goodman to Offer $1.6 Billion for ProLogis European Properties

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-13T15:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/apg-joins-goodman-to-offer-1-6-billion-for-prologis-european-properties.html
APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV and
 Goodman Group (GMG)  made an offer for  ProLogis European Properties (PEPR) 
that values the biggest owner of warehouses in  Europe  at about
1.1 billion euros ($1.6 billion). PEPR’s biggest shareholder
rejected the bid.  The offer of 6 euros in cash for each ordinary PEPR unit,
announced in a statement from APG and Goodman yesterday, was 20
percent more than the closing price. APG is the Amsterdam-based
manager of Europe’s biggest retirement plan and Goodman is 
 Australia ’s biggest industrial real estate investment trust by
market value.  APG said it’s trying to end years of disagreement with
ProLogis, the Denver-based company that owns 33 percent of PEPR,
on the management and governance of the European fund which owns
232 properties across Europe with a value of 2.8 billion euros.
PEPR sold units at 14.35 euros each in an initial public
offering in 2006.  “We believe this deal should make sense and believe
 ProLogis (PLD)  should be open to commence negotiations with the
bidding consortium,” ING analysts Jean-Yves Devloo and Pieter Van Der Meijden said in a note to investors today.  PEPR units gained 15 percent to 5.75 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Amsterdam, the highest since October 2008. The units
have climbed 26 percent in six months.  ‘Concerns About Strategy’  A transaction based on this price would “close the
persistent gap” between PEPR’s units and its net asset value,
APG and Goodman said in the statement. It would also “resolve
widely held concerns regarding PEPR’s strategy and governance
structure.”  The offer is less than PEPR’s net asset value of 6.32 euros
per ordinary unit as of Dec. 31, based on EPRA guidelines. APG
is PEPR’s second-biggest shareholder with a 12 percent stake.  ProLogis, the world’s largest warehouse operator, rejected
the proposal, saying in a statement that it plans to retain its
stake in PEPR. ProLogis is PEPR’s largest shareholder, said
Patrick Kanters, global head of real estate investment at APG.  “We’ve done our utmost to improve the governance and
strategy of this vehicle in a dialogue with Prologis,” Kanters
said by telephone yesterday. “This is a very interesting offer
for all unit holders involved.”  Prepared to Talk  Goodman and APG are still willing to explore the proposal
with ProLogis after its rejection of their offer, Goodman said
in a statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  “A fully documented proposal could be ready within six to
eight weeks with the full cooperation of ProLogis, ProLogis
Management Sarl and the independent directors of the board of
PEPR,” Goodman said.  Goodman shares rose 4.4 percent to 71 Australian cents
at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney trading.  The proposed transaction cannot be executed without
ProLogis’s support, APG and Goodman said in making the bid.  ProLogis plans to keep its management agreement with PEPR,
the U.S. company said in its statement. ProLogis said the bid
for PEPR is “not expected to have any impact” on its planned
merger with San Francisco-based  AMB Property Corp. (AMB)   “ProLogis has no intent or desire to sell its interest in
PEPR,” Chief Executive Officer Walter Rakowich said in the
statement. “Additionally, we have no intention of selling or
relinquishing the management of PEPR.”  Instead, the company is prepared to discuss with AGP “a
range of value-enhancing alternatives.” It didn’t elaborate.  Sovereign Wealth Funds  APG and Goodman would join with a group of pension and
sovereign wealth funds to finance the deal, the two firms said.
APG and Goodman would hold stakes of about 25 percent each.  The firms described the offer as an “indicative, non-
binding proposal.” Its value is based on Bloomberg data that
show 190.5 million units out as of Nov. 4, 2010.  Goodman won the approval of  ING Industrial Fund (IIF) 
shareholders on March 17 for its A$1.47 billion ($1.5 billion)
takeover offer for the Australian listed trust. Sydney-based
Goodman led a group that included APG, China Investment Corp.
and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board in the bid.  Goodman plans to get most of its earnings from outside
Australia and seek to expand its presence in Europe and  Asia ,
Chief Executive Officer Greg Goodman told Bloomberg in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 