-- 
Areva Sends 20 Specialists to Help Tepco With Reactor Crisis

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-04-12T16:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/areva-sends-20-specialists-to-help-tepco-with-reactor-crisis.html
Areva SA, the biggest supplier of
nuclear fuel and services, sent 20 nuclear specialists to help
handle the reactor crisis at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
the chief executive of the company’s U.S. subsidiary said.  Jacques Besnainou, who heads Areva Inc., said Tokyo
Electric Power Co. asked for the assistance. The workers,
including five from the U.S., are providing advice on how to
manage spent nuclear fuel and shut down the plant.  “It’s a small team but very highly specialized to assess
the damage and to see how we can most rapidly deploy services to
help for decontamination,” he said in an interview after a
speech in  Washington . The U.S. unit is based in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The parent company is based in Paris.  Areva’s team in Japan will propose how best to clean and
dismantle the facility, Besnainou said. Nuclear scientists and
engineers from  France  and  Germany  joined the Americans in Japan.
Areva has an office in Japan with about 100 employees.  U.S. officials have said three reactors at Fukushima have
suffered partial meltdowns and spent fuel rods were exposed to
air, resulting in the release of radiation.  Besnainou, who spoke at an event on U.S. energy policy
sponsored by Areva, The New Republic and EnergyNOW!, a weekly
television news program, said the U.S. should continue to
support the nuclear industry.  “Nuclear power still makes sense today in Japan and around
the world,” he said.  Besnainou said he was “begging” for a U.S. policy for
spent nuclear fuel. The used uranium is now stored in pools or
in dry casks on site. The Obama administration stopped a program
to build a permanent waste repository at Yucca Mountain,  Nevada .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  