-- 
Harper Faces G-8 Spending Criticism, Lifting Ignatieff's Canada Debate Bid

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-12T13:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/harper-faces-g-8-spending-criticism-lifting-ignatieff-s-canada-debate-bid.html
Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff 
may get his best chance tonight to portray Prime Minister
Stephen Harper as an autocratic leader who has misspent public
funds when they meet in their only English-language debate ahead
of Canada’s May 2 election.  The debate marks the real “starting point” of the
campaign as many voters tune in for the first time, said Kathy Brock, a political scientist at Queen’s University in Kingston,
Ontario. Ignatieff will have an opportunity to capitalize on
 Canadian Press  articles yesterday that said a draft report by
Auditor General Sheila Fraser found the government misused funds
hosting last year’s Group of Eight leaders’ summit.  “The debate is the start of the serious campaign,” Brock
said. Ignatieff’s success “depends on whether or not they can
make the auditor general’s report on the G-8 stick.”  Ignatieff, 63, has so far failed to shrink the roughly 10
percentage-point lead that Harper has held through the campaign,
which began March 26. His strategy in the campaign has been to
attack Harper for he calls wasting money to buy 65 of Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike fighter
jets. The Liberal leader, a former professor at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is also seeking to
portray himself as more open and democratic than Harper.  Cost Report  Fraser, in  a statement  released yesterday, said she is
prohibited from releasing her report on costs associated with
last year’s G-8 leaders’ summit until Parliament resumes. She
cautioned the public “to wait until our final report on the G-8
Legacy Infrastructure Fund,” after the Canadian Press cited a
draft report saying the government misinformed Parliament to win
approval for infrastructure funding.  The National Post  reported  today that it obtained a second
draft of the report, which criticizes the Conservatives for not
being transparent with its spending.  The election was triggered after opposition lawmakers found
the governing Conservatives in “contempt” of the House of
Commons for withholding information on the costs of government
initiatives.  Harper, 51, has said the Conservatives are the only party
that can form a stable government to secure the country’s
economic recovery, and said the Liberals will join with the New
 Democratic Party  to govern if he doesn’t win a majority.  Expanding Economy  Canada’s economy grew fastest in the fourth quarter and had
the lowest deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency
has been the strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.
 Government bonds  have returned 4.1 percent over the past year as
of April 8, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data, compared with a 2.3 percent average for the G-7. Canada’s
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index has risen 15 percent over the
past 12 months, compared with a 12.4 percent gain for the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average .  The Conservatives were supported by 39.7 percent of decided
voters, followed by 31.2 percent who supported the Liberals,
according to a CTV/Globe/Nanos election survey published today.
The telephone survey of 1,200 people was conducted April 10-12
and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percent.  Ahead in the polls, Harper has run a low-risk campaign,
limiting public appearances and questions from reporters.  Barry Kay, an associate professor at Wilfrid Laurier
University in Waterloo, Ontario, said he expects Harper’s
strategy in the debates will mirror his campaign strategy.  Playing Out Clock  “Playing out the clock is exactly what the Conservative
strategy has been,” Kay said in a telephone interview.  Harper, who has been prime minister since 2006, won 38
percent of the vote in 2008 elections, which gave the
Conservatives 143 seats in the 308-member House of Commons. He
has never held a  majority of seats  in the Parliament.  Today’s debate, to be held in Ottawa, begins at 7 p.m. and
includes leaders from the four parties with seats in the last
Parliament -- the Conservatives, Liberals,  New Democratic Party 
and  Bloc Quebecois . A separate French-language debate will be
held tomorrow.  Narrowing the gap may be an uphill battle for Ignatieff,
whose personal popularity ratings trail Harper in part due to a
negative branding by the Conservatives over the past two years.
The Nanos poll found that Ignatieff lags behind both Harper and
NDP Leader  Jack Layton  when voters are asked who is most
trusted.  Challenge Harper  “In order to have a chance to challenge the Harper
Conservatives, he has to exceed expectations and have stronger
leadership scores compared to Jack Layton,” Ottawa-based
pollster Nik Nanos said in an e-mail message. “It is
realistically a key moment to define his personal brand, which
to date has been mostly defined by the Conservatives through
their attack ads.”  The Conservatives, with a larger war chest than the
Liberals, have been running television ads since May 2009,
seeking to paint Ignatieff as an elitist with few links to
 Canada . The ads claim Ignatieff, who lived outside of Canada for
34 years before returning in 2005 to enter politics, is “just
visiting” the country.  Ignatieff’s predecessor, Stephane Dion, blamed Conservative
Party attack ads for his loss in 2008 elections.  Ignatieff said yesterday he hopes the debate will serve as
a revelation for voters.  “I hope there’s an ‘a-ha’ moment and voters realize that
Stephen Harper can’t be trusted to protect our democratic
institutions,” Ignatieff told reporters in Kingston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 