-- 
Goldman Sachs Accused by Marvell Founders of Margin Call Fraud

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/marvell-founders-accuse-goldman-sachs-of-fraud-in-suit-over-margin-calls.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was sued
by two co-founders of  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  who allege
the investment bank tricked them into selling company shares by
claiming the sale was needed to cover a margin loan.  Sehat Sutardja, Marvell’s chief executive officer, and
Weili Dai, the company’s former chief operating officer, said
they were duped into selling shares in 2008 that are now worth
$141.5 million, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
state court in San Francisco. Goldman Sachs pressured them by
claiming a regulatory rule, which didn’t exist, required them to
sell their stock, according to the complaint. Goldman Sachs held
millions of shares of Marvell stock in 2008, they said.  “Goldman forced its clients to unnecessarily liquidate
their holdings through forced margin calls, only to repurchase
these same shareholdings for accounts owned by Goldman and its
related  hedge funds ,” according to the complaint.  Goldman Sachs also forced a sale of Sutardja and Dai’s
shares of  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , causing them to lose $166 million, they
said in the complaint.  The lawsuit, filed under California’s unfair competition
and the state’s Consumers Legal Remedies Act, seeks compensatory
damages for the two stock sales and unspecified punitive
damages.  Marvell, the maker of processors for the BlackBerry phone,
is based in Santa Clara, California.  Andrea Rachman, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t return a voice-mail message after regular business
hours yesterday.  The case is Dai v. Goldman Sachs, CGC-11-510102, Superior
Court of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  