-- 
Asia's Central Banks Want to Add Yuan to Foreign Reserves, Tetangco Says

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-04-12T05:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/asian-central-banks-want-to-add-yuan-to-reserves-tetangco-says.html
Asia’s central banks want to
diversify their growing foreign-exchange reserves into yuan-
denominated debt issued by  China ’s government, according to
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco.  Tetangco, who met with People’s Bank of China as part of an
economic road show, said Asian central banks have agreed to
“look for new avenues for diversification,” according to an e-
mailed statement from the Philippine Department of Finance. 
“Given, however, the traditional investment constraints of 
central banks, I suggest that the Chinese government may consider
issuing more yuan-denominated bonds,” he was quoted as saying.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to promote use of the yuan as
an alternative to the dollar in global trade and investment,
while avoiding a buildup of speculative capital. Cross-border
transactions in the yuan totaled $58.7 billion in 2010, 13 times
the amount a year earlier, Xinhua News Agency reported April 1,
citing the State Administration of Foreign Exchange.  Tetangco’s “comments are ground-breaking as this is the
first time that a regional central bank openly stated the
intention of emerging  Asia  to diversify foreign-exchange
reserves into yuan-denominated assets,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “This is a
coup for China, which has been working hard to internationalize
its currency.”  Weaker Dollar  The yuan slid 0.1 percent to 6.5448 per dollar as of 1 p.m.
in  Shanghai , extending yesterday’s retreat from a 17-year high
of 6.5350 reached April 8, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. It has strengthened 0.8 percent this year,
while the Dollar Index, a gauge of the greenback’s strength, has
dropped 4.9 percent and yesterday recorded its lowest close
since December 2009.  Central banks in Hong Kong and  Thailand  have won approval
to invest in China’s interbank bond market this year.  The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority can invest up to 15
billion yuan, Chief Executive Norman Chan said Jan. 26. The Bank
of Thailand can buy as much as 200 million yuan of debt
denominated in China’s currency and will use its own assets
rather than the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves to finance
purchases, Chairman Chatumongol Sonakul said Feb. 24.  Malaysia, which imposed  capital controls  after the 1998
Asian Financial Crisis, will see increasing use of the yuan in
trade with China, while keeping the dollar as its key reserve
currency, Prime Minister Najib Razak said in an interview in
March. The country eased regulations last August to allow
exporters and imports to use the ringgit and other currencies to
settle trade with foreign companies.  Bursa  Malaysia  Derivatives Bhd., which sets the global
benchmark for crude palm oil, started accepting yuan as margin
collateral for trading in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net 
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  