-- 
ADB Signs Trade Finance Agreement With Georgian Banks

-- B y   D a m i e n   M c G u i n n e s s
-- 
2011-04-12T14:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/asian-development-bank-signs-trade-finance-accord-in-georgia.html
The  Asian Development Bank , a
Manila-based lender, signed an agreement with Georgia’s two
largest banks to increase access to loans for small and medium-
sized businesses in the former Soviet republic.  The accord with JSC Bank of Georgia, the country’s largest
financial institution, and TBC Bank, the No. 2 bank, was the
first ever with the ADB and will help create jobs and boost
economic growth, the Asian bank said today at a press conference
in the capital Tibilisi.  Georgian authorities are seeking to attract more foreign
investment and support entrepreneurism as the  International
Monetary Fund  forecasts the economy to expand 5.5 percent this
year, more than triple the pace of the euro region. The lack of
affordable credit for small businesses remains a hurdle to
widening industrial output and trade.  “This deal will facilitate employment, stability and boost
economic growth,” Lakshmi Venkatachalam, ADB’s vice president
for private-sector financing, said in an interview after the
briefing. “It will also widen  Georgia ’s network of
international trade.”  The loan-guarantee agreement with ADB will help bring down
 interest rates  charged to Georgian businesses “substantially”
from between 13 percent and 15 percent now, TBC Bank estimated.  TBC Bank’s current loan portfolio of just over $200 million
may reach $240 million by the end of the year due to the loan
guarantees, according to the Georgian bank.  Based in the  Philippines  and founded in 1966, the ADB is
funded by 67 member governments. It aims to boost economic
growth in  Asia  and the Pacific region by providing loans, grants
and technical assistance.  In 2010, ADB provided $2.8 billion to transition countries
as part of its Trade Finance Program. Georgia joined ADB in 2007
as its newest member.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  