-- 
Asia Deficits Swell as Soaring Oil Makes Leaders Delay Subsidy Reductions

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-04-13T04:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/asia-deficits-swell-as-soaring-oil-makes-leaders-delay-subsidy-reductions.html
Surging oil and food costs may
swell budget deficits in  Asia  as governments spend on subsidies
to keep consumer prices low and avoid inflation protests that
helped topple regimes in the Middle East this year.  India, Indonesia,  Malaysia  and Thailand, Asia’s biggest
fuel subsidizers, will probably all miss fiscal deficit targets
due to higher oil outlays, according to a March 10 Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  research note . Ten-year bond yields in
India are trading near a six-week high, while those in Malaysia
are close to levels last seen in January.  The threat of further oil-price increases has become a
“key downside risk” for global growth, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on April 11. Oil at $120 per barrel would
shave 0.5 to 1.2 percentage points off gross domestic product
growth this year in most of Asia’s biggest economies, Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. said in a March 10 report.  “If we continue to see this upward pressure on oil prices,
that becomes one of the key risks to pretty much most markets,”
said  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based money manager at
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , which oversees $287 billion.
Crude prices, which traded close to a three-year high at as much
as $112 per barrel last week, may force governments to sell more
debt, pushing up yields across the region, he said.  Citigroup Inc. cut its mid-year target for South Korea’s
Kospi Index by 7 percent on March 8 on concerns higher oil
prices will hurt corporate profits. Indian stocks, Asia’s worst
performers this year after  Japan , are likely to become cheaper
relative to regional equities as oil prices climb and growth
slows, Credit Suisse Group AG said March 21.  Airlines Fall  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) , whose fuel purchases
account for about 60 percent of its operating costs, has dropped
24 percent this year, while  China  Southern Airlines Co., the
country’s second-biggest airline by market value, has fallen 21
percent. PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil company, has gained
14 percent in that time.  Singapore  and  Hong Kong , which don’t subsidize oil costs
for consumers, along with China, have unveiled budgets that give
cash or tax breaks to help low-income earners cope with higher
food and housing costs. Elections due over the next two years in
Thailand,  India , Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Malaysia give
politicians little incentive to cut debt as they strive to keep
gas and food prices low for Asia’s 4 billion people.  ‘Inappropriate Spending’  “These governments feel very susceptible to populations
that are under pressure, especially from food price increases,
so they will basically do everything they can to try and head
off trouble,” said Jim Walker, managing director at Hong Kong-
based Asianomics Ltd. and former chief economist at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, in a phone interview. “That means subsidies
and sometimes inappropriate spending from the public purse.”  India’s bill to keep cooking gas, kerosene and diesel
prices low for the country’s 800 million poor people threatens
to undermine Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s goal of
slashing the  budget deficit .  His plan to reduce total subsidies to decrease the budget
shortfall to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the next
fiscal year from 5.1 percent looks “ambitious at best,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a March 9 report.  Federal and state debt levels in India, which meets about
three-quarters of its annual energy needs from imports, are
among Asia’s highest at 73 percent of gross domestic product,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation will hold
five regional and state-level elections starting in April,
testing support for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government.  Biting the Bullet  Indian policy makers “will probably bite the bullet and
absorb the subsidies for a few months,” said Killol Pandya, who
manages about $300 million as head of fixed-income investments
at Daiwa Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd. in Mumbai. “After
the election, they could bring about the price hikes.”  The conflict in  Libya , holder of Africa’s largest crude
reserves, has pushed oil prices up about 20 percent since the
first large protest on Feb. 17, six days after Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak stepped down. Uprisings across the
region gained steam after Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali’s promises to lower bread and sugar prices failed to placate
street protesters as global food costs surged to a record.  Oil has closed above $100 per barrel for all but two days
since March 2 and had its biggest two-day drop in almost 11
months yesterday on investor concerns high prices were hurting
the global economy. Moves to scale down subsidies three years
ago when oil surged to a record high of $147.27 per barrel led
to street protests in India,  Indonesia  and Malaysia.  Building Pressures?  “If oil prices keep on climbing, in the next few months
pressures will build,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Prices exceeding
$140 per barrel “will be the terrain where something can break,
when governments will have to make some big decisions.”  The yield on India’s generic 10-year government bonds
increased 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.99
percent on April 11, while the most-active 8.13 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 yielded 8.18 percent, the highest
level in two months. Benchmark 10-year bonds in Malaysia yielded
4.08 percent today and reached an eight-week high of 4.11
percent on April 4.  Malaysia’s fuel subsidies bill could jump to 14 billion
ringgit ($4.6 billion) this year if local fuel prices aren’t
raised, Prime Minister Najib Razak told reporters on March 9.
His government is “looking at” whether it needs to pause
subsidy cuts in the short term, he said in a March 29 interview.  Indonesian Delay  Thai Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s plans to hold an
election in June or July will make it difficult for him to lift
a 30-baht ($1) per liter cap on diesel prices, Bangkok-based
Phatra Securities  said  on March 4.  Thailand  may need to curb
diesel subsidies as funding runs out, likely in July, Finance
Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said March 28.  Indonesian lawmakers agreed on March 21 to delay a plan to
ban most Jakarta residents from buying subsidized fuel that was
set to take effect in April. Southeast Asia’s biggest economy
has  subsidized  pump prices since the 1950s and moves to reduce
them since then have triggered protests, including those in 1998
that helped end dictator Suharto’s three-decade rule.  Indonesia’s fiscal deficit target of 1.8 percent of GDP
this year gives it more room to maneuver than Malaysia, which is
targeting a budget gap of 5.4 percent of GDP, the OCBC report
showed. Thailand’s budget deficit may be 5 percent this year,
Korn said March 28.  Feeling the Pain  “Fiscally, India and Malaysia are feeling the pain already,
while in Indonesia it’s many months away,” Robert Prior- Wandesforde, head of Southeast Asia economics at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said in a telephone interview from Singapore.
“Thailand is somewhere in between.”  In China, Premier Wen Jiabao told visiting business
executives, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon and Royal Dutch Shell Plc CEO  Peter Voser ,
on March 21 that he was “surprised and shocked” to see the
price of oil had exceeded $100 a barrel.  China responded to the recent drought in major wheat-
producing provinces with direct subsidies to farmers, while
 South Korea  froze electricity and gas prices during the first
half of 2011, World Bank staff said in a March 21  report .  “The increased use of subsidies to counter rising food and
fuel prices presents an important risk to the fiscal outlook,”
the  World Bank ’s East Asia and Pacific Economic Update report
said. “Additional increases in food or fuel prices will not
only exacerbate the cost of these policies but may also prompt
governments to adopt new measures.”  Debt Ratings  Oil prices would need to climb to 2008 levels before
budgets face enough pressure to trigger debt rating changes,
said Kim Eng Tan, a credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  Vietnam  is the only Asian country with a negative rating
outlook from S&P because of concerns over financial management,
according to a March 7 report. The outlook is positive for
Indonesia and stable for every other country in the region,
including India, a rating S&P reaffirmed on April 6.  Still, “the risk premium is up,” Singapore-based Tan said
in a telephone interview. “If it becomes a real supply shock,
as in a major supplier stops exporting, then we are in for some
really tough times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  