-- 
Stocks, Commodities Fall on Japan Nuclear Crisis; Bonds, Swiss Franc Gain

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-12T20:20:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/asian-stocks-commodities-drop-on-japan-quake-growth-outlook-yen-climbs.html
Stocks fell the most in a month,
led by emerging markets, while commodities slid and Treasuries
and the Swiss franc rose as earthquakes struck  Japan . U.S.
shares sank as Alcoa Inc.’s sales trailed estimates. The euro
pared gains after topping $1.45 for the first time in 15 months.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities in 45
countries dropped 1.3 percent at 4 p.m. in New York as the MSCI
gauge of developing-nation stocks retreated 1.9 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.8 percent, paring a tumble of
as much as 1.1 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields fell nine basis
points to 3.50 percent, the franc strengthened versus all 16
major peers and the yen rose against 15. Oil capped the biggest
two-day drop in 11 months amid signs prices above $100 a barrel
are hurting demand.  Japan was hit by two earthquakes stronger than magnitude 6
today and the government raised the severity level of its
nuclear crisis to the highest, matching the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster. The country’s Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister
 Kaoru Yosano  said the March 11 quake may hurt the economy more
than forecast. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
may post decreases in first-quarter revenue this week, analysts’
forecasts showed, following Alcoa’s report yesterday.  “Investors are taking some risk off the table,” said
Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “I don’t think there were any
illusions that Japan was not one of the most serious nuclear
accidents we’ve seen. In addition, there’s the earnings season
over here. Alcoa disappointed investors. We expect all of them
to do a little better than estimates. So, if they miss
forecasts, that’s a double disappointment.”  PetroChina Drops  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell for a second day as
the 4.9 percent slide by PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest
oil producer, pushed the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index 1.8
percent lower. Russia’s Micex Index sank 2.5 percent, the most
since March 10. Benchmark gauges in Hungary, the  Czech Republic ,
 Egypt ,  South Africa , Taiwan and  South Korea  retreated at least
1.4 percent.  Alcoa sank 6 percent, the most since August, to lead losses
in 23 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after
saying earnings were curbed by a weaker  U.S. dollar  and higher
costs for energy and raw materials. Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Chevron Corp. fell at least 2.3 percent to pace declines that
sent energy producers to the steepest decline among 10 groups in
the  S&P 500 , which slid for a fourth day in its longest losing
streak since November.  ‘Recovery Was Progressing’  Stocks maintained losses even as directors at Federal
Reserve regional banks saw the economy improving despite higher
energy prices and cuts in  government spending  at all levels,
according to minutes of Board of Governors’ meetings in February
and March.  “Federal Reserve Bank directors generally viewed recent
information as showing the economic recovery was progressing,”
the minutes said, adding that directors saw “downside risks
posed by rising energy and commodity prices and by increased
fiscal stringency.”  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
rose to the highest level this month. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on credit
worthiness, added 1 basis point to a mid-price of 94.9 basis
points as, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  European Shares  Almost eight stocks declined for each that gained in the
Stoxx  Europe  600. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
company, and Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest, slid at least
2.8 percent in  London .  Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  sank 7.6 percent after
Aviva Plc, Britain’s second-biggest insurer by market value,
sold a 15 percent stake in the Dutch insurance company.  German investor confidence fell more than forecast in April
after Europe’s central bank raised  interest rates . The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its
index, which aims to predict developments six months in advance,
slid to 7.6 from 14.1 in March. Economists expected a reading of
11.3, based on the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The yen and Swiss franc rose as the earthquakes in Japan
discouraged demand for higher-yielding assets. The yen
strengthened versus all major counterparts except the franc, led
by gains of more than 1.6 percent versus the Mexican peso, South
African rand, Canadian dollar and South Korean won.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency raised the
rating for its nuclear disaster triggered by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami to 7, the highest level. The accident at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station was previously rated 5 on the
global scale, the same as the 1979 partial reactor meltdown at
Three Mile Island in  Pennsylvania .  ‘Incrementally Better’  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said its stricken nuclear plant,
located about 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo, may
spew more radiation than Chernobyl before the crisis is
contained.  The top American commander in the region said the situation
at Japan’s Fukushima nuclear power plant is “improving every
day,” and the government’s increase of the accident-severity
rating doesn’t indicate the status is worsening.  “I think it’s actually getting incrementally better,”
Navy Admiral Robert Willard, the head of the U.S. military’s
Pacific Command, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“We regard it as static, not yet completely stable, but it’s
improving every day,” he said.  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.4477 after earlier climbing
above $1.45 for the first time since January 2010 as the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Commission considered
an 80 billion-euro ($116 billion) aid program for Portugal.  Two-Day Oil Slide  Crude extended its biggest two-day drop since May 2010. Oil
for May delivery fell 3.3 percent to $106.25 a barrel today and
is down 5.8 percent over the past two sessions. Today’s slide
came after the International Energy Agency and International
Monetary Fund said that prices above $100 a barrel are starting
to hurt the global economy and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast
a “substantial” retreat. The IEA reported signs of an
oil-demand slowdown in a monthly report today.  May futures surged 4.5 percent to $112.79 last week, the
biggest gain in more than a month.  “It looks like last week’s strong gain was overdone,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker with Tradition Energy
in Stamford,  Connecticut . “We’re heading for the $105 level,
which was established as a base before the most recent run-up.
There’s been a consensus that higher prices would have a
detrimental impact on economic growth,” he said. “Once prices
crested at $113, it looks like a lot of people thought things
had gotten out of hand.”  Wheat and lead lost more than 4.5 percent to lead declines
in 23 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI index of raw materials,
which fell 2.6 percent for its biggest drop in almost a month.
Cocoa had the only gain, rising 0.9 percent, amid concern that
exports from Ivory Coast, the world’s largest producer, may be
delayed as conflicts from a civil war left ports and banks in
chaos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 