-- 
Astronaut Bean Does Space-Scapes Laced With Moon Dust: Interview

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/astronaut-bean-paints-space-scapes-laced-with-actual-moon-dust-interview.html
Just over four decades ago, Alan Bean, clad in a bulky white spacesuit, backed down the ladder of
the Lunar Module to become the fourth man to walk on the Moon. A
few months earlier, of course,  Neil Armstrong  had the honor of
stamping mankind’s first boot-print up there.  “I didn’t have any first words,” said Bean simply. “I
didn’t think anything philosophical. It was all business. That’s
why they pick you: You can get the job done, instead of for
other things.”  Bean was part of Apollo 12, the second manned lunar
landing. He and Mission Commander Charles “Pete” Conrad spent 31
hours in the Sea of Storms collecting rock samples and visiting
the old (1967) unmanned Surveyor 3 probe to retrieve parts for
analysis later back on Earth.  When I called him recently, Bean was at his home in
Houston, where he spends his days firmly on the ground with a
brush in his hand.  Since retiring from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration in 1981, the former Apollo 12 and Sky Lab 3
astronaut paints “space-scapes,” for want of a better term. They
are based on his own space experiences and the adventures of
astronauts from other Apollo missions.  He said he was just finishing a piece on
moonwalker/geologist Harrison Schmitt on the last manned lunar
mission, Apollo 17, in December 1972.  Moon Man Painting  Bean, 79, works in acrylics. He accepts commissions
(Schmitt is for a patron in  Chicago ), which handsomely
supplement what he describes as a “modest” pension from the
government. Paintings of Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin -- part of
his “First Men” series -- fetched $227,000 each.  In line with his engineering roots, Bean determines asking
price by the size of a painting. He currently charges $190 per
square inch, and says he will up that by 10-15 percent soon.  But he also feels compelled, he says, to leave a painterly
record of his time in space. These are personal pictures that
might not appeal to the collector.  “Deploying the Lunar Module from the side of the LEM.
Nobody wants that -- it just isn’t human enough,” he says.  Bean maintains a structured schedule akin to his days as a
Navy test pilot. He gets up at 4:45 a.m., seven days a week,
then heads out for breakfast. “I like donuts,” he
confides.  Afterward, he does some exercise, then alternates between
painting and what he calls taking care of business: “Like what
I’m doing with you now,” he noted. He’s in bed by 10 p.m.  Moon Dust Mix  Bean adds moon dust and spacecraft relics (tiny pieces of
the charred heat shield from the Apollo 12 Command Module) to
his paint mix. While  NASA  never gave astronauts personal moon
rocks, it did allow them to keep their dusty patches of flags,
Apollo emblems and name tags. Bean has four from the outside of
his spacesuit and five from his Portable Life Support System
backpack.  I asked him how he felt cutting up his moon garb. “At
first, I hated to do it because they’re worth a lot -- similar
patches have sold at auction for $750,000 -- but I said to
myself, ‘I’m using up the rest of my life to do this, so I’d
better make these paintings as good as I can.’”  He does have a sense of humor about it: “If I had known
then I was going to do this, I would have walked over to Pete
[Conrad] and said, ‘Hey, rub some more dirt on this patch.’”  Bean has never been commissioned to paint a UFO. He laughs
at the idea. “We saw things that would make us say: ‘What is
that’? But then Mission Control would tell us a satellite was
passing 500 miles below you.”  He doesn’t rule out the existence of other life forms, but
doesn’t believe the Earth has been visited. If extraterrestrials
do come, he thinks it will be a good thing.  “My belief is that as cultures become more advanced, they
become more altruistic,” he said. “Whoever comes is sure to be
more advanced than we are; otherwise they couldn’t get here.
They might say, ‘Hey, those guys have  birth defects . Why don’t
we just give them plans for this invention we made 500 years
ago? They can put it on a woman’s tummy and fix those birth
defects.’”  Being First  Like most Americans, Bean remembers clearly where he was
when Armstrong was struggling to find a suitable landing site
for Apollo 11. Watching from mission control, he was torn
between a sense of team effort and competitive ambition.  “Let’s say you’re the backup quarterback in the  Super Bowl ,
and the game is on the line -- and the quarterback’s limping,”
he said. “You’re thinking, ‘He’s a better quarterback and we
want to win the game, but, at the same time, maybe I ought to
get in there -- I can win the game.’  “That’s the feeling. Everybody wishes they were the first
man on the moon.”  Alan Bean’s work can be seen at:
 http://www.alanbeangallery.com .  (Jim Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:  jclash@explorers.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 