-- 
AT&T’s Purchase of T-Mobile Questioned on Prices by FCC Official

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-04-12T15:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/at-t-s-t-mobile-usa-takeover-questioned-by-fcc-official-over-price-impact.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
acquisition of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s  T-Mobile USA  raises
questions about whether the deal would lead to consumer price
increases, the U.S.  Federal Communications Commission ’s top
economist says.  Chief  FCC economist Jonathan Baker also said in a March 31
speech at a Washington antitrust lawyers’ conference that the
agency should determine whether the deal would leave wireless
customers without viable alternatives. These concerns should be
weighed against the possibility of technological breakthroughs
and whether cost savings would be passed on to consumers, Baker
said. His remarks received little notice at the time beyond
antitrust circles.  “It’s just a signal that the FCC is going to be examining
these issues very carefully,” Robert  Lande , a University of
Baltimore law professor who attended Baker’s speech and
confirmed its content, said in an interview. He said Baker’s
concerns are the basis of “a tough standard for approving a
merger.”  The proposed acquisition, announced March 20, would
combine the second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless operators
to create the nation’s largest. If approved by the FCC and the
 Justice Department , the deal would leave three major wireless
providers in the U.S., including  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  Verizon
Wireless , which is co-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   During the speech, Baker said his comments reflected his
own views and not that of any of the five FCC members. He said
he was laying out what he thought the FCC should examine and
wasn’t taking a position on whether the transaction should be
approved.  ‘Very Steep Climb’  Michael Copps, one of three Democrats on the FCC, said in a
C-Span interview broadcast earlier this month that AT&T faces a
“very steep climb” to win his vote.  Encouraging competition should be the main focus of the
FCC’s review, said Mignon Clyburn, another Democratic commission
member, in an April 8 speech. It takes the votes of three FCC
members to approve the acquisition.  Sprint Nextel, the third-largest wireless provider, said
the government should block it, and consumer groups say the deal
would reduce competition and increase prices and should be
vetoed.  The purchase won’t wipe out the benefits of Bellevue,
Washington-based T-Mobile’s service, said Michael Balmoris, an
AT&T spokesman.  “Your current T-Mobile phones will continue to work fine
once the transaction is complete, and you will be able to keep
your existing price plan,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  City by City  In his speech, Baker said it may make sense to have the
purchase’s effect on competition analyzed on both a nationwide
and city-by-city basis.  Taking into account the whole U.S. market, a combination of
Dallas-based AT&T and T-Mobile may raise the Herfindahl-
Hirschman Index, an accepted measure of market concentration, to
3,216 from 2,848, according to a Bloomberg analysis. Any score
above 2,500 can indicate a highly concentrated market, and an
increase of more than 200 points is “likely to enhance market
power,” according to federal  guidelines .  These scores, while not conclusive, often are used by
antitrust investigators as starting points in their probes,
Lande said.  AT&T officials have urged a city-by-city examination of the
deal.  Baker, in his speech, also said the absence of such
innovative companies as T-Mobile in any market is a concern.  Price Fluctuation  One way T-Mobile has sought to distinguish itself is on
price. In a January slide  presentation  to investors, Deutsche
Telekom Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann highlighted T-
Mobile’s effort to offer the most inexpensive data services.  In one graphic, Obermann claimed T-Mobile could save a
family of five more than $400 compared with AT&T, Verizon and
Sprint.  An FCC review should look at whether other wireless
companies have the technological or financial resources to
counterbalance a combined AT&T and T-Mobile by improving their
technology, revamping products and increasing production, Baker
said.  Beyond antitrust concerns, the FCC in its review would
examine whether a deal is in the public’s interest, he said. If
necessary, the FCC would impose conditions before its approval,
he said.  Sometimes fixes aren’t possible, and deals such as MCI
WorldCom Inc.’s bid to buy Sprint as well as EchoStar
Communications Corp.’s proposed purchase of Hughes Electronics
Corp.’s DirecTV had to be abandoned, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  