-- 
Attorneys General Foreclosure Settlement Terms May Backfire, Study Says

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-04-12T21:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/attorneys-general-foreclosure-settlement-terms-may-backfire-study-says.html
A proposal by state  attorneys
general  to require more mortgage modifications may backfire and
add as much as $10 billion a year in costs, according to a study
financed in part by loan servicers.  “The biggest concern is that it would not provide any
lasting benefits to homeowners and it will have significant
unintended consequences that make the housing situation worse,”
said Eric J. Higgins, a finance professor at  Kansas State
University  who wrote the report with professors Charles W. Calomiris of Columbia University Graduate School of Business and
Joseph R. Mason of  Louisiana State University .  The report examines a 27-page term sheet sent to the five
largest U.S. mortgage servicers as a starting point for
negotiations to settle allegations of abusive foreclosure
practices. The proposals, which cover almost every aspect of
servicing, would require lenders to consider reducing loan
balances, freeze foreclosures while exhausting modifications
possibilities and follow a timetable for the workout process,
including borrower appeals.  The terms set out by the attorneys general would increase
mortgage defaults because current borrowers would deliberately
miss payments, hoping to qualify for debt reductions, the study
said. The modification requirements could add up to 280 days to
the time it takes lenders to seize properties and increase the
inventory of foreclosed homes by $297 billion.  The costs of the delays, training and hiring of employees,
and writing down principal would be passed onto consumers,
according to the report, which estimates $3.7 billion in annual
one-time expenses and $7 billion to $10 billion in annual
recurring outlays. That would equate to an increase in mortgage
rates of 0.20 percentage point to 0.45 percentage point a year.  More Strategic Defaults  “There is substantial evidence that mandated modifications
would do little to assist homeowners who would not qualify for
existing modification programs,” the paper said. “This limited
benefit must be measured against the very real risk that a new
program would backfire by creating considerably more strategic
defaults than the defaults it seeks to cure.”  American Banker reported the study earlier today.  Federal banking regulators are expected this week to
announce separate agreements with as many as 14 servicers to
strengthen their systems for handling foreclosure documents and
communicating with delinquent borrowers. These settlements may
not include loan-modification requirements.  Diane Thompson, an attorney with the National Consumer Law
Center in  Boston , said the study is “little more than
speculation and what-ifs” because the proposals in the term
sheet are vague. The 280-day delay is overstated and some
aspects of the time table could speed up the process.  Iowa Attorney General  “The AG settlement should actually increase the pace of
legitimate foreclosures by forcing servicers to modify or
foreclose in a timely way, as opposed to endless stalling,
losing documents and delay we see now,” Thompson said in an e-
mail.  “This is a flawed study based on inaccurate assumptions
and it reaches grossly inaccurate conclusions,” said Iowa
Attorney General Thomas J. Miller, who is leading the states’
effort. “This study was bought and paid for by the industry,
and that fact is reflected throughout.”  Mason, whose teaching position is endowed by the Louisiana
Bankers Association, said he has been upfront about the funding,
and it hasn’t influenced his research.  “It’s not biased,” Higgins said in a telephone interview.
“We approach the project independently whoever is funding it. I
find it interesting that privately funded research is all of
sudden biased where government or regulatory funding is not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 