-- 
Axiata, Coastal, MAA, Notion VTEC: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-12T00:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/axiata-coastal-maa-notion-vtec-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,544.  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  : The mobile phone operator
proposed a share buyback of as much as 10 percent of its shares,
according to a stock exchange statement. The company will seek
shareholder approval for the proposal, Axiata said in a
statement. The stock fell 1.9 percent to 4.70 ringgit.  Coastal Contracts Bhd. (COCO)  : The shipbuilder said it
won sales orders valued at 61 million ringgit ($20 million).
Including the new contracts, the company now has about 665
million ringgit of vessel sales orders awaiting delivery to
customers up to 2012, Coastal Contracts said in a statement. The
shares slid 0.3 percent to 3.42 ringgit.        Harbour-Link Group Bhd. (HALG)  : The engineering group
won a 75.2 million-ringgit contract to supply cranes to Bintulu
Port Sdn., according to a company statement. The stock fell 2.6
percent to 1.11 ringgit.  MAA Holdings Bhd. (MAA)  : The insurer has applied for
approval from Malaysia’s central bank to enter into an agreement
to sell its Malaysian Assurance Alliance Bhd. unit and four
other subsidiaries to Zurich Insurance Co., according to a
company statement. MAA added 1.5 percent to 1.36 ringgit.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  : Malaysia’s biggest bank by
assets will start trading ex-dividend today, according to a
stock exchange filing. This means that investors buying the
stock from today won’t be entitled to the company’s dividend of
28 sen a share. Maybank, as the company is known, slipped 0.1
percent to 9.19 ringgit.        Mitrajaya Holdings Bhd. (MHB)  : The Malaysian
construction company won a 25.6 million-ringgit contract to
build houses for Putrajaya Holdings Sdn., according to a company
statement. The stock dropped 2.4 percent to 2.41 ringgit.        Notion VTEC Bhd. (NVB)  : The metal processor and tools
maker said its controlling shareholders have been approached by
a party who wants to acquire the entire business of the company.
Notion VTEC hasn’t received any proposal yet and negotiations
are still on-going, the company said in a statement. The stock
rose 1.4 percent to 2.19 ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  