-- 
Bank of Korea Leaves Key Interest Rate Unchanged as It Weighs Growth Risks

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-12T06:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/bank-of-korea-leaves-key-interest-rate-unchanged-as-it-weighs-growth-risks.html
The  Bank of Korea  kept interest
rates unchanged after two increases this year, opting to see how
rising  oil prices  and  Japan ’s earthquake will affect economic
growth amid accelerating inflation.  Governor Kim Choong Soo left the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate at 3 percent after boosting it by a quarter of
percentage point each in January and March, the central bank
said in a statement in Seoul today. The decision was predicted
by 11 of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  South Korean policy makers are struggling to tame inflation
without choking off an export-led recovery. The central bank may
soon resume raising interest rates and allow gains by the won
after costlier oil and food caused consumer-price gains to
exceed the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling every month so far
this year. Kim said the bank wants to “normalize” rates.  “We expect they will raise the rate in May or June,” Kwon Goohoon, Seoul-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The Korean won is
likely to play -- it has been playing -- a very important role
in reducing inflation and inflationary expectations.”  Kwon said he expects the central bank to increase interest
rates by half a percentage point more this year.  The won dropped 0.85 percent to 1,093.55 per dollar as of
2:35 p.m. in Seoul, according to the data compiled by
Bloomberg, while the Kospi stock index fell 1.36 percent.  ‘Normalize’ Rates  “We’re determined to normalize interest rates,” Kim, the
central bank governor, told reporters today. “We will move ahead
neither too slowly nor too fast, and in a forward-looking manner,
as we’re recovering from a crisis.”  Kim also said the policy decision today wasn’t unanimous,
and that  core inflation  may exceed consumer inflation by year-
end. Core inflation, which excludes seasonal or exceptional
price moves, was at 3.3 percent in March.  The governor’s remark on core inflation “implies that the
Bank of Korea remains mindful of underlying inflation
pressures,”  Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report after the rate decision.  The nation’s consumer inflation will likely ease from this
month as food prices are expected to stabilize because of cold
weather and an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, Finance
Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said last week.  Consumer Confidence   Domestic private consumption may slow as consumer
confidence fell to the lowest level in almost two years in March,
the  finance ministry  said in its latest monthly economic report
last week. It also said the economy is facing “higher
uncertainty” due to volatile oil prices, the effects of Japan’s
earthquake last month, and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Strengthening exports and recovering domestic demand last
year drove the fastest growth since 2002 in  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy, stoking inflation pressure and prompting the
central bank to raise interest rate from a record-low 2 percent
since early July.  President  Lee Myung Bak  declared “war” on inflation in
January, saying it must be contained at 3 percent, a level
exceeded in each of the past seven months.  “It will be just a brief pause” in increasing interest
rates “as inflation pressures are still intolerably high,”
Park Sang Hyun, chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul , said before the announcement.  Accelerating Inflation  Inflation has accelerated since rates were increased in
January, with consumer price gains reaching a 29-month high in
March and breaching the central bank’s target of average
inflation between 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012. The
monetary authority predicts inflation will accelerate to 3.5
percent this year from 2.9 percent in 2010.  High inflation is likely to persist in the coming months,
the Bank of Korea said in a statement today. The bank said it
will put a greater emphasis on “ensuring that the basis for
 price stability  is firmly anchored while the economy continues
its sound growth.”  The central bank expects 4.5 percent growth this year, a
prediction that may be revised tomorrow. Last year, the economy
grew 6.2 percent. Exports jumped 30.3 percent to record $48.6
billion last month.  The  International Monetary Fund  projected yesterday that
 South Korea ’s consumer inflation will accelerate to 4.5 percent
this year. The IMF forecast the nation’s economic growth will
slow to 4.2 percent next year from 4.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  