-- 
Bank of Korea Says Inflation May Accelerate Faster Than Earlier Forecast

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-13T01:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/bank-of-korea-sees-consumer-price-inflation-quickening-to-3-9-this-year.html
South Korea ’s inflation will
probably accelerate more than previously forecast while economic
growth stays in line with expectations, the Bank of Korea said.  Consumer prices may increase 3.9 percent in 2011, faster
than the previous estimate of 3.5 percent, the central bank
forecast in a statement in Seoul today. Gross domestic product
is projected to expand 4.5 percent this year and 4.8 percent in
2012 after a 6.2 percent gain in 2010, it said. The bank
predicted in December growth of 4.7 percent for next year.  Accelerating inflation spurred by economic growth and
higher oil and food prices may prompt the central bank to raise
interest rates three more times this year, according to Barclays
Plc. Bank of  Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday he
will take monetary policy action “neither too slowly nor too
fast,” after keeping the benchmark rate unchanged.  The increased inflation forecast “is a hawkish signal that
reinforces our call for more rate hikes this year,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB.
He said he predicts at least two more interest-rate increases
this year, and a strengthening in the won to 1,050 to the dollar
by the end of the year.  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,092.85 per dollar as of 9:18
a.m. in Seoul, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg,
while the Kospi stock index gained 0.1 percent.  Oil prices   The central bank also estimated the economy grew 1.5
percent during the first quarter and expanded 4.1 percent from a
year earlier. Economic growth was bolstered by exports. Overseas
shipments jumped 30.3 percent to record-high $48.6 billion in
March, according to a government report on April 1.  Consumer inflation in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy will
accelerate to 4.5 percent this year, the  International Monetary
Fund  projected this week. It forecast that economic growth will
slow to 4.2 percent next year from 4.5 percent this year.  The threat of further oil-price increases has become a
“key downside risk” for global growth, according to the IMF.
Oil will rise 36 percent in 2011 to $107.16 a barrel, based on
the average prices of U.K. Brent, Dubai and West Texas
Intermediate crudes, the IMF said. The January forecast was for
oil at $89.50 a barrel this year.  Inflation Ceiling  The  Bank of Korea  itself projects oil prices to be at $105
per barrel this year, compared with its previous estimate of $87.
Crude oil for May delivery fell $3.67 to $106.25 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the lowest settlement
since March 30.  Higher oil and food prices have pushed consumer inflation
beyond the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling every month since
the start of the year, prompting the bank to raise rates by a
quarter of a percentage point each in January and March.
Consumer price climbed 4.7 percent from a year earlier in March,
the biggest increase since October 2008.  Governor Kim said high inflation will likely persist in
coming months and that core prices excluding oil and food may
gain faster than consumer prices by the end of this year.  “We’re determined to normalize  interest rates ,” Kim said
yesterday after keeping the target rate at 3 percent. “We will
move ahead neither too slowly nor too fast, and in a forward-
looking manner, as we’re recovering from a crisis.” The central
bank began increasing the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate
from a record-low 2 percent last July.  Jobless Rate  The Korean central bank may increase its target rate by 25
basis points in May, July and September, Wai Ho Leong, a
Singapore-based regional economist at Barclays Plc, said
yesterday in a report.  The bank today also forecast that the jobless rate will
decline to 3.4 percent next year from 3.6 percent this year. The
nation’s current-account surplus is expected to shrink to $11
billion in 2011 from $28.2 billion last year because of surge in
oil price.  South Korea’s unemployment rate stayed at a one-year high
in March as an economic recovery encouraged people to seek jobs.  The jobless rate was at 4 percent, unchanged from February,
Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today, citing seasonally
adjusted figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  