-- 
Barclays Said to Seek How Much Lehman Brokerage Assets It Owes or Is Owed

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-12T18:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/barclays-said-to-seek-how-much-lehman-brokerage-assets-it-owes-or-is-owed.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , after defeating
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s bid to seize $11 billion for an
alleged “windfall” on its purchase of Lehman’s brokerage, has
been trying for seven weeks to confirm how much it owes or is
owed on the deal, said a person familiar with the case.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  granted
London-based Barclays at least $800 million of “clearance box”
assets, which are certain assets held to clear trades. Peck also
ordered Barclays in his Feb. 22 ruling to return any cash it
took to James Giddens, the trustee liquidating the remnants of
the brokerage, and for now give up its claim to other brokerage
assets.  Giddens said in February that he took Peck’s ruling to mean
that he had won $4.8 billion in assets from Barclays. His chief
trial lawyer, William R. Maguire, said at the same time that
Peck’s ruling meant that Barclays, the U.K.’s third-biggest
bank, should pay at least $1.4 billion in margin assets, and
relinquish its claim to another $1.2 billion.  Peck in his ruling said Barclays should get no cash at all
from the deal and denied its claim to margin accounts and other
assets. He didn’t define cash or specify the dollar value of
some of the assets. Yesterday, after expelling reporters from
court, Peck told Barclays to work with Giddens to obtain
documentation on how much money is in the accounts, said the
person, who declined to be named because the conference was
private.  A hearing was set for May 9, the person said.  Barclays Gain  At stake is whether Barclays, which recorded a 2.3 billion-
pound ($3.8 billion) gain on the deal, needs to write down any
of that amount, or appeal Peck’s ruling. Reflected in the gain
was some money held in margin accounts, according to deposition
notes and court testimony of Gary Romain, the bank’s accounting
specialist for the acquisition.  “An appeal will probably not have much chance of
success,” said George Kuney, a professor at the University of
Tennessee College of Law in Knoxville who teaches bankruptcy and
contract law. “Bankruptcy Judge Peck’s opinion is thorough and
well written.”  Barclays was the sole bidder for defunct Lehman’s North
American business in the 2008 credit crisis, taking 10,000
employees and giving 72,000 brokerage customers access to $40
billion in frozen assets.  Preparing to challenge Giddens’s interpretation of Peck’s
ruling, Barclays asked the trustee to document whether margin
assets are worth $4.8 billion or some other sum of money, said
the person familiar with the case.  Treasury Debt  The bank believes that about $1.5 billion probably isn’t in
cash, and so belongs to Barclays, the person said. The margin
accounts included U.S. Treasury debt with maturities of more
than three months, which aren’t considered cash equivalents, the
person said. Barclays also is claiming part of the margin
backing Lehman’s trading operations, which it took over.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to
comment. Jake Sargent, a spokesman for the trustee, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Last year’s bankruptcy trial had more than 30 days of
testimony. It pitted Barclays, which gave Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  as much as 10.1 million pounds ($16.5
million) in salary, bonuses and stock last year, against Lehman,
whose creditors will get an average of 18.6 cents on the dollar,
without lawsuit proceeds, the bankrupt company has said.  In the same trial, the U.K. bank wrestled for key accounts
with the Lehman brokerage trustee.  Besides the clearance box assets, Peck said Barclays might
get securities in the reserve accounts later if there isn’t a
deficit for customers. The bank must forgo margin assets, he
ruled. He directed Barclays, Lehman and the brokerage trustee to
write orders interpreting his ruling.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 