-- 
Billionaire Lee Buying Own Stock May Lead to Record Share Sale

-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-12T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/billionaire-lee-s-buying-of-henderson-stock-may-lead-to-record-share-sale.html
Billionaire Lee Shau-kee invested
HK$10 billion ($1.3 billion) in Henderson Land Development Co.
and said he plans further share purchases which may lead to a
record for a stock sale by a listed Hong Kong-owned company.  Lee and his family exercised warrants at HK$58 each, a 5.9
percent premium to the latest close, as it wouldn’t be easy to
buy the bulk of stock in the market, Henderson said in a
statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange late yesterday. Lee
and his family have also bought 28.2 million shares since March
18, according to the statement.  The developer stands to raise as much as HK$24.9 billion
when all 429 million warrants are converted to shares at the
HK$58 price, eclipsing Hang Lung Properties Ltd.’s HK$10.9
billion proceeds from a November placement, the biggest cash
call by a Hong Kong-owned company. Companies listed in Hong Kong
that have majority shareholders based elsewhere have raised more.  “Lee has been increasing his stake in the company; this is
just another similar move,” said Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. “The company may need money
and that’s why Lee exercised the warrants. That could be for
expansion or acquiring sites.”  The stock surged 20 percent since March 17, the day before
Lee started buying the stock, more than twice the Hang Seng
Index’s gain.  ‘Large Retail Following’  “Lee has quite a large retail following and a lot of
people do follow what he buys,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director
of institutional sales at OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd.
“Normally these guys buy the stock when it’s trading around the
lows, so there will be a lot of speculation” on the
billionaire’s plan for the company, he said before the
announcement.  Henderson last closed above HK$58 on Nov. 17. The stock
fell 2.1 percent to HK$54.75 at the close in Hong Kong yesterday,
compared with HK$45.60, its low for the year, before Lee started
buying. The warrants issued last year expire June 1.  “Mr. Lee exercised the warrants as he has confidence in
the outlook of the company,” said Bonnie Ngan, a spokeswoman at
Henderson. “He will continue to increase his stakes in the
company in the next couple of months at reasonable prices.”  Lee owned about two-thirds of the Hong Kong developer
before yesterday’s announcement on warrants.  Investors typically exercise warrants when stock values
exceed the strike price to profit from the transaction. That
means Henderson’s shares need to exceed the HK$58 strike price
before the June 1 expiration date to draw investors to exercise
their warrants.  Henderson’s net debt-to-equity ratio at the end of last
year was 19.4 percent, the highest since 1999. Its cash balance
last year fell 44 percent to HK$9.8 billion.  The company was investigated by the government and raided
by police last year after sales of its luxury apartments,
including one it claimed would have fetched a world record price,
fell through.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Gordon  in Hong Kong at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  