-- 
Biotech-Planting Flexibility Backed by EU Parliament Committee

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-12T10:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/biotech-planting-flexibility-backed-by-eu-parliament-committee.html
A European Union plan to let
individual EU countries ban the cultivation of genetically
modified crops won support from an environmental panel, setting
up a potential clash with governments that oppose the step.  The European Parliament’s  environment committee  endorsed a
draft law that would give national governments an opt-out from
rules making the EU a single market for goods. The aim is to
accelerate approvals at EU level of applications to plant gene-
modified seeds made by companies such as  Monsanto Co. (MON)   The 27-nation EU is split over the safety of such foods,
slowing EU permission to grow them and prompting complaints by
the U.S. and other trade partners. Under current practices,
national authorities throughout the EU have a say over approvals
because the bloc’s common-market rules require that a product
sold in one member be allowed for sale in the others.  “It is necessary to respect the rights of the member
states when it comes to the use of their own territory,”
 Corinne Lepage , a French member steering the measures through
the EU Parliament, said in a report that the environment
committee endorsed today in Brussels. The full 736-seat
Parliament, due to vote on the matter in June, and national
governments need to give their backing in a process that can
take another year or more.  Governments threatened six months ago to reject the
 proposal , which was made last July by the European Commission.
Environment ministers from countries including France and
 Germany  said in October that the draft rules may splinter
European trade policy.  Superweeds  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, wants to expand
 Europe ’s share of the $11 billion  global biotech-seed market  in
the face of resistance by half or more of the bloc’s members.
Surveys show opposition to gene-altered foods by European
consumers, who worry about risks such as human resistance to
antibiotics and the development of “superweeds” that are
impervious to herbicides.  Biotech foods range from corn to oilseeds in which genetic
material has been altered to add traits such as resistance to
weed-killing chemicals. The EU ended a six-year ban on new gene-
altered products in 2004 after tightening labeling rules and
creating a  food agency  to screen applications.  In a case brought by the U.S.,  Canada  and  Argentina , the
 World Trade Organization  ruled in 2006 that the European
moratorium was illegal. Since 2004, the EU has let new gene-
modified products be imported for food and feed uses while
stopping short of endorsing any request for cultivation with the
exception of one application for a potato developed by  BASF SE (BAS) 
to be grown for the production of industrial starch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  