-- 
Blackstone Said to Target CalWest Portfolio of U.S. Warehouse Properties

-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/blackstone-said-to-target-calwest-warehouse-properties-after-buying-debt.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  has acquired
about $600 million of debt on a group of industrial properties,
aiming to gain control of the buildings as it expands in the
warehouse sector, three people with knowledge of the deal said.  Blackstone bought the mezzanine debt on the U.S. portfolio,
known as CalWest, at discounted prices from several financial
institutions, including  Barclays Plc (BCS) , according to the people,
who asked not to be named because the transaction is private.
The purchase positions the New York-based firm to take control
of the properties, totaling 23 million square feet (2.1 million
square meters), the people said.  The world’s largest private-equity firm is increasing its
stake in warehouses and distribution centers while the industry
“remains a cheap sector,” said Steven Frankel, an analyst
covering industrial real estate investment trusts at Green
Street Advisors in  Newport Beach ,  California . Blackstone bought
40 million square feet from ProLogis and Eaton Vance Corp. in
separate transactions last year, putting the firm among the top
holders of warehouse space, he said.  “Blackstone has acquired a national industrial portfolio
with a concentration in major hubs, and they’ve done it at
prices that look appealing,” Frankel said in a telephone
interview. “The size is rivaling that of public REITs.”  U.S. industrial rents will accelerate as the  unemployment
rate  decreases, Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF unit said in a March 24
report. Warehouse rents will advance 5.9 percent in 2013, 7.3
percent in 2014 and 6.3 percent in 2015, according to the
forecast.  ProLogis-AMB Merger  The biggest companies in the industry, Denver-based
ProLogis and  AMB Property Corp. (AMB)  of  San Francisco , agreed earlier
this year to merge. The deal, scheduled for completion by the
end of June, will create a warehouse operator that owns or
manages $46 billion in assets.  Walton Street Capital LLC, a Chicago-based private-equity
firm, agreed in April 2007 to pay $2.75 billion for the CalWest
portfolio, buying the properties from a joint venture of the
California Public Employees’ Retirement System and RREEF.
Commercial real estate values peaked in October of that year and
subsequently fell as much as 45 percent, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Drop in Values  The value of the CalWest properties is currently about $2.2
billion after dropping to as low as $1.8 billion, said one of
the people with knowledge of the Blackstone transaction. The
entire portfolio was 83 percent leased as of Dec. 31, the person
said, with many of the buildings located in prime spots near
seaports in  Los Angeles ;  Seattle ;  Portland ,  Oregon ; and Oakland,
California.  The decline in values since the 2007 deal may make it
difficult to refinance the senior debt, putting Blackstone in a
position to take control. The debt matures in 2012.  Eric Mogentale, managing principal at Walton Street, said
in an e-mail that the firm had no comment. A Blackstone
spokeswoman declined to comment.  Walton Street’s CalWest acquisition was the second-largest
industrial sale by dollar value in records dating to 2001,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
property research firm. The biggest was a $3.4 billion purchase
of real estate investment trust CenterPoint Properties Trust by
Calpers, as the California pension fund is known, and  LaSalle
Investment Management  in March 2006.  Blackstone last year bought 180 industrial buildings from
 ProLogis (PLD)  in a $1.02 billion transaction that also included
interests in three real estate funds. It acquired an additional
75 properties by buying stakes in funds held by ProLogis and
Boston-based joint venture partner Eaton Vance.  The firm also took control of 14 hotels owned by Columbia
Sussex Corp. last year after buying junior debt on the
properties. Mezzanine, or junior, loans are a form of higher-
interest debt and are subordinate to a first mortgage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  