-- 
BofA Chief Says More Foreclosures Inevitable as Repeated Defaults Top 50%

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-04-12T21:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/bofa-chief-says-foreclosures-inevitable-as-re-defaults-top-50-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said efforts to prevent
foreclosures are failing frequently, with more than half of
borrowers in some categories defaulting a second time.  “We’re reaching a point where some customers will be
dealing with the reality that despite the myriad programs and
the best efforts of everyone in this room, and of our teammates
working with these customers, foreclosure may be unavoidable,”
Moynihan said today during a speech to state  attorneys general 
in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Bank of America and other mortgage servicers are being
probed by a task force of 50 state attorneys general over the
way they foreclosed on overdue homeowners. Regulators have
suggested a $20 billion penalty for the industry and principal
reductions for some owners whose debts are greater than the
value of their homes.  Bank CEOs including Moynihan, who runs the biggest U.S.
mortgage servicer, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon  have
denounced principal reductions as unfair and difficult to
implement.  “We do not see broad-based principal reduction as a sound
policy decision for America,” said Moynihan, 51, according to
the prepared  text  of his speech. “It’s hard to see how we could
justify reducing principal for many delinquent customers who
represent a small portion of borrowers, but not for the vast
majority of our customers who have stayed current on their
loans.”  Private Lunch  At a private lunch before his speech, Moynihan didn’t rule
out principal reductions as part of a potential settlement,
according to two attorneys general who attended, Lisa Madigan of
Illinois and Indiana’s Greg Zoeller. Moynihan did ask how
regulators would decide who would get the reductions, they said.  “The message in private was that Bank of America wants to
resolve this and move on,” Madigan said in an interview.  Moynihan’s message during the lunch mirrored his prepared
remarks, said  Scott Silvestri , a spokesman for Charlotte-based
Bank of America.  “Brian clearly and consistently highlighted the many
challenges inherent in broad-based principal reduction,”
Silvestri said.  Mortgage servicers have signed agreements with regulators
including the Federal Reserve and Office of Thrift Supervision
to improve foreclosure practices, two people with knowledge of
the deals said last week. They are the first sanctions to arise
from last year’s probe into so-called robo-signing, in which
mortgage firms and their contractors vouched for thousands of
foreclosure documents without verifying their accuracy.  Bank of America fell 2 cents to $13.47 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Charlotte  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  