-- 
BP Spill Fine May Undercount Dead Turtles, Birds, Group Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-12T21:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/bp-spill-fine-may-undercount-dead-turtles-dolphins-group-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s oil spill in the  Gulf of
Mexico  killed or sickened as many as 200 times the number of
animals estimated by the government, an undercount that could
limit the company’s spill-related fines, an advocacy group said.  The  Center for Biological Diversity , an environmental group
based in Tucson,  Arizona , said in a study released today it
found five times as many sea turtles, 10 times as many birds and
200 times more marine mammals were injured or died than official
estimates. BP faces civil penalties based, in part, on the
number of wildlife and fish killed or harmed by more than 4.1
million barrels of crude that poured into the Gulf last year.  The government’s counts haven’t been updated to reflect the
dozens of bird, turtle and dolphin carcasses that are washing
ashore this spring, Tierra Curry, a biologist with the center,
said in today’s  report . The group added those casualties to the
official tallies, then multiplied those numbers “by accepted
scientific multiplication factors” to reach what it calls the
“true mortality counts,” she said.  “The numbers of animals injured by the Gulf  oil spill  are
staggering,” Curry said. “The government’s official count
represents a small fraction of the total animals harmed by this
disastrous spill.”  U.S. tallies released in mid-February counted wildlife
harmed by the spill to include 1,146 sea turtles, 8,209 birds,
and 128 dolphins and whales Curry said, citing government data.  By the center’s estimate, the spill caused harm or death to
about 6,165 sea turtles, 82,000 birds of 102 species and as many
as 25,900 marine mammals, including four species of dolphins and
whales.  Separate Studies  Scientists working for environmental groups and government
agencies have been conducting separate studies to estimate the
spill’s impact on Gulf wildlife, including fish and shrimp
populations. The studies rely on multipliers, as scientists say
exact counts of killed or sickened animals are impossible, given
that the majority of carcasses sink into the ocean, rot unseen
in marsh grasses or are consumed after death by predators,
according to Curry.  The center has filed a citizen’s suit against London-based
BP for Clean Water Act violations. It has also sued the Interior
Department over offshore drilling policies’ impact on wildlife.
Both lawsuits are pending along with hundreds of cases against
BP and other companies involved in the oil spill, which are
consolidated in New Orleans federal court.  “The  Center for Biological Diversity ’s is an independent
study,’’  Wyn Hornbuckle , a Justice Department spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The government’s investigation and
assessment of damages to natural resources and wildlife is
ongoing.’’ He declined to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 