-- 
BRICS Increase Global Influence as South Africa Joins Group, Medvedev Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-12T18:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/brics-gain-global-influence-as-south-africa-joins-russia-s-medvedev-says.html
South Africa ’s presence alongside
four other leading emerging economies for the first time
tomorrow at a summit in  China  shows the growing influence of the
BRICS nations, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said.  “This organization has evolved into a new and highly
important international format,” Medvedev said in an  interview 
with Chinese state channel CCTV released late yesterday. It
allows  Brazil , Russia,  India , China and now South Africa “to
forge a common position by major, fast-growing countries” at a
summit in China.  Medvedev will meet with BRICS leaders in Sanya, China, for
talks on issues including the use of national currencies in
foreign trade to Middle East unrest, said  Sergei Prikhodko , his
foreign policy aide. They plan to develop a unified stance for
November’s Group of 20 meeting in Cannes,  France , Arakady Dvorkovich, the president’s top economic adviser, said.  South Africa was invited in December to join the group
originally known as the BRIC countries, which held its first
summit in 2009 in Russia, followed a year later by a meeting in
Brazil. The leaders of the five economies, which Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. says will collectively match the size of the U.S. by
2020, have called for a bigger voice in international financial
institutions and a more diversified global monetary system.  South Africa, which has a population of 49 million compared
with China’s 1.36 billion, is betting that joining the BRICS
will increase its influence on the world stage, while
strengthening political and trade ties within the bloc. The
country accounts for about a third of gross domestic product in
sub-Saharan Africa and will offer other BRICS members improved
access to 1 billion consumers on the continent, as well as
mineral resources including oil and platinum.  Adding Africa  “This is a significant development for the countries which
belonged to BRIC, because this adds a new continent to the
group,” Dvorkovich, told reporters yesterday in Moscow. “BRICS
now brings together leaders of countries on four continents:
Africa,  Europe ,  Asia  and Latin America.”  The five BRICS nations will coordinate their positions in
international bodies, including the United Nations, Dvorkovich
said. Russia will lobby for the interests of its partners at a
meeting of the Group of Eight leading industrialized nations
next month in Deauville, France, he added.  South Africa is the only African nation in the G-20. While
Brazil, India and South Africa currently hold rotating seats on
the UN Security Council, Russia and China have permanent seats.  Goldman Sachs economist Jim O’Neill coined the BRIC term in
2001 to describe the fast-growing economies of Brazil, Russia,
India and China. South Africa’s 2009 GDP was $285 billion, less
than a quarter of Russia’s and 6 percent of China’s.  “South  Africa ’s economy is very small,” O’Neill, now
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management International, said
in a December interview. “For South Africa to be treated as
part of BRIC doesn’t make any sense to me. But South Africa as a
representative of the African continent is a different story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina in Sanya, China, via the Moscow newsroom at +7-
   lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  