-- 
Budget Deficit in U.S. Increased to $188.2 Billion in March

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-12T18:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/budget-deficit-in-u-s-increased-to-188-2-billion-in-march-1-.html
The U.S. government, on course to
reach a record annual  budget deficit , posted a monthly shortfall
of $188.2 billion in March, wider than a year earlier, Treasury
Department statistics showed today.  Last month’s deficit was up from a $65.4 billion gap in
March 2010, when the government marked down the cost of the
Troubled Assets Relief Program by $115 billion.  The White House and Congress last week reached agreement on
a spending plan for the current fiscal year, which started Oct.
1, and face another fiscal hurdle next month with the prospect
of reaching the statutory debt limit of more than $14 trillion.
Last week’s agreement averted a shutdown of government agencies.  “It has a long way to go to zero at this rate,” said
Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics in Boulder,
 Colorado . The agreement to cut $38 billion from the 2011 budget
is “pocket change,” although “it’s certainly a number that
breaks in the right direction.”  This year’s federal budget is projected to reach $1.5
trillion deficit, according to a  Congressional Budget Office 
estimate released Jan. 26. The previous record, $1.4 trillion,
was reached in fiscal 2009.  For the fiscal year to date, the budget deficit totaled
$829.4 billion compared with $717 billion the prior fiscal year
to date, according to the Treasury’s statistics.  In fiscal 2010, the government reported a budget deficit of
$1.3 trillion, the second largest on record. A decade earlier,
in fiscal 2000, the government reported a record budget surplus
of almost $237 billion.  Tax Revenue  “The next several weeks will provide important information
about receipts this year,” the  Congressional Budget Office  said
April 7. “Final payments for 2010 individual income tax returns
are due this month, and individuals and corporations alike will
make quarterly estimated payments of income taxes in April.”  The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a March budget deficit of $189 billion. Forecasts
ranged from gaps of $60 billion to $200 billion. The non-
partisan CBO, in a forecast issued April 7, estimated the March
budget deficit would total $189 billion.  The Treasury’s report showed that  government spending 
jumped 55 percent in March to $339 billion. Adjusting for the
effect of the reduction in the cost of TARP taken in March 2010,
outlays this year would have climbed about 1.5 percent, the
Treasury said.  Revenue and other fees declined 1.5 percent to $150.9
billion.  Income Taxes  Individual income receipts have increased 21 percent so far
this fiscal year to $475.6 billion from the same period in 2010.
Corporate income taxes have climbed 2.1 percent.  The drop in revenue last month in part reflects the cut in
social security payroll taxes contained in the December
compromise by President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans that also extended Bush-era tax cuts and renewed
emergency jobless benefits.  “The payroll tax cut is keeping down budget revenues
relative to last year and this is leading to wider monthly
budget deficit figures this year,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief 
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New
York . “There is some hope that things are about to change now 
that Congress and the administration realize that something 
needs to be done to reign in future deficit spending.”  With the budget agreement for the current fiscal year in
place, Congress must now turn to raising the statutory debt
limit to avert default on the government’s debt and maintain
vital services. Failing to raise the borrowing limit may disrupt
financial markets and lead to higher borrowing costs for the
government, businesses and consumers.  The Treasury Department estimated last week that the debt
limit will be reached May 16, and that without congressional
action, it will be forced to employ a variety of accounting
maneuvers to prevent default. The debt limit currently stands at
$14.294 trillion, and the Treasury said it can probably stave
off default until early July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  