-- 
Buy Consumer Puts Amid Rising Costs, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-12T14:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/buy-consumer-put-options-before-earnings-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should buy bearish
options on companies depending on consumer spending because
purchasing will be reduced by rising energy costs and using the
contracts as insurance is inexpensive,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said.  Equity derivatives strategist Sivan Mahadevan recommended
buying puts to sell consumer companies that sell necessities
including  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ,  Clorox Co. (CLX)  and  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , and
on companies reliant on consumers’ discretionary spending such
as  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  and  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)   For Oakland, California-based Clorox, “growth remains
weak, costs are up, and pricing power is lower than peers,”
while Sara Lee in Downers Grove, Illinois, “faces the most
daunting input cost inflation of all companies” in the
packaged-food industry, the strategist wrote. Campbell Soup of
Camden,  New Jersey , will be challenged by rising inflation by
the end of this year, he said.  Those consumer staples companies “have considerable
exposure to cost inflation pressures that range from labor to
both fuel and non-fuel commodities,” Mahadevan wrote. Clothing
retailers and other consumer discretionary companies have
“similar exposure with cotton inflation raising costs in
retail, but also faces risk from higher oil as U.S. consumers
have less disposable income.”  Cotton prices have more than doubled in the past year,
touching a record last month, on forecasts that global supplies
may not meet demand in China, the world’s largest fiber user.
Crude futures climbed above $110 a barrel in  New York  for the
first time in 30 months on April 7 as forces loyal to Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi launched strikes on the country’s
oilfields. Oil traded around $109 today.  “High cotton prices are an issue” for Pittsburgh-based
American Eagle, while Philadelphia-based Urban Outfitters’
earnings are under pressure because of changing fashions, he
said. The strategist also recommended buying puts on Pleasanton,
California-based  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  of
Akron, Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 