-- 
Calpers Officer Urges Money Manager Pension-Bashing Donation Disclosure

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-04-12T18:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/calpers-officer-wants-money-managers-to-disclose-pension-bashing-donations.html
Wall Street firms seeking to invest
for the $235 billion  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System  should disclose if they’ve supported groups critical of
government pensions, one of the fund’s board members said.  Money managers trying to win business from the largest U.S.
public pension should report contributions to groups advocating
for dismantling public worker pension plans that guarantee
benefit levels regardless of investment returns, said a Calpers
board member,  J.J. Jelincic , former head of one of  California ’s
largest state worker unions.  “We obviously have an interest in defending defined
benefits and we have an interest in defending public
employees,” Jelincic said in an interview at the fund’s
Sacramento headquarters. “If the people we are paying a lot of
money to are working against us, we ought to at least be aware
of it and have a conversation about it.”  Investment banks and money managers earned a combined $1.1
billion in fiscal 2010 handling Calpers assets, the fund said.  Government pensions have become a political flash point
across the U.S. as benefit costs have risen while  tax revenue 
remains below pre-recession levels. Republican lawmakers in
California and at least one non-profit group are pushing to
replace traditional public-employee pensions in the most
populous state with 401(k)-style accounts, where workers bear
more  investment risk .  Seeking ‘Conversation’  In February, a trustee for  New York City ’s police
retirement system proposed that the fund’s board be able to
dismiss future managers who disparage a public pension.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s chief strategist,  Byron Wien , strained
relations with New York unions last year when he said benefits
are “too generous.” The city’s five pension funds hold
combined assets of about $115 billion.  “If they provide a really good service then I don’t think
it becomes the decision-maker, but we need to have the
conversation,” Jelincic said.  Jelincic made the suggestion for more disclosure to other
board members during discussions yesterday. He hasn’t introduced
it as a formal proposal to the full board.  Brad Pacheco , a
Calpers spokesman, said the fund’s staff wasn’t given any
direction to take Jelincic’s idea further.  The past president of the California State Employees
Association, a union for 140,000 state workers, Jelincic said
he’d like to know, for example, if any of Calpers’ fund managers
have contributed to the  California Foundation for Fiscal
Responsibility , a group that advocates for less-generous pension
benefits.  Donor Disclosure  Such non-profit 501(c)3 committees are allowed to raise
money from foundations, individuals, labor unions and
corporations without disclosing donors.  Calpers’ top lawyer, Peter Mixon, said grading money
managers based in part on support of a political position must
take into consideration constitutional free-speech protections.  “Disclosure is one thing, but grading potential
contractors or investment managers based on their First
Amendment speech is something we would have to take a very close
look at,” Mixon said at the meeting yesterday.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  this month said he is
exploring whether to offer future government workers the choice
of a traditional public  pension plan  or a hybrid including
elements of a 401(k)-style account.  He also is pushing legislation prohibiting employees from
“spiking” pensions by manipulating overtime, unused vacation
and special compensation to inflate future benefits.  Brown also said he is seeking to forbid workers from buying
additional service credits, to set a maximum on the pension that
a retired state worker can receive and to ban so-called double-
dipping, when a retiree collecting a pension takes another
government job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  