-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Bank of Canada Rate Announcement, Trade

-- B y   D a v i d   S c a n l a n
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/canada-daybook-bank-of-canada-rate-announcement-trade.html
The  Bank of Canada  will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today, before
increasing borrowing costs in the second half of the year.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*Campaigning for the May 2 election continues with the four
major party leaders preparing for the English-language televised
debate today at 7 p.m. Ottawa time.  ECONOMY:
* The Bank of Canada makes an interest rate announcement at 9
a.m. While all 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the
central bank will leave its policy interest rate unchanged at 1%,
the accompanying statement will likely outline the bank’s
updated economic forecast.
* Statistics Canada  releases international trade and new house
price data for February at 8:30 a.m.  EVENTS:
*Susan Cole, president of Enhance Energy Inc., and James Carter,
chairman of the  Alberta  Carbon Capture and Storage Development
Council, discuss implementation and development of the
technology in Alberta. 8:30 a.m. Calgary time.  *Executives from companies including Romarco Minerals Inc.,
Osisko Mining Corp. and Detour Gold Corp. are scheduled to
address the Denver Gold Group European Forum, beginning at 11:30
a.m. in Zurich.  *Executives of companies including Trican Well Service Ltd.,
Provident Energy Ltd. and Mullen Group Ltd. are to speak at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s Energy & Infrastructure
Conference, starting at 8 a.m. in Toronto.  *Exfo Inc., which makes products for the telecommunications
industry, is scheduled to hold an investor day, beginning at 10
a.m. in Toronto.  *5N Plus Inc., which provides metals to the electronics industry,
is to hold a conference call at 10 a.m. in Saint-Laurent,  Quebec 
to discuss third-quarter financial results.  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX fell 211.57, or 1.5 percent, to 13,996.86.
*The yield on the two-year Government of Canada bond rose 4
basis points to 1.94 percent.
*The Canadian dollar weakened to 95.66 cents per  U.S. dollar 
from 95.54 cents. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0454.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 