-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls the Most in Almost Four Weeks on BOC's Currency View

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-12T21:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/canadian-dollar-falls-after-central-bank-leaves-its-target-rate-unchanged.html
Canada ’s dollar tumbled the most in
almost four weeks against its U.S. counterpart after the  Bank of
Canada  kept  interest rates  unchanged amid concern the currency’s
strength is hampering exports.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened from
almost a 40-month high against the greenback as the BOC held its
target rate for overnight loans between commercial banks at 1
percent, where it has been since September. Today’s decision was
forecast by all 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Central bankers said currency appreciation “could create even
greater headwinds” for the nation’s economy.  “They’re not going to be in any hurry to hike rates,”
said  Michael O’Neill , managing director at Knightsbridge Foreign
Exchange Inc. in Toronto. “What happens if you’re selling
widgets into the U.S. from Ontario? You’re hurting. And that’s
what they’re worried about.”  The loonie weakened 0.7 percent to 96.34 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. On April 8, the currency touched
95.27 cents, the strongest level since Nov. 14, 2007. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0380.  The Canadian dollar has gained 3.6 percent against the U.S.
currency this year. The nation’s central bank led the Group of
Seven nations with three interest-rate increases in 2010.  Growth Forecast  The BOC is likely to raise interest rates in the third
quarter and the loonie “will have a very tough time recapturing
parity this year,”  Kathy Lien , director of research with online
currency trader GFT Forex in  New York , wrote today in a research
note.  The Bank of Canada raised its 2011 growth forecast to 2.9
percent from 2.4 percent, saying the economy will reach full
output in the middle of 2012.  The recovery has been aided by gains in exports and
business investment, fed by renewed demand in the U.S. and
rising commodity prices that make up some of Canada’s biggest
exports. Economists are forecasting the recovery is durable
enough for the bank’s policy rate to reach 1.5 percent at the
end of the third quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Recent economic activity in Canada has been stronger than
the Bank had anticipated,” BOC Governor  Mark Carney  and his
five deputies said in a statement from Ottawa today. “Any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” the bank said, echoing the language used
in the last two decisions.  Trade Surplus  Canada’s trade surplus narrowed in February as exports of
automobile and energy products plunged. The country recorded a
surplus of C$33 million ($34.4 million) from a revised C$382
million surplus in January, Statistics Canada said.  Crude oil futures extended declines in New York, falling as
much as 4.1 percent. The yen and Swiss franc rose against most
of their major counterparts on reduced demand for higher-
yielding assets after  Japan  raised the severity rating for the
nuclear crisis that began last month and more earthquakes shook
buildings in  Tokyo .  “It’s been a one-way lemming trade for this month, and the
softness in commodity prices, and Carney talking down the
currency, will certainly hurt the loonie in the short term,”
said Dean Popplewell, an analyst in Toronto at the online
currency-trading firm Oanda Corp.  New housing prices increased 0.4 percent in February,
following a 0.2 percent gain in January,  Statistics Canada  said.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year down eight basis points, 0.08 percentage
point, to 3.41 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security
maturing in June 2020 added 58 cent to C$100.70.  To contact the reporter for this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  