-- 
Bank of Canada Keeps Policy Rate at 1% Amid Faster Recovery, Strong Dollar

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-12T20:57:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/canada-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-1-citing-faster-growth-loonie-s-strength.html
The  Bank of Canada  said the economy
is expanding faster than it previously forecast, while
cautioning a strengthening Canadian dollar could dampen future
inflation, which may delay increases in  interest rates .  The central bank today kept its benchmark target rate for
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it
has been since September. All 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected no change. The bank raised its 2011
growth forecast to 2.9 percent from 2.4 percent, saying the
economy will reach full output in the middle of 2012.  The recovery has been aided by gains in exports and
business investment, fed by renewed demand in the U.S. and
rising commodity prices that make up some of  Canada ’s biggest
exports. Economists are forecasting the recovery is durable
enough for the bank’s policy rate to reach 1.5 percent at the
end of the third quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “It reinforces our expectations and the financial market’s
expectations that we will probably see the overnight rate hiked
at the July meeting,”  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Yields Fall  Canada’s dollar extended losses after the announcement,
weakening 0.7 percent to 96.30 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 4:54
p.m. in Toronto. On April 8, the currency touched 95.27 cents,
the strongest level since Nov. 14, 2007. Yields on two-year
Canadian  government bonds  fell 8 basis points to 1.86 percent,
the first decline in six days, while the three-month overnight
index swap rate, which is based on what investors expect the
policy rate will average over that time, fell to 1.0120 percent
from 1.0445 yesterday.  “Recent economic activity in Canada has been stronger than
the Bank had anticipated,” Governor  Mark Carney , 46, and his
five deputies said in a statement from Ottawa today. “Any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” the bank said, echoing the language used
in the last two decisions.  The bank also said that “the persistent strength of the
Canadian dollar could create even greater headwinds for the
Canadian economy” by acting as a drag on exports and holding
down inflation.  “The strength in the Canadian dollar is disinflationary
and then it also does some of the bank’s work on tightening
growth conditions for them,”  Derek Holt , an economist at Bank
of Nova Scotia in Toronto, said before the decision.  Faster Inflation  The bank sets monetary policy to keep inflation at 2
percent. Canadian inflation, which was 2.2 percent in February,
will accelerate to “around 3 percent” this quarter due to
“temporary factors” such as energy-price and tax increases
before returning to 2 percent in the middle of next year, six
months faster than previously forecast, the bank said. The so-
called core inflation rate, which reached a record low 0.9
percent in February, will rise to 2 percent by the middle of
next year.  The economy still has “material excess supply” the bank
said, and cut its 2012 growth forecast to 2.6 percent from 2.8
percent. The expansion will slow further in 2013 to 2.1 percent,
the bank projected, equaling the rate that the economy can grow
without sparking inflation.  May Signal, July Move  “There is nothing in this statement that points to an
increase as early as May,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto. He said the
bank will signal a rate increase at its next decision May 31,
then move on July 19.  Gross domestic product in the world’s 10th-largest economy
expanded 0.5 percent in January, the fourth straight gain, led
by a surge in manufacturing. Canada unexpectedly lost jobs in
March after five prior increases, as a record drop in part-time
work outstripped the biggest rise in full-time positions in a
year.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper called an election for May 2
after opposition parties passed a non-confidence motion last
month. The economy has been a major issue in the campaign, with
Prime Minister Stephen Harper saying his Conservatives will
protect a “fragile” recovery with tax credits for companies
that create jobs. Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff  says he will
reverse past and planned tax reductions that have benefited
companies like  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Suncor Energy Inc.,
opting to create jobs through social spending.  Canada’s trade surplus narrowed to C$33 million ($34.4
million) in February from a revised C$382 million in January,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The third straight
surplus follows a record deficit set in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  