-- 
Carney Likely to Keep Canada Benchmark Rate at 1% Amid Threats to Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/carney-may-keep-canada-lending-rate-1-amid-threats-to-recovery.html
The Bank of  Canada  will probably
keep its key interest rate unchanged today, and may say a strong
currency and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis are threatening a
domestic recovery that has been faster than they projected.  The target rate for overnight loans between commercial
banks will remain at 1 percent, where it has been since
September, according to all 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  While Governor  Mark Carney  and policy makers at the Ottawa-
based central bank may raise their estimate of economic growth
for this year from a January  forecast  of 2.4 percent, they may
also highlight new and continuing threats to Canadian exports.
Since the bank’s last decision on March 1,  Portugal  has sought a
fiscal rescue and  Japan  was hit by an earthquake and tsunami.  “The bank has to be concerned with some of the potential
downside risks to international growth,” said Derek Burleton, a
senior economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, who predicts a July
rate increase. “They are going to signal they aren’t quite
prepared to raise rates,” he said in a telephone interview from
Vancouver.  Raising rates while the U.S. Federal Reserve is continuing
to stimulate the economy with its $600 billion bond-purchase
program could also further boost the Canadian dollar,
threatening the country’s exports and economic expansion.  “The strength in the Canadian dollar is disinflationary
and then it also does some of the bank’s work on tightening
growth conditions for them,” said  Derek Holt , an economist at
Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  Election Campaign  The decision is Carney’s first as governor during the
campaign for the May 2 federal election. Economists such as  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, and former bank advisers including Angelo Melino of the
University of Toronto, said this gives Carney a reason to avoid
a major shift in language today.  “They will leave the door open for a move without
signaling it directly,” said Porter, who predicts a July
increase.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper called an election after
opposition parties passed a non-confidence motion last month.
The economy has been a major issue in the campaign, with Harper
saying his Conservatives will protect a “fragile” recovery
with tax credits for companies that create jobs. Liberal Leader
 Michael Ignatieff  says he will reverse past and planned tax
reductions that have benefited companies like  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY)  and Suncor Energy Inc., opting to create jobs through
social spending.  Inflation  Carney and his five deputies set monetary policy to keep
inflation at 2 percent. The  consumer price index  rose at an
annual pace of 2.2 percent in February after rising 2.3 percent
in January. Excluding eight volatile items such as gasoline,
inflation slowed to a record low 0.9 percent pace in February as
the cost of hotels dropped following last year’s Vancouver
Olympics,  Statistics Canada  said March 18.  Gross domestic product in the world’s 10th-largest economy
expanded 0.5 percent in January, the fourth straight gain, led
by a surge in manufacturing. Canada unexpectedly lost jobs in
March after five prior increases, as a record drop in part-time
work outstripped the biggest rise in full-time positions in a
year.  Investors and economists are betting the recovery is
durable enough for  interest rates  to rise in the next few months.
The bank’s policy interest rate will be 1.5 percent at the end
of the third quarter, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The yield on the six-month overnight index swap rate,
which is tied to forecasts for the  Bank of Canada ’s policy rate,
advanced to 1.1763 percent in Toronto yesterday, the highest
since December 2008.  ECB Rates  The  European Central Bank  last week lifted the benchmark
from a record low of 1 percent, where it had been since May 2009,
and President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said officials hadn’t decided
on a series of increases after inflation accelerated to 2.6
percent, versus a target of keeping it below 2 percent.  Canada’s currency appreciated on April 8 to the strongest
level since November 2007 against its U.S. counterpart as crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, rose above $113 a barrel for
the first time since 2008.  Some Canadian exporters are shrugging off the currency’s
strength and benefitting from a rebound of demand in the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trade partner. Westport Innovations Inc. in
 Vancouver  said April 5 it won an order from Heckmann Corp. of
Palm Desert,  California , to change 200 Peterbilt trucks that run
on diesel fuel into ones that use natural gas instead.  Those kinds of orders may help close the so-called output
gap between what the economy is producing and its potential
output. The bank said in January the gap wouldn’t close until
the end of next year.  “We are definitely dealing with an environment where the
output gap is closing faster than the Bank of Canada has been
forecasting,” Holt said. “I just don’t see a compelling case
for the Bank of Canada to change its tune just yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  