-- 
McDonald’s Operator Arcos Seeks Twice Chain’s Valuation

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-04-13T00:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/mcdonald-s-operator-arcos-seeks-twice-chain-s-valuation-in-ipo.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s biggest
independent franchise operator, Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc., is
seeking to sell shares at almost twice the valuation of the U.S.
fast-food chain as its restaurants in Brazil spur growth.  The operator of 1,755 McDonald’s locations in Latin America
and the Caribbean is offering 62.5 million shares tomorrow for
$13 to $15 each, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg. At the
midpoint, that would value the company at $2.97 billion, or 28
times last year’s earnings. McDonald’s trades at 16.4.  The expansion of Brazil’s economy has helped Buenos Aires-
based Arcos more than quadruple net income since 2007, when it
bought the McDonald’s Latin America business for $698 million.
Sales at the operator’s McDonald’s outlets in  Brazil , Latin
America’s biggest economy, surged 33 percent last year,
outpacing a 13 percent jump for all of Arcos. McDonald’s, based
in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , grew 5.8 percent in the period.  “You have a product that’s been proven globally in
developed and emerging markets,” said  Matt McCormick , a money
manager in Cincinnati at Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $3.6
billion and owns McDonald’s shares. “People want the
accelerated growth they’re going to get by going into a market
that’s yet to be saturated.”  IPOs This Week  Arcos is among the companies seeking a total of at least
$2.4 billion in global IPOs this week, including Zipcar Inc. and
Euroset Holding NV, the Russian mobile-phone retailer, which may
raise as much as $1.26 billion in  London . Glencore International
AG, the world’s biggest commodities trader, will seek $9 billion
to $11 billion in an IPO in London and  Hong Kong , said one
person familiar with the sale. It may announce plans for the
offering on April 14, three people said.  In its IPO, Arcos will receive an estimated $163.5 million
in net proceeds and has agreed to spend $150 million to open new
McDonald’s restaurants and remodel existing ones. The company
has $457.6 million of long-term debt, the filing shows.  The remaining proceeds will go to owners selling a total of
50 million shares in the offering: Rio de Janeiro-based Gavea
Investimentos, Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos., and DLJ
South American Partners, a private equity group minority owned
by Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG. Arcos Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Woods Staton will control 39 percent of the
company and have 76 percent of total voting interest following
the offering.  Brazil Reliance  Staton was a regional head at McDonald’s before he and
other investors took over the Latin America division four years
ago. Since then, Arcos’s sales in Brazil have increased to
account for more than half of last year’s revenue.  “It’s impossible to look at Arcos Dorados without
considering that Brazil is both the majority of their earnings
today and also likely the most significant portion of their
earnings going forward,” said Connor Wilson, an analyst at
 Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which oversees about $78 billion. “Latin America may have
better growth potential, but there’s also a unique risk profile
that goes along with it.”  Arcos is pricing its shares at a discount to another
publicly traded operator, McDonald’s Holdings Co. ( Japan ) Ltd.
That chain owns or franchises more than 3,300 restaurants and
trades at about 34 times last year’s earnings.  Franchise Agreement  With 6.7 percent of franchised stores, Arcos is the largest
operator in which McDonald’s has no equity stake. That’s
followed by an operator in the  Philippines  with 1.2 percent of
stores. McDonald’s, the world’s biggest restaurant chain,
operates 80 percent of its stores through franchise agreements.  Arcos paid McDonald’s $141 million in 2010, excluding
royalties paid on behalf of franchisees. Under the franchising
agreement, Arcos must open a total of at least 250 new
restaurants in the next three years, which it estimates will
cost as much as $250 million. McDonald’s has the right to buy
the nonpublic shares of Arcos if the franchise agreements aren’t
extended when they expire in 2027.  The sale is being led by Bank of America Corp., based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley
and Citigroup Inc. of  New York ; and Sao Paulo-based Itau
Unibanco Holding SA. The shares will list on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol ARCO.  Zipcar IPO  In other IPO news, Zipcar, the car-sharing company that
rents vehicles by the hour, is seeking $133 million. The
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company will offer 8.33 million
shares for $14 to $16 each, according to its  SEC filing .  Revenue at Zipcar increased more than sixfold to $186.1
million in the five years through 2010, while the company posted
net losses totaling $52.1 million during the period, according
to the prospectus.  The $15 midpoint of the range would value Zipcar at $579.3
million, or 93 times last year’s $6.2 million of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a ratio of 2.2
for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ,
which has car-sharing services in the U.S. and  Europe  and is
named as a competitor in Zipcar’s filing.  “Investors are being asked to look at what type of
earnings and cash flow Zipcar could generate in 2013 and 2014,”
said  Paul Bard , director of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-
based IPO investment firm  Renaissance Capital LLC . “People are
not really focusing on the next 12-month price-to-earnings
ratio, which is going to be very, very high.”  Europe Expansion  The company operates in 14 metropolitan areas, including
London, and has more than 8,000 cars. It plans to expand in the
U.S. and international markets including Europe, according to
its filing.  Zipcar will list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol ZIP. The offering is being led by New York-based Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan.  Ellie Mae Inc., the Pleasanton, California-based operator
of an electronic mortgage origination network, aims to raise
$82.5 million tomorrow, selling 7.5 million shares for $9 to $11
each, according to its filing with the SEC and Bloomberg data.  The offering is being led by Barclays Plc of London. Ellie
Mae’s shares will trade on the NYSE under the ticker ELLI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 