-- 
Cemex Reorganizes Into Six Regions, CFO Trevino Leaves

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-12T14:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cemex-reorganizes-into-six-regions-cfo-trevino-leaves-2-.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, is reorganizing into six regional units and
Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Trevino will step down as part
of the reshuffle.  Fernando Gonzalez, currently executive vice president of
finance and administration will assume the duties of chief
financial officer, Cemex said in an e-mailed statement. Jorge Perez, Cemex’s spokesman, confirmed the departure of Trevino in
a telephone interview from Monterrey,  Mexico .  Cemex has struggled since paying $14.2 billion for Rinker
Group Ltd., a Sydney-based building materials company, in July
2007 just as the U.S. construction industry fell into recession.
Rinker had generated about 80 percent of its sales in the U.S.
Cemex posted a $1.31 billion loss in 2010 and analysts predict a
loss for this year based on 17 surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company said executives “all of whom have served
previously in various senior level operating positions within
the company” will take over responsibilities under the new
operational structure. Karl Watson, Jr., becomes president of
CEMEX USA and Juan Romero, will be president of CEMEX Mexico and
also will oversee Global Technology.  ‘To Create Value’  Francisco Garza, current president for CEMEX Americas, will
now serve as vice chairman of the Board of CEMEX Mexico and
chairman of the newly created CEMEX Latin America Advisory
Board, according to the statement.  Jaime Elizondo, will be president of CEMEX South America
and Caribbean, and will oversee Global Procurement; while
Ignacio Madridejos becomes president of CEMEX Northern  Europe ,
and also will oversee Global Energy and Sustainability.  Jaime Muguiro, will be president of CEMEX Mediterranean and
Joaquin Estrada becomes president of CEMEX  Asia , and also will
oversee Global Trading, Cemex said in the statement.  “We need to move rapidly to create value for all our
stakeholders,” Lorenzo Zambrano, chairman and chief executive
officer of Cemex, said in the statement. “This new executive
team has the leadership skills, the vision and the experience to
do exactly that, and I am extremely optimistic about Cemex’s
future,” he said.  Cemex’s American depositary receipts in New York fell 12
cents, or 1.4 percent, to $8.56 at 10:39 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  