-- 
Chile Retailer Cencosud Drops Most in Two Years on $2 Billion Share Sale

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T19:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cencosud-declines-most-in-latin-index-on-2-billion-share-sale-for-growth.html
Cencosud SA, Latin America’s third-
biggest retailer, declined the most since October 2008 after
unveiling plans to sell as much as $2 billion of new shares to
help finance growth in the region.  Cencosud dropped 4.8 percent to 3,333 pesos in Santiago
trading, the biggest fall among stocks on  Chile ’s main index.  The company controlled by German-born entrepreneur Horst Paulmann called an April 29 shareholder meeting to propose the
sale of as much as $2 billion of new stock, according to a
notice published today in El Mercurio newspaper that didn’t give
details. Cencosud wants to be ready for acquisition
opportunities that may arise, a company official briefed on the
proposed transaction said by telephone.  “While we expect to see short-term pressure on the stock
on potential overhang risk, ultimately this will increase the
company’s flexibility to continue expanding in the region, while
improving its financial position,” Banchile-Citi analysts
including Peter McMenamin wrote in an e-mailed note today.  The proposal gives the company three years to sell the
shares, the company official, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set, said today by telephone. There isn’t a
defined date for any share sales, the official said.  Planned Expansion  Cencosud plans to invest about $1 billion this year in the
five Latin American countries where it operates, according to
its website. The  International Monetary Fund  raised its growth
forecasts for Latin America and the Caribbean, estimating
expansion of 4.7 percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2012, in
its  World Economic Outlook  report released yesterday.  Paulmann resumed a regional expansion in late 2009 as
Chile’s economy recovered from its steepest slump in a decade.
In the year before the global credit crisis slowed  consumer
spending  in Latin America, he spent about $1 billion buying up
retailers in Brazil and  Peru  and expanding the Easy home-
improvement chain to  Colombia .  Cencosud agreed to pay $814 million for Brazil’s
Supermercados Bretas in October last year, its biggest
acquisition since the 2005 purchase of shares in Empresas
Almacenes Paris SA, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company has an option to repurchase within two years a 39
percent stake in its Argentine supermarket unit from UBS AG.  “The company’s financial position is very good and they
have said that this would be to finance inorganic growth,” said
Carmen Concha, an analyst at Banco Santander SA in Santiago.  Cencosud is the third-biggest retailer in Latin America by
sales after Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB and  Brazil ’s Cia Brasileira
de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  