-- 
CFTC Backs Exempting Companies From Rules Governing Derivatives as Hedges

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-12T15:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cftc-swap-rule-would-exempt-end-users-from-margin-with-non-banks.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  will seek comment on derivatives regulations that a
Republican member said would create a “lack of harmonization”
in rules for financial companies and commercial end-users.  CFTC members voted 4-1 today to propose rules that would
exempt end-users such as large manufacturers from requirements
to set aside margin to reduce risk in trades with non-bank
dealers or major swap participants. The  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp . voted separately today to proposal a measure
governing banks.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires agencies including the CFTC,
the FDIC and the  Securities and Exchange Commission  to establish
margin requirements as a way of limiting swap-market risk.
Lawmakers sought the safeguards after unregulated trades helped
exacerbate the 2008 credit crisis.  CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia , one of two Republicans on
the five-member panel, said before the meeting that regulators
“couldn’t be further apart” on their proposals.  “The rules proposed by the prudential regulators will
require that end-users pay initial and variation margin to
banks,” O’Malia said in remarks prepared for the CFTC meeting.
“Commercial end-users and many of the financial end-users will
be dissatisfied with the lack of harmonization,” said O’Malia,
who voted against the CFTC proposal.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in his prepared remarks
that the agency’s staff “worked very closely with prudential
regulators to establish initial and variation margin
requirements that are comparable to the maximum extent
practicable.”  The proposals voted on by the CFTC and FDIC today will be
released for public comment before final approval.  End-Users Coalition  Members of the Coalition for Derivatives End-Users, a group
including agricultural equipment maker  Deere & Co. (DE)  and brewer
MillerCoors, have lobbied for an explicit exemption, saying
margin requirements would tie up capital that could be used to
hire workers or expand business.  The CFTC rule would create a three-tier system for trades
that aren’t guaranteed by central clearinghouses.  The first tier would govern swaps in which both sides are
dealers or major swap participants. For each trade, the sides
would need to pay or collect initial and variation margin that
would be kept at a custodian.  The second tier would regulate margin in trades between
dealers or major swap participants and smaller financial
clients. In those trades, the dealer would need to collect
margin from the client but not pay any margin.  The third category would include trades between dealers or
major participants and non-financial end-users. Under the
proposal, end-users would need separate credit agreements with
dealers to limit risk. While not a requirement under the CFTC
rule, those agreements could permit margin payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  