-- 
Chevron Plans to Commit to Expansion at Gorgon LNG Venture in Late 2013

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-12T00:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/chevron-plans-to-commit-to-gorgon-lng-expansion-in-late-2013.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it has completed
more than a fifth of the construction at the $37 billion Gorgon
liquefied natural gas project off northwest Australia and aims
to approve an expansion in late 2013.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company, plans to
lodge documents detailing the expected environmental impact of a
fourth LNG processing unit, or train, later this year, Colin Beckett, general manager of the Gorgon project, said in an
interview. The company and its partners, including Exxon Mobil
Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , plan to produce 15 million
metric tons of LNG a year from three units starting in 2014.  “We’ve started work on expansion, with a small project
team already formed here in Perth,” said Beckett, who is
attending an oil and gas industry conference in the Western
Australian city. “Towards the end of 2013 is a reasonable
target to aim for. We want to capture the synergies from the
first three trains. There’s a lot we can leverage off.”  Chevron is among energy companies proceeding with
Australian LNG ventures to meet a projected increase in Asian
demand for cleaner-burning alternatives to coal. The oil
producer has called the Gorgon and proposed Wheatstone LNG
project in  Australia  the “centerpieces” of its growth plans.  There may be “a bit of a gap after the fourth train,” and
before a potential fifth processing unit is approved, he said.  Japanese Customers  The crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant in
 Japan  is likely to lead to an increased demand for Australian
LNG as countries reassess their plans to build more reactors,
analysts including  John Hirjee  of Deutsche Bank AG have said.  “In the short term, there’s a need to support our Japanese
customers through our existing projects, which we’re doing,”
Beckett said. “LNG will remain very important in the fuel mix,
and it’s important for us to complete our projects so they can
rely on us delivering to them in 2014, 2015 and so forth.”  The Hague-based Shell earlier this week agreed to acquire a
stake in the Wheatstone project. The European  oil company  will
gain 6.4 percent of the LNG facilities and 8 percent of the
fields off northwest Australia that will supply Wheatstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  