-- 
Chile May Raise Rate to 4.5% as Surging Growth Threatens Inflation Target

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-04-12T12:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/chile-may-raise-rate-to-4-5-amid-surging-gdp-consumer-prices.html
Chile ’s central bank will probably
raise its benchmark interest rate today for the 10th time in 11
months as surging economic growth sends inflation beyond the
mid-point of policy makers’ target.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, will increase the overnight rate by a half-point for
the second straight month to 4.5 percent, according to 19 of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two analysts expect the bank
to raise by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent.  Latin America’s fifth-biggest economy expanded last year at
the fastest pace since 2005 and economic activity has
accelerated in the first two months of 2011 on rising domestic
demand and retail sales. The central bank will raise borrowing
costs today after consumer prices in March rose the most in 23
months as policy makers forecast above-target inflation by year-
end, Matias  Madrid , an economist at Banco Penta in Santiago,
said.  “This increase in rates will be designed to slightly
moderate internal demand, which has been growing quite strong,
and to anchor inflation expectations,” Madrid said in an
interview. “Economic activity has exceeded estimates.”  The central bank, in its April 4 policy report, estimated
the economy would grow as much as 6.5 percent this year, which
would be the fastest pace of annual growth in more than a
decade. Economic activity expanded 7.2 percent in February from
the previous year and 6.8 percent in January.  Recovery ‘Consolidated’  Economic activity may have surged close to 15 percent in
March from the same month last year, when the economy contracted
2 percent on damage caused by an 8.8-magnitude earthquake on
Feb. 27,  De Gregorio  told reporters in Santiago April 7. The
March economic activity report will be published May 5.  The economy’s expansion creates the risk that demand will
exceed output capacity, putting additional pressure on consumer
prices, De Gregorio told senators on April 4.  “Chile’s economic recovery has consolidated and output
gaps are closed,” De Gregorio said in  prepared remarks . “It
can’t be ruled out that activity and demand will evolve above
expectations, causing them to exceed normal levels of productive
capacity use in the economy and, as a result, causing
inflationary pressures.”  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices in March rose 0.8 percent from February --
the fastest monthly pace since September 2009 -- and 3.4 percent
from the previous year, the quickest year-on-year inflation
since April 2009, the National Statistics Institute said last
week.  Monthly inflation will slow to 0.4 percent in both April
and May as annual inflation accelerates to 4.4 percent by
December, according to the median estimate of 72 economists in a
monthly central bank survey published today.  Annual inflation may reach 4.3 percent by year-end, the
central bank said in its latest monetary policy report,
published April 4.  The central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent plus
or minus one percentage point over a two-year horizon.  Policy makers, who in December estimated inflation would
end 2011 at 3.3 percent, have raised their forecasts on an
increase in global commodity prices, Luis Oscar Herrera, the
central bank’s chief economist, told reporters last week.  Energy, Fuel  “The origin of episodes of higher inflation we’ve seen in
recent months is strictly related to prices tied to energy and
fuel,” Herrera said in Santiago. “This in the future could
have an impact on other prices, which is our concern.”  The peso’s 8.5 percent rally against the dollar in the last
year has it trading near a three-year high, helping to keep
import costs down and consumer prices in check.  The currency fell 0.5 percent yesterday to 472.01 per
dollar from 469.91 on April 8. The peso weakened 0.4 percent to
473.77 at 7:41 a.m. New York time today.  One of the biggest threats to Chile’s economy is the price
of oil, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said in a March 24
speech in Santiago. Chile imports 99 percent of its crude, whose
price on the Brent futures market increased 5 percent in March
to $117.36 a barrel.  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of commodity indexes including energy, grains, food,
precious metals and livestock, rose 33 percent at the end of
March from the previous year.  To be sure, higher  oil prices  and increasing interest rates
could cause economic growth to moderate in coming months, De
Gregorio said.  After raising rates to 4.5 percent today, policy makers
will continue to increase lending costs to 5.5 percent by
October and 6 percent by April next year, according to the
median estimate of 46 traders and investors in a March 23
central bank survey.  At 4 percent, Chile has the second-lowest benchmark rate
among major Latin American economies tracked by Bloomberg behind
 Colombia . Peru also has a 4 percent benchmark rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  