-- 
Chile Raises Rate to 4.5% as Economic Growth Surges, Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-04-12T21:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/chile-raises-rate-to-4-5-as-prices-threaten-to-exceed-country-s-targets.html
Chilean policy makers raised the
benchmark interest rate by a half-point for the second straight
month today as economic growth accelerates and consumer prices
threaten to exceed central bank targets this year.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , raised the overnight rate by a half-point to 4.5
percent, matching the forecast of 19 of 21 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Two analysts forecast that the central bank would
raise rates by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent. It was the tenth
rate increase in 11 months for the South American country.  Chile hastened the pace of rate increases in March to
contain the effect of energy price gains on inflation forecasts.
Policy makers today sustained that tempo as inflation surpasses
the mid-point of the bank’s target and the economy accelerates
toward what could be its fastest annual pace in more than a
decade.  “The evolution of inflation rates, while still in line
with expectations, reflects some acceleration of prices in both
global and core measures,” Alejandro Puente, an economist with
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said in an interview from
Santiago. “In addition to inflation, economic activity
continues to exceed estimates.”  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in March from February,
the fastest since September 2009, the National Statistics
Institute said last week. Inflation excluding fuel and produce
rose 0.4 percent in March from the previous month, the quickest
rate of growth since September 2010, the institute said.  Inflation Target  Annual inflation will accelerate to 4.3 percent by the end
of the year from 3.4 percent in March, the central bank said in
its latest quarterly monetary policy report, published April 4.
The central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus 1 percentage point, over a two-year horizon.  Chile ’s annual inflation rate will return to levels within
the bank’s target range by the second quarter of next year
before closing 2012 at 3 percent, De Gregorio told senators
April 4.  “Inflation has matched expectations,” the central bank
said in a statement accompanying today’s decision. “Increases
in global raw material prices, particularly oil, keep short-term
inflation expectations of the private sector elevated.”  Policy makers are concerned that higher  oil prices  could
create inflationary pressures on other  consumer goods , De
Gregorio said. Chile imports 99 percent of its oil, whose price
in the Brent futures market increased 5 percent in March to
$117.36 a barrel.  ‘Important Risks’  “We confront important risks,” De Gregorio told senators
in reference to international price shocks. “Those shocks could
spread from specific sectors to remaining prices in the economy.
Preventing that spread today is the principal task of monetary
policy.”  Policy makers will continue to remove the monetary stimulus
at a pace that depends on economic conditions, the central bank
said in today’s statement. Chile’s economic growth also could
contribute to inflationary pressures if demand exceeds output
capacity, De Gregorio told senators.  “Chile’s economic recovery has consolidated and output
gaps are closed,” he said. “It can’t be ruled out that
activity and demand will evolve above expectations, causing them
to exceed normal levels of productive capacity use in the
economy and, as a result, causing inflationary pressures.”  The economy will grow as much as 6.5 percent this year,
which would be the fastest pace of annual expansion in more than
10 years, policy makers said in their policy report.  Economic activity grew a faster-than-estimated 6.8 percent
in January from the previous year and 7.2 percent in February on
gains in the retail industry.  10% Growth  The economy could have grown as much as 10 percent in the
three months through March from the previous year, which would
be the fastest pace of quarterly expansion in more than 15
years, De Gregorio said in an April 7 speech.  “Domestic activity, demand and employment data continue
evolving dynamically,” the central bank said in today’s
statement.  Chile’s unemployment rate has declined on economic growth,
falling to 7.3 percent in the three months through February from
8.6 percent through April 2010, the institute said. Salaries in
February increased 5.8 percent from the previous year, the
institute said in an April 7 report.  “Gaps in the labor market have gotten tighter with a rapid
gain in employment and an increase in salaries,” policy makers
said in the April 4 policy report. “Labor market conditions
will continue to support the growth of consumption in coming
months.”  The peso gained 9.3 percent over the past year through
yesterday, the most among major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Brazilian real.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  