-- 
China Shipbuilding Jumps on Torpedo, Telescope-Makers Deal

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-12T08:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/china-shipbuilding-jumps-on-torpedo-telescope-makers-deal-1-.html
China  Shipbuilding Industry Co.,
the country’s biggest maker of vessel equipment, jumped in
Shanghai trading after agreeing to buy seven affiliates,
including makers of torpedoes and submarine telescopes.  The company rose 5.1 percent to close at 13.86 yuan, as it
resumed trading following an almost monthlong suspension. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent.  China Shipbuilding plans to raise as much as 12.5 billion
yuan ($1.9 billion) in a stock sale to help fund the acquisition
and projects including making equipment for nuclear-powered
vessels, it said in a  statement  today. The deal may boost
earnings about 20 percent this year, said Zhen Yi, an analyst at
China Jianyin Securities Co. in Shenzhen.  “Supplying the navy will fuel future growth,” Zhen said
by phone. She has a ‘buy’ rating on Beijing-based China
Shipbuilding.  China plans to spend 601.1 billion yuan on defense this
year, Li Zhaoxing, a spokesman for China’s National People’s
Congress, said last month. That’s an increase of about 13
percent. The country has the world’s second-largest defense
budget behind the U.S.  Share Placement  China Shipbuilding will sell as many as 1 billion new
shares at no less than 12.44 yuan each in a private placement,
according to the statement. That’s 5.7 percent lower than the
last closing price on March 17. The new shares will be bought by
parent China Shipbuilding Industry Corp., the nation’s largest
supplier of  naval products , and nine other institutional
investors, according to the statement.  The acquisition will also include an engine-parts maker and
a research unit, the statement said. China Shipbuilding also
completed the purchase of four shipyards from its parent in
February.  China has encouraged state-owned companies to sell assets
to listed units to boost financial transparency. SAIC Motor
Corp., the nation’s largest carmaker, this month agreed to buy
partsmakers and other businesses from its state-controlled
parent in a deal worth about 34 billion yuan.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jiang Jianguo in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 