-- 
China’s Carrier Poses Mostly Symbolic Threat, U.S. Admiral Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-12T22:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/china-s-soviet-era-carrier-poses-mostly-symbolic-threat-u-s-admiral-says.html
China ’s reconstruction of a Soviet-
era aircraft carrier, while not a concern to the U.S., is
raising alarms in the region as a symbol of the Asian nation’s
military expansion, U.S. Navy Admiral Robert Willard said.  China’s state news agency, Xinhua, posted photos of the
carrier, the Varyag, on a website last week, according to the
New York Times. In a photo caption, Xinhua cited the military
analysis magazine Kanwa Asian Defense Review in  Canada  as saying
the ship will set sail this year, the Times reported. The
timeline tracks with an estimate made two years ago by the U.S.
Office of Naval Intelligence.  Willard, the top U.S. military commander in the Asia-
Pacific region, said he is “not concerned” by the project. The
carrier sat pier-side for years as China considered making it a
tourist attraction before the reconstruction began, Willard
said.  “We do expect that they will achieve what they are
asserting, which is that perhaps this year it may go to sea,”
Willard, who heads  U.S. Pacific Command , said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s  Washington  bureau. “That’s a long way
from developing an aircraft carrier capability.”  Still, China’s overall military expansion magnifies the
symbolic effect, Willard told the  Senate Armed Services
Committee  at a hearing earlier in the day.  “Based on the feedback that we received from our partners
and allies in the Pacific, I think the change in perception by
the region will be significant,” Willard said.  ‘Mother Ships’  Chinese leaders have talked for decades of plans to acquire
what they call “aircraft mother ships” as part of their
military modernization. Such a fleet would expand China’s power
in the region and enhance its influence in territorial disputes
with  Japan , South Korea,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines .  The U.S. expects that China, the world’s second-biggest
economy, will try to build its own carrier at some point,
Willard said in the interview.  “This is a significant choice that they’re making to
develop an aircraft carrier capability,” said Willard, 60,
whose command is based in  Hawaii  and covers 36 nations and about
half the earth’s surface. “This is their first refit of a boat
to give them the very beginning of that, so we’ll watch over it
with interest.”  The refurbished aircraft carrier may serve as a test-and-
evaluation platform. There must be “a long period of training
and development and eventual exercising preceding any
operational capability,” Willard told the committee.  Ballistic Missiles  “There’s a lot that goes into aircraft carrier
operations,” Willard said in the interview. “We would expect
that at some point in time, they’ll attempt to marry some
semblance of an air wing to it.”  The Obama administration has pushed for more openness from
China, the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries, over its
military intentions, especially as it develops the capacity to
restrict U.S. access to sea lanes.  “What we are striving to do is develop a constructive
partner in China,” Willard said.  Still, “they have developed a ballistic missile
capability” and “most of those missiles are aimed in the
direction of  Taiwan . That is very formidable,” Willard said.  The missile inventory has the capability to reach allies
and “has the region concerned,” he said.  The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission said
in its 2010 report that China’s non-nuclear missiles have “the
capability to attack” and close down five of six major U.S. Air
Force bases in South Korea and Japan.  U.S. Bases in Range  China’s improved inventory of short- and medium-range
missiles provides a “dramatic increase” in its ability to
“inhibit” U.S. military operations in the western Pacific, the
commission said.  China’s current force “may be sufficient” to destroy
runways, parked aircraft, fuel and maintenance facilities at the
Osan and Kunsan air bases in  South Korea  and the Kadena, Misawa
and Yokota bases in Japan, the report said. Those facilities are
within 1,100 kilometers (684 miles) of China.  The commission said Congress should evaluate Pentagon
spending to fortify bases from Chinese attack, including missile
defenses, early warning systems, runway repairs and hardening
buildings and hangars.  “Not regarding China as an enemy, my hope is that we would
not ever face that kind of a decision” to heavily invest in
improving Pacific base survivability, Willard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 