-- 
China’s Record Lending May Spur First Yuan Rating Cut by Fitch on Bad Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T10:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/china-s-local-currency-credit-rating-may-be-cut-by-fitch-on-private-debt.html
China ’s debt rating may be cut for
the first time in 12 years after a record jump in lending added
to risks that bad loans will overwhelm banks in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  Fitch Ratings lowered its outlook on China’s AA- long-term
local-currency rating to “negative” from “stable,” citing a
“high likelihood of a significant deterioration” in banks’
asset quality within three years. The outlook on China’s A+
foreign-currency rating remains stable, London-based Fitch said
in a statement yesterday.  Bad loans could rise to 15 percent to 30 percent of the
total, with concern at the quality of lending compounded by
growth in off-balance-sheet credit, Fitch said. Chinese banks
extended 7.95 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion) of new loans last
year, helping drive the economy’s rebound from the global
financial crisis and fueling a surge in property prices.  “Fitch has documented a proliferation of off-balance sheet
and other more or less informal channels through which credit is
being extended to the economy,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of
Fitch’s Asia-Pacific sovereign unit, told a conference call
today. “This gives rise to concerns that the effectiveness of
monetary policy may be decreasing.”  A downgrade by Fitch would be the first on China’s debt
since  Standard & Poor’s  cut its foreign and local currency long-
term ranking one level in July 1999 to BBB. Fitch has never cut
China’s credit rating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lending Concerns  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch economists led by Lu Ting
said a systemic banking crisis in China is a “remote
possibility” in the next couple of years.  Being “cautious is one thing, exaggerating risks is quite
another,” the economists wrote in an e-mailed note today. Some
rating firms “might need to be more careful in using models”
to predict the probability of a bank crisis in China, they wrote.  China, the world’s second-largest economy with about $2.8
trillion in foreign-exchange reserves, has raised  interest rates 
four times since October to fight inflation. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said last month that “exorbitant” home-price increases are a
key concern as China seeks to rely more on domestic than foreign
demand to power economic growth.  Loans to companies and households in China rose to about
140 percent of gross domestic product last year, from 111
percent in 2008, Fitch said. The increase is linked to property
lending and local-government financing, it said.  Sovereign Support  “The lack of disclosure on a local government level and
how much debt they have taken on is somewhat of a concern,”
Colquhoun said on the call. He said it was “not inconceivable”
that support to cover bad loans could rise to as much as 30
percent of gross domestic product, should the non-performing
loan ratio reach 30 percent.  The non-performing loan ratio of 1.1 percent at the end of
2010 could rise to 6 percent if local-government financing was
classified in a “more conservative” manner, the company said
in yesterday’s statement. “Fitch expects some sovereign support
for the banking system will be required.”  Wen, while visiting eastern China’s Zhejiang province,
asked local governments to take responsibility to keep housing
affordable and said stabilizing consumer prices is the top
priority, according to a statement on the government’s website
April 9.  Policy makers raised the minimum down payment for second-
home purchases this year as the government focused on measures
aimed at speculators, who are mostly targeting homes in major
cities. Shanghai and Chongqing imposed taxes on residential
properties, and affluent cities including Beijing and Guangzhou
imposed restrictions on housing purchases.  Foreign Reserves  Administrative controls on lending, instead of allowing
interest rates to rise, are encouraging banks to meet excess
credit demand with off-balance-sheet vehicles, said Charlene Chu,
senior director for financial institutions at  Fitch Ratings  in
Beijing.  “Essentially what we have is a very big banking system
that is growing very rapidly with much of that growth going into
questionable sectors,” she told the conference call. “If the
shock is only going from 1 percent non-performing loans to 5
percent to 6 percent this may be a non-issue for the sovereign
but if the shock gets more severe like 10 percent or 15 percent,
the sovereign has to get involved.”  Fitch said that the country’s sovereign rating reflects its
$2.8 trillion of reserves, very little foreign debt and
“extremely strong” ability to absorb external shocks.  “We suspect the general approach of bailing out the state
banks would be followed because it has been quite successful,”
she said. “That is capital injections from foreign-exchange
reserves.”  --  Henry Sanderson  and  Shelley Smith . Editors: Sandy Hendry,
Paul Panckhurst, Matthew Brooker.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 