-- 
Cisco, Amer Sports, Pernod Ricard: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-12T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cisco-amer-sports-kbr-pernod-ricard-intellectual-property.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, was told by a federal jury to pay
$63.8 million to a  Texas  company for infringing a patent on
wireless-transmission technology.  The April 8 verdict against Cisco was won by closely held
Commil USA LLC of The Woodlands, Texas. The jury in Marshall,
Texas, rejected Cisco’s arguments that it wasn’t infringing the
patent, and set the $63.8 million as a reasonable royalty for
use of the Commil technology.  This is the second trial in the case. Cisco had lost at
trial in May, and the jury awarded $3.7 million. Magistrate
Charles Everingham, who presided over both trials, threw out the
verdict, saying Cisco’s lawyers made inappropriate religious
comments before the jury.  “We know this new award more truly reflects our client’s
significant damages as a result of Cisco’s infringement,” said
Commil lawyer Richard Sayles of Dallas-based  Sayles Werbner .
“This verdict further validates Commil’s valuable patented
technology.”  Commil’s patent 6,430,395, issued in 2002, covers a way of
maintaining network connections through a series of base
stations so a person with a laptop computer, mobile phone or
device with a wireless-transmission feature such as Bluetooth
doesn’t lose the signal while walking through a building.  “There are nine years left on the patent,” Commil lawyer
Mark Werbner said after the verdict was announced. “We expect
Cisco to respect this verdict. Failing that, we will ask the
court for appropriate relief.”  San Jose , California-based Cisco, which reported $10.4
billion in sales during the fiscal quarter ended Jan. 29,
pledged to appeal the verdict.  “We are disappointed by the jury’s verdict, but following
the two trials in this matter, Cisco has unusually strong
grounds for appeal, and we look forward to pursuing them
immediately,” the company said in an e-mail.  The case is Commil USA LLC v. Cisco Systems Inc., 07cv341,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Amer Sports Unit Sued Over Ball-Inflation Patent, Trade Secret  Amer Sports Oyj (AMEAS) ’s Wilson Sporting Goods unit was sued for
patent infringement and trade secret misappropriation by a
 Washington  state company.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
 Seattle  on April 8, Wilson infringed patent 5,636,835, which
covers an inflatable game ball with seams having a soft feel.  The patent, which was issued in June 1997, is allegedly
infringed by  Wilson’s basketballs with “cushion control” 
technology.  In addition to the patent infringement, closely held  Baden
Sports Inc.  of Federal Way, Washington, accused Wilson of
enticing a retired Baden employee to reveal the secrets of a
device the company invented to inflate basketballs.  In the complaint, Baden says it came up with the idea of an
“inflation table” that could be used to inflate multiple balls
to the appropriate pressure. Baden said basketballs are shipped
from overseas suppliers un-inflated and “the cost of inflating
and packaging inflatable balls is a production cost item that is
measurable.”  The cost savings Baden realized through the use of its
inflation table were “significant” to the company’s business
because of the large numbers of balls processed each year. Baden
said it has never disclosed the design to the public and that
it’s used inside the company in an area to which access is
limited.  Wilson is accused of bringing the retired Baden employee to
a Wilson facility in  Tennessee  and acquiring from him the design
details of the inflation table. The retired employee “is
believed to lack business experience,” and was enticed with
consulting fees, Baden claims.  Amer didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Baden is represented by Bruce Kaser of  Vantage Law PLLC  of
Issaquah, Washington, and  A. Clifford Edwards ,  Triel D. Culver, 
and  Philip McGrady  of  Edwards, Frickle & Culver  of Billings,
Montana.  The case is Baden Sports Inc. v. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
2:11-cv-00603, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Film Company Sues Single Defendant in Copyright Suit  West Bay One Inc., a  Florida  filmmaker that sued 2,000
unnamed defendants for infringing the copyright to its one of
its films, brought a new case over the same film, this time with
just one defendant.  In the new suit, filed April 8 in federal court in
Baltimore, West Bay One accused a resident of  Nottingham ,
 Maryland , of infringing the copyright to “The Steam
Experiment.” According to court papers, this film, which stars
Val Kilmer, Armand Assante and Patrick Muldoon, is also known as
“The Chaos Experiment.”  The alleged infringement was accomplished through the use
of the BitTorrent protocol for file sharing, West Bay One said
in its pleadings.  Unlike some previous complaints for BitTorrent copyright
infringement, this one lists the specific time of day at which
the alleged infringement occurred and specifically identifies
the defendant’s Internet service provider.  In its previous case, which was filed in federal court in
the  District of Columbia , West Bay One accused 2,000 defendants
of infringement and said in its court papers that it would need
further court proceedings to identify the defendants.  Judge Rosemary Collyer questioned the West Bay One’s
strategy in that case, and in June 2010 permitted several
individual-rights advocacy groups to file a friend-of-the-court
brief arguing against the suing of a large mass of unknown
defendants. In December she then ordered the dismissal of the
defendants whose names West Bay One hadn’t been able to
identify, and said the case could go ahead against the rest.  That case is now titled West Bay One v. Does 1,653, 1:10-
cv-00481-RMC, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  The new case is West Bay One Inc. v. Wisniewski, 1:11-cv-
00913-MJG, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Baltimore).  Go Daddy Founder Tries to Halt Elephant-Kill Video Posting  The founder of Go Daddy Group Inc., the world’s largest
registrar of domain names, is sending out copyright infringement
notices over  a video of him shooting an elephant  in  Zimbabwe ,
DomainNameWire.com  reported .  Bob Parsons of Scottsdale, Arizona-based Go Daddy, who had
granted permission “quite liberally” to those who asked,
according to a company statement, was demanding that those who
posted the video without authorization “remove it, as per
relevant copyright law.”  BayTSP Inc. , an anti-piracy investigator and enforcement
company based in Los Gatos,  California , has been sending out
takedown notices on Parsons’ behalf to operators of sites that
have permitted unauthorized posting of the video, according to
DomainNameWire.com.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  KBR Sued KBR Equity Partners, Claims Trademarks Infringed  KBR Inc. (KBR) , the global engineering firm that is the largest
contractor in  Iraq , sued a Florida  investment company  for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed April 8 in Miami federal
court,  KBR Equity partners LLC  of Miami operates a website using
the KBR mark, and the investment company promotes itself to the
public as KBR.  The Houston-based contractor said it has filed papers with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office opposing the investment
company’s attempt to register “KBR Equity Fund” as a
trademark. The names are so similar as to “be confusing to a
substantial number of actual and potential customers,” the
company said in its pleadings.  It asked the court to bar the investment company from using
“KBR,” “KBR Equity Fund” and any other mark that is
“confusingly similar” to the construction company’s. It also
seeks a halt to the investment company’s use of the
“www.kbrequity.com” website and to be transferred that domain
name.  The construction company also requested awards of the
investment company’s profits related to the alleged
infringement, together with money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The Florida-based investment company didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  KBR Inc. is represented by  Gregory M. Garno  and  Catherine
Van Horn  of Miami’s  Genovese Joblove & Battista PA .  The case is KBR Inc. v, KBR Equity Partners LLC, 1:11-cv-
21257, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  Ferrero Sues  Singapore  Coffee Chain for Violating Nutella Mark  Ferrero SpA, the maker of the Nutella hazelnut spread
controlled by billionaire Michele Ferrero, sought to stop a
Singapore coffee shop chain from selling a drink called Nutello,
claiming a trademark violation.  Sarika Connoisseur Cafe Pte, owner of 30 coffee shop
outlets in Singapore, is trying to pass off the Nutello drink as
being associated with Nutella, Ferrero claimed in a lawsuit
filed in Singapore High Court.  “Nutella is an invented word; it’s highly distinctive,”
Ferrero’s lawyer M. Ravindran told Judge Chan Seng Onn at the
start of a trial yesterday. The mark is the lifeblood of the
product, he said. The trial is scheduled to run until April 15.  Sarika has denied wrongdoing. There’s no similarity between
the “Nutella” and “Nutello” marks, which have different
fonts, designs and color schemes, and the public isn’t likely to
be confused by the two, its lawyer Tan Tee Jim said in a
submission to the court.  Ferrero, which has 21,500 employees and 18 factories around
the world, also makes Ferrero Rocher truffles and Tic Tac
sweets.  Michele Ferrero and his family ranked 32nd among the
world’s wealthiest people with $18 billion, Forbes magazine’s
U.S. edition reported in March.  The case is Ferrero Spa v. Sarika Connoisseur Cafe Pte,
S9/2010, Singapore High Court.  Pernod Ricard’s Jacobs Creek Wine Faked, Imported to U.K.  Fake versions of Pernod Ricard SA’s  Jacob’s Creek Wine  have
been seized by U.K. authorities,  Australia ’s Herald Sun
 reported.   Officials said the fake versions of the Jacob’s Creek wines
-- which are imported from Australia -- had the country of
origin incorrectly spelled as “Austrlia” on the label and
tasted foul, according to the newspaper.  Simon Thomas, deputy managing director of wine for Pernod
Ricard told the Herald Sun that while tests indicated the fake
wine wasn’t harmful, it “is of very low quality and substandard
taste.”  The wine, which was believed to have originated in  China ,
sold for about 2 British pounds ($3.27), while the real thing
sells for about 10 British pounds a bottle, the Herald Sun
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Bryan Cave Expands IP Practice with Hire From Fish & Richardson  Bryan Cave LLC  hired Andrew Warnecke for its IP practice,
the St. Louis-based firm said in a  statement  yesterday.  Warnecke, a patent litigator, previously practiced at
 Boston ’s  Fish & Richardson . He has represented clients whose
technologies included computer systems and networks, digital
image processing, digital audio reproduction, navigation
systems, and mechanical systems.  He has litigated cases both in federal district courts and
before the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Warnecke has an undergraduate degree from Purdue University
and a law degree from George Washington University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 