-- 
Cisco to Close Flip Video-Camera Business as Part of Revamp

-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-04-12T20:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cisco-to-close-flip-video-camera-business-as-part-of-consumer-unit-revamp.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
biggest maker of networking equipment, will close its Flip
video-camera unit and cut about 550 jobs as it reorganizes its
consumer businesses.  Pretax costs from the revamp won’t likely top $300 million
during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2011,  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco said today in a statement. Cisco will
realign its remaining consumer business to support core routing,
switching and services, collaboration, architectures and videos.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said in an April 4
memo to staff that he will make several “targeted moves” to
restore lost credibility and sharpen the company’s focus. The
moves today aren’t enough to compensate for the declining
profitability of the consumer business, which Cisco should exit
entirely, said Alex Henderson, with Miller Tabak & Co.  “You’re in a business that has extremely low margins and
you don’t have a competitive edge,” Henderson, a New York-based
analyst who rates the shares “buy” and doesn’t own them, said
of Cisco’s consumer business in a phone interview. “They’ve got
a lot of work to do, and this is just a drop in the bucket.”  Cisco’s shares declined 34 percent in the past year. The
stock fell 3 cents to $17.44 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading.  Margin Narrowed  Cisco’s gross margin, a measure of profitability, narrowed
to 64 percent last fiscal year from 70 percent in 2003, in part
a reflection of the push into consumer products.  Cisco has shed the “accountability that has been a
hallmark of our ability to execute consistently” for customers
and investors, Chambers said in the memo this month. The company
is planning a series of changes aimed at revamping leadership
and making it easier for customers and partners to work with
Cisco, he said.  “You will see Cisco make a number of targeted moves in the
coming weeks,” Chambers said in the 1,500-word memo to
employees. He didn’t give details on what form the changes would
take.  The job cuts, which represent less than 1 percent of total
employees, will take place by the end of the fiscal year, the
company said. Cisco’s consumer division also includes Linksys
home networking and audio and media-storage products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 