-- 
Citadel Hires Goldberg, Lin to Expand Global Fixed-Income

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-04-12T16:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/citadel-hires-senior-portfolio-managers-in-global-fixed-income.html
Citadel LLC hired Steven Goldberg
and Edwin Lin to be senior portfolio managers in fixed income as
the investment firm founded by billionaire  Ken Griffin  expands
its 3-year-old global interest-rates business.  Goldberg, 43, a former fixed-income portfolio manager for
the interest-rate options desk at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , will
focus on derivatives strategies in the rates and foreign-
exchange markets, Citadel said today in a statement. Lin, 35,
ran short-term interest-rate trading for  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN) 
He’ll start Citadel’s Canadian rates strategy and run global
short-term rate and basis-swap trading.  “Edwin and Steve are proven risk-takers with valuable
domain expertise,” Derek Kaufman, head of global fixed income
for Citadel Asset Management, said in the statement.  Citadel has been expanding beyond its main multistrategy
Wellington and Kensington funds after those funds tumbled
55 percent in 2008. They have yet to recoup the losses, meaning
they generate no performance fee for the Chicago-based firm.
Citadel also has been restocking its securities unit after
losing nine top-level employees in a 15-month span.  Griffin, 42, founded Citadel as a hedge fund in 1990.
Assets peaked at $21 billion in 2007 and now total $11 billion.
The firm is shutting one of its residential mortgage funds after
Bill King, the portfolio manager, left in March, people familiar
with the matter have said. The firm runs four other single-
strategy funds.  Goldberg and Lin will begin next month and report to
Kaufman, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 