-- 
Cities to Lose Community Redevelopment, Police Funds in U.S. Budget Cuts

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-12T17:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cities-to-lose-community-redevelopment-police-funds-in-u-s-budget-cuts.html
U.S. cities and local governments
will lose funds for community redevelopment projects, public
transportation and police and fire departments as part of the
budget agreement that averted a  federal government shutdown .  The agreement struck between President  Barack Obama  and
Congressional leaders will cut funding for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s community development fund by
$942 million to $3.5 billion, according to  a list  released
today. It also eliminates $680 million from public
transportation grants, more than $700 million from low-income
housing, and $786 million from grants for local agencies that
respond to emergencies.  “It’s definitely going to have an impact at the local
level,” said Greg Minchak, a spokesman for the  National League
of Cities  in Washington. “This is going to mean projects aren’t
going to go forward, cities are going to have to reprioritize
what they’ve been working, and we’re going to see layoffs
because of this.”  The cuts affecting cities are among those needed to produce
the $38 billion that Obama and congressional leaders agreed to
for the remainder of the 2011 budget year. The cuts resolved a
standoff between the White House and Republican leaders that
last week threatened to force the first federal government
shutdown in 15 years.  The $1.049 trillion legislation is set for a House vote
later this week, with a Senate vote to follow, as lawmakers push
to bring the budget fight to a close.  Congress Urged  City leaders had urged Congress not to cut the community
development program, saying doing so threatened to deal a blow
to their already struggling economies. The Housing and Urban
Development program provides federal grants to states and
localities for affordable housing, infrastructure improvements,
economic development and other projects.  Cities have little room to make up for lost funds. Local
governments have eliminated 416,000 jobs since their payrolls
peaked in September 2008, before the financial crisis worsened,
and state and local tax collections have yet to recover to the
 peak hit  more than two years ago.  The budget agreement also eliminates new funding for high-
speed rail projects and rescinds $400 million of funds in
previous budgets. The moves save $2.9 billion, according to the
list.  Robert Healy, a lobbyist for the American Public
Transportation Association, said the cutbacks come at a time
when rising gasoline prices are illustrating the need for
investments in public transportation.  “We’re very concerned about the impact of the deal on
public transit and high-speed rail,” he said. “It’s short-
sighted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  