-- 
Clean-Energy Loan Guarantees Escape Cuts in Proposed U.S. Budget

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-12T17:29:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/clean-energy-loan-guarantees-escape-cuts-in-proposed-u-s-budget.html
Loan guarantees for clean energy
projects were unscathed in a budget that cuts more than $38
billion in spending through the end of September, according to
 text of the legislation  from the House Rules Committee.  The budget to keep the government operating through Sept.
20 will allow loan guarantees to proceed for projects that
submitted applications to the  Energy Department  by Feb. 24.  “We are very pleased to see a bipartisan group of House
members and senators step forward to support the program,”
Rhone Resch, chief executive officer of the  Solar Energy
Industries Association , said in a statement.  Congressional negotiators reached a budget compromise on
April 8, less than an hour before spending authority was set to
expire. The House is set to vote on the legislation on April 14.  The funding level for “innovative loan guarantees” is
$860 million less than President  Barack Obama  requested,
according to  documents  from the House Appropriations Committee.  Republicans had sought to reduce funding for several
energy assistance programs, and cut $438 million from the loan
guarantee program for a separate set of energy-efficiency and
renewable-energy projects.  For the clean-energy programs, Republicans “got some more
guarantees in terms of oversight,” Salo Zelermyer, an energy
and environment lawyer with Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in
Washington and a former Energy Department official, said in a
phone interview. He said the director of the Office of
Management and Budget now must approve loan guarantees in the
program.  Funding for nuclear energy loan guarantees wouldn’t change
under the 2011 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/12/ :29 GMT 