-- 
Clinton’s ‘Failed State’ Warning Hangs Over Libya as NATO Officials Meet

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-13T09:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/clinton-s-failed-state-warning-hangs-over-libya-as-nato-can-t-stem-chaos.html
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s early warning that  Libya  may become a failed state
risks turning into reality as three weeks of Western military
intervention have failed to stem the chaos that’s split the
country in half.  Clinton on March 2 said Libya may become a “giant
Somalia.” NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen on April
11 raised the possibility of a Libyan “failed state.” Moussa Koussa,  Muammar Qaddafi ’s lieutenant who defected last month,
warned also that day of a Somalia-like collapse.  “It looks like a very untenable situation,” Geoff Porter,
an analyst at North African Risk Consulting, said in an
interview from  New York . “Where we are heading is a de facto
partition, between Tripolitania and Cyrenaica,” the historic
names for western and eastern Libya.  The seven-week-old uprising aimed at ending Qaddafi’s 42-
year rule has pulled a coalition led by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization into Libya and split the country between the
oil-rich east, controlled by rebels, and Qaddafi’s stronghold in
the west.  Eni SpA (ENI) , the biggest foreign oil producer in Libya,
said last month its worst fear was that a breakdown in authority
would shut production for years.  Oil Exports Hurt  Anarchy like that in Somalia, where areas have been
ungoverned since a 1991 civil war, or in Sudan, whose southern
portion voted to secede this year, would exacerbate concerns
about oil investments. Libyan crude oil exports would be limited
to about 29 percent of pre-crisis levels at first, if peace
permitted all state-operated fields to return to full
production, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in an April 7 report.  Foreign  oil companies  evacuated expatriate workers and
“the shortage of human capital makes it difficult to bring
all the fields back into production,” the report said.  Clinton and her NATO counterparts will meet tomorrow in
Berlin to discuss next steps for the Libya mission. Foreign
ministers and other officials from the “contact group” of
nations involved in Libya are meeting today in Doha, Qatar.  “If Libya can be held together, it will not be a failed
state,” said  Elliott Abrams , senior fellow at the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in Washington.  Oil production in Libya, which has  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, dwindled to a “trickle” last month, according to the
 International Energy Agency . In January, Libya was Africa’s
third-largest producer.  Crude Down  Crude oil erased earlier gains in New York to trade near
its lowest price in two weeks. Oil for May delivery fell as much
as 88 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $105.37 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the lowest price since March 31, and was at
$105.50 at 9:08 a.m. London time.  If the rebels can control the eastern part of Libya,
maximum oil flow will be around 300 million barrels a day,
Michael Lo, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura, said in
response to an e-mailed question.  Preliminary data show global oil supplies beginning to look
“thin” as the Libyan fight strains spare production capacity
held by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the
IEA said yesterday in its monthly Oil Market Report.  NATO’s Rasmussen said prolonged fighting would invite
“terrorists and extremists” such as al-Qaeda to exploit the
disarray and called for a political settlement “sooner rather
than later.” The danger was also flagged by Koussa, who most
recently was Qaddafi’s foreign minister and previously the
Libyan regime’s spy chief.  Avoid Civil War  “I ask everybody to avoid taking Libya into civil war,”
Koussa told BBC television in his first remarks since abandoning
Qaddafi and flying to the U.K. on March 30. “This would lead to
so much blood and Libya would be a new  Somalia . More than that,
we refuse to divide Libya. The unity of Libya is essential to
any solution and settlement.”  Somalia has become a haven for extremists in its central
and southern regions. A Western-backed government controls a
swath of the capital Mogadishu, where it fends off the Islamist
al-Shabaab militia, which the U.S. accuses of having links with
al-Qaeda. The country also is home to pirates who operate off
the Horn of Africa, menacing trade in the  Indian Ocean .  Libya, whose post-colonial history has been dominated by
Qaddafi’s dictatorship, also has divisions drawn along tribal
lines and lacks political parties or a constitution. The country
is a colonial construct, forged under Italian rule by fascist
dictator Benito Mussolini, who in 1934 combined the once-Ottoman
provinces of Tripolitania, Cyrenaica and Fezzan.  Tribal Divisions  David Smock, an analyst at the Washington-based United
States Institute of Peace, said Libya’s tribal divisions are
parallel to clan rivalries in Somalia, where squabbling and
animosity preclude national unity.  “Most failed states end up failed states because they have
ethnic divisions and it is difficult to coordinate all the
groups,” Smock said by phone from  Washington .  Rebels this week turned down an African Union cease-fire
plan that would leave Qaddafi in power. NATO, operating under a
United Nations mandate, has used its firepower to cripple
Qaddafi’s air force and destroy an estimated 30 percent of the
regime’s military hardware.  Preventing a partition and forcing Qaddafi’s exit have been
non-negotiable conditions set by a coalition still divided on
whether to arm rebels in a bid to break the stalemate.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said only Qaddafi’s
relinquishment of power will mean the end of NATO’s military
campaign. “It will end with the departure of Qadaffi,” Hague
told BBC Radio 4 from Qatar today.  Artificial State  Alessandro Politi, a former adviser to the Italian Defense
Ministry, said by telephone from  Rome  that keeping Libya whole
flies in the face of history.  “All this talk of unity is somewhat ridiculous when we are
talking about an artificial state,” Politi said. “Qaddafi
ruled with an iron fist, keeping it together, but the real Libya
is a loose collection of tribes.”  Should the impasse continue, Libya risks joining African
neighbors Chad and  Sudan  to become one of the most unstable
nations in a  2010 failed-state index , assembled by Foreign
Policy and the Fund for Peace. The index ranks states according
to 12 measures including demographic pressures, public services
and human rights. It now groups Libya with countries such as
Mexico and Ukraine as “borderline.”  Somalia, Chad and Sudan top the list. Sudan has become
divided since almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese who cast
ballots in a Jan. 9-15 referendum voted for the oil-rich region
to secede from Sudan, according to the Southern Sudan Referendum
Commission.  Unwelcome Option  Still, such a division appears to be an unwelcome option on
both sides of the divide in Libya.  Unlike in Somalia, “Libyans on both sides agree that the
unity of the country is essential,” said  Ronald Bruce St John ,
an author of three books about Libya, including “Libya:
Continuity and Change” published in February. “The Qaddafi
regime will continue to try to reunite the country through force
of arms, and the rebel side will continue to insist on a unified
Libya without Qaddafi and his family.”  Asked about the prospect of a Sudan-like secession, State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said it was “premature to talk
about any eventuality.”  “It is a difficult situation,” Toner told reporters on
April 11 in Washington. “We believe that we can continue to
apply political pressure on Qaddafi and his regime so that he
gets the message that it’s time for him to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  