-- 
Cocoa Rises on Ivory Coast Supply Concern; Sugar, Coffee Retreat

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-12T15:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cocoa-rises-on-ivory-coast-supply-concern-sugar-coffee-retreat.html
Cocoa rose for a second day on
concern that exports from  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest
producer, may be delayed as lingering conflicts from a civil war
left ports and banks in chaos. Sugar and coffee fell.  The capture of former president  Laurent Gbagbo  yesterday
may mark the end of the Ivory Coast conflict sparked by his
defeat in the Nov. 28 election. Resuming cocoa shipments may
take time as  Alassane Ouattara , the election winner, inherits a
banking system closed by four months of global isolation.  “Normal life has to return to Ivory Coast before cocoa
exports start,” said Spencer Patton, the chief investment
officer at Chicago-based Steel Vine Investments LLC. “The
uncertainty is not completely over.”  Cocoa for July delivery rose $24, or 0.8 percent, to $3,052
a metric ton at 11:33 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. In
 London , cocoa for July delivery climbed 19 pounds, or 1 percent,
to 1,929 pounds ($3,135) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  “There is an understanding the Ivory Coast is still far
from normal, with infrastructure, finance, and labor still an
issue,” Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank in London, said in
an e-mail today. “I imagine the government has to set up a tax
system, get the workers to the port, and after the chaos of the
past month, that is likely to take some time, measured in weeks
not days.”  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S said one of its ships scheduled to
arrive in the port of Abidjan tomorrow to pick up a cargo of
cocoa is unlikely to do so.  “Instead, we hope that we can make the call to Abidjan the
following week, if the cargo will be load-ready by then and
workers can get to the port,” Sonny Dahl, a director of West
Africa services, said by e-mail today.  Raw-sugar futures for July delivery fell 0.36 cent, or 1.4
percent, to 24.48 cents a pound in  New York . Arabica-coffee
futures for May delivery fell 2.65 cents, or 1 percent, to
$2.7495 a pound on ICE.  In London, refined sugar and robusta coffee declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 