-- 
Complexity of Absolute-Return Funds Makes Picking Difficult, Advisers Say

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-12T19:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/complexity-of-absolute-return-funds-makes-picking-difficult-advisers-say.html
Mutual-fund companies looking to
attract investors are betting on the words “absolute return.”  Twelve absolute-return funds have begun since the start of
2010, according to Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ,
bringing to 32 the number of funds with “absolute” in their
titles. The funds have little in common beyond their names,
which makes evaluating them difficult except for the most
experienced investors,  Bloomberg Businessweek.com  reports.  Absolute return is primarily a marketing concept that has
gained popularity since the recession and stock market decline,
said Nadia Papagiannis, alternative investment strategist at
Morningstar. Funds labeled absolute return follow a number of
strategies and imply investors won’t lose money and will always
make money, she said. “It preys upon peoples’ fears that another
2008 is going to happen.”  The funds use bonds, derivatives, commodities, currencies
and stocks in strategies designed to produce consistent returns
unaffected by broader market moves.  “Absolute return describes the goal rather than the
investing strategy,” said Joseph Jennings, an investment
director for PNC Wealth Management in Baltimore, who uses some
of the funds for his clients. The aim is to “generate positive
returns in any market environment and do so with fairly low
volatility,” he said.  Financial advisers such as Keith Amburgey at Rutherford
Asset Planning said they’re investing in the funds amid concern
 interest rates  will rise and decrease the value of bonds, which
generally have been used to provide consistent, steady returns.  Interest Rates  “If you’re worried about interest rates, you end up turning
to these to fill out your portfolio,” said Amburgey, chief
investment officer at Rutherford, who’s based in Creeskill, New
Jersey.  Absolute-return funds try to reduce market risks such as
interest rate changes or falling stock prices. The $3.4 billion
Absolute Strategies Fund from  Portland , Maine-based Absolute
Investment Advisers LLC uses 13 different strategies to
accomplish this. The Eaton Vance Global Macro Absolute Return
fund, the largest absolute return fund with $7.6 billion in
assets, invests in global debt, currencies and derivatives. A
similar approach is used by the newest fund, the Legg Mason BW
Absolute Return Opportunities Fund, which started Feb. 28.  It’s difficult to compare funds against each other, so
investors “need to look under the covers and understand what the
fund strategies are,” said Robyn Tice, a spokeswoman for  Eaton
Vance Corp. (EV) , based in  Boston . Eaton Vance’s absolute-return fund
became so popular that the firm closed it to new investors last
October, she said.  Limited Track Record  For most of the funds, “you don’t have enough of a track
record to make a prudent decision,” said David J. O’Brien, head
of O’Brien Financial Planning in Midlothian, Virginia.  The track record of older funds is mixed: Of the 10
existing absolute funds in 2008, all except two lost value. For
example, the Absolute Strategies fund lost 14 percent in 2008
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 38 percent.  Investors should read descriptions of fund strategies
carefully and try to gauge the skill of fund managers. Absolute-
return funds tend to borrow the approaches of  hedge funds ,
according to Morningstar’s Papagiannis. Because many of the
funds hedge market risk with derivatives, much depends on these
strategies’ details. Derivatives are contracts whose value is
derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities,
or linked to specific events such as changes in interest rates.  Hard to Evaluate  “There aren’t too many managers you want to trust with
that,” said Rutherford’s Amburgey. Investors need to learn as
much as possible about a portfolio managers and make sure they
are “smart and knowledgeable,” he said.  Evaluating absolute-return funds isn’t something that can
be done by the vast majority of investors or even their
financial advisers, O’Brien said.  While absolute-return funds are designed to be less
volatile than the markets, “they’re still risky,” said Robert
Dowling, a financial adviser at  Modera Wealth Management  in
Westwood,  New Jersey . Because their performance can be
unpredictable, it’s best to make sure you’re not betting on just
one alternative approach, financial advisers such as Dowling
said. Buy several funds or make sure a fund includes several
different strategies, as the Absolute Strategies fund does,
Dowling said.  Capital Gains   Absolute funds have other disadvantages: Because most trade
so often, any gains may trigger higher, short-term capital gains
rates. Fees may also be higher. Expense ratios for absolute-
return funds may vary from less than 1 percent to almost 3
percent, according to Bloomberg data. Expense ratios will
decline with time, said Morningstar’s Papagiannis.  Absolute-return funds may not be worth the effort it takes
to evaluate them and fit into a portfolio. If an investor’s goal
is to reduce volatility, they should stick with investments like
bonds, said Robert Schmansky, founder of Clear Financial
Advisors in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  For example, Treasuries can be bought and structured in a
way that they provide a guaranteed income stream much like an
annuity, he said. The technique is called “laddering” in which
investors buy bonds with varying maturities that correspond to
when they will need  cash flow .  “After the fees and costs of these funds, there are better
options out there that have more of a track record,” Schmansky
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Steverman in New York 
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Suzanne Woolley at   swoolley2@bloomberg.net . 