-- 
Mossi & Ghisolfi Starts to Build Bio-Ethanol Plant

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 
2011-04-13T09:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/construction-begins-on-first-commercial-cellulosic-ethanol-plant-in-italy.html
(Corrects to 40,000 to 45,000 tons in second paragraph of
story published yesterday.)  Gruppo Mossi & Ghisolfi began
building the world’s first commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol
plant in northwestern  Italy , the company said today.  The first stone for the 110 million-euro ($159 million)
factory was laid today, Tortona, Italy-based Mossi & Ghisolfi
said on the Bio Crescentino  website . The refinery will produce
40,000 to 45,000 tons of ethanol a year from about 10 times that
weight of a bamboo-like grass called Arundo Donax, it said.  The Crescentino project is a step toward commercializing
second-generation biofuels, which aren’t made from food crops,
unlike conventional bio-ethanol. The plant, scheduled to open in
2012, will be 10 times the size of the largest trial facilities
operating now, Novozymes A/S said in a statement.  The refinery “signals the dawn of a new green era,” said
Poul Ruben Andersen, marketing director of bioenergy at
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novozymes, which makes the enzymes
needed to help create the fuel. “There is a cure for the
world’s addiction to fossil fuels.”  Novozymes said the volume of fuel produced will amount to
about 13 million gallons (50 million liters) a year.  When Arundo Donax isn’t available, wheat stalks and rice
husks will be used, Mossi & Ghisolfi said on the project’s
website. A biomass electricity plant on the same site will burn
waste material to generate about 10 megawatts of electricity,
according to the company.  Novozymes Chief Executive Officer Steen Riisgaard said in
February that the market for cellulosic ethanol is set to ramp
up from 2013, with London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG)  of  Spain 
planning U.S. plants by then, and refineries are also possible
in Brazil and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 