-- 
Cuomo Threats Loom Over Ethics, Unions After Budget Victory

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 
2011-04-12T17:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/cuomo-threats-loom-over-ethics-unions-after-budget-victory.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
whose threats of a government shutdown helped produce the
state’s first on-time budget in five years, is using other
ultimatums to squeeze $450 million of savings from state workers
and persuade lawmakers to adopt new ethics rules.  Cuomo said last week he would fire as many as 9,800 workers
unless they agree to freeze wages and reduce health-care costs.
He has  told  lawmakers he would form a commission to investigate
them if they didn’t approve more ethics oversight, and will veto
their drawing of new district lines if they protect incumbents
or favor one party over another.  The threats may only go so far. The first-term governor
might need to use more compromise and persuasion to win support
for his other goals, including a property-tax cap on local
governments, said Grant Reeher, a political-science professor at
 Syracuse University .  “If the governor wants to go beyond budget cuts and
transform government, he’s going to need more than threats,”
Reeher said in a telephone interview. “He’s going to need the
Legislature’s cooperation.”  For now, Cuomo says he isn’t on the brink of using his
powers as governor to achieve his labor and ethics goals. That
wasn’t the case with the budget, where the choice between
passing his spending bills or stopping government operations was
less than a week away when the legislature acted.  Shutdown Averted  Lawmakers passed the $132.5 billion spending plan March 31,
the last day of New York’s fiscal year, adding only $250 million
to Cuomo’s proposal. Democrats abandoned their push to extend an
8.97 percent tax on millionaires due to expire on Dec. 31.  “There are several more weeks we have on the calendar
where we can have conversations before we come up to the drop-
dead point,” Cuomo said at an April 6 press conference about
job-cut plans. The longer an agreement is delayed, the more
dismissals are needed, with 9,800 being the “worst case,” he
said.  That’s more breathing room than described by Howard Glaser,
Cuomo’s director of state operations, at a March 3 legislative
hearing in  Albany . He said worker dismissals would begin soon
after April 1 if there was no agreement with unions.  State Planning  When former Governor  David Paterson  fired about 900 workers
at the end of 2010, it followed weeks of preparation by state
agencies.  “The work done for Paterson’s layoffs can’t just be dusted
off to identify the next 9,800,” said Assemblyman Jack McEneny,
a Democrat from Albany. Planning for possible firings hasn’t
started, “and I would have heard if they had” because his
district is full of state workers, McEneny said.  In his campaign  promise  “to clean up Albany,” Cuomo
called for an ethics oversight body with enforcement powers and
independence from those it oversees.  “I don’t know if it is much of a concern,” Senate
Democratic Leader John Sampson of  Brooklyn  said at an April 11
press conference about a new investigative commission. “We
won’t have to worry about it if we pass ethics reform.”  The existing Legislative Ethics Commission created by the
Senate and Assembly hasn’t uncovered or reported wrongdoing by
lawmakers while they were in office. Since 2008, seven lawmakers
were convicted or indicted on corruption charges brought by
federal law enforcers with one convicted under state law,
according to news reports and a  compilation  by Citizens Union, a
government-watchdog group.  Ethics Talks  Cuomo said April 6 that talks about a new ethics bill were
active with the Senate and Assembly, though “there is no
agreement” with either chamber. He didn’t elaborate on the
issues in dispute. Democrats hold a majority in the Assembly
while Republicans control the Senate.  “The governor now has to apply the bully pulpit and I
assume some horse trading to get ethics reforms,” said Blair
Horner, legislative director of the  New York Public Interest
Research Group , an advocate of higher ethical standards.  After Senator Carl Kruger and Assemblyman William Boyland,
both Brooklyn Democrats, were accused of corruption by federal
authorities March 10, Senate President  Dean Skelos  and Assembly
Speaker Sheldon Silver issued statements saying they expected an
ethics bill to be approved before Cuomo’s deadline in June.  Paterson, a Democrat, vetoed an ethics measure approved by
lawmakers in 2010 because it didn’t call for an enforcement
authority independent of those it oversees, a condition that
Cuomo has said is essential.  “If he’s thinking about a run for the presidency in 2016,
he will want a record of more than just spending cuts,” said
Reeher of Syracuse University. “He’ll want to show significant
political reforms and for that, he’ll need more than threats to
get lawmakers’ cooperation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in Albany,  New York , at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  