-- 
Medvedev Nears Decision on Russian Presidential Election Bid

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-12T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/medvedev-nears-decision-on-russian-presidential-election-bid.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said he is nearing a decision on whether he will bid for a
second term in office next year.  "The decision will be taken very shortly," Medvedev said in
an interview with  China Central Television , according to a
transcript released by the Kremlin today. "This decision should
be, first, mature; and second, it should take into account the
existing social situation, current political preferences and,
most importantly, people’s attitude."  Neither Medvedev, 45, nor his predecessor and now Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin , 58, have ruled out participating in the
election. Putin had to step down as president in 2008 because of
a constitutional limit on more than two consecutive terms.  Medvedev told China Central TV that before taking a
decision he has "to weigh all chances, avoid acting mechanically
but with a full understanding of the situation." His
relationship with Putin has been "warm and friendly" in the past
20 years, the president says.  Medvedev, a trained lawyer, vowed to fight corruption,
attract foreign investors and modernize the economy to wean the
country off its dependence on commodities. The president on
April 2 instructed eight senior government officials to quit
their jobs at state-owned companies by July 1, including Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who has worked with Putin for 20
years, as chairman of  Russia ’s largest oil company OAO Rosneft.  Sechin yesterday resigned as Rosneft’s chairman and
withdrew his nomination to be re-elected to the board.  ‘Different Views’  "Perhaps we simply have different views on methods and ways
to achieve prosperity" in Russia, Medvedev said. “My course is
modernization of the economy and political life.  We shouldn’t
reject all the good we have done over the past 20 years and
especially over the last 10 years, but we have to look ahead.”  New laws will have to be adopted to assist Russia’s
democratic development, new people will emerge in Russia’s
political life and new managers will lead domestic companies,
Medvedev said.  "Government representatives on the boards of the largest
companies should step aside, they have done what they had to,"
Medvedev said. “Let independent directors come, and the
ministers should focus on their tasks, managing economy,
industry and the social sphere rather than while their time away
on boards of directors and various meetings.”  Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Kudrin, chairman of ZAO
Alrosa, Russia’s diamond monopoly, and First Deputy Prime
Minister Zubkov are among the officials listed in the directive.
Like Sechin, Kudrin and Zubkov are from  St. Petersburg , as are
Putin and Medvedev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  