-- 
Medvedev Warns of Libyan Collapse; Will Consult With China on Its Response

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-12T15:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/medvedev-warns-of-libyan-collapse-will-consult-with-china-on-its-response.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
warned that Libya is at risk of total collapse and that his
government will consult with  China  at a summit of emerging-
market nations this week on how to respond.  “NATO isn’t in control of the country because they don’t
have a mandate to carry out large-scale operations,” Medvedev
said in an interview with Chinese state television channel CCTV,
according to a transcript posted on the Kremlin website today.
“In order to restore order, we have to act in strict accordance
with existing international resolutions.”  Russia and China, which both have the power to veto United
Nations Security Council resolutions, abstained from last
month’s vote that authorized airstrikes by the U.S. and its
allies to protect civilians from an offensive by Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Russia has criticized the NATO-led
campaign for violating the UN resolution by backing one side in
a civil war.  Medvedev said all possible means must be used to bring
about a cease-fire between the Libyan rebels and Qaddafi’s
forces. He meets in the southern Chinese city of Sanya on April
14 with his counterparts from China,  India , Brazil and  South
Africa , the other members of the BRICS group.  Russian Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said in an
interview last week that Libya could slide into chaos similar to
that in Somalia.  The conflict in Libya pitting the eastern-based opposition
against Qaddafi’s regime has become a “tribal war,” Ivanov
said.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central government since
1991 and has become a breeding ground for pirates who attack
shipping. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said March 2
the Obama administration was also concerned that Libya may
become a “giant Somalia,” providing a base for al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  