-- 
Elisabeth Murdoch Said to Join Father on News Corp. Board

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-04-12T22:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/elisabeth-murdoch-said-to-be-joining-her-father-as-news-corp-board-member.html
Elisabeth Murdoch , the 42-year-old
daughter of  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ,
is expected to be named to the company’s board, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The board met today in  New York  and Elisabeth’s appointment
was expected to be discussed, said the person, who couldn’t be
named because the matter isn’t public.  A week ago News Corp. completed the purchase of
Elisabeth’s Shine Group Ltd., which produces hit U.K. shows such
as “MasterChef” and “Merlin.” News Corp. agreed in February
to pay 415 million pounds ($677 million), including debt, to
purchase Shine, which it said will play a role in its expansion
of global television operations.  After the acquisition was announced, News Corp.
shareholders filed a lawsuit, claiming the deal was driven by
nepotism. There is no reason for the purchase other than to
reward Elisabeth Murdoch and perpetuate the family’s involvement
in senior management, the Amalgamated Bank of New York and the
Central Laborers Pension Fund said in the complaint.  News Corp. has said the lawsuit is “meritless,” according
to company spokesman Jack Horner.  Elisabeth Murdoch is rejoining her 80-year-old father more
than a decade after she started Shine. Prior to that, she worked
as an executive at the U.K. pay-television company,  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY) , partly owned by News Corp.  James Murdoch   Her brother, James Murdoch, 38, who also is a member of the
board, was promoted last month to deputy chief operating officer
at News Corp., after heading the company’s operations in Europe
and Asia. The new position broadened his responsibilities to
include the company’s entire global business, and moved him a
step closer to succeeding their father as chief executive
officer.  Another Murdoch son,  Lachlan Murdoch , 39, left News Corp.
in 2005 after serving as deputy COO, and moved from New York to
Australia, where he is an investor in media companies. He
remains on the News Corp. board.  News Corp. includes the Fox Television Network, the Wall
Street Journal and the Twentieth Century Fox film studio in the
U.S., as well as newspapers and digital television operations in
Europe and  Asia .  News Corp. fell 15 cents to $17.11 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has climbed 17 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  