-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall Most in a Month on Japan Quakes, Earnings Concerns

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T22:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-a-month-on-imf-growth-forecast-japan-crisis.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the
most in a month after  Japan  raised the severity of its nuclear
crisis to the maximum level and Alcoa Inc. began the first-
quarter reporting season with sales that missed estimates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 1.9 percent to
1,177.31 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the biggest one-day drop since
March 15. Taiwan’s Taiex Index sank 1.7 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi lost 1.6 percent, while the won weakened 0.9
percent against the dollar. Russia’s Micex sank 2.5 percent and
 Brazil ’s Bovespa dropped 1.9 percent as oil and metals declined.  Energy and technology stocks led declines after a
magnitude-6.2 earthquake struck east of Tokyo, increasing
concern that supply disruptions at Japanese factories may hurt
sales. Japan’s nuclear agency raised its crisis rating to the
same as the 1986 Chernobyl disaster and  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
said its stricken plant may spew more radiation. Alcoa’s results
spurred speculation that growth is slowing, while Morgan Stanley
said ratings downgrades may curb gains in emerging-market
stocks.  “The current pattern of earnings revisions does not
support a continuation of the recent rally,”  Jonathan Garner ,
the chief  Asia  and emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a research report today.  The MSCI emerging-market index has climbed 2.3 percent this
year, following a 159 percent rally from its bear-market low in
October 2008 through the end of last year. The gauge is trading
about 8 percent below Morgan Stanley’s year-end target.  China, South Africa  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-traded
shares dropped 1.8 percent as PetroChina Co. tumbled 4.9 percent
on an early decline in  oil prices .  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE
Africa All Shares Index lost 1.8 percent, while the ISE National
100 Index of Turkish stocks declined 0.3 percent.  Brazilian Oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA and miner Vale
SA were among the biggest losers in the Bovespa index, following
crude and metals prices lower. Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar dropped 1.4 percent after a report showed
sales for retailers trailed estimates in February.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 7 basis points to 2.55 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. The
Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps for
emerging  Europe , the Middle East and Africa rose 2 basis points
to 184, according to data provider CMA in London.  Supply Concerns  Toyota Motor Corp. told U.S. dealers that assembly
disruptions triggered by last month’s record earthquake and
tsunami in Japan may thin supplies of vehicles into the third
quarter, according to a memorandum from Bob Carter, the
company’s group vice president of U.S. sales.  A measure of technology stocks in developing nations sank
2.3 percent. Japan was struck by two earthquakes of magnitude 6
or higher today, in Chiba prefecture east of Tokyo and in
Fukushima prefecture.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese company that overtook Nokia Oyj as
the world’s third-largest phonemaker by market value last week,
slid 4.2 percent, the most since March 15. Samsung Electronics
Co., the world’s largest maker of TVs and flat screen monitors,
sank 1.3 percent.  “The Japanese government’s increase in the severity level
of the nuclear crisis has hurt investor sentiment,” Ronald Wan,
managing director of China Merchants Securities Co., said in a
telephone interview in Hong Kong. “Technology shares are
falling, especially after Tokyo had an earthquake, raising more
concerns that supply of technology components will be
affected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  