-- 
End-Users May Face Swap Margin Requirements as CFTC, FDIC Split

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-12T18:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/end-users-may-face-swap-margin-requirements-as-cftc-fdic-split.html
U.S. regulators proposed two sets
of rules for margin requirements in swap transactions that may
force airlines, large manufacturers and other commercial end-
users to set aside money to reduce risk in certain trades.  End-users would escape margin requirements in swaps with
non-bank dealers or major swap participants under a proposal
approved today by the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission . A
joint proposal released by the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. ,
 Federal Reserve  and three other regulators could force end-users
to post margin in swaps with banks.  The proposals “couldn’t be further apart,” said  Scott O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner who cited the “lack of
harmonization” in voting against his agency’s proposal. Both
measures were released for public comment.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires agencies including the CFTC,
 Securities and Exchange Commission  and the Fed to establish
margin requirements as a way of limiting risk in the $583
trillion global swaps market. Lawmakers sought safeguards after
largely unregulated trades exacerbated the 2008 credit crisis.  Had they been in place in 2008, the rules would have
prevented financial firms from amassing large uncollateralized
or under-collateralized positions similar to those that toppled
Lehman Brothers and forced a bailout of American International
Group Inc., FDIC chairman  Sheila Bair  said.  Explicit Exemption  Commercial end-users -- companies such as airlines,
utilities and manufacturers that use derivative to hedge risk --
have lobbied for two years for an explicit exemption from having
to post margin, arguing that such a requirement would divert
capital from hiring workers or investing in their businesses.
Dodd-Frank left it to regulators to determine whether end-users
would need to post margin in swaps that aren’t settled by a
central clearinghouse.  The Coalition for Derivatives End-Users, including farm
manufacturer Deere & Co. and brewer MillerCoors, has met with
bank regulators, the CFTC and members of Congress on the issue.  “It is disconcerting to see this divergence among the
regulators,” Thomas Deas, president of the  National Association
of Corporate Treasurers , said in an e-mail after the votes.
“Being subject to a margining framework with certain exemptions
subject to future revision makes us especially nervous.”  The CFTC’s three-tier proposal requires margin payments in
swaps between non-bank dealers, major swap participants and
smaller financial entities. The proposal includes an exemption
for trades with non-financial commercial end-users.  The joint-agency proposal would require swap dealers to
calculate a credit exposure limit for a commercial end-user and
collect initial and variation margins when an exposure exceeds
the limit. Those limits would be determined between the bank and
the end-user rather than by regulators.  The proposal may lead some end-users to post margin,
particularly when there are large swaps used for speculative,
rather than hedging purposes, according to an FDIC official who
described the proposal to reporters before the vote.  The bank regulators looked to minimize the impact on end-
users by not setting a minimum threshold for the size or type of
transaction that would require margin, Bair said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  