-- 
Enea Mulls Polish Coal Alternatives as EU CO2 Rules Still Hazy

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 
2011-04-12T12:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/enea-mulls-polish-coal-alternatives-as-eu-co2-rules-still-hazy-ceo-says.html
Enea SA (ENA) ,  Poland ’s third-largest
utility, is considering investments in gas, biomass and nuclear
power as a lack of clear rules on carbon-dioxide emissions could
push the country away from coal.  State-controlled Enea, which is building a 1,000-megawatt
coal-fired facility as the 11th unit of its plant in Kozienice,
central Poland, may consider a cleaner fuel if it builds a 12th
generator, while switching some of the existing capacity to
biomass, Chief Executive Officer Maciej Owczarek told Bloomberg
News in an interview yesterday.  Enea is conducting an analysis to decide on the fuel for
the 12th Kozienice unit, he said. While building a nuclear plant
is an option, PGE SA, the country’s largest utility, has
priority in the government’s atomic strategy, Owczarek said.  Starting in 2013 all  power plants  in the European Union
will have to start paying for the CO2 they emit. While
electricity producers in Poland and nine other new member states
will get part of their allowances for free until 2020, the
precise allocation won’t be set until next year.  The government put its 51 percent stake in Enea up for sale
last year. The Treasury Ministry failed to reach an agreement
last month with Electricite de France SA, which didn’t want to
commit to completing the 11th unit.  Owczarek says the 11th unit will be profitable even if it
doesn’t get free CO2 emission rights. “Economic analysis has
proven that the new coal-fired unit in Kozienice will be
profitable even under the most pessimistic scenario,” he said.  Enea said in February last year the next 1,000 megawatts at
Kozienice would be coal-fired, and that it could also build as
much as 2,000 megawatts of lignite-fired capacity.  “Today the situation is a bit different,” Owczarek said.
“The market is changing” and “a long-term gas deal was
signed.”  Gazprom Deal  A natural-gas import agreement with  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom
last year that secured long-term deliveries has set off a
“boom” of gas-fired projects, Owczarek said. Gas emits about
half as much CO2 per megawatt generated as coal, which supplies
about 90 percent of Poland’s power.  Enea’s reliance on coal could be reduced even further as
the company may also switch some of Kozienice’s current 2,905-
megawatt capacity to biomass. The company plans to upgrade as
much as 1,000 megawatts of capacity, prolonging its life by
about 15 years. Enea will make a decision on the upgrade and the
12th unit in the next 10 months, Owczarek said.  “We are considering biomass as one of the alternatives for
the existing units,” he said. “Fifteen years is just enough
for nuclear power to become a real option in the Polish energy
system.”  Enea could spend 10 billion zloty ($3.64 billion) on
acquisitions by 2020, according to its strategy. The company
recently said it wants to buy Polish heat and power producer
Elektrocieplownia Bialystok SA from  Germany ’s E.ON AG.  Enea is interested in the assets that  Sweden ’s Vattenfall
AB is selling in Poland, and is analyzing a possible purchase of
SPEC SA, the Warsaw heat distributor, Owczarek said today,
confirming a report by the PAP news agency. Vattenfall holds 19
percent of Enea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  