-- 
Black’s Apollo Strengthens Former Drexel Links With Push Into Brokerages

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-12T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/leon-black-s-apollo-starts-broker-dealer-with-drexel-tie-to-recapture-fees.html
Leon Black’s Apollo Global
Management LLC is joining private-equity firms that have their
own broker-dealers, relying in part on an investment bank built
by his former boss at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.  Apollo, which is based in  New York , invested an undisclosed
amount in preferred stock of Morgan Joseph TriArtisan LLC, a
securities firm co-founded by the late Drexel Chief Executive
Officer Fred Joseph, according to a March 31  regulatory filing .
The firm also registered its own brokerage, AP CM LLC, to find
clients and negotiate deals for its buyout and hedge funds,
according to the same filing.  Apollo, which gained a listing on the New York Stock
Exchange in March through a $565 million share sale, follows
publicly traded rivals  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co. in
setting up its own broker-dealer. The firm is seeking a bigger
share of fees paid by its portfolio companies to sell securities
or restructure debt, said James Hill, who runs the private-
equity practice of law firm Benesch LLP in  Cleveland .  Apollo’s principals “are probably sitting around their
boardroom saying ‘Last year, we paid tens of millions of dollars
in investment-banking fees,’” Hill said in a telephone
interview. “‘Maybe we should be doing this ourselves.’”  Apollo, with $67.6 billion in assets as of Dec. 31, said in
the offering documents for last month’s stock sale that it may
pursue growth by acquiring other investment managers and
entering the insurance, broker-dealer or financial-advisory
industries.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, declined to
comment on either the broker-dealer start-up or the Morgan
Joseph investment.  Drexel Connections  The investment in Morgan Joseph TriArtisan, formed through
the December merger of Morgan Joseph LLC and merchant bank Tri-
Artisan Partners LLC, entitles Apollo to “a percentage of
dividends declared on Morgan Joseph’s revenues from its
underwriting activities,” according to the filing.  Morgan Joseph TriArtisan, also based in New York, will help
underwrite bond sales for companies controlled by Black’s funds,
the filing said. Apollo may provide additional financing to the
securities firm to help it underwrite these offerings, according
to the SEC filing.  The investment allows Black, 59, to strengthen his longtime
connection to former colleagues at Drexel, where  Michael Milken 
pioneered the use of high-yield, high-risk bonds to finance a
surge in takeovers during the 1980s. Drexel filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 1990 after Milken was indicted for securities
violations as part of the biggest insider trading scandal at the
time. Black, once the firm’s head of mergers and acquisitions,
started Apollo that year.  Milken’s Son  John Sorte, 63, who was CEO at both Drexel and Morgan
Joseph, now holds that title at Morgan Joseph TriArtisan. Mary Lou Malanoski, former chairwoman of Drexel’s credit committee,
heads investment banking at the combined firm. Milken’s son
Lance is a partner in Apollo’s private equity group, having
worked for Black for about 13 years.  Milken pleaded guilty to six felony securities laws
violations in 1990 and served 22 months in prison. The SEC
barred Joseph, Drexel’s CEO during the 1980s, from holding a top
management position at a securities firm after he settled
allegations of failing to supervise Milken. The SEC readmitted
Joseph as managing director of a Morgan Joseph affiliate in May
2002.  Joseph, who died in 2009 at age 72, co-founded Morgan
Joseph LLC in 2001 when he was part of a group that bought a
retail brokerage established by John Adams Morgan, the great-
grandson of financier J. Pierpont Morgan. Joseph sought to
create a high-yield business for mid-size companies and hired
investment bankers laid off by larger securities firms after the
technology-stock bubble burst in 2000, said Hill.  ‘New Models’  “Morgan Joseph was formed during the recession before the
Great Recession” of 2008, Hill said in a phone interview.
“Investment banks were dumping lots of really good investment
bankers.”  Realogy Corp., the Parsippany,  New Jersey , residential real
estate brokerage that Apollo acquired in April 2007 in a $9
billion transaction, hired Morgan Joseph along with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and others to underwrite
a $700 million lien note sale in February, according to a
company filing. NCL Corp., the Apollo-controlled parent of the
Norwegian Cruise Line, listed Morgan Joseph as an underwriter in
a November filing for a $250 million high-yield bond sale.  “The conventional wisdom is that the U.S. is turning into
 Canada , where large institutions are going to dominate
everything,” Brad Hintz, a securities-industry analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in a phone
interview. “And yet we are seeing a bunch of new models popping
up.”  Blackstone, KKR  Blackstone has at least two registered broker-dealers,
including one that conducts the firm’s financial advisory
business and a second, Park Hill Group LLC, that finds
institutional investors for the parent company’s buyout and
 hedge funds .  KKR Capital Markets LLC, a KKR subsidiary that is
registered as a broker-dealer, arranges debt and equity
financing for transactions, structures investment products and
underwrites securities offerings. TPG Capital LP, the private
equity firm founded by  David Bonderman , also has a registered
broker-dealer that markets the company’s funds to investors.  While Apollo plans to use Morgan Joseph to underwrite
securities offerings, AP CM will line up investors for Apollo
private-equity and hedge funds, a task the parent company had
delegated to firms including J.P. Morgan Securities and Park
Hill Group LLC, a unit of rival Blackstone, filings show.  Finding Investors  AP CM’s broker-dealer registration, submitted to the SEC in
September, was approved April 1, according to documents on the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s  website . The broker-
dealer’s president is Barry J. Cohen, who joined Apollo in July
2008 after 21 years at Bear Stearns Cos. with stints as head of
risk arbitrage and senior managing director of alternative
investments, the documents show.  Apollo will also use the broker-dealer for some tasks
traditionally handled by investment bankers, such as negotiating
buyouts and debt restructuring efforts on behalf of its
portfolio companies, according to its March 31  SEC filing . Under
U.S. financial regulations, companies must register with the SEC
as a broker-dealer to receive transaction fees in return for
marketing securities to investors.  The firm’s sixth buyout fund and the companies it
controlled sought to free up cash in 2009 by repurchasing bonds
at a discount or refinancing borrowings so they matured later.
The restructuring efforts cut the amount of debt due at these
companies through 2016 by 36 percent to $33.6 billion, while
maturities scheduled for 2017 through 2019 tripled to $16.7
billion, according to a client presentation in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  