-- 
EPA Budget Cut Will Restrict Enforcement of Clean-Air Rules, Activists Say

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-12T20:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/epa-budget-cut-will-restrict-enforcement-of-clean-air-rules-activists-say.html
U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency efforts to protect public health by enforcing clean air
and water rules will be undermined by a planned 16 percent
budget reduction, environmental groups said.  The agency will lose $1.6 billion as part of a deal between
President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders to produce $38
billion in spending cuts for the rest of the 2011 fiscal year,
according to legislation made public today. A plan detailing
where the cuts will be made is due in 30 days.  Republicans argued for a larger cut plus provisions that
would bar the EPA from enforcing rules on reducing carbon
dioxide from  power plants  and factories. The budget deal
accepted by Obama will undermine efforts to reduce pollution
from mountaintop coal mining and mercury emissions from power
plants, said Gabe Wisniewski, coal campaign director for the
environmental group Greenpeace.  “A $1.6 billion cut coming just at the time the EPA is
finally waking up and starting to adopt basic safeguards is
going to have a significant impact,” Wisniewski said in an
interview. “It’s a larger cut than a lot of other agencies and
programs are facing, which unfortunately signals a willingness
to compromise public health.”  The EPA staff is reviewing the funding levels and will
release details when the process is completed, the agency said
in an e-mailed statement. “We understand the need to make
difficult decisions to ensure the government lives within its
means,” according to the statement.  ‘Dumped Money’  “The Obama administration has dumped money into the EPA
over the past two years, and what the American people have seen
as a result is a slew of new regulations pouring out of the
agency,” Representative Mike Simpson, a Republican from  Idaho ,
said in a statement. “These cuts give us the opportunity to
take a close look at how the agency is spending its dramatic
increases in funding and look at whether the regulations it is
putting out are appropriate.”  Obama is scheduled to give a speech tomorrow indicating how
he would deal with longer-term fiscal issues and a coming vote
on raising the debt ceiling.  The $1.049 trillion legislation is set for a House vote
later this week, with a Senate vote to follow, as lawmakers push
to bring the first budget fight between  House Republicans  and
the White House to a close. The bill, which would fund agencies
to the end of the fiscal year Sept. 30, would replace a stopgap
measure keeping the government in business through April 14.  Power-Plant Proposal  Last month, the EPA proposed limiting toxins such as
mercury, arsenic and acid gases from coal-fired power plants,
clearing the way for the first U.S. standards for these
pollutants. The regulations would require many power plants to
install systems to control the pollutants.  “Such controls are extraordinarily costly with profound
impacts on electricity supply and price, and  job creation ,”
according to a report by the Electric Reliability Coordinating
Council, a Washington-based coalition of companies including
Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO) , the biggest utility owner by market
value.  The budget deal would also cut funding for a planned
Climate Service within the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  and eliminate the position of assistant to the
president for energy and climate change. That position,
previously held by  Carol Browner , is currently vacant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at  