-- 
Epicor Software Sued by Investor Seeking to Block $976 Million Apax Deal

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T21:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/epicor-software-sued-by-investor-seeking-to-block-976-million-apax-deal.html
Epicor Software Corp. (EPIC)  was sued by
an investor who claims private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP’s
$976 million offer for the software maker is unfair to
shareholders.  The proposed transaction is “patently opportunistic” and
doesn’t reflect Epicor’s true value, the Field Family Trust said
in the complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington. The trust is seeking a court order barring the deal
in addition to unspecified damages.  “The deal appears to be driven by the Elliot Entities’
desire to liquidate its Epicor holdings,” the trust said in the
complaint, referring to New York-based Elliott Associates LP,
which owns about 14 percent of company shares according to
Bloomberg data.  Apax, based in  London , said in an April 4 statement that it
plans to buy Epicor and Activant Solutions Inc. for about $2
billion and combine the companies to create a software maker
with $825 million in annual sales. The combined entity would
focus on manufacturing, distribution, services and retail
industries, according to the statement.  Elliott, which made an unsuccessful offer for Epicor in
2008, supports the transaction, Epicor said last week. The
$12.50 purchase price represents an 11 percent premium on the
April 1 closing price.  Prospects Increasing  The deal comes at a time when Epicor’s long-term prospects
are increasing, according to the complaint, which accuses Apax
of attempting to capitalize on the company’s solid performance
at the expense of shareholders.  Damon Wright, a spokesman for Epicor, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for
Elliott, also didn’t immediately a call.  Epicor, based in  Irvine ,  California , has had four straight
quarters of sales growth. The company makes programs that help
businesses manage supply chains and customer relationships.  The trust seeks to represent all Epicor shareholders.  The case is Field Family Trust v. Epicor Software Corp.,
CA6364, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  