-- 
Merkel Warms to Carbon Capture as Energy Shift Takes Shape

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-04-13T14:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/merkel-warms-to-carbon-capture-as-nuclear-policy-deadline-looms.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet backed a draft law that paves the way for utilities to
pump  greenhouse gases  underground, a move aimed at helping the
government to switch its  energy policy  away from nuclear power.  Germany’s two biggest utilities,  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , rose
in Frankfurt trading today as ministers in Berlin agreed on
legislation to permit so-called carbon capture and storage, or
CCS. German utilities have pressed for laws that would allow
carbon-dioxide emissions from coal-fired power stations to be
permanently stored underground since at least November 2009.  Merkel’s plan, which implements a European Union law, would
help her plug a potential gap in the energy mix serving Europe’s
largest economy caused by her retreat from nuclear after the
disaster in  Japan . It would also give E.ON and RWE some planning
certainty for conventional power-plant investments after they
said Merkel’s atomic reversal might endanger  energy security .  The bill, which allows the government to promote carbon
capture, “is part of the shift on energy,” Economy Minister
Rainer Bruederle said in an interview in Berlin yesterday.
“That will probably focus strongly on natural gas, but we will
also be ramping up  power plants ” that use coal.  E.ON rose 0.9 percent to 22.55 euros as of 3:45 p.m. local
time in Frankfurt trading, while RWE also added 0.9 percent to
47.18 euros. Carbon dioxide emission permits for December rose
0.4 percent to 16.65 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange in  London .  EU Opens Bids  The European Union in November opened bids for an initial
4.3 billion euros ($6 billion) in aid to store carbon dioxide
underground and promote renewable energy to help fight global
warming. The EU aims to have as many as 12 carbon-capture and
storage demonstration projects ready by the end of 2015.  Merkel’s plan, which now goes to parliament, allows for
carbon-capture pilot projects and calls for a review of the
technology’s potential in 2017, the  Economy Ministry  said in a
statement. Responding to public concern about carbon capture,
state governments are given the right to veto projects.  “CCS is the next big political hot potato because no one
wants that kind of facility built next to them,” Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart, said by phone. “If the government strongly commits
itself to CCS, this strategy will be pushing additional voters
into the hands of the Green party.”  Loss to Greens  CCS moved up the agenda after Merkel announced a 90-day
moratorium on March 14 on a planned extension of the running
times of  Germany ’s 17 nuclear plants following the Fukushima
disaster. She also ordered the seven oldest plants idled pending
safety checks and pledged to speed the transition to renewable
energy sources.  That wasn’t enough to stop her coalition losing control of
its southern heartland in Baden-Wuerttemberg to the anti-nuclear
Greens in a state election on March 27. Nationally, Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats  and their Free Democratic coalition partner
trail the Greens and opposition Social Democrats by 34 percent
to 51 percent, a Forsa poll for Stern magazine showed today.  Merkel, Bruederle and Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen
are due to meet in Berlin on April 15 with the prime ministers
of Germany’s 16 states to discuss the future energy mix. The
coalition’s plans include expanding offshore wind parks and
building more gas plants to plug a gap in power generation that
would follow a retreat from nuclear power, as well as CCS.  ‘Merely a Figleaf’  Carbon capture is “merely a figleaf” for building new
coal-fired plants, environmental group Friends of the Earth
Germany said in an e-mailed statement, urging Merkel to promote
renewable energy and gas instead.  RWE shelved the start of a planned lignite-fired plant near
Cologne in November 2009 that would have stored its emissions
underground, saying that Germany lacked the laws necessary to
encourage carbon capture technology. Two months later, the
Essen-based utility said that public opposition to storing
carbon dioxide in Germany might force it to build a coal-fired
plant with facilities to capture emissions outside the country.  “Those people who oppose nuclear power will have to
support other technologies, and given solar panels and wind
parks won’t immediately suffice, carbon capture and storage will
have to be developed,”  Michael Schaefer , a Frankfurt-based
Equinet AG analyst, said in a March 29 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  