-- 
Ethanol Critics ‘Shortchanging’ U.S. Farmers, Vilsack Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-04-12T13:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ethanol-critics-shortchanging-u-s-farmers-vilsack-says.html
Ethanol critics are engaged in a
“false debate” over biofuels and should be asking how U.S.
farmers can meet energy needs, rather than whether they should,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  “We’re trapped in a debate that leads us down the road of
shortchanging American agriculture, rather than recognizing its
enormous capabilities,” Vilsack said today at the annual
meeting of the North American Agricultural Journalists in
 Washington . Proper investment can help farmers meet export,
food, fuel, feed and fiber needs, he said.  The amount of corn used for ethanol will be a record 5
billion bushels in the year ending Sept. 30, the USDA said on
April 8, up from 4.95 billion estimated a month earlier. Corn
futures have more than doubled in the past year in Chicago
because of rising demand. Industry groups representing  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) ,  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  and other meatpackers have
called for reduced federal support for biofuels, citing its
effect on feed costs.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010. Wheat ranks fourth at $13 billion, behind soybeans and
hay. The increase in ethanol production will slow as the amount
of the biofuel that can be blended into conventional motor fuel
reaches a limit and as federal ethanol-use requirements plateau,
USDA Chief Economist  Joe Glauber  said yesterday.  Global food prices reached a record in February and pared
gains in March, according to the  United Nations . High food costs
and corruption have spurred unrest across the Middle East and
northern  Africa  that has ousted leaders in Tunisia and Egypt,
the world’s biggest wheat importer. The U.S. is the largest
exporter of the grain, along with corn and soybeans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 