-- 
Dollar Rises Versus Euro on Greek Debt Crisis, Obama Call for Deficit Cuts

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-13T21:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/euro-trades-near-15-month-high-against-dollar-before-industrial-production.html
The dollar advanced from the lowest
level in 15 months versus the euro on concern  Greece ’s
sovereign-debt crisis may be getting worse and as President
Barack Obama outlined a plan to cut the  budget deficit .  The 17-nation currency erased gains, dropping against most
of its major counterparts as Greek bond yields rose to a record
after  Germany ’s Zeit newspaper reported that a restructuring of
Greek sovereign debt may involve imposing losses of 50 to 70
percent on investors. The greenback was buoyed as Obama vowed to
cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years.  “It’s people saying Greece needs a haircut on its debt to
assume sustainability, and obviously that is a lot more than has
been assumed in the stress tests that took place last year,”
said Ray Attrill, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New
York . “It’s reasonable the euro-dollar is off its highs because
of that.”  The dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.4443 versus the
euro at 5 p.m. in New York, from $1.4477 yesterday. It earlier
slid to $1.4520, matching the weakest level since January 2010.
The greenback gained 0.3 percent to 83.84 yen, from 83.58. The
euro was little changed at 121.08 yen.  Greek 10-year yields rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 12.92 percent after reaching a record 12.96
percent, while Portuguese five-year yields touched a euro-era
high of 10.30 percent.  Restructuring Outlook  The head of the Standard & Poor’s European debt-evaluation
team,  Moritz Kraemer , said the risk of a Greek restructuring was
almost one in three, Zeit reported.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Germany’s
Welt newspaper further austerity measures may be required for
Greece if the nation isn’t able to manage its debt.  “There was a level of complacency in the market about the
potential for peripheral debt restructuring in the short term,”
said Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York. “Schaeuble’s expressing such explicit doubt has triggered
a bit of fear among traders.”  The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt rose 24 basis
points to close at a record 1,054 basis points, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps. The level implies a 60 percent
probability the nation will default within five years.  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index, which tracks the
currency against six major trading partners, rose 0.2 percent to
74.979 after touching 74.704 yesterday, the lowest level since
December 2009.  Obama on Deficit  In a speech in  Washington , Obama pledged to cut deficits
through a combination of spending cuts and tax increases,
setting the stage for a fight with congressional Republicans
over the nation’s priorities.  The U.S. is the only large AAA-rated country that saw its
debt rise during the crisis and that until now had no plan that
would reverse the trend in the debt,  Steven Hess , senior credit
officer in the sovereign risk group at Moody’s Investors Service
in New York, said in a phone interview.  “It seems both sides of this debate are now targeting
lower debt and lower deficits,” Hess said after the president’s
speech today. “We do see this as a turning point in terms of
the debate. We would view that as a positive, but we’ll have to
wait to see the outcome.”  The dollar remained higher versus the euro as the  Federal
Reserve  said in its Beige Book report that the economy expanded
at a “moderate” pace across much of the U.S. in February and
March, led by manufacturing. Labor markets showed improvements
in most regions, the central bank said.  Stronger Kiwi  The  New Zealand  dollar and other currencies tied to global
growth prospects rallied against the greenback, yen and Swiss
franc as interest-rate differentials spurred the carry trade.  A yen-funded carry trade weighted equally to the Australian
and New Zealand dollars returned 1 percent today, according to
Bloomberg data.  Under the carry trade, investors borrow where  interest
rates  are low to buy higher-yielding assets elsewhere. Japan’s
zero to 0.1 percent target lending rate makes the yen popular
for funding such a transaction. The benchmark borrowing costs
are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and 2.50 percent in New Zealand.  “Aussie-yen, kiwi-yen have been screaming higher,” said
 Aroop Chatterjee , a foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc
in New York.  Japan ’s currency has remained weaker than 80 versus the
 U.S. dollar  since March 18, when Group of Seven nations acted to
curb gains in the yen and support Japan’s export-driven economy.
The currency had rallied to a post-World War II record on
speculation insurance companies would repatriate funds to help
pay for earthquake damage.  ‘Really Positive’  “The injection of liquidity by the  Bank of Japan  amid G-7
support has been sufficient to stabilize sentiment,” said
Chatterjee. “This has been really positive for yen-funded carry
trades.”  New Zealand’s dollar gained 1.1 percent to 66.18 yen and
appreciated 0.8 percent to 78.94 U.S. cents after an index of
house prices increased for a second consecutive month. The
Australian dollar advanced 1 percent to 88.08 yen as  consumer
confidence  rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  