-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean CEO Says Chairman Farkas Diverted Funds to Mask Shortfall

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ex-taylor-bean-ceo-says-chairman-diverted-funds-to-mask-company-shortfall.html
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp.’s former chief executive officer,  Paul Allen , said the
company’s chairman,  Lee Farkas , drained funds from a unit in a
bid to hide shortfalls at the mortgage lender.  Allen, testifying in Farkas’s criminal trial yesterday in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, told the jury Taylor
Bean-owned Ocala Funding LLC had a deficit of $681 million in
April 2008. Some funds for the commercial paper facility were
diverted to an account that Farkas set up without his knowledge,
said Allen, a witness for the government.  “Where was this nearly $700 million going?” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Charles Connolly asked.  “I don’t know,” Allen said.  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a $1.9 billion
fraud scheme involving fake mortgage assets that duped some of
the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted the U.S.
bank bailout program and contributed to the failure of
Montgomery, Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  Allen, a former senior executive at bailed-out federal
mortgage financier  Freddie Mac , is one of six people who have
admitted to the conspiracy and are scheduled to testify against
Farkas, who’s accused of 14 counts of conspiracy and wire, bank
and securities fraud. If convicted of the single conspiracy
charge, Farkas faces a prison term of as long as 30 years.  Criminal Division Head  Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , head of the
 Justice Department ’s criminal division, attended the sixth day
of the trial, which included testimony from Taylor Bean’s former
treasurer Desiree Brown. Breuer remained as a spectator for
almost all of Allen’s testimony in the morning session.  Breuer told the Senate Judiciary Committee in September
that the Farkas case is an example of “our sustained efforts to
reach and uncover fraud at every level.”  Allen, 55, pleaded guilty April 1 to one count of
conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud and one count of making
false statements. Allen faces as long as 10 years in prison when
he is sentenced on June 21.  Bruce Rogow, a lawyer for Farkas, asked Allen what he hoped
his cooperation would get him.  “The shortest amount of time that I would have to spend
away from my wife and children,” Allen said.  Allen joined  Taylor Bean  in 2003 as its CEO and reported
directly to Farkas, working mostly from his home in Oakton,
Virginia, he said. He was making $400,000 annually with a
$200,000 target bonus, Allen said.  Described as Micromanager  Allen described Farkas as a micromanager who kept tight
controls over access to information by employees.  Allen said he couldn’t get information on the company’s
finances. Allen said that at the direction of Farkas, he wasn’t
allowed to see the company’s cash forecast.  “I had never been precluded from talking with anyone
before,” said Allen, who had previously held senior positions
at Freddie Mac,  Fannie Mae  and North American Mortgage Corp.  In January 2005, Taylor Bean established Ocala Funding as a
financing vehicle for  mortgage loans . Ocala Funding had no
employees and Allen was considered the “lead manager,”
according to his statements in court.  Allen said he was alerted to a collateral deficit at Ocala
Funding from Moody’s Corp. in September 2005. Allen said he
didn’t think it was right and conducted his own investigation.  Growing Collateral Crunch  Allen said that he kept Farkas informed of the growing
collateral crunch and that he was aware that cash from Ocala
Funding was being used for other purposes.  Allen said Farkas promised to fix the deficit.  In January 2007, Allen said he learned that Farkas had
moved $1 million in Ocala funds to an account that Allen didn’t
know existed.  To cover up the growing deficit from investors and
regulators, Allen said he and other Taylor Bean managers created
“accounts receivable” due to Ocala Funding.  “Accounts receivable can be whatever it needed to be,”
Allen said.  In 2008, Ocala Funding’s chief investors were  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest bank, and Paris-based BNP Paribas,
according to court papers.  By August 2009, Ocala’s deficit had grown to $1.5 billion,
according to Allen’s plea agreement.  As Colonial Bank struggled to stay afloat, Allen and Farkas
tried to raise $300 million from private investors to secure a
cash infusion from the Troubled Assets Relief Program, according
to Allen. One of the potential investors was Emanuel Friedman,
former chairman of investment bank Friedman, Billings, Ramsey
Group Inc.  When Friedman responded that he couldn’t do it, Allen said
Farkas told him to ask Friedman whether he would act as a straw
investor using money actually provided by Taylor Bean.  Friedman balked at the scheme, he said. Farkas used his
name anyway, Allen said.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 