-- 
Fed Regional Bank Directors Saw Recovery ‘Progressing’ in March

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-12T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/fed-regional-banks-say-recovery-progressing-even-as-oil-prices-increase.html
Directors at Federal Reserve
regional banks saw the economy improving even as energy prices
rose and governments at all levels cut spending, according to
minutes of Board of Governors’ meetings in February and March.  “Federal Reserve Bank directors generally viewed recent
information as showing the economic recovery was progressing,”
the minutes said, adding that directors saw “downside risks
posed by rising energy and commodity prices and by increased
fiscal stringency.”  The minutes show that most directors at the Fed’s 12
regional banks shared the view of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
and the rate-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  that record
monetary stimulus remained appropriate and that inflationary
pressures will be “transitory.” The central bank released the
minutes today in Washington.  “Most directors recommended that the current accommodative
stance of monetary policy be maintained,” according to the
minutes of the March 14 meeting to discuss the Fed’s discount
rate, which it charges on emergency loans to banks. Regional
bank directors pass their recommendations to the board of
governors about changing the rate, which has been at 0.75
percent since Feb. 2010. The recommendations of the regional
banks have not changed since June.  “While rising commodity prices can exert upward pressure
on inflation, most directors expected inflation to remain low
over the medium term,” the minutes said. The comments indicate
that regional bank directors agreed with the FOMC March 15
statement that while energy prices are “putting upward pressure
on inflation, the committee expects these effects to be
transitory.”  Unemployment Rate  Dropped  The Labor Department said earlier this month that the
unemployment rate dropped to 8.8 percent in March, the lowest
level in two years, as 216,000 jobs were created.  On Friday, the Labor Department will report that the
 consumer price index  rose 2.6 percent in March from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey
of economists. Excluding food and energy, as the Fed prefers,
prices will rise 1.2 percent, according to the survey.  Fed directors “noted a number of positive indicators,
including further gains in  consumer spending , a modest
improvement in labor market conditions, and continued advances
in manufacturing activity,” the minutes said.  Fed banks in  Dallas  and  Kansas City  last month repeated
calls for an increase in the discount rate by a quarter-point to
1 percent, a move that would be a step toward “a pre-crisis
discount rate structure.”  ‘No Sentiment’  None of the Fed’s 12 banks has changed its recommendation
on the discount rate since June. The Fed’s Washington-based
Board of Governors expressed “no sentiment” for changing the
rate and kept it at 0.75 percent last month.  As of April 6, banks were borrowing $23 million in primary
credit from the Fed discount window. The rate is currently 50
basis points above the Fed funds rate, which has been kept at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The central bank raised the discount rate in February
2010, a move it described at the time as a “normalization” of
lending terms and not a tightening of monetary policy. Prior to
August 2007, the Fed kept the rate, also known as the primary
credit rate, 1 percentage point above the target for the
benchmark federal funds rate.  Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks. The requests are subject to final
review and determination by the  Fed Board , which consists of the
bank’s six Washington-based governors. Central bank governors
review requests about every two weeks. The FOMC next meets in
 Washington  on April 26-27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  