-- 
Feinberg Says Judge Should Stay Out of BP Oil Spill Claims Fund

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/feinberg-tells-judge-to-stay-out-of-bp-oil-spill-claims-process.html
The U.S. judge in charge of
hundreds of  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill-related damages lawsuits shouldn’t
-- and legally can’t -- take charge of the claims-payment
process, said the head of BP Plc’s $20 billion spill fund.  The attorneys general of four Gulf Coast states had asked
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans to monitor fund
administrator  Kenneth Feinberg  to ensure fair and prompt payment
of thousands of oil spill damage claims, as required by law. On
April 7, Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood asked Barbier to
intervene, conduct an independent audit of Feinberg’s Gulf Coast
Claims Facility and hold public hearings on the findings.  “The court does not have the power under the Oil Pollution
Act to impose upon the GCCF the monitoring sought by the
attorney general,’’ David Pitofsky, Feinberg’s lawyer, said in
court papers filed yesterday.  “Even if it did’’ have legal authority, imposing the
court’s supervision over Feinberg’s fund would divert resources
and “chill the ability of GCCF personnel to work expeditiously
without fear of running afoul of an independent auditor and a
court-imposed evidentiary hearing,’’ Pitofsky said.  Hood said he analyzed recent claims-payment data and
accused Feinberg of using “economic duress to manipulate
financially desperate claimants’’ into accepting quick,
inadequate settlements that would prevent them from later suing
BP for damages.  ‘Barely 3 Percent’  Hood claimed Feinberg’s fund has paid “barely 3 percent of
interim business claims and 9 percent of individual interim
claims’’ for economic damages resulting from the worst offshore
 oil spill  in U.S. history. He said the claims facility imposed
“unreasonable’’ documentation requirements and then used
claimants’ inability to provide the records as grounds for
denying legitimate claims.  The Mississippi attorney general said that after conducting
a series of town hall meetings, he determined “a breaking point
in the health and economic viability of our coastal citizens and
communities has now been reached as a result of the failure of
the claims process to timely and fully compensate claimants with
legitimate claims,’’ according to the April 7 filing.  Feinberg denied Hood’s accusations in yesterday’s filing.
He said that since Feb. 18, he’s paid 5,495 interim damage
claims and rejected 44,000 interim claims that “lack the
necessary proof to document their eligibility and damages
attributable to the spill.’’  Feinberg also defended a January pay raise he received for
administering the claims facility, which Hood had suggested was
proof of collusion between the administrator and BP to deny
claims. According to court records, BP boosted monthly payments
to Feinberg’s law firm to $1.25 million from the $850,000 it had
been receiving.  ‘Gratuitous Swipe’  Feinberg said Hood’s “gratuitous swipe’’ at his
compensation “almost rises to the level of defamation.’’ He
said the raise was justified by the fund’s accomplishments. In
the nine months since the Deepwater Horizon spill began,
Feinberg said the claims facility has paid out “almost $4
billion to over 174,000 claimants’’ to resolve about 300,000
claims.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 