-- 
Fiat Raises Chrysler Stake to 30% in Push to Gain Control of U.S. Carmaker

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-12T08:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/fiat-raises-chrysler-stake-to-30-after-meeting-changed-u-s-requirements.html
Fiat SpA (F)  increased its Chrysler
Group LLC holding to 30 percent, boosting Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne ’s chances of gaining control of the
American carmaker before pursuing a share sale.  The CEO increased the holding by 5 percent after agreeing
with the  U.S. Treasury  Department to sell Chrysler models under
the Fiat badge in Brazil and Europe, the automakers said today.
The deal meets a requirement that 90 percent of Fiat dealers in
the two regions offer Chrysler products and allows the carmakers
to avoid negotiating new dealership agreements.  Marchionne, who runs both automakers, aims to increase
Fiat’s stake to 51 percent by the end of 2011 as he prepares the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company for an initial public
offering. Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to post its first net
profit this year since emerging from bankruptcy in 2009 as he
works to close a refinancing deal to repay government loans.  “There’s no denying that they’re running ahead of their own
schedule, and this lends further credibility to Marchionne’s
claims of getting to a 51 percent stake,” said  David Arnold , a
London-based automotive specialist at Credit Suisse, which has
an “underperform” rating on the stock. The bigger issue for
Fiat is refinancing Chrysler’s debt, he said.  Revised Agreement  The U.S. Treasury and other holders approved the revised
agreement on European and Brazilian sales within the past week,
Chrysler spokeswoman Eileen Wunderlich said in a phone
interview. Marchionne said in October meeting the original
requirement was difficult because of regulations governing
dealers in the South American nation, where Fiat has the largest
share of the market.  Today’s deal also pools Chrysler and Fiat vehicles in
Europe for emissions ratings, and compensates Chrysler for Fiat
using its technology outside North America. An element that
didn’t change required Chrysler to meet a goal of $1.5 billion
in revenue outside  North America .  “It broadens the Chrysler Group-Fiat partnership and then
it enhances the Chrysler Group’s international position,”
Wunderlich said of the plan.  Fiat traded down 5 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 6.47 euros as
of 9:41 a.m. in Milan trading. The stock has declined 3.4
percent this year, valuing the Turin, Italy-based carmaker at
8.04 billion euros ($11.6 billion).  Chrysler Ownership  The United Auto Workers union’s retiree health-care trust
now owns 59.2 percent of Chrysler, according to the statement.
The U.S. Treasury holds 8.6 percent, while government entities
in  Canada  have 2.2 percent.  Fiat agreed with the U.S. government after the bankruptcy
to share technology and management with Chrysler in exchange for
an initial 20 percent holding, with performance targets attached
to the deal to increase the stake to 35 percent without paying
any cash. Fiat can buy the remaining 16 percent needed to reach
51 percent.  Fiat may pay $1.14 billion to exercise its  call option  on
the last 16 percent if Marchionne makes the purchase in 2011 and
$1.37 billion if he buys it next year, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst Ranjit Unnithan, who has an “underweight”
rating on the stock. The cost is linked to Chrysler’s earnings.  The Italian carmaker raised its stake to 25 percent in
January after Chrysler began production of a Fiat-derived small
engine in the U.S. Fiat expects to increase its holding to 35
percent by the fourth quarter after meeting a requirement for
Chrysler to assemble a Fiat-derived car in the U.S. that gets 40
miles per gallon, Marchionne has said.  Brazilian Market  Fiat has 700 dealers in Latin America, including 550 in
 Brazil . Brazilian law prohibits Fiat from forcing the dealers to
become Chrysler franchises, said Stephan Keese, head of the
automotive practice for Roland Berger Strategy Consultants in
 Sao Paulo .  Brazil is Fiat’s second-largest market by revenue, trailing
 Italy . The company sold 761,400 passenger and light-commercial
vehicles there last year. Chrysler delivered 3,952 vehicles in
the country in 2010, according to J.D. Power & Associates, a
market researcher based in  Westlake Village ,  California .  Chrysler’s best-selling vehicle in Brazil is the Mexico-
built Dodge Journey sport-utility vehicle, which starts at
82,900 reais ($52,300). The Journey begins at $22,245 in the
U.S., according to the brand’s website. The automakers plan to
rename the Journey as the Fiat Freemont for Brazil and  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  