-- 
For-Profit Colleges Lose Effort to Block Proposed Rules

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-12T20:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/for-profit-colleges-lose-effort-to-block-proposed-regulations.html
Congressional supporters of for-
profit colleges failed to block further regulation of the
industry in a budget deal struck by Congress and the Obama
Administration, lawmakers said.  The agreement made last week to avoid a government shutdown
doesn’t include an amendment that would have thwarted the
regulations, known as “gainful employment,” according to a
statement yesterday by Republican Representative  John Kline  of
 Minnesota , chairman of the House education committee, who
sponsored the proposal.  The regulations would tie for-profit colleges’ eligibility
for federal student aid to graduates’ incomes and loan repayment
rates. The Education Department, which is developing the rules,
said last year that it will release them in early 2011.
Education Secretary Arne Duncan should acknowledge “bipartisan
will” to defeat the proposed changes, Kline said in the
statement.  “Instead of facing regulatory roadblocks laid down by the
Department of Education, students should have every chance to
get the skills and training they need to succeed in the
workplace,” Kline said.  Congress and attorneys general in four states are
investigating the $33 billion for-profit college industry for
its recruiting practices and use of government funds. Students
at for-profit colleges default on federal loans at twice the
rate of those at nonprofit public universities and three times
the rate at private nonprofit colleges.  The Bloomberg For-Profit Education Index of 13 companies
fell 2.3 percent at the 4 p.m. New York time close of U.S.
markets.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , operator of the University of
Phoenix and the biggest U.S. for-profit college, dropped 90
cents, or 2.1 percent, to $41.11 in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  