-- 
Former China Central Bank Adviser Yu Calls for Stronger Yuan

-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-12T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/former-china-central-bank-adviser-yu-calls-for-stronger-yuan.html
China  should allow its currency to
strengthen against the dollar to keep a lid on consumer prices,
former Chinese central bank adviser Yu Yongding said.  “To allow the renminbi to appreciate would help fight
inflation,” Yu said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Sara Eisen at the Bretton Woods conference in  New Hampshire  last
weekend. Rising prices are “conducive for China to allow it to
be more flexible” on its  exchange rate , he said.  China is under pressure from the U.S. and other trading
partners to allow its currency to appreciate faster to narrow a
 trade surplus  that came to $183 billion last year. Lopsided
global flows of goods and capital will be among the topics
discussed by Group of 20 finance ministers meeting in  Washington 
this week.  China should also stop building up dollar assets to avoid
losing money as the U.S. currency weakens, said Yu, 62, who is
now a member of the Beijing-based China Society of World
Economics, a government-backed policy research group.  “The most important thing is to stop continuing to pile up
foreign-exchange reserves,” said Yu. China should then consider
shifting reserves into Special Drawing Rights, or SDRs, a basket
of currencies used by the  International Monetary Fund  to
determine reserve and loan levels.  China’s weak currency has stimulated exports while
increasing the cost of imported goods and leading to the buildup
of foreign-currency reserves. The nation accumulated $1.15
trillion in U.S. Treasuries as of January.  Consumer Prices  China’s consumer-price index probably climbed 5.2 percent
in March, exceeding the government’s 2011 target of 4 percent
for the third month, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey before the government report this week.  Inflation in China is “somewhat out of control and causing
some serious danger of wage-price inflation,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said at the Bretton Woods conference. “It
would be very advantageous to allow the currency to appreciate
as a way of controlling inflation,” said Soros, chairman of
Soros Fund Management LLC.  Yu said he was confident China could control inflation
because it suffers from over-capacity. He blamed much of the
inflation pressure on rising commodity prices caused by the
 Federal Reserve’s  purchases of Treasuries, known as QE2 for the
second round of quantitative easing.  Reserve Currency  The dollar’s status as a reserve currency is “the most
important defect of the current international monetary system”
because it “allows U.S. monetary authorities to carry out
policies at the expense of other countries, for example QE2,”
said Yu.  “The consequence is you drive up commodity prices, and you
cause inflation in other countries,” he said.  Higher commodity prices contributed to China recording its
first quarterly trade deficit since 2004 in the first three
months of this year, underscoring the case for yuan gains to
help contain prices. Inbound crude oil shipments in the first
quarter rose 12 percent by volume and 39 percent by value to
$43.7 billion, customs data showed this week.  “We want to decommission the  U.S. dollar  as the reserve
currency gradually,” Yu said. “Basically it’s a political
decision. We still need to think through all options.”  The yuan fell yesterday 0.04 percent to end at 6.5383 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.5350 on April 8, the
strongest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore
market, the yuan slipped 0.05 percent to 6.5255 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  