-- 
Fortescue to Reduce Debt Funding on Strong Cash Flow, CFO Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-12T04:51:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/fortescue-to-reduce-debt-funding-on-strong-cash-flow-cfo-says.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
 Australia ’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, said cash flow
from high prices will reduce the amount of debt funding the
company needs for its $8.4 billion expansion.  Fortescue in November approved the expansion of its
operations in the Pilbara region to triple output to 155 million
metric tons as demand from  China  grows, adding mines, rail and
port facilities. It had planned to raise about $4 billion in
debt and the remainder through cash flow and reserves.  “Cash flows have continued to remain very strong given the
high iron ore price, so we’re likely to raise less than those $4
billion,” Chief Financial Officer Stephen Pearce of the Perth-
based company said on a media call.  Fortescue was the seventh-biggest issuer of high-yield
bonds in the U.S. last year, raising $2.04 billion to repay debt
and $1.5 billion to fund the expansion. The total bond sale of
$3.54 billion made the fundraising the biggest sale of high-
yield dollar bonds by an Australian company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fortescue said Jan. 21 it may sell a further $2.5 billion
in bonds this year. Strong cash flows are likely to reduce this
amount, Pearce said.  Alternative Opportunities  “In terms of alternatives and timing, we have a number of
varying initiatives, opportunities out of  Asia , the U.S.,
Australia and out of  Europe ,” said Pearce. “Given that we have
such a large amount of cash on hand, we can crystallize a time
when we think it’s right.”  Fortescue’s cash balance stood at $2.14 billion at the end
of March, according to its third-quarter production statement
filed with the Australian stock exchange.  Ore shipped fell 11.5 percent to 8.36 million tons in the
three months ended March 31, from 9.45 million tons a year
earlier because of heavy rain.  Fortescue fell 3.1 percent to A$6.58 at 1:57 p.m. in Sydney
trading, trimming gains since the start of the year to 0.6
percent.  Steel consumption is forecast to jump 5.3 percent to a
record this year, according to the World Steel Association. The
price of 62 percent  iron ore  arriving at China’s Tianjin port
hit $191.90 a ton on Feb. 16, the Steel Index said, the
highest level since data became available in November 2008. It
was $183 a ton on April 11, the Steel Index said.  Growth in global steel output and China’s increasing
dependence on imported ore will underpin iron ore demand to 2014,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts led by Head of
Commodity Strategy  Nick Moore  said in a March 17 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  