-- 
Foxconn May Spend $12 Billion in Brazil, Rousseff Says

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-04-13T02:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/foxconn-may-invest-12-billion-in-brazil-rousseff-says.html
(Corrects name of company in sixth paragraph.)  Foxconn Technology Group, the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, may invest
$12 billion to build a factory in  Brazil  over five to six years,
President  Dilma Rousseff  said.  The company’s executives are holding talks with the
Brazilian government over the investments, Rousseff told
reporters today in Beijing.  The factory could create 100,000 jobs, Brazil’s Science and
Technology Minister Aloizio Mercadante said today in Beijing.
Foxconn is demanding from the government infrastructure
guarantees such as  energy supply , broadband and access to
airports, Mercadante said. The factory would produce tablets, he
said. Foxconn declined to comment on the investment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Foxconn, which manufactures  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad,
also produces goods for  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  in Brazil, according to an official who declined to be
identified because of company policy.  Brazil plans to give tax incentives to manufacturers of
tablets to make Latin America’s biggest economy a production
center, according to Development Minister Fernando Pimentel. The
government also plans to give tablets to students at public
schools as part of a program to modernize Brazil’s education
system.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. plans to take advantage of
the tax breaks to produce its Xoom tablets at a factory in
Jaguariuna, Sao Paulo state. It’s waiting for details on the
incentives, Motorola said in an emailed statement today.  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  plans to start production of its Optimus Pad in
Taubate, Sao Paulo state, by the second half of this year,
according to Mariana Geraldine, a spokesman for the company.  MXT, a Brazilian electronics producer based in Betim, Minas
Gerais state, in February started to manufacture the first
domestic tablet and plans to expand production after the tax
incentives take effect, Etiene Guerra, the company’s CEO, said
in an e-mailed interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Telma Marotto at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net  