-- 
U.K. Stocks Slide Most in Four Weeks; BHP, Tullow Oil Retreat

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-12T16:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ftse-100-index-retreats-amid-japan-nuclear-concern-bhp-billiton-declines.html
U.K. stocks dropped by the most in
four weeks, led by a selloff in mining and energy companies, as
Japan battled continuing radiation leaks, oil plunged and Alcoa
Inc. reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group led a gauge of mining
companies down by the most since January as copper tumbled in
London. Tullow Oil Plc led energy shares lower as crude sank in
the biggest two-day drop in 14 months.  The FTSE 100 dropped 1.5 percent to 5,964.47 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London. The benchmark gauge has rallied for three
consecutive weeks since Japan’s March 11 earthquake sent the
index to the lowest level of the year. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
retreated 1.4 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped
0.7 percent.  “The markets have been looking for a reason to sell off
and seem to have finally found it today,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a
senior trader at ETX Capital in London. “Plunging retail sales,
reduced growth forecasts for the world’s major economies and
continued earthquakes in  Japan  are all weighing on stocks.”  The British Retail Consortium today said retail sales in
March dropped by a record as accelerating inflation squeezed
households’ finances and concerns about job cuts prompted
consumers to cut back. The International Monetary Fund yesterday
cut its growth forecasts for the U.S. and Japan.  Nuclear Crisis  Japan’s nuclear crisis at its stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant was raised to the highest level of severity, matching the
1986 Chernobyl disaster, as worsening radiation prompted the
government to widen the evacuation zone and as aftershocks
rocked the country.  A magnitude-6.3 earthquake struck Fukushima prefecture
today, following a magnitude-6.4 temblor earlier, a 6.6-
magnitude earthquake yesterday and a magnitude-7.1 aftershock on
April 7. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister Kaoru Yosano said
the March 11 earthquake may result in a larger hit to the
economy than previously seen.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, dropped 3.3
percent to 2,544 pence as copper for three-month-delivery on the
London Metal Exchange lost as much as 2.7 percent to $9,605 a
metric ton.  Rio Tinto, the third-biggest, declined 2.8 percent to 4,403
pence and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , owner of copper mines in Chile,
retreated 5 percent to 1,411 pence and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) ,
Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, tumbled 5 percent to 1,419
pence.  Alcoa Earnings  In the U.S., Alcoa, the nation’s largest aluminum producer,
posted a 22 percent increase in first-quarter sales to $5.96
billion, trailing the $6.06 billion average analyst estimate.
The company, which is traditionally the first in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report quarterly results, said its
earnings were curbed by a weaker U.S. dollar and higher energy
and raw-material costs.  Tullow Oil, an Africa-focused explorer, declined 3.9
percent to 1,413 pence and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  slid 3.7 percent to
1,488 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil
company, retreated 2.6 percent to 2,229.5 pence.  Crude sank as much as 3.9 percent to $105.60 a barrel in
New York after the International Energy Agency reported signs of
an oil-demand “slowdown” in its monthly Oil Market report and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast a “substantial” correction.  BP, ARM  BP Plc dropped 2.8 percent to 461.35 pence. The company’s
billionaire partners in TNK-BP estimated the Russian oil
producer’s potential losses from being excluded from the U.K.
company’s alliance with state-run OAO Rosneft at $5 billion to
$10 billion, Kommersant said, citing unidenitified people close
to TNK-BP management.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  slid 3.9 percent to 560 pence, pacing a
retreat in European chipmakers after U.S. rival Micrel Inc. cut
its revenue and earnings forecasts.  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO) , a producer of  iron ore  in Ukraine, declined
6.9 percent to 442.1 pence. UBS AG lowered its rating on the
stock to “neutral” from “buy” today after the shares reached
a record high of 475 pence apiece last week.  The Swiss bank separately downgraded its recommendation on
 Game Group Plc (GMG) , Europe’s biggest computer-games retailer, to
“sell” from “neutral,” sending the shares 8.3 percent lower
to 49.5 pence. UBS cited the potential for lower profit margins
and “execution risks” for the downgrade.  International Consolidated Airlines Group paced advancing
shares as oil retreated. The owner of British Airways rallied
4.5 percent to 225.1 pence and Carnival Plc, the world’s biggest
cruise line operator, jumped 4.7 percent to 2,476 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  