-- 
Funny Chris Rock Onstage as 12-Stepper in Filthy ’Hat’: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/funny-chris-rock-in-broadway-debut-as-12-stepper-in-filthy-hat-review.html
Comedian  Chris Rock  picked a funny,
fast-paced play for his Broadway debut: “The Motherf**ker with
the Hat.”  The unprintable title is an accurate reflection of the
work, since nearly every other word emanating from the mouths of
playwright Stephen Adly Guirgis’s five characters is the four-
letter synonym for fornication. These dirty talkers are also
surprisingly sensitive, largely sympathetic and prone to
nutritional fads.  The action begins when former drug dealer Jackie (Bobby
Cannavale) returns to the residential hotel room he shares with
his cocaine-addicted girlfriend (Elizabeth Rodriguez). As they
strip to begin celebrating his new job as an apartment-building
porter, Jackie discovers a man’s fedora.  The scoundrel left his hat like “Zorro leaving his ‘Z’ all
over the scene of the crime,” Jackie says.  Rock plays Ralph, Jackie’s mentor in a 12-step program. In
his apartment with recessed lighting, nutritional supplements
and a wife he likens to Benito Mussolini (Annabella Sciorra),
Ralph talks Jackie out of shooting the fellow with the hat.  The two visit Jackie’s cousin Julio (Yul Vazquez) to stash
the gun Jackie stole from a local thug. A sagacious man in an
Adidas warm-up suit, Julio doles out wisdom as he solicits
business for his massage, waxing and notary public enterprises.  The clever mix of drama and comedy recalls “August: Osage
County,” Tracy Letts’s prize-winning 2007 play, though this one
is about half the length and weight.  The two works share the talents of director Anna Shapiro
and scenic designer Todd Rosenthal, whose set fills the stage
with clever stairs and scaffolding.  A newcomer to theater, Rock deserves credit for aiming high
with a complex part that, incidentally, includes onstage
wrestling. His performance is funny, if a bit stiff, and will
likely get better when he relaxes into the role.  Cannavale, Rodriguez and Vazquez are members of the
 LAByrinth Theater Company , which developed and co-produced the
play. They’re as good as it gets.  At the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre, 236 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.themfwiththehat.com/tickets .
Rating: ***1/2  (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 