-- 
G-20 Nears Early Warning System on Imbalances as China Complains

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-12T10:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/g-20-nears-early-warning-system-on-imbalances-as-china-complains.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs are
pushing toward an early warning system aimed at highlighting
when the global economy is threatened by imbalances even as
 China  warns it could be used as a “political tool.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meet in
 Washington  April 14-15, two months after listing the data they
will monitor to see whether and where economic fault lines are
forming. The goal for this week is to set “indicative
guidelines” against which the data will be assessed before
putting them into action by the time leaders meet in Cannes,
 France , in November.  “One of the major expected achievements will be how to
apply the yardsticks and agree on who can affect global
imbalances most,” Lee Jun Kyu, senior adviser to South Korean
Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun, said yesterday in Gwacheon,
south of  Seoul . “There still remain differences and
difficulties, but a sensible outcome would be likely.”  The G-20 is seeking to smooth the lopsided trade and
investment flows blamed by many economists for helping trigger
the credit crisis and subsequent global recession. At a February
meeting in Paris, its policy makers produced a list of criteria
including public debt and fiscal deficits, private debt and
savings rates, trade balances and net investment-income flows
and transfers.  ‘Political Tool’  Omitted at China’s behest were foreign-exchange reserves,
which now total almost $3 trillion in the world’s second-largest
economy, a sign of the international disparities in spending and
saving. In a signal China may continue to resist the initiative,
Li Yong, a vice finance minister, said guidelines could be used
as a “political tool” against his nation by the G-20.  “The issue of external imbalances is a sensitive topic
related to the development rights and growth potential of China
and other emerging economies,” Li wrote in an article posted on
the ministry’s website today. “This is another political tool,
after the  exchange rate , which is being used by developed
nations such as the U.S. to curb China’s economic development.”  China “must closely monitor the progress” of the
discussions, Li wrote, adding that the aim of the U.S. and other
nations is to “force export-oriented emerging-market countries
to passively accept structural adjustments so as to pay the
bills for economic recovery in developed countries.”  The G-20 may soon identify six to seven countries that have
persistently large trade or capital-flow imbalances, South
Korean officials said. Sohn Byung Doo, director general of the
G-20 bureau at its  Finance Ministry , said the group won’t reveal
to the public which major countries are responsible for global
imbalances.  Tougher Standards  The G-20 may set tougher standards on economic imbalances
for systemically important countries and regions than for
smaller ones, a French official told reporters today.  The issue of currency swaps among central banks, with the
International Monetary Fund mediating, may be raised this week
as a way to enhance the global financial safety net, Lee and
Sohn said. The idea, dropped last year due to strong opposition
from some advanced economies, re-emerged last month at a seminar
of G-20 finance chiefs in Nanjing, China, they said.  Emerging countries may want to shift the focus of the talks
on  capital controls  away from whether the measures are
appropriate to who has caused the problem and why, the South
Korean aides said.  Last Resort  The IMF announced a staff proposal last week to endorse
controls in limited circumstances, which aroused opposition from
 Brazil  and other nations seeking greater freedom to stem inflows
of money. The proposal backs the use of controls as a last
resort after nations strengthen banking systems and adopt
measures such as building up reserves, tightening fiscal
policies and lowering  interest rates .  “Minister Yoon will try hard in Washington to bridge
between advanced and emerging countries on several sensitive
issues so that the G-20 can continue to work as an effective
premier forum,” Lee said.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today he
wants to explain to the G-20 the status of the damaged nuclear
energy plant in northeastern  Japan . Officials will probably say
the global economic recovery remains on track even after last
month’s earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the French aide said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net :
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  