-- 
G-20 Plans to Identify Six-to-Seven Nations With Lasting Trade Imbalances

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-12T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/g-20-plans-to-identify-six-to-seven-nations-with-lasting-trade-imbalances.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs may
identify six to seven countries that have persistently large
trade or capital-flow imbalances when they meet in  Washington 
April 14-15, South Korean officials said.  “One of the major expected achievements will be how to
apply the yardsticks and agree on who can affect global
imbalances most,” Lee Jun Kyu, senior adviser to finance
minister Yoon Jeung Hyun, said yesterday in Gwacheon, south of
 Seoul . “There still remain differences and difficulties but a
sensible outcome would be likely.”  Seeking to smooth lopsided trade and investment flows, the
G-20’s finance ministers and central bankers concluded talks in
Paris on Feb. 20 by listing the data they will monitor to see
whether imbalances are forming. The criteria are public debt and
fiscal deficits, private debt and savings rates, trade balances
and net investment-income flows and transfers.  Sohn Byung Doo, director general of the G-20 bureau at the
ministry, said the G-20 won’t reveal to the public which major
countries are responsible for global imbalances. Identifying the
names internally will help the G-20 craft economic policy
guidelines for each country to be agreed by November when the
leaders meet in Cannes,  France , Sohn said.  Currency Swaps  The issue of currency swaps among central banks, with the
 International Monetary Fund  as a mediator, may be raised this
week as a way to enhance the global financial safety net, Lee
and Sohn said. The idea, dropped last year due to strong
opposition from some advanced economies, reemerged last month at
a Nanjing seminar of G-20 finance chiefs, they said.  Emerging countries may want to shift the focus of the talks
on capital control away from whether the measures are
appropriate to who has caused the problem and why, the two said.  The IMF announced last week a staff proposal to endorse
capital controls in limited circumstances, which aroused
opposition from  Brazil  and other nations seeking greater freedom
to stem inflows of money. The proposal backs the use of capital
controls as a last resort after nations strengthen banking
systems and adopt measures such as building up reserves,
tightening fiscal policies and lowering  interest rates .  “Minister Yoon will try hard in Washington to bridge
between advanced and emerging countries on several sensitive
issues so that the G-20 can continue to work as an effective
premier forum,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  