-- 
Gas Drilling Requires Management to Avoid Risks, EPA Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-12T19:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/gas-drilling-requires-management-to-avoid-risks-epa-says-1-.html
Natural-gas drilling that may
provide a century’s energy for the U.S. must be managed to
ensure safe water and air, a top Environmental Protection Agency
official said.  “When we know problems exist, EPA will not hesitate to
protect Americans whose health may be at risk,” Deputy
Administrator Bob Perciasepe said today in testimony before a
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing.  The EPA and lawmakers are trying to assess the safety of
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a technique that injects a
mix of water and chemicals into shale to free gas. President
 Barack Obama  is urging the U.S. to tap more gas supplies to
become less dependent on foreign  fossil fuel . Environmentalists
and some federal and state officials say fracking may taint
drinking water.  “The U.S. has as much natural gas as  Saudi Arabia  has
oil,” Senator Ben Cardin, a  Maryland  Democrat, said today.
“The natural gas business is booming, but may be in jeopardy.”  New York temporarily banned fracking on concern that the
process may contaminate drinking water, while  New Jersey  is
considering a ban and Pittsburgh has prohibited fracking within
city limits, according to Cardin. Mountain Lake Park, Maryland,
made such drilling illegal, he said.  “The industry has failed to meet minimally acceptable
performance levels for protecting human health and the
environment,” Cardin said. “That is both an industry failure
and a failure of the regulatory process.”  ‘It’s Worked’  Senator James Inhofe of  Oklahoma , the senior Republican on
the committee, said fracking has been conducted safely since it
was first employed in the U.S. in 1949.  “The practice has now been used on more than 1 million
currently producing wells, 35,000 wells per year, without one
confirmed case of groundwater contamination,” Inhofe said.
“It’s worked. It’s been successful and we have to keep that for
America.”  The EPA is under orders from Congress to study the effects
on drinking water of shooting pressurized water and chemicals
into rock to free gas. The agency expects to have preliminary
results late next year and complete results in 2014, Perciasepe
said.  Shale-gas output was 4.87 trillion cubic feet in 2010, the
department’s  Energy information Administration  said in an April
5 release. That’s a 57 percent increase from 3.11 trillion in
2009, according to department data released in December.  “Natural gas can enhance our domestic energy options,
reduce our dependence on foreign supplies and serve as a bridge
fuel to renewable energy sources,” Perciasepe said.  Using Diesel  Energy companies that use diesel in their hydraulic-
fracturing fluids without a permit are in violation of the law,
Perciasepe said.  That issue has been a point of contention between the
agency and industry since House Democrats issued a report saying
12 companies, including Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , have used
 diesel fuel  in fracking, possibly breaking the law.  Halliburton has said the EPA failed to properly set rules
for diesel permits.  “EPA’s continued desire to push the fiction of a
historical permitting program for the use of diesel is just
counterproductive at this point,” Matthew Armstrong, a lawyer
with Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in  Washington  who represents
energy companies, said today in an interview. “EPA needs to
drop the threat of enforcement based on some super-secret
permitting program.”  Other hydraulic-fracturing fluids aren’t federally
regulated.  Pennsylvania Drilling  Senator Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat, told the
committee today that he doesn’t believe concerns about
environmental impacts need to curb the pace of natural gas
drilling in his state, where 2,650 shale-gas wells have been
drilled and land values have soared.  “There’s tremendous growth of this industry and tremendous
opportunity with it,” Casey said. “But as we’re doing that,
we’ve got to make sure that we get it right.”  The Marcellus Shale, stretching from  Tennessee  to  New York ,
may hold 490 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to heat U.S.
homes and power electric plants for two decades, according to
Terry Engelder, a professor of geosciences at  Pennsylvania State
University  in  State College . That would make it the world’s
second-largest gas field behind South Pars, shared by Iran and
Qatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  