-- 
Capture of Gbagbo May Set Ivory Coast's Economy on Long Road to Recovery

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-04-12T18:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/gbagbo-s-capture-may-set-ivory-coast-s-economy-on-long-road-to-recovery.html
The capture of  Ivory Coast ’s former
leader Laurent Gbagbo may mark the end of 11 years of conflict
that culminated in a battle for the largest city, Abidjan,
stalling the economy of the world’s largest cocoa producer.  Gbagbo, 65, was able to defy world opinion and hold onto
power after his defeat in a Nov. 28 election to  Alassane Ouattara  because he enjoyed widespread support in the mainly
Christian south, winning almost 46 percent of the national vote.  It took a siege of his home by a combination of French,
 United Nations  and rebel forces to finally end his decade-long
rule. Now Ouattara, 69, a former  International Monetary Fund 
director, inherits a banking system closed by four months of
international isolation, a cocoa industry in danger of losing
its dominance of the global market and a treasury that defaulted
on a $2.3 billion bond.  “The economy should restart quickly,” Janvier Litse, the
 African Development Bank ’s regional director for Ivory Coast,
said by telephone from  London  today. “The donors should support
the government. The priority right now will be to ensure that
there is security. Without security nothing can happen.”  Ivory Coast’s economy will probably contract 7.5 percent
this year, after growing about 2.6 percent last year, the IMF
said in a report today. It expects growth to rebound to 6
percent next year.  Cocoa Exports  The European Union lifted restrictions on the country’s
ports on April 8. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest
container shipping line, said one of its vessels is likely to
arrive in Abidjan next week. CMA CGM SA, the world’s third-
biggest container shipper, said its first ship would arrive in
Ivory Coast April 18.  Cocoa for July delivery rose $40, or 1.3 percent, to $3,068
a ton on ICE Futures U.S. as of 1:59 p.m. in New York.  Prices are not expected to fall considerably because of the
disruption the political impasse has caused to the trade, Luis Rangel, a vice president at ICAP Futures LLC, said.  “Cocoa prices should come down by another $100, but not
more, as there is a logistics nightmare waiting for the supply
chain on the ground -- banking, storage, trucking, workers,
cash,” he said from  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “No one will
return until the guns are silenced.”  Gunfire  Sporadic gunfire was heard today in Abidjan, a city of 4
million people and incidents of looting were reported in several
suburbs even after a televised call by Gbagbo for his supporters
to lay down arms.  “People are still a bit scared to go out, but there are
more people outside than the previous days,” said Florentine
N’Gouan, a resident of the Cocody neighborhood, where Gbagbo’s
home is located. “People walk, essentially to get some food.”  After Gbagbo was captured, armed militia took over the main
police station in the suburb of Yopougon and declared it their
headquarters, said resident Marc Gbah.  “Since then, they are firing around and looting,” he
said. “It’s like an urban revolt. The Republican Forces came
here this morning and were getting shot at. Some were killed.
It’s a very chaotic situation.”  “Dozens of militias armed with Kalashnikovs and RPG’s are
killing and looting,” said Georgette Kla, another Yopougon
resident “There is sustained gunfire. Seriously injured people
are dying at home because they can’t get medical help. The
population is being terrorized.”  Divided Nation  UN peacekeepers  are patrolling Abidjan in an effort to
quell the insecurity, Hamadoun Toure, a spokesman for the
peacekeeping mission, said in a phone interview from Abidjan.
“We are receiving numerous calls from all parts of the city,”
he said. “Residents report numerous cases of looting.”  The UN special representative for Ivory Coast, Choi Young- jin, met with Gbagbo today, Toure said. “The special
representative told him the UN forces will contribute to ensure
his protection and make sure he will be treated with dignity,”
he said.  In a televised speech late yesterday, Ouattara said he had
ordered the start of legal proceedings against Gbagbo, his wife
and his staff. He was moved out of Abidjan to another location
in Ivory Coast and remains protected by the UN, said Farhan Haq,
a spokesman for the agency in  New York .  Gbagbo weathered a coup attempt in 2002 and a subsequent
civil war that left the country split between a rebel-held north
and government-controlled south. The insurgents became the
Republican Forces this year, backing Ouattara and sweeping south
in the past month before entering Abidjan on March 31.  The conflict means Ivory Coast missed out on a wave of
foreign investment in  Africa  from nations such as  China ,
crimping economic growth to an average of  1.1 percent  between
2002 and 2009, compared with 5.6 percent in neighboring  Ghana .
To make up for the lost decade, Ouattara pledged tax cuts during
the election in November, while donors considered scrapping $3
billion of Ivory Coast’s $14 billion debt.  France  will give 400 million euros ($580 million) in aid to
help the country recover from the crisis,  Christine Lagarde ,
France’s finance minister, said in an e-mailed statement. The
European Union will contribute 180 million euros to the
reconstruction effort,  Agence France-Presse  said, citing a
person it didn’t identify.  Ivory Coast’s dollar-denominated Eurobonds due 2032 rose
1.1 percent to 53.25 cents on the dollar as of 5:54 p.m. in
Abidjan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Body Count  UN staff have found 536 bodies in western Ivory Coast since
the end of last month, Reuters cited Navi Pillay, the UN’s High
Commissioner for Human Rights, as saying. A three-member panel,
led by Thai law professor Vitit Muntabhorn, will investigate
allegations of human-rights abuses during the conflict, the  news
agency  cited Pillay as saying.  Ouattara, who has a Ph.D. in economics from the  University
of Pennsylvania , served as director for the IMF’s African
department between 1984 and 1988 and governor for the  Central
Bank of West African States  over the next two years. That bank
cut ties with Ivory Coast in January, leading the banking
industry to grind to a halt.  “The key priority right now is to have the  Central Bank  of
West African States resume its cooperation with the Ivorian
branch,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said from Lagos yesterday. “That’s
critical because without the banking system there’s no way the
economy can be on a recovery path.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax, Olivier Monnier and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via
Accra at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 