-- 
Geiger Counters Unlikely to Detect Radiation in Food, Water

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-04-13T05:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/geiger-counters-to-find-radiation-in-meals-may-be-meaningless-.html
Geiger counters are probably
ineffective for consumers in detecting hazardous levels of
radiation in food and water at home, scientists, professors and
device makers said.  Large samples should be tested in laboratory-like settings
to obtain results, said Joseph Rotunda, who heads the radiation
measurement division at toolmaker  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc .
Determining whether food, water or milk is safe also requires
expert knowledge and more sophisticated equipment than the
typical devices sold online, said Atsushi Katayama, a member of
the  Japan Society for Analytical Chemistry .  “Just pointing a measuring device at your food before
dinner is pretty much meaningless,” said Katayama, who has a
doctorate in analytical chemistry from  Hokkaido University .
“Tap water and fish, for example, require special handling,
isolation and concentration to get meaningful readings.”  Geiger counters offered as far away as  Germany  have sold
out after the natural disaster that crippled Japan last month
led to the world’s worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl. Tokyo
Electric Power Co. said yesterday its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
which has withstood hundreds of aftershocks since the March 11
magnitude-9 earthquake, may spew more radiation than the 1986
incident before the crisis is contained.  A sample for emergency testing should be at least 5
kilograms (11 pounds) or 5 liters (1.3 gallons), according to
instructions from  Japan ’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.
The  manual  advises against using Geiger-Muller devices, known as
Geiger counters, for measurements in food and drink because of
their low sensitivity to gamma radiation.  Plasma Mass Spectrometers  The ministry recommends using tools known as scintillation
counters to detect Iodine-131 in milk and vegetables, while
devices called “inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers”
should be used to trace uranium. Detecting the radioactive
material strontium requires nitric acid and dehydrated samples
that are turned to ash over a 24-hour period in temperatures
exceeding 400 degrees Celsius (752 degrees Fahrenheit),
according to the manual.  “Various types of radiation require different kinds of
equipment,” said Katayama. “It’s safe to rely on government
data” because the findings are closely watched by the
international community, he said.  Supermarkets and convenience stores across  Tokyo  struggled
to fill shelves with supplies in the initial weeks of the crisis
after the detection of elevated iodine levels in water and food
triggered bulk buying even as the government said the health
risks are minimal. Companies including Morgan Stanley began
shipping water to their Tokyo offices from  Hong Kong .  Unsafe Water  Since March 23, water radiation readings in Tokyo have
fallen below levels considered unsafe, even for infants,
according to the city’s Bureau of Waterworks. In the past month,
the capital’s government ordered plants to step up filtering
efforts and handed out about 240,000 bottles of water.  Seafood can require up to two years of monitoring because
radioactive materials can take longer to reach larger fish such
as Japanese sea bass, Katayama said. Even with the proper
equipment and environment, making sense of the readings involves
calculating the dosage per measure over time, he said.  “Just to know what the radiation levels are in your home,
it’s relatively straightforward, but when you get to measuring
it in food, milk and soil it gets much more complicated,”
according to Rotunda. “That I don’t recommend at all.”  Soaring Radiation Readings  The March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami disabled
cooling systems at the Fukushima plant. The build-up of pressure
caused hydrogen explosions that damaged at least three reactors,
leaking radiation. U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  said at senate hearing yesterday that the nuclear
station has yet to stabilize.  Readings in Tokyo soared more than 20-fold and reached
0.809 microsieverts an hour on March 15, compared with 0.0338
microsieverts before the earthquake, according to the Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of  Public Health . The highest level was
still below 1/100th of the radiation dose from a single chest X-
ray.  German Geiger counter suppliers including  Conrad Electronic
SE  and  Graetz Strahlungsmesstechnik GmbH  sold out of the devices
in the week following the earthquake. Conrad is selling Geiger
counters for 299 euros ($432) to 499 euros while the devices
cost as much as 3,000 euros at Graetz.  People looking to measure air pollution in their homes and
neighborhoods should expect to spend about $400 for a Geiger
counter, said Wade Allison, a physics professor at Oxford
University and author of “Radiation and Reason.”  Needing Reassurance  “People need genuine reassurance,” said Allison. “They
should note that no harmful effects including cancer have been
confirmed for doses below 100 milliSieverts.”  Buyers should chose an instrument that comes with clear
instructions for interpreting results and is sensitive enough to
measure background radiation, or about 0.01 microSieverts,
Allison and Katayama said. Geiger counters with a digital
display and ability to save a log of the results are easier to
use and preferable to devices featuring analog screens with
moving needles, they said.  Before taking measurements, users should shield the
instrument in plastic to prevent contamination and determine
background radiation levels, said Motoko Koyama, a spokeswoman
at the Tokyo Metropolitan Industrial Technology Research
Institute.  Poor ventilation, concrete walls in underground locations
and proximity to granite and mobile phones can distort readings,
Koyama and Katayama said. Measurements are best taken at a
distance of 1 centimeter (0.4 inch), moving the device about 2
to 3 centimeters per second, Koyama said.  “With so many Internet sites offering up-to-date radiation
readings, does it really make sense to spend all that money?”
Katayama said. “You can buy a 100,000 yen ($1,190) device, but
I doubt you will get the price’s worth without expert
knowledge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  