-- 
Gene Map of Human Brains May Lead to New Drug Discoveries, Scientists Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-12T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/gene-map-of-human-brains-may-lead-to-new-drug-discoveries-scientists-say.html
Scientists have created a $55
million interactive map that shows where genes are activated in
the  human brain , an aid to researchers developing treatments for
disorders such as Parkinson’s disease and autism.  The  Allen Institute  for Brain Science, based in  Seattle ,
 mapped two brains  to create the system, said  Allan Jones , the
chief executive officer, in a telephone interview. About 82
percent of human genes are expressed in the organ, according to
the institute. The map, free to researchers, identifies about
100 million data points and 1,000 anatomical sites in the organ.  Understanding how the genome is triggered may help
scientists discover the basis for some brain disorders, Jones
said. If autism researchers, for instance, discover a common
abnormality in the DNA of people with the disorder, the map
would help them determine if the gene is activated in the brain
and where, creating a treatment target, he said.  “This might immediately point you not only to form good
hypotheses but novel ones,” Jones said.  The Allen Institute was founded in 2003 by Paul G. Allen, a
co-founder of Microsoft Corp.  Ultimately, the facility will run at least 10 brains
through the process, Jones said. The map was developed using a
variety of technologies, including magnetic resonance imaging
and a variation of MRI called diffusion tensor imaging. DTI
tracks the movement of water molecules, allowing scientists to
delineate nerve fibers that connect sections of the brain.  In 2006, the institute mapped a  mouse brain  in 2006 and
made that data freely available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 