-- 
German Investor Confidence Drops More Than Estimated on ECB Rate, Prices

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-12T12:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/german-investor-confidence-fell-more-than-forecast-in-april.html
German investor confidence fell
more than economists forecast in April after the  European
Central Bank  raised  interest rates  to curb inflation.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to 7.6
from 14.1 in March. Economists expected a drop to 11.3,
according to the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “Observers are still unsure how long the German economy
can maintain its very high pace,” said  Ralph Solveen , an
economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. “The numerous current
crises -- in Japan, North Africa and Europe -- probably added to
this uncertainty.”  Doubt over the economic outlook has increased after oil
prices surged, the ECB lifted its key rate from a record low and
the region’s sovereign debt crisis forced  Portugal  to follow
Greece and Ireland in seeking financial assistance. At the same
time, latest data suggest the German economy, which grew a
record 3.6 percent last year, enjoyed a robust first quarter.
The country’s leading economic institutes last week predicted
growth of 2.8 percent for 2011.  ZEW’s measure of current economic conditions rose to 87.1,
the highest since July 2007, from 85.4 the previous month. The
euro was little changed after the report at $1.4439.  German bunds rose after the report. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year bund slipped three basis points to 3.47
percent as of 12:37 p.m. in  London . It yesterday reached 3.50
percent for the first time since Aug. 13, 2009. The two-year
note yield also fell three basis points, to 1.89 percent.  Faster Inflation  The benchmark DAX share index has gained 10 percent since
March 16 and is up 4 percent for the year. Factory orders and
industrial production both rose for a second month in February,
the  Economy Ministry  said last week.  Business confidence held close to a record high in March,
and unemployment fell to a 19-year low of 7.1 percent as
companies stepped up hiring to meet demand.  Still, German inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 2.3
percent last month after oil prices surged to more than $110 a
barrel, a Federal Statistics Office report showed today.  The ECB, which lifted its benchmark rate last week by 25
basis points to 1.25 percent, aims to keep euro-area inflation
below 2 percent.  The decline in the ZEW index “is consistent with growth
slowing down this year after what will probably have been a very
strong first quarter,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at
ABN Amro in Amsterdam. “Sentiment was probably hurt by the rise
in  oil prices  and the first ECB rate hike.”  Slower Growth  While Germany’s Bayerische Motoren Werke AG expects sales
in China to grow at a “double-digit” percentage rate this
year, they may not match last year’s pace, Ian Robertson, the
luxury carmaker’s sales chief, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Siemens AG, Europe’s largest engineering company, expects
earnings growth to slow in the second half of this year, Chief
Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said April 5, causing the stock to
fall the most in 20 days.  Schaeffler Group , the world’s second-largest maker of
roller bearings, said on March 29 that its profit margin may
shrink this year as a result of higher prices for energy, steel
and aluminum.  “A number of risk factors have come together to damp the
mood a bit,” said  Joerg Lueschow , an economist at WestLB in
Dusseldorf. “Germany has also been in a powerful recovery for
more than a year and a half. That has to slow down sometime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  