-- 
German Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens to 2 1/2-Year High on Energy Prices

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-04-12T06:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/german-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-to-2-1-2-year-high-on-energy-prices.html
German inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest pace in two and a half years in March
after energy prices jumped.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, increased to 2.3 percent from 2.2 percent in
February, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today,
revising up its March 29 estimate of 2.2 percent. That’s the
highest since October 2008. From January, consumer prices rose
0.6 percent, more than the initial 0.5 percent reading.  Surging energy costs are fueling inflation just as booming
exports and falling unemployment boost growth in  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy. Oil prices on April 8 breached $113 a
barrel for the first time in more than two years, increasing
pressure on companies to pass on higher costs. The  European
Central Bank  last week raised its benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points to 1.25 percent.  “German inflation risks are strongly tilted to the upside
in coming months,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-area
economist at  Societe Generale  in  London . “The rate may reach
2.8 percent in summer. The ECB certainly will remain concerned
about the inflation outlook.”  The statistics office said heating oil prices soared 32.8
percent in the year and 8.1 percent in the month. Fuel cost 11.2
percent more than a year ago, while food prices rose 2.2
percent. If household energy and fuel were excluded, the
inflation rate would be 1 percent, the office said.  Euro-Area Inflation  Crude  oil prices  have increased almost 30 percent in the
past two months amid political tensions in the Middle East and
North Africa. The ECB, which aims to keep the rate just below 2
percent, is concerned that wage increases to compensate for
higher energy prices may entrench faster inflation.  In the 17-nation euro region, inflation quickened to 2.6
percent in March from 2.4 percent in February, according to an
initial estimate from the European Union’s  statistics office . It
will issue its final report on April 15.  ECB policy makers will follow last week’s rate increase
with 25 basis-point steps every three months, taking the
benchmark to 1.5 percent in July and 1.75 percent in October,
according to the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The pattern will continue in 2012 with increases every
quarter, so that the key rate reaches 2.75 percent before the
end of next year, the survey shows.  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation stayed at 2.1
percent in March, also a two-year high.  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit in Munich, said
while falling unemployment should boost German  consumer spending 
this year, rising prices pose “downside risks” to that
outlook.  “The tug of war in the consumer climate between excellent
labor market prospects and rising inflation concerns will
continue,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  