-- 
German Next-Year Electricity Falls as Fuels Drop; Carbon Stable

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T12:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/german-next-year-electricity-falls-as-fuels-drop-carbon-stable.html
German electricity for delivery
next year fell as fuel prices declined, signaling cheaper
generation costs for power stations in  Europe ’s biggest market.
European  carbon emissions  were little changed.  Baseload power for 2012 dropped as much as 50 cents, or 0.9
percent, to 58.60 euros ($74.43), according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at 58.95 euros as of 1:32 p.m.
Berlin time. Baseload is delivered around the clock.  The regional benchmark contract is declining after last
week trading at its highest since June 2009. Germany’s
government last month forced the closure of 25 percent of the
country’s nuclear power capacity for a three-month safety review
and said its seven oldest atomic reactors will probably never
reopen, boosting demand for more expensive electricity generated
by burning fossil fuels.  Hard coal for next-year delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp fell for a fifth time in six days, dropping 0.9 percent
to $131.10 a metric ton. The fuel accounted for about a fifth of
 Germany ’s power last year. Germany also produces electricity
from lignite, or brown coal, as well as nuclear, natural gas,
wind and solar plants.  EU carbon allowances for December this year gained 1 cent
to 16.77 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. They will rise above 17 euros a metric ton over the
next week as the market prices in “likely permanent shutdowns
of older German nuclear reactors,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance
said yesterday in a report.  Bloomberg tracks power prices from brokers including  GFI
Group Inc. (GFIG) , ICAP Plc, Spectron Group Ltd., Tradition and Tullet
Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  