-- 
Glencore Said to Plan $9 Billion to $11 Billion Share Sale

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-04-12T11:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/glencore-said-to-plan-9-billion-to-11-billion-initial-offering.html
Glencore International AG, the
world’s largest commodities trader, plans to raise as much as
$11 billion from an initial public offering in London and  Hong
Kong , said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The company will announce a price range for the IPO on May
4, when management is scheduled to start meeting potential
investors, the person said, declining to be identified as the
process is confidential. The IPO may raise $9 billion to $11
billion, the person said.  Glencore’s IPO will be the world’s biggest this year, as
stock markets recover from Japan’s nuclear disaster and unrest
in the Middle East. A real-estate investment trust controlled by
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing  received orders for all shares
offered in a $1.7 billion IPO on the first day of the sale,
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  “Market sentiment will keep improving if  Japan ’s nuclear
crisis doesn’t get any worse,” said Nelson Yan, who helps
oversee $90 million as investment manager at Mayfair Pacific
Financial Group in Hong Kong. “As a commodities trader,
Glencore benefits more or less indirectly from an industry
that’s attracting a lot of investor interest.”  Commodities have rallied over the past year as Chinese
growth drives up demand. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI spot index
of 24 raw materials has jumped 39 percent in the past 12 months,
reaching the highest level since August 2008 on April 8.  Intention to Float  Glencore may file a so-called intention to float document
in London on April 14, said three people with knowledge of the
sale, who declined to be identified because the plan is private.  The value of Glencore’s 10 largest holdings, including a 34
percent stake in  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , fell to $31.7 billion as of 11:57
a.m. in London. It yesterday advanced to $32.6 billion, the
highest level since last April. The value dropped as low as $28
billion last month after Japan’s worst earthquake on record
prompted a global stocks selloff.  Initial offerings in Hong Kong raised $2.3 billion in the
first three months of the year, while companies planning share
sales in the second quarter, including Milan-based Prada SpA,
may push the total value of offerings to $20 billion this
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $60 Billion Value  Glencore may trade in Hong Kong under the ticker 805, the
first person said. The Asian offering will account for about 25
percent of the sale, the person said. The company may be valued
at more than $60 billion,  RBC Capital Markets  said March 3.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
will manage the IPO as global coordinators, while  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  may be named bookrunners, two people with knowledge
of the sale said March 22.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment.  An IPO by Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich &
Co. after management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier
Marc Rich in 1994, would end more than three decades of being a
closely held partnership.  After its Xstrata holding, Glencore’s next largest stake is
an 8.8 percent interest in United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest
aluminum producer. Glencore also owns 74 percent of  Katanga
Mining Ltd. (KAT)  and 71 percent of Australian nickel producer Minara
Resources Ltd. It holds stakes in Century Aluminum Co. and
Nyrstar NV, the biggest zinc producer.  Glencore’s 10 largest mining-company investments are listed
in its published holdings as of Dec. 31, according to its annual
report to bondholders obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  