-- 
Global Alliance Needed in Fighting Cybercrime, Lawmakers Told

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-04-12T20:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/global-alliance-needed-in-fighting-cybercrime-lawmakers-told.html
The U.S. should cooperate more with
other countries on cross-border investigations of cybercrime to
bolster national security and protect consumers from  identity
theft , witnesses told lawmakers during a Senate hearing today.  “It is unlikely that we can adequately secure the U.S.
portion of cyberspace without international engagement,” John
Savage, a computer science professor at  Brown University  in
Providence,  Rhode Island , said in testimony before the  Senate
Committee of the Judiciary  Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism.  While cybercriminals operate in a world without borders,
the law enforcement community does not, limiting the enforceable
penalties on cybercrime, said Pablo Martinez, a deputy special
agent in charge with the Secret Service’s criminal investigation
division.  International cooperation was vital in investigating the
network intrusion of Heartland Payment Systems Inc., the fifth-
largest payments processor in the U.S., where 130 million credit
card accounts were compromised two years ago, Martinez said.  In January, top White House cybersecurity official Howard
Schmidt said he planned a diplomatic effort to win more
cooperation on cybercrime issues. Some governments actively
engage in cybercrimes or turn a “blind eye” to the practice,
similar to nations condoning money-laundering schemes in the
1980s, Schmidt said.  The U.S. plans to urge more nations to sign a 10-year-old
treaty called the Cybercrime Convention that calls for
cooperation in probing crimes committed via the Internet and
other  computer networks , Schmidt said in January. These include
crimes that deal with infringements of copyright, computer-
related fraud, child pornography and violations of network
security, according to the treaty website.  The treaty has been ratified by 30 countries, including the
U.S. and 29 European nations. Signatories including the United
Kingdom,  Canada  and  Turkey  have yet to ratify the law, according
to the treaty  website . China and  Russia  are among nations that
have yet to sign the treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  