-- 
Goldman Sachs Returns to Tap Growth in China Insurance Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-12T02:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/goldman-sachs-returns-to-tap-growth-in-china-insurance-market.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s purchase
of a stake in  Taikang Life Insurance Co.  marks its return after
an almost six-year hiatus to China’s insurance market that’s
expanded 30 percent a year in the past three decades.  Goldman Sachs said it will have one seat on the board of
closely held Taikang, China’s fifth-biggest life insurer, after
buying a 12.02 percent stake from  Axa SA. (AXA)   Europe ’s biggest
insurer said last month it will sell its 15.6 percent stake to
investors that also included Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. to comply with Chinese regulatory rules.  The Wall Street firm exited a decade-long investment in
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., the nation’s second-biggest
insurer, in August 2005. Premium growth in  China , the world’s
fastest-expanding major economy, can still reach 20 percent this
year even as rising inflation makes insurance policies less
attractive, according to Guosen Securities Co.  “Given our forecast of 12 to 15 percent premium growth of
China’s life insurance industry over the next decade, a decent
profit can be guaranteed if Goldman buys into the insurer now
and makes an exit five years later,” said Li Wenbing, a
Beijing-based analyst at BoCom International Holdings Co.  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-biggest buyout firm,
reaped a sixfold profit in its five-year investment in China
Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., the third-biggest Chinese insurer,
as it reduced holdings after a lockup period expired on Dec. 23,
according to Ivan Cheung, head of regional insurance at Mirae
Asset Securities H.K. Ltd.  IPO Plan  Taikang plans to raise about HK$10 billion ($1.3 billion)
selling shares on the mainland and in  Hong Kong  this year, Sing
Tao Daily reported March 17, without saying where it got the
information. Pacific Insurance raised HK$24.1 billion in its
first-time share sale in Hong Kong in 2009. Taikang didn’t reply
to a fax seeking comment.  “Having Goldman Sachs as an investor will help with
Taikang’s listing plan as it boosts investor confidence,” said
Nan Sheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB Kayhian Investment Co.  Goldman Sachs made a 250-fold paper return on its
investment in Shenzhen Hepalink Pharmaceutical Co., a Chinese
drugmaker whose shares surged as much as 27 percent on their
debut in May 2010.  It bought 4.9 percent of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398)  Ltd. for about $2.59 billion in April 2006, six months
ahead of the Chinese bank’s IPO. The U.S. bank made a gain of
almost $4 billion when ICBC debuted.  ‘Undervalued’ Insurers  Chinese listed insurers are undervalued with a
“conservative” forecast of a 20 percent annual profit growth
over the next five years, according to Guosen Securities.  “We are thrilled to have the opportunity to be an investor,
to participate in the continued growth of the insurance industry
in China, and to work closely with the company to support their
ambitions,” J. Michael Evans, vice chairman and chairman of
 Asia  at Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mailed statement on April 8.  The two companies will launch initiatives to enhance
Taikang’s corporate governance, risk management and internal
controls, the statement said. They also plan to cooperate in
 investment management , product development and investing inside
and outside China, the statement added, without being specific.  Buying an existing major insurer is the fastest way to
profit from China’s rapidly expanding  insurance industry  because
it takes years and economy of scale for an insurer to be
profitable, said Deng Ting, a Beijing-based analyst at Guodu
Securities Co.  Taikang Profit  Taikang’s estimated net income was 2.1 billion yuan ($321
million) last year, as gross premiums rose 29 percent to 86.8
billion yuan, the company said in an e-mailed statement on Feb.
17. Taikang was ranked the  fifth largest  in the local life
insurance market with an 8.3 percent share, while China Life
Insurance Co., the biggest, held 32 percent, according to
government data.  “Taikang is one of the best life insurers in China,
especially for its track record of making above-peer investment
returns,” BoCom International’s Li said. Taikang’s investment
yield was typically 1 percentage point higher than the industry
average in the past few years, Li added.  HSBC Holdings Plc in 2005 bought a 9.9 percent stake in
Ping An for $1.04 billion from Goldman Sachs and the buyout unit
of Morgan Stanley, doubling its stake. The two U.S. banks
purchased Ping An shares at  six times book value  in 1994.  Axa became a shareholder in Taikang Life in 2006 by
acquiring Credit Suisse Group AG’s Winterthur insurance unit,
which held the 15.6 percent stake. Axa also said it will
continue to develop its life-insurance business in China through
 Axa-Minmetals Assurance Co .  --Zhang Dingmin, Luo Jun. With assistance from Netty Ismail
in  Singapore . Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  