-- 
Goldman’s Kwon Says Bank of Korea to Raise Rates in May or June

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-04-12T03:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/goldman-s-kwon-says-bank-of-korea-to-raise-rates-in-may-or-june.html
Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., comments on the South
Korean central bank’s interest rate decision and the won. He
spoke on Bloomberg Television.  The Bank of  Korea  kept the benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate unchanged at 3 percent after two increases this year with
moves by a quarter of percentage point in each of January and
March.  “I think the Korean won appreciation has reduced inflation
pressure, and recent high frequency data for vegetable and fresh
food shows actually food prices falling. Obviously, what’s
happening in  Japan  could have affected the monetary policy
committee decision.”  “We expect they will raise rates in May or June and this
is in line with what the Governor said many, many times,
including in January, that they will gradually normalize but in
baby steps.”  “We expected 100 basis points for the whole year and they
already did 50. We expect another 25 basis points in May or June,
one more 25 basis-point hike in the second half this year.”  “External factors like oil price shocks, I think they will
primarily handle through the Korean won appreciation. I think
that’s the right way to approach it. Besides, as a house, we
don’t believe that  oil prices  will go much above $120 per barrel
level. On these two fronts, we don’t believe the  Bank of Korea 
is much behind the curve.”  “The Korean won is likely to play, it has been playing a
very important role, in reducing inflation and inflationary
expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  