-- 
Goldman Sachs Advancing in India Means Turning Half-Cent Fees Into Profit

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-04-12T22:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/goldman-sachs-advancing-in-india-means-turning-half-cent-fees-into-profit.html
For  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
is ramping up efforts to arrange takeovers and stock sales in
 India , progress can be slow and profit from deals elusive.  The New York-based company that dominated global merger
advisers for most of the past decade spent three years working
on the transaction that vaulted it to second from ninth place in
India. Its first share sale in India this year may be a $1.3
billion offer from state-owned Power Finance Corp., for which it
will split a fee of 1 rupee (2 cents) with three other banks.  “It’s a hugely competitive market,” Manisha Girotra,
chief executive officer of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s India operations, said in an
interview. “There are too many local and international banks.
Everyone is here because the promise is huge.”  India is a proving ground for Chairman and CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein’s strategy “to be Goldman Sachs in more places.” One
roadblock: The firm lacks licenses that will allow it to trade
currencies and underwrite government bonds in India. Goldman
Sachs also has to figure out how to squeeze profit from a market
where companies are reluctant to pay for advising on mergers and
banks accept near-zero fees for taking state enterprises public.  “Indian clients are very cost-sensitive when it comes to
fees,” said Joel Perlman, president of London-based Copal
Partners, which provides research for investment banks and
private-equity firms. “The fee percentage in India is going to
remain relatively small.”  Chatterjee Appointment  To boost business, Goldman Sachs appointed Sonjoy Chatterjee, 42, as chairman of India operations in March. Having
joined last June from  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s second-
largest lender, Chatterjee is the first Indian-born banker to
lead the firm in the country since it ended a venture with  Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  in 2006. Vijay Karnani, a 13-year Goldman
Sachs veteran, was promoted to co-CEO along with Chatterjee.  Goldman Sachs has climbed to No. 2 in mergers and
acquisitions and to 13th in arranging local equity sales in the
past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with ninth place in advising on M&A involving Indian
companies and 16th in domestic equity underwriting in the four
years starting April 1, 2006, just after the firm ended its
partnership with Kotak Mahindra, Bloomberg data show.  The firm’s advance in M&A was helped by its role advising
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , headed by billionaire Mukesh Ambani.
Reliance, based in Mumbai, sold stakes in 23 oil and gas areas
in India to London-based BP Plc in February for $7.2 billion.
Goldman Sachs worked for three years on the deal, which was
delayed by a BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The relationship could lead to more M&A work for Goldman
Sachs: Reliance was India’s most acquisitive company last year,
with nine deals totaling $2.2 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Power Grid  The bank also agreed in the past year to manage a share
sale for state-owned Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd. for about 4
cents in fees and to help finance  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s
acquisition of oil operator Cairn Energy Plc’s Indian unit for
as much as $9.6 billion, a deal in which Vedanta used its own
mergers team.  UBS’s Girotra estimates that total investment-banking fees
in India were about $550 million last year. Freeman & Co. LLC, a
New York-based research firm, puts the fee pool at $1 billion,
about one-fifth of the $4.9 billion for  China .  Goldman Sachs’s annual revenue in India is about $100
million, according to a March 21 report by  Guy Moszkowski  and
Steven J. Chubak,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  analysts who met in  Hong
Kong  last month with the firm’s senior management team for  Asia .
That’s a quarter of a percent of the firm’s $39.2 billion of
revenue worldwide last year.  Banking License  Goldman Sachs is the only major foreign securities firm in
India without either a commercial-banking license needed to
engage in currency transactions or a permit to underwrite
government bonds, known as a primary  dealership  license. Bank of
America, Credit Suisse Group AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and UBS
have banking licenses in India. Morgan Stanley has applied for
one and has obtained a primary dealer permit.  Executives at Goldman Sachs told the Bank of America
analysts that the firm applied for a banking license and expects
to receive one in three to six months, according to the report.
The bank also is seeking a primary dealership permit, the former
head of the India unit, L. Brooks Entwistle, told Mint newspaper
last year. Edward Naylor, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in Hong
Kong, declined to comment.  Growth in Asia  India, where economic expansion and stock-market gains
drove mergers and equity issuance to records last year, is among
emerging markets that Goldman Sachs is targeting as the firm
faces more restrictive rules in the U.S. and Europe on how it
can deploy capital. The bank aims to double revenue from Asia
outside Japan “over the next few years” to $10 billion, the
Bank of America analysts wrote.  Asia accounted for 21 percent of pretax earnings and 18
percent of revenue in 2010, compared with 18 percent of both for
2009, according to the firm’s annual filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Goldman Sachs doesn’t disclose how much
revenue or profit comes from India.  India is among countries -- including Brazil, China, Russia
and Saudi Arabia -- where Goldman Sachs’s payroll has grown by
at least 25 percent a year since 2005, according to a company
presentation. The firm has about 100 people in its Mumbai office
and employs 3,500 in Bangalore to provide back-office support
and services to its global operations.  ‘Revenue Opportunities’  “We believe that both GDP growth and the relative fiscal
stability of many growth countries are trends that could drive
revenue opportunities across all of our businesses,” Blankfein,
56, said at a conference in  New York  in November. “Over the
past five years, we’ve seen nearly three times the number of
capital-raisings in India than we saw in the previous 10.”  Goldman Sachs units have invested about $2 billion in
India, most of it since 2005, buying stakes in companies
including  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , Max India Ltd. and TVS
Logistics Services Ltd. Ankur Sahu, 41, will move to Mumbai this
year from Japan to run the Indian principal-investing operations
with Sanjeev Mehra, according to an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News in February.  The firm agreed to buy Mumbai-based Benchmark Asset
Management Co. last month, giving it access to a market where
assets managed by mutual funds more than tripled to 6.8 trillion
rupees in the five years ended Dec. 31, according to the
Association of Mutual Funds of India. Terms weren’t disclosed.
Goldman Sachs, which set up its local fund unit in 2008, had no
assets under management as of Dec. 31.  The bank also sees “significant opportunity” in private
banking for the wealthy, Moszkowski and Chubak wrote.  Drums, Boxing  Chatterjee, who worked 16 years at Mumbai-based ICICI Bank,
where he was in charge of corporate and investment banking,
government banking and international banking, declined to
comment. The father of two girls, he played drums in a Mumbai
rock band called Infrared and kept fit in  London , where he lived
from 2003 to 2007, by boxing in a gym near Baker Street,
according to people who know him.  He’ll need to show off some of that footwork to persuade
local companies to pay for advisory work when rival firms are
willing to sacrifice fees to gain market share. The top-ranked
bank worldwide in M&A and equity underwriting over the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs
pitched for seven stock offerings of government-controlled
companies in India in the past year. It got picked for two.  4-Cent Fee  The first was the $1.8 billion offer in August by Power
Grid Corp., India’s largest electricity-transmission company.
Goldman Sachs and SBI Capital Markets Ltd. offered to accept a
fee equivalent to about 4 cents each to work on the transaction,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm also was selected to help manage Power Finance’s
sale of a 20 percent stake that could raise 57.5 billion rupees,
based on current market valuation. The sale by the New Delhi-
based lender to Indian utilities is likely to open in May, and
Goldman Sachs has agreed to split a fee of 1 rupee with three
banks to manage it, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the deal.  The other firms are Bank of America, ICICI Securities Ltd.
and  JM Financial Ltd. (JM) , according to a March 18 document
submitted to the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank AG also worked on state deals yielding near-zero fees last
year, Bloomberg data show.  Vedanta Loan  Goldman Sachs was among eight banks that provided a
combined $6 billion of loans for Vedanta, the London-based
mining company controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal, when it
offered to buy control of Cairn India Ltd. The deal didn’t
generate advisory fees since Vedanta used its own team to
negotiate the purchase, bankers familiar with the matter said.  “Balance-sheet support can be critical to winning large
outbound deals, though clients are also looking for ideas and
deal-execution capability,” Frank Hancock, managing director of
corporate finance in India at Barclays Plc, said in an e-mail.  Chatterjee replaced Entwistle, who had run Goldman Sachs in
India since 2006, when the firm ended its venture with Kotak
Mahindra. Entwistle, 43, is moving to Singapore to become
chairman and head of investment banking for Goldman Sachs in
Southeast Asia, according to a March 18 internal memo.  Mallya Ties  The appointment of Chatterjee, who has a master’s degree in
business administration from the Indian Institute of Management
in Bangalore, made Goldman Sachs the last major foreign bank in
the country to name an Indian to the top spot.  While at ICICI Bank, Chatterjee developed ties with Vijay Mallya, head of India’s Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. and chairman of
 United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , which bought Scottish liquor maker Whyte &
Mackay Ltd. for 595 million pounds ($968 million) in May 2007.
ICICI Bank helped finance the transaction.  “What Sonjoy brings is long-term relationships with
corporates,” said Girotra. “ICICI has a strong brand, and he
was a carrier of that. He brings a lot of credibility.”  Goldman Sachs trailed Wall Street rivals such as Citigroup,
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America in mergers advisory after its
split from Kotak. UBS, based in Zurich, was first in M&A in the
four years ended April 1, 2010, and Citigroup was the top share
underwriter, Bloomberg data show.  Trailing Morgan Stanley  In the 10 months since Chatterjee began working at Goldman
Sachs, only Morgan Stanley ranked higher in M&A in India,
working on 11 deals valued at a combined $20.7 billion, compared
with three transactions totaling $15.6 billion for Goldman
Sachs, Bloomberg data show.  In stock sales, Goldman Sachs’s gains have been slower. It
completed two offerings in the past year: Power Grid’s and an
October initial public offering by Orient Green Power Co., a
developer of renewable-energy projects. Citigroup worked on 13
deals, Bloomberg data show.  Goldman Sachs hasn’t arranged a bond sale in India since
2005, according to Bloomberg data.  One of Chatterjee’s first tasks may be finding an
investment-banking chief. Sunil Sanghai, co-head of investment
banking with Entwistle, quit last June and joined HSBC Holdings
Plc as head of global banking for India. Chatterjee now holds
the title of investment-banking head in addition to his chairman
role. JPMorgan, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley, all based in New
York, have separate investment-banking chiefs in India, as does
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America.  ‘Fierce Competitors’  Another challenge comes from Indian firms expanding into
investment banking to compete for advisory business.  “We see the likes of ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank
getting rapidly geared up to become fierce competitors,”
Barclays’s Hancock said.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , India’s top-ranked manager of debt sales,
in November agreed to buy Enam Securities Pvt. in a deal valued
at 20.7 billion rupees to bolster its equity-underwriting
operations. Enam was the third-biggest arranger of stock sales
last year and Axis was 19th, Bloomberg data show.  Mumbai-based  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s second-largest
privately owned lender, hired Rakesh Singh from N M Rothschild &
Sons (India) Pvt. to head investment banking in India, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. Singh will join HDFC
Bank this month, they said.  “We are committed to beefing up our capabilities
substantially,” HDFC Bank Executive Director Paresh Sukthankar
said in an interview. “We hope to make our presence felt in
coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 