-- 
Google, Facebook Group Asks Delay of Debit-Card Fee Rules

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-12T19:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/google-facebook-group-asks-delay-of-debit-card-swipe-fee-rules.html
U.S. rules capping fees charged to
merchants for debit-card payments could weaken the security of
electronic transactions, a group representing technology
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
said.  TechNet , a Washington-based group that also counts  Visa
Inc. (V)  as a member, called on lawmakers to delay and further study
rules being written by the  Federal Reserve  as part of the Dodd-
Frank finance-regulation overhaul.  The rules on so-called swipe fees, which are set by payment
networks like San Francisco-based Visa, are scheduled to be in
place July 21. The group sent letters last week to U.S. senators
asking them to support legislation introduced by Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, to put off the rules for two years.  “As the implementation process has moved forward, it has
become clear that, while not the intent, the current proposal is
creating unintended and unnecessary consequences such as a very
real threat to the level of protection offered to the consumers’
personal financial data,” Rey Ramsey, the president and chief
executive officer of the group, wrote in the April 6 letter.  TechNet said the loss of revenue to banks and card networks
could lead them to cut costs in the technology systems that
protect personal financial information from fraud and identity
theft.  The cap on debit-card fees was included in a section of
Dodd-Frank aimed at cutting transaction costs for retailers that
totaled more than $16 billion in 2009, according to the Fed,
while also giving merchants the opportunity to choose from at
least two independent debit networks to increase competition.
Supporters of the limit have said that merchants could pass on
their savings to consumers.  12-cent Fee  The Fed in December proposed capping fees at 12 cents a
transaction, compared with the current formula that averages
1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44 cents. Shares of
Visa and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , which set the fees and pass the money
to card-issuing banks, fell more than 10 percent after the Fed’s
plan was released.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democrat in
the Senate who wrote the Dodd-Frank provision, has said he will
oppose a delay.  Groups representing retailers including  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , along with grocers and
small-business owners are lobbying to preserve the rule and its
timing. They said the fees represent one of their largest
expenses and that reducing the cost will let them cut prices for
consumers.  No Vote Scheduled  Tester filed his delay plan as an amendment to a small-
business bill on the Senate floor. The amendment hasn’t been
scheduled for a vote and Tester said last week it may not get
one.  “If a better opportunity is the next bill we can get on,
we’ll get it on that one,” Tester told reporters.  Organizations that have voiced concerns about the impact of
debit caps in recent weeks include the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, the National Community
Reinvestment Coalition, community banks and  credit unions .  Hilary O. Shelton, the NAACP’s senior vice president for
advocacy and policy in Washington, said in a letter today to
House Speaker  John Boehner  that the group didn’t support a
delay.  Two Letters  Shelton, in a letter to Boehner last month, said that,
“Given the complexity of this issue, we believe that it should
be further examined fully to ensure that it does not have a
negative impact on the communities it was meant to help.”  In the follow-up letter, Shelton said the first letter may
“have been misinterpreted or may be misunderstood by some.”  “To be perfectly clear, while the NAACP supports a swift
and careful review of the proposed rules to ensure that
financial institutions are reimbursed for legitimate,
incremental debit-card costs; that small  depository institutions 
are not harmed by the new rules; and that consumers are not
negatively impacted, we do not support a delay of the
implementation of the rules,” Shelton wrote in the letter,
which contained the heading: “Re: Clarification of NAACP
Position on Interchange Fees.”  The TechNet letter was sent to senators from the six states
where the group operates, as well as Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a
West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Commerce
Committee. Other recipients included California Senators  Barbara Boxer  and  Dianne Feinstein , both Democrats; Massachusetts
Senators  John Kerry  and  Scott Brown , a Democrat and Republican
respectively; and Texas Senators  John Cornyn  and  Kay Bailey Hutchison , both Republicans.  Commenting on the letter today, Brian Dodge, a spokesman
for the Retail Industry Leaders Association, a group that
represents large retailers, said in an e-mail: “Yawn. Yet
another beneficiary of Visa’s largess takes great liberties with
facts in an attempt to influence the process in the 11th hour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  