-- 
Greece, Ireland, Portugal Will Likely Restructure, Pimco's Kashkari Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-12T15:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/greece-ireland-portugal-will-probably-need-to-restructure-kashkari-says.html
Europe ’s most-indebted countries
will probably need to restructure their borrowings as bailouts
fail to solve their fundamental challenges, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari said.  “ Greece , Ireland,  Portugal , simply have too much debt,
more debt than their economies can afford,” Kashkari, head of
new investment initiatives at Pimco, said today in an interview
on “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” “It’s likely they’ll
need to restructure or default. The question is, how do you do
that in an orderly manner without causing contagion to Spain and
other countries and causing chaos?”  Portugal this month became the euro area’s third member
after Greece and Ireland to seek a European Union bailout.  Fitch
Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the country’s sovereign
ratings after Prime Minister Jose Socrates offered to resign
when lawmakers rejected his budget-cutting plan.  Kashkari, a former head of the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program, also said the Financial Stability
Oversight Council should issue a report on risks created by the
U.S.’s debt burden, to provide “cover” to politicians to curb
deficits. The Treasury estimates the Congressionally mandated
borrowing limit of $14.29 trillion will be reached by mid-July
at the latest.  ‘Systemic Risk’  “The biggest systemic risk facing our financial system and
the economy is runaway deficits and out-of-control spending,”
Kashkari said in the Bloomberg Television interview. “If we
were to face default, not raising the debt ceiling, not meeting
the obligations, it would be catastrophic for our economy and
the global economy,” he said.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco manages the world’s
largest bond fund, which is betting U.S. government-related debt
will lose value. The Financial Stability Oversight Council is a
panel of regulatory-agency heads established under the Dodd-
Frank Act passed last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  