-- 
Libyan Rebels Require Further Support to Keep Civilians Safe, Allies Say

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e ,   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-13T19:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/libyan-rebels-ask-for-help-from-nato-to-break-qaddafi-s-siege-of-misrata.html
Libyan rebels require further
support that may include funding and equipment to defend
civilians against the forces of  Muammar Qaddafi , allied nations
said following a meeting in Qatar.  A United Nations resolution authorizing a no-fly zone over
Libya provides for self-defense and Qatar would “look into”
supplying equipment for this, Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim Al-Thani told reporters today. The so-called Libyan
contact group said it was looking into a “temporary financial
mechanism” so the rebels can access government assets frozen
abroad, in a statement issued today in the capital, Doha.  The group, which includes the U.S., the U.K., France and
other countries lending military support, agreed that “Qaddafi
and his regime had lost all legitimacy and he must leave power,
allowing the Libyan people to determine their own future,” it
said in the statement.  In London, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told the  BBC 
that the U.K. will provide body armor to rebels. His meeting
with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Paris tomorrow will
focus on examining ways to help the Libyan opposition and
establishing how NATO can increase its military actions to put
“real pressure on Qaddafi” and stop the “appalling murder of
civilians,” he told Sky News.  Libya has been effectively split in two since the early
stages of the two-month conflict, which has helped push  oil
prices  up 25 percent. NATO airstrikes against Qaddafi since
March 19 haven’t stopped artillery attacks and sniper fire on
cities such as Misrata, in the west of the country, or enabled
the rebels to take and permanently hold strategic towns such as
Ajdabiya and the oil port of Ras Lanuf in central  Libya .  Oil Prices  Crude oil for May delivery advanced 86 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $107.11 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It reached a 2 1/2-year high of $112.79 a
barrel on April 8.  Libya holds  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves. Qatar confirmed
yesterday that it is marketing Libyan oil on behalf of the
opposition and is providing energy products to Benghazi.  The rebels’  Interim Transitional National Council , which
had a delegation in Doha, earlier appealed to the UN to declare
Misrata an “internationally protected zone” and help prevent
“a massacre of men, women and children” in the besieged city.  Misrata Siege  “There is fighting going on and electricity and water have
been cut off throughout the city,” Abdulhamid Elmadani,
secretary-general of the Libyan Red Crescent, said in an
interview today in Benghazi, the rebels’ eastern stronghold.
“People are dependent on wells whose water is not fit for
drinking. There is no hospital, more like a complex of
clinics.”  Qaddafi’s government vowed to “confront anyone trying to
get close to Misrata under the pretext of humanitarian aid,”
according to Al Arabiya television. More than 1,000 people have
been killed and “several thousand” wounded in the city in the
six-week siege, according to Suleiman Fortia, a spokesman for
the rebels’ council.  While Belgian Foreign Minister Steven Vanackere told
reporters in Doha that he “doesn’t feel” the UN resolution
provides for arming rebels,  France  and the U.K. are among North
Atlantic Treaty Organization members calling for the alliance to
do more to thwart Qaddafi’s forces.  Arming the Rebels  The option of arming Libyan rebels is “on the table” for
discussion among the allies, the Italian Foreign Ministry
spokesman, Maurizio Massari, told reporters before the meeting
in Doha.  International pressure on Qaddafi will intensify, and
“sitting tight won’t be a successful strategy for this
regime,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told Sky News
earlier today. He also said that more strike-capable aircraft
would be “useful,” highlighting the tensions within NATO about
whether it is being forceful enough since the U.S. handed over
command and withdrew from strike missions intended to protect
civilians.  NATO reported flying 60 possible ground-strike missions
yesterday, up from 59 the day before. NATO forces have destroyed
a third of Qaddafi’s military capacity, the alliance’s
secretary-general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, told Al Jazeera
television from Doha.  U.S. Missions  U.S. fighter jets have flown 97 missions over Libya since
April 4 to choke off Qaddafi’s air defenses as part of the NATO
military operation, a Pentagon spokesman said in  Washington .  Those missions were conducted by a contingent of six
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets and five  Boeing Co. (BA) 
EA-18 Growler electronic warfare planes provided to NATO,
according to Marine Corps Colonel Dave Lapan. The planes dropped
munitions to wipe out an air defense site on three occasions, he
said.  The U.S. has conducted 35 percent of all types of sorties,
77 percent of air-refueling flights and 27 percent of
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions since
April 1, Lapan said. The Pentagon is seeking to deflect concern
that reduced U.S. participation in the Libya operation is
hampering NATO’s ability to protect civilians and provide the
rebels with a military edge.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Libya’s credit rating today by
three levels to B from BB, citing “extreme political
instability, a collapse in oil production and the freeze on
Libya’s sovereign external assets following the imposition of UN
sanctions.” It also withdrew the rating, saying it has
“insufficient information to maintain coverage.” Libya has no
sovereign debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  