-- 
Michael Douglas Ex-Wife Back in Court on ‘Wall Street’ Earnings Lawsuit

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-04-12T21:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/michael-douglas-ex-wife-back-in-court-on-wall-street-earnings-lawsuit.html
The ex-wife of  Michael Douglas  was
back in court trying again to get a  New York  judge to hear her
case for half the actor’s earnings portraying the avaricious
Gordon Gekko in “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps.”  State  Supreme Court  Justice Matthew F. Cooper dismissed the
suit in November, ruling that  California  was the proper venue.  Diandra Douglas sued in New York state court in June,
arguing she was entitled to share in the proceeds from the 2010
sequel to the 1987 “Wall Street” film. She cited the former
couple’s 1998 settlement agreement giving her the right to 50
percent of the proceeds from films, television and stage work
Michael Douglas did during their marriage -- and, she said,
anything related to those projects.  Nancy Chemtob, who represents Diandra Douglas, reargued the
venue issue today before Cooper in  Manhattan . She said that
since both her client and Michael Douglas reside in New York,
the case should be heard in Manhattan. She added that the actor,
whose lawyers had argued earlier that he is a Bermuda resident,
had bought a $5 million house in Bedford, New York, and was
living here.  “The residence of the parties is the most important
factor” in determining venue, Chemtob said.  “You got it right the first time,” Michael Douglas’s
attorney, Marilyn Chinitz, told the judge today. “The documents
are in California. The witnesses are in California.”  No Ruling  The judge did not rule today.  Michael and Diandra Douglas were divorced in California in
2000 after 23 years of marriage.  The California court “has greater familiarity than this
court with both the law of community property and the facts of
the underlying divorce,” Cooper wrote in a Nov. 9 decision.  The actor’s attorney argued at an August hearing that the
agreement didn’t include new movies such as “ Wall Street : Money
Never Sleeps,” which opened in September. Douglas gave his wife
what she was entitled to receive under his contract 12 years
ago, the attorney said.  In his November decision, Cooper also quotes from the
couple’s 1998 document stating that the California court
“specifically retains jurisdiction to resolve any dispute.”  “Mrs. Douglas should be ashamed of herself, coming into
these courts,” Chinitz told the judge today, pointing out
Diandra Douglas had received more than $50 million. “She’s
beaten this horse to the ground.”  ‘Mudslinging’  “I don’t feel that mudslinging and attacking single
mothers is particularly attractive in trying to resolve legal
issues,” Diandra Douglas said in an interview outside the
courtroom today. Michael Douglas didn’t attend the hearing.  The judge asked if Diandra Douglas still had a house in
California. Her lawyer responded that it was in contract to be
sold. Chemtob said her client is raising three children in New
York.  Asked where Michael Douglas was residing, Chinitz said “in
New York at the moment.” Douglas was diagnosed last year with
throat cancer, received treatment and sees his doctors monthly
in New York, the lawyer said.  Michael and Diandra Douglas have one child, Cameron, who
was sentenced to five years in prison in April for drug dealing.
Michael Douglas is now married to actress  Catherine Zeta-Jones .  The case is Douglas v. Douglas, 350044/2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mytha@bloomberg.net . 