-- 
IEA Says Oil Price Hurting Economy, Maintains Demand Outlook

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-12T13:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/iea-says-oil-price-hurting-economy-maintains-demand-outlook-1-.html
The  International Energy Agency 
maintained its outlook for global oil demand in 2011, while
warning that prices above $100 a barrel are starting to hurt the
global economy.  Worldwide oil consumption will increase by 1.4 million
barrels a day, or 1.6 percent, this year to average 89.4 million
a day, the Paris-based  adviser  said today in its monthly Oil
Market Report. Still, preliminary data “already show signs of
oil demand slowdown,” and global supplies are starting to look
“thin” as the conflict in Libya strains OPEC members’ spare
production capacity, the IEA said.  “There are real risks that a sustained $100-plus price
environment will prove incompatible with the currently expected
pace of economic recovery,” the agency said. “The surest
remedy for high prices may ultimately prove to be high prices
themselves.”  Crude futures climbed above $110 a barrel in New York for
the first time in 30 months on April 7 as forces loyal to Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  launched strikes on the country’s oil
fields. Oil traded around $109 today. Yesterday the
 International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2011 forecast for U.S.
growth, citing the impact of fuel costs, and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  said there are “nascent signs of oil demand destruction.”  Denting Demand Growth  The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, will expand by 2.8
percent this year, down from the 3 percent projected in January,
the IMF said. The IEA reported that “preliminary January and
February data suggest that persistently high  oil prices  may have
already started to dent demand growth.”  Societe Generale SA said yesterday that growth in U.S.
demand “faded to zero” in March from 600,000 barrels a day in
January.  Barclays Capital  said high oil prices have yet to show any
“considerable” impact on oil demand, as economic conditions
are different from 2008, when oil reached $147 in  New York .  “It is far too premature to signal that the first signs of
demand destruction are already noticeable,” Amrita Sen, London-
based analyst of Barclays Capital said in a research note.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of global oil, has an “effective”
spare capacity of about 3.91 million barrels a day, the IEA
estimated. This level “begins to resemble the thin flexibility
margin” that helped drive the rally in prices during the last
decade, it said.  Lost Libyan Barrels  The producer group’s 11 members bound by quotas pumped
26.51 million barrels a day last month, the fewest since May
2010, as a result of supply losses arising from the rebellion in
 Libya , the agency said.  Iraq  is exempt from the quota system.  All 12 OPEC members will need to provide a daily average of
29.8 million barrels a day this year to satisfy global
requirements, or about 600,000 a day more than they pumped in
March, according to the IEA.  The IEA said producers could calm markets by selling
additional crude and reducing their official sales prices.  The agency boosted its forecast for non-OPEC production
this year, based on gains in output from  Canada . Producers
outside the organization will provide 53.7 million barrels a day
in 2011, or 100,000 a day more than the IEA projected last
month.  While oil stockpiles held by companies in the world’s most
developed economies are currently “comfortable,” inventories
could drop by December to near their lowest level in five years
if present rates of demand are sustained, the agency said.  Supplies in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development dropped by 50.8 million barrels to 2.68 billion in
February, equating to about 59.2 days worth of consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  