-- 
Tiger Woods’s EA Video Game With Masters Home Sets Sales Record for Series

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/tiger-woods-s-ea-video-game-with-masters-home-sets-sales-record-for-series.html
Tiger Woods ’s video game from
 Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  was boosted to the best first-week sales in
its 14-year history by the gaming debut of Augusta National Golf
Club, home of the Masters Tournament.  EA, the second-largest video game publisher in the U.S.,
said “Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12: The Masters” sold approximately
225,000 units from March 29 through April 5. That’s a 17 percent
increase from the series’ previous first-week record set in
2007, the  Redwood City , California-based company said yesterday
in a news release.  The inclusion of Augusta National this year was aimed at
boosting sales for EA and increasing the popularity of golf and
the Masters among a younger audience. Sales of Woods’s namesake
video game dropped by almost two-thirds last year.  “We expected fans to be excited about the Masters and for
sales to be up significantly,” said Peter Moore, president of
EA Sports. “We’re pleased that they are.”  The initial sales figures are from the week preceding the
Masters, which was won by Charl Schwartzel of  South Africa .
Woods tied for fourth at the season’s first major championship,
which is held in Augusta, Georgia.  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009, slipping
to No. 5 in the world rankings. He divorced last year after
acknowledging extramarital affairs that also cost him
sponsorships with Accenture Plc, AT&T Inc. and  Procter & Gamble
Co .’s Gillette. EA has maintained support for Woods, a 14-time
major champion.  Augusta National’s Debut  The popularity of the new version of Woods’s game is due in
part to Augusta National, the 79-year-old private club that’s
No. 1 in  Golf Digest’s ranking  of the top 100 U.S. golf courses.
Play is limited at the club to about 300 members such as
Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett , and their guests.  Moore estimated that fans have played almost 2 million
rounds of the video game version of Augusta National in the past
two weeks. The course was laser-mapped for the game, allowing it
to be recreated within 6 millimeters of accuracy, and
programmers spent almost two years on its design.  Electronic Arts fell 11 cents yesterday to $19.74 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  