-- 
Indonesia Keeps Interest Rate Unchanged as Inflation Slows, Rupiah Gains

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-04-12T09:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/indonesian-central-bank-keeps-interest-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-slows.html
Indonesia  left interest rates
unchanged for a second consecutive month after inflation slowed,
saying the rupiah’s gains will help contain price pressures.  Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, it said in Jakarta today, a decision predicted by all
18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The central bank
raised borrowing costs in February, its only increase since
2008.  Policy makers have maintained fuel subsidies to damp
inflation and let the rupiah rise to its strongest since 2004 to
counter import costs.  Standard & Poor’s  said Indonesia needs to
tame price pressures for a further upgrade after raising its
credit rating to a step below investment grade last week.  “We are seeing very strong growth in Indonesia and there
is only so far that the rupiah can go to curb imported
inflation,” said Wellian Wiranto, an economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc in Singapore. “ Core inflation  is still on the uptick and
needs to be tackled. We still see them having to hike rates as
soon as next month.”  The rupiah is the second-best performing major currency in
 Asia  this year, climbing about 3.7 percent against the dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices in Southeast Asia’s largest economy rose
6.65 percent last month from a year earlier, slower than the
6.84 percent pace in February. Core inflation accelerated to
4.45 percent in March, from 4.36 percent the previous month.  Inflation Risk  Indonesia still faces the risk of “high” inflationary
pressures as food and oil prices rise, Governor Darmin Nasution
said at a press briefing today. There remains room for the
benchmark rate to be adjusted to damp price gains, the central
bank said.  The rupiah’s appreciation may continue this year, the
governor said. Still, Bank Indonesia wants to ensure the
currency won’t strengthen too fast, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said at the same briefing.  Central banks in Asia and around the world are raising
 interest rates  as their economies strengthen. The  International
Monetary Fund  yesterday said the global recovery is expected to
“solidify” as industrial production and consumption improves.  The  European Central Bank  on April 7 raised rates from a
record low, while  China  has increased benchmark borrowing costs
twice this year. Singapore’s central bank, which uses the
currency to manage inflation, will probably revalue its dollar
or allow a faster appreciation when it announces its policy
decision on April 14, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Japan  Impact  The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark rate unchanged today
after two increases this year as it opted to see how rising oil
prices and Japan’s earthquake will affect economic growth amid
accelerating inflation.  While the world economy is strengthening, risks to global
growth including the impact of the disaster in Japan and
Europe’s debt woes remain,  Bank Indonesia  said today. The
economy may expand about 6.4 percent this quarter, and grow as
much as 6.5 percent in 2011, Nasution said.  Indonesia refrained from boosting borrowing costs last
month after increasing the key rate in February for the first
time in more than two years, saying a strengthening currency is
helping reduce price gains. That contributed to a drop in stocks
amid concern a prolonged pause may prompt more aggressive
tightening later.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has since rebounded and is up
0.2 percent this year, compared with a 3 percent gain in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan index over the same period.  Ratings Upgrade  Standard & Poor’s raised Indonesia’s  credit rating  on April
8 to the highest level since the Asian financial crisis hit the
country in 1997, citing the nation’s “resilient” economy and
improving finances. The  Asian Development Bank  this month
predicted Indonesia will grow 6.4 percent this year after
expanding 6.1 percent in 2010.  Prior to its rate increase in February, Bank Indonesia had
resisted higher borrowing costs to avoid attracting more foreign
capital inflows, while opting to increase lenders’ reserve
requirements and tighten rules on banks’ foreign-exchange
holdings to help curb price advances.  Bank Indonesia will extend the one-month holding period on
central bank notes, or SBI, to six months effective May 13,
Nasution said today.  “This is to minimize the negative impact of the
continuation of short-term capital inflows,” he said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual
growth of 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014, and companies from PT Bank Pan Indonesia to
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  are counting on rising demand in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation to boost their businesses.  Indonesia’s bank lending in February rose 24 percent from a
year earlier to 1,773.9 trillion rupiah ($204.6 billion), the
central bank said yesterday. In March lending grew 25.1 percent
from a year earlier, Nasution said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  