-- 
Inspire Pharmaceuticals Investor Sues Over Merck Acquisition

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T16:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/inspire-pharmaceuticals-shareholder-sues-over-merck-deal.html
An  Inspire Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISPH) 
shareholder filed a lawsuit claiming Merck & Co.’s $430 million
offer for the company is inadequate.  Company directors breached their fiduciary duties by
accepting a price that undervalues the company and agreeing to
lock up the proposed transaction with deal protection devices,
shareholder Anthony S. Luttenberger said in a complaint made
public today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. The suit
names both Inspire and Merck.  “These provisions substantially and improperly limit the
board’s ability to act with respect to investigating and
pursuing superior proposals and alternatives,” Luttenberger
said in the complaint.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , said it
will pay $5 a share for Inspire to expand its U.S. sales force
to sell eye-disease products. The offer price represents a 26
percent premium to Inspire’s closing share price on April 4.  Inspire, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , makes Azasite,
an antibiotic eye solution to fight bacterial infections. The
company, which had $106 million in revenue last year, also
receives royalties on sales of the prescription eye products
Restasis and Elestat. The deal gives Merck a U.S. sales force
for Saflutan, its glaucoma and ocular hypertension drug awaiting
U.S. regulatory review.  Competing Proposals  The deal includes provisions that prevent Inspire from
soliciting potential acquirers and gives Merck with four
business days to match any competing proposal. Inspire would
have to pay Merck a $17 million termination fee if it accepts a
superior proposal, lawyers for Luttenberger said in the
complaint.  Merck spokesman Ian McConnell declined to comment. Cara Amoroso, a spokeswoman for Inspire, didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.  Luttenberger is seeking to represent all Inspire
shareholders in his request for a court order barring the deal
and unspecified damages.  The case is Luttenberger v. Inspire Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
CA6363, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  