-- 
Mirs, Xfone Israel Mobile Licenses Raise Competition

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-12T15:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/mirs-xfone-israel-mobile-licenses-raise-competition-correct-.html
(Corrects to show winning company no longer related to
 Xfone Inc. (XFN)  throughout.)  MIRS Communications Ltd. and Xfone
each won a license today to provide mobile-phone services in
 Israel , increasing competition in a market controlled by three
major operators.  MIRS paid 705 million shekels ($204 million) for a license
and Xfone paid 710 million shekels, the Communications Ministry
said today. MIRS and Xfone will compete with operators  Cellcom
Israel Ltd. (CEL) , Partner Communications Co. and Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp.’s Pelephone.  “Investments like these are evidence there is trust in the
Israeli telecommunications market,” Communications Minister
Moshe Kahlon said at a Tel Aviv press conference. He predicted
charges to mobile-phone users “will go down significantly.”  French entrepreneur Patrick Drahi, who owns Mirs and has a
controlling share in Israel’s second-largest fixed-line
operator,  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT) , will gain a
competitive boost from the decision, especially if regulators
allow him to merge the two companies, analysts said.  “Who will profit from this? In one word, Hot,” Rami Rosen, head of research at Harel Finance, said in an e-mailed
report.  “In coming years we will deliver both on the Hot side and
the mobile side,” Drahi told the press conference, adding that
together the companies already reach 70 percent of Israel’s
population.  Share Prices  Bezeq shares dropped 1.7 percent to 10.16 shekels at 11:47
a.m. in Tel Aviv trading. Cellcom dropped 4.2 percent to 106.40
shekels, on a dividend-adjusted basis. Partner declined 2.8
percent to 64 shekels. Hot advanced 0.2 percent to 65.03 shekels
after gaining 5.6 percent yesterday.  “The impact on the telecommunications market is especially
significant at a time when a long list of regulatory changes are
threatening the companies,” Ori Licht, head of research at Tel
Aviv-based IBI-Israel Brokerage and Investments Ltd., said in an
e-mailed note.  Licht said companies would probably see revenue per
customer drop while costs of keeping subscribers rise over the
next two years.  Xfone Inc., a provider of long-distance voice and data
services on Aug. 31 sold its 69 percent stake in the Xfone 018
to Marathon Telecom Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Ronit Goodman in  Tel Aviv  at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 