-- 
IRS Spared From Budget Cuts as U.S. Agency Seeks Revenue From Tax Cheats

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-12T19:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/irs-is-spared-u-s-budget-cuts-as-agency-seeks-revenue-from-tax-scofflaws.html
The  Internal Revenue Service 
avoided a $603 million budget cut proposed by  House Republicans ,
preventing changes that could have cost the government $4
billion in uncollected revenue.  Under the proposed spending bill released today, the IRS
budget for fiscal year 2011 would be $12.1 billion, or 0.2
percent less than in fiscal 2010. That level would subject the
IRS to the same across-the-board funding cut as all domestic,
non-defense agencies.  The legislation would deny the IRS a $486 million budget
increase it had sought as it tries to improve enforcement of tax
laws aimed at wealthy individuals and multinational
corporations. House Republicans touted the denial of the IRS
increase when they announced the budget agreement with the
administration April 8.  The spending bill, which is expected to become law within
the week, isn’t likely to lead to immediate changes at the IRS,
said  Kevin Brown , a principal at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
 Washington  who was acting IRS commissioner in 2007.  “They’ve been operating for the first six months as if
this is all the money they’re going to have,” he said.  Tax Collections  The IRS didn’t respond to a request for comment today.
Commissioner Douglas Shulman said last month that IRS budget
cuts would be counterproductive, because they would reduce
revenue from tax collections. He estimated that the loss caused
by the $603 million proposed cut would be $4 billion.  The IRS budget has increased in each of the past 10 years,
according to the agency. This year, Brown said, the IRS has more
flexibility to absorb a flat budget because it doesn’t have to
cover a pay raise for federal employees, who have had their
salaries frozen.  In 2010, the IRS had a workforce of 94,711. That’s higher
than in any year since 2004, though below the peak employment in
1992 of 116,673.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who has called for
the IRS to be more aggressive in pursuing offshore  tax evasion ,
today said Congress should give the agency more resources.  “It’s going to hurt,” he said. “I think it’s a mistake.
We ought to be increasing their enforcement budget instead of
decreasing it.”  ‘Big Fish’  Levin praised the agency’s recent focus on collections from
wealthy taxpayers as an appropriate targeting of the “big
fish.” He said spending on tax enforcement generates a
favorable return on the investment.  “There’s too little emphasis on revenue as far as I’m
concerned, and too much emphasis on cutting spending in terms of
our budget deliberations,” he said.  The anticipated decision by Congress to limit the IRS
budget to $12.1 billion for 2011 will force a debate over the
2012 budget request, because there will be a larger-than-usual
gap between current funding and Obama’s request. The agency
requested $13.3 billion for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1.  The spending level will hamper the IRS, said Colleen Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union,
which represents IRS employees.  “This will compromise enforcement efforts, thus reducing
government revenue, and serve as an obstacle to improved
 customer service ,” she said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  