-- 
Italian Parliament Set to Finish Vote on Law That May End Berlusconi Trial

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-04-13T12:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/italy-to-finish-vote-on-bill-that-may-end-berlusconi-trial.html
Italy  may pass a bill today that
would shorten the length of trials in the country with Europe’s
slowest legal proceedings, possibly ending some corruption cases
against Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  The Chamber of Deputies, the lower house of parliament,
will likely conclude voting in Rome on the measure. Opposition
lawmakers, including former anti-graft prosecutor Antonio Di Pietro, insist it’s tailored to end Berlusconi’s legal woes.
Supporters say the legislation is needed to overhaul one of the
least-efficient judicial systems in Europe. The final vote is
expected to take place at 8 p.m.  “It’s the same old problem,” Enrico Letta, deputy head of
the main opposition  Democratic Party , told reporters in  Rome 
this week. “It’s the gap between Berlusconi’s personal interest
and the interest of Italians” who want “proper trials carried
out in a reasonable timeframe.”  Hundreds of demonstrators have rallied for days in front of
parliament against the bill, which the National Association of
Magistrates says would affect thousands of other trials.
Protesters say the cases include the bankruptcy of Parmalat
Finanziaria SpA, the trial of former  Bank of Italy  Governor
Antonio Fazio for market manipulation and proceedings related to
a 2009 gas explosion in the Tuscan city of Viareggio that killed
almost two dozen people, relatives of whom took part in today’s
protest outside parliament.  “Infinite trial lengths damage all citizens,” Justice
Minister Angelino Alfano said in remarks broadcast yesterday by
Sky TG24 television. Recent amendments to the bill “will avoid
it having the kind of negative impact on the entire legal system
that some people have been talking about.”  Slim Majority  Berlusconi’s parliamentary majority was weakened last year
when dozens of lawmakers defected from his ruling coalition,
partly over his attempts to overhaul the justice system. He
generally has a Chamber majority of about 10 votes. As the
version of the bill that passed the Senate was amended in the
Chamber, it will have to be voted again in the Senate, where
Berlusconi has a broader majority than in the lower house.  The bill sets a three year-limit on trials where the
defendant faces a maximum sentence of 10 years. The law would
grant another two years for the first appeal, and one and a half
years for the final appeal. For more serious cases such as Mafia
crimes or terrorism, the process can last as long as 10 years,
the  legislation  says.  Berlusconi, 74, faces two trials that started in 2006. In
one, he’s accused of bribing U.K. lawyer David Mills to lie on
his behalf under oath. In the other, he faces charges of  tax
fraud  at his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  television company. The premier denies
any wrongdoing and says prosecutors want to topple him.  Nothing Thrown Out  “No trial will be shelved,” Maurizio Paniz, who’s leading
the bill through parliament for Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party, said in comments posted on the party’s  website . The bill
“is completely indifferent” to Berlusconi because in almost
all his trials, “the judges will make sure to complete all the
levels of justice in time and nothing will be thrown out.”  Italian trials can drag on for more than a decade, and the
slow pace has been repeatedly condemned by the  European Court  of
Human Rights.  Italy leads the EU with  1,617 violation judgments  by the
Strasbourg, France-based court, with  France  second with less
than half that amount, according to the organization’s website.
Sixty percent of Italy’s violations were linked to the length of
judicial proceedings.  Due Process  Last December, the  Council of Europe  called on Italy to
overhaul its justice system and speed up its “snail-paced”
trials. In March 2009, the council,  Europe ’s top human-rights
monitor, ruled that delays in Italian justice violate due
process and “endanger respect for the supremacy of the law.”  Berlusconi currently faces four trials, including one in
which he’s charged with paying for sex with an underage night-
club dancer. He’s called himself “the biggest legal defendant
in history” and said he’s spent roughly $430 million to defend
himself and his companies against legal action since he entered
politics in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 