-- 
Ivory Coast Violence Damps Prospect of Quick Recovery After Civil War Ends

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-04-13T09:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ivory-coast-violence-damps-prospect-of-quick-recovery-after-civil-war-ends.html
Sporadic gunfire and reports of
looting in the commercial capital of  Ivory Coast  damped hopes of
a quick recovery in the world’s top cocoa producer after four
months of deadly post-election conflict.  Yesterday’s violence came a day after troops loyal to
President-elect  Alassane Ouattara , known as the Republican
Forces, captured former leader  Laurent Gbagbo  following a 10-day
battle for Abidjan, the largest city in the West African nation.  Gbagbo has been taken to an undisclosed location and is
under the protection of the  United Nations , UN spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters in  New York  yesterday. After his capture,
armed militia that backed the former president took over the
police station in the Abidjan suburb of Yopougon and declared it
their headquarters, said resident Marc Gbah.  “Since then, they are firing around and looting,” he said
yesterday. “It’s like an urban revolt. The Republican Forces
came here this morning and were getting shot at. Some were
killed. It’s a very chaotic situation.”  Ouattara needs to restart the battered economy, including a
resumption of cocoa and coffee exports. Cocoa for May delivery
rose $36, or 1.2 percent, $3,089 per ton as of 9:45 a.m. in
 London .  ‘Terrorized’  Gbagbo, 65, had defied international opinion to cling on to
power following a disputed election on Nov. 28. While the UN,
the  African Union  and the U.S. recognized Ouattara as the winner
of the vote, Gbagbo refused to cede power, claiming voter fraud
in the north of the country. His capture didn’t bring an end to
the conflict.  “Dozens of militias armed with Kalashnikovs and RPG’s are
killing and looting,” said Georgette Kla, another Yopougon
resident. “It’s terrible. There is sustained gunfire. Seriously
injured people are dying at home because they can’t get medical
help. The population is being terrorized.”  The Republican Forces face their “most difficult” work
now to combat troops loyal to Gbagbo, Ouattara’s prime minister,
 Guillaume Soro , said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Instead of recognizing their defeat, as Gbagbo himself
has done, and thinking about their future because their sponsors
are on the run, mercenaries, militias and pro-Gbagbo soldiers
roam the sub-districts of municipalities where Republican Forces
are not yet present to loot and commit atrocities,” Soro said.
“From their hiding places, Gbagbo’s clan chiefs continue to
incite ethnic, religious and tribal hatred.”  International Troops  French troops discovered a number of large arm caches,
including mortars, cannons and rockets, at villas in Abidjan,
the  BBC  reported today, citing the army.  UN peacekeepers are patrolling Abidjan in an effort to
quell the insecurity,  Hamadoun Toure , a spokesman for the
mission, said by phone yesterday. “We are receiving numerous
calls from all parts of the city,” he said. “Residents report
numerous cases of looting.”  Amnesty International  warned of reprisal attacks against
Gbagbo supporters, citing house-to-house searches in parts of
Abidjan perceived as loyal to the former leader.  “Dozens of young people are going into hiding in Abidjan
out of fear for their lives,” Veronique Aubert, U.K.-based
Amnesty’s deputy director for  Africa , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The UN’s children’s agency, UNICEF, said it delivered
medicine, soap, blankets and nutritional supplements for the
first time in weeks yesterday, according to a statement
published on its website.  Humanitarian Operation  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday called Ouattara to
congratulate him on assuming power, the White House said in a
statement. Obama offered U.S. support for Ouattara’s efforts to
unite the country.  “While a certain level of insecurity still exists in
Abidjan, we are hopeful we can move ahead with ramping up our
humanitarian operation,” said Herve Ludovic de Lys, UNICEF’s
representative in the country.  Ivory Coast ’s dollar-denominated Eurobonds, due 2032, rose
1.2 percent to 53.79 cents on the dollar as of 8:53 a.m. in
Abidjan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country’s economy will probably contract 7.5 percent
this year, after growing about 2.6 percent last year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund  said. It expects growth to
rebound to 6 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 