-- 
J. Crew CEO Drexler Says He Would Do TPG Takeover Same Way Again

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/j-crew-ceo-drexler-says-he-would-do-tpg-takeover-same-way-again.html
J. Crew  Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Millard Drexler said he wouldn’t change any of his
behavior leading up to the sale of the retailer last month,
after his conduct prompted investor lawsuits and criticism.  “I would do it the same way,” Drexler said in an
interview for “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan,” which will
air today. “I sleep well at night.”  J. Crew shareholders on March 1 voted in favor of a
takeover by TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners LP, which
offered $43.50 a share in November, valuing New York-based J.
Crew at about $3 billion. The deal came after some investors
sued Drexler, 66, accusing him of diluting the offer price by
refusing to work with anyone but  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG,
blocking other suitors from sweeping in with a better price.  J. Crew, which more than doubled its revenue since Drexler
came from  Gap Inc. (GPS)  in 2003, now plans to expand outside the U.S.
for the first time to boost sales. The chain, which operates
more than 300 locations in the U.S., will open its first
international store this summer in  Canada .  “We’re looking at international, frankly, because the
demand is there,” Drexler said. “We are an American brand, but
I find most brands today are actually worldwide.”  The CEO also said the retailer is expanding its men’s
business because it is “exceeding our plans.” J. Crew has
about six men’s stores, he said.  With the sale, J. Crew is becoming a private company that
will make running the retailer easier, Drexler said. Before the
deal, the retailer reduced its profit forecast at least twice in
2010, and Drexler had to explain the reasons for that to
analysts and investors. With a private company, now he can focus
on the long-term goals, he said.  Apple Succession Plan  Drexler, who’s been on the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  board for 12 years,
said the iPad maker has a succession plan for  Steve Jobs  and
declined to provide any details. Apple shareholders voted down a
proposal to force the company to reveal how it will replace
Jobs, the company said on Feb. 24. Jobs took his third leave of
absence in January after he disclosed in 2004 he was battling
pancreatic cancer.  Drexler, 66, signed another employment contract with J.
Crew that will keep him with the company until age 70, and he
said he’s working on a succession plan of his own. Jenna Lyons,
J. Crew’s president and creative director, could be a potential
successor.  “How could you say no, right,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 