-- 
J.Lo’s ‘American Idol’ Duet With Tyler Makes Fans Forget Cowell

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/j-lo-s-american-idol-duet-with-tyler-makes-fans-forget-ex-judge-cowell.html
“ American Idol ” judges  Jennifer Lopez  and  Steven Tyler  have accomplished something their sharp-
tongued predecessor  Simon Cowell  couldn’t do for four years:
stem viewer losses at TV’s most-watched show.  With seven weeks left in the twice-weekly talent
competition, “ Idol ” is averaging 25 million viewers a night,
matching last year, according to the Los Angeles-based Fox,
which has aired the show since its 2002 inception. The program
has lost viewers since 2007.  The ratings suggest that after 10 seasons “Idol” may have
a longer run as the most popular TV show, according to Hal Vogel, a media analyst in  New York . That’s good news for Fox,
which opens talks in May with marketers over the price of
commercials next season. “Idol” fetches the highest ad rates
for a TV series. A 30-second spot in January cost as much as
$600,000, according to Nielsen Co. data.  “I’m surprised as anyone the show’s bounced back,” Vogel
said in an e-mail. “The new judges appear to appeal to a wide
demographic. It’s likely the show really does have more life
left -- longer than I’d expected.”  Season 10 started in January with a 12 percent drop in
viewers, Fox said at the time. Ratings didn’t begin to exceed
the prior year’s episodes until Feb. 3, according to Nielsen
data supplied by the network, part of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)   Since then, new judges Lopez and Tyler have grown more
comfortable on air, and the contestants have drawn higher vote
totals than last season, underscoring the larger audience and
higher-quality contestants, Preston Beckman, executive vice
president of strategic programming at Fox, said in an interview.  Two Challenges  “We came into the season with two challenges,” Beckman
said. “We had to reinvent the judging panel and we needed to
find a stronger and more compelling and more talented group of
kids than we had last year. We accomplished both.”  Besides hiring Lopez and Tyler to join returning judge
Randy Jackson, producer FremantleMedia North America and 19
Entertainment, part of New York-based  CKX Inc. (CKXE) , brought on
 Universal Music Group  for the new season and renewed the show’s
focus on music. Jimmy Iovine, founder of Universal’s Interscope
Records, and his producers coach contestants on the air.  The show is also running later in the week, on Wednesdays
and Thursdays, when more people watch TV generally.  When  Pia Toscano  was voted off “Idol” on April 7, fans
protested on Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc. The day after,
Toscano added 30,000 followers on Twitter and performed on “The
Tonight Show with  Jay Leno .” Reaction will likely intensify as
more contestants depart, Beckman said.  ‘Outrage Again’  “Friday morning, there will be outrage again,” Beckman
predicted. “Every week moving forward we’ll tick a lot of
people off, and that just shows the emotions and attachment our
fans have.”  Vogel agreed. One ingredient in the success of “Idol” is
to keep viewers guessing who will be eliminated next, he said.  “Fox has kept the core controversies and tensions on the
show” without the biting criticism Cowell leveled, Vogel said.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , rose 9 cents to $17.26 yesterday in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Class A shares of the company have
climbed 19 percent this year.  One risk for the show is that fans angered by the loss of a
favorite contestant will stop watching, according to  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York who
recommends investors buy News Corp. shares.  “With Pia voted off, ratings could drop,” Joyce said in
an e-mail.  “Idol” is still losing viewers in the 18-to-49-year-old
group targeted by advertisers. It’s down 7 percent compared with
a 9 percent loss for all of 2010, Nielsen data show.  Playing It Safe?  The show could recover those viewers in the remaining
episodes, depending on the performances of the judges and
contestants, especially since audience losses accelerated in the
final few weeks of last season, Beckman said.  “Do the judges tone down their criticisms? Do the
contestants try to play it safe?” Beckman said. “There’s still
a lot of the season left.”  The ratings may help Fox draw viewers to a year-round slate
of talent shows including “So You Think You Can Dance” in May
and Cowell’s “X-Factor” in September, Beckman said.  “I don’t know if Cowell’s new gig will succeed,” Vogel
said. “My sense is it’s being aggressively marketed and might
initially benefit from spillover curiosity factors. But I don’t
think Cowell’s popularity was over-rated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  