-- 
Japan Rice Buying May Outstrip Supply on Hoarding, Marubeni's Shibata Says

-- B y   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g ,   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-04-12T06:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/japan-rice-buying-may-outstrip-supply-on-hoarding-marubeni-s-shibata-says.html
Japanese consumers may almost double
rice purchases this fiscal year, driven in part by contamination
“rumors” surrounding the nation’s worst earthquake and nuclear
disaster, as demand outstrips crimped domestic production.  Hoarding may result in purchases of as much as 15 million
metric tons, from about 8 million tons last year, making it
impossible for  Japan ’s farmers to meet demand after a quake-
generated tsunami washed over paddies in an area representing 18
percent of the country’s output, said Akio Shibata, head of the
research unit at Marubeni Corp., in an interview in Tokyo.  “Stockpiles may be depleted, creating a shortage and
boosting imports,” Shibata said. Effects of the March 11 quake
and tsunami, which swept aside machinery and damaged farms in
Japan’s northeast, could last “for years,” he said.  Radiation leaking from the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant spurred the government to restrict shipments of milk,
vegetables and fish produced in the region on contamination
concerns. Japan raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis
to the highest level today, matching the 1986 Chernobyl disaster,
as rising radiation prompted the government to widen the
evacuation zone and aftershocks rocked the country.  Rice production in Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki,
Miyagi and Iwate prefectures amounted to 1.56 million tons last
year, out of the country’s total of 8.5 million tons.  Japan’s largest earthquake on record and tsunami struck the
nation’s eastern half, disrupting food distribution and creating
a temporary rice shortage as consumers rushed to buy the staple.
Per-capita consumption of rice in Japan is about 10 kilograms a
month, and demand is doubling as consumers try to hoard supplies,
Shibata said yesterday.  Radioactive Paddy  Japan will prevent rice-planting in paddy fields near
Fukushima that contain radioactive cesium of more than 5,000
becquerel per kilogram, which leaked from the nuclear power
plant, in a bid to safeguard the nation’s food supplies.  The government will decide which areas will be barred from
rice planting this year after analyzing all the data on soil
samples tested for radioactivity, Agriculture Minister Michihiko
Kano said April 8. Japan is testing 150 samples from farmland in
areas hit by radiation leakage from the plant.  Rice Stockpiles  Japan’s food-rice stockpiles held by the private sector and
the government are forecast to climb 2.5 percent to 3.24 million
tons by the end of June because of declining consumption, the
agriculture ministry said in July last year. The volume would be
the biggest in eight years and equivalent to almost five months
of consumption.  The ministry also held 880,000 tons of foreign rice in
inventories at the end of October as the nation imports 770,000
tons a year from overseas under a 1993 World Trade agreement to
give minimum-market access to exporting countries.  Japan may increase rice imports if hoarding by consumers
continues, Shibata said. If rice supplies from overseas aren’t
sufficient, Japan may also increase wheat imports to meet
consumer demand for grains, he said, without elaborating.  Japan expects to import 5.11 million tons of food wheat in
the year to March 31, 2012, compared with 5.39 million tons last
fiscal year, the ministry forecast on March 30.  Purchases are expected to decrease after jumping 11 percent
last fiscal year to the highest level in at least six years, the
ministry said. Japanese flour millers accelerated purchases from
December to February amid concern over rising prices and
tightening supplies, according to Charlie Utsunomiya, director
at the  Tokyo  office of U.S. Wheat Associates.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency raised the
rating of the Fukushima nuclear accident to 7, a spokesman said
at a news conference in Tokyo today. The accident at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station was previously rated 5 on the global
scale, the same as the 1979 partial reactor meltdown at Three
Mile Island in  Pennsylvania .  The stricken nuclear plant, located about 220 kilometers
(135 miles) north of Tokyo, is leaking radiation in Japan’s
worst civilian nuclear disaster. Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
plant has withstood hundreds of aftershocks, and the government
widened the surrounding evacuation zone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net 
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net 
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  