-- 
Japan’s Atomic Rating May Fuel Opposition, Boost EU's Carbon Permit Price

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-12T10:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/japan-s-atomic-rating-may-fuel-protests-boost-eu-carbon-price.html
Japan ’s decision to increase the
severity rating of its atomic accident may fuel more European
opposition to nuclear energy and block new reactors, boosting
the cost of emissions, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Japan elevated the danger of its nuclear crisis to the
highest level of 7, matching the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, after
increasing radiation prompted the government today to widen the
evacuation zone and aftershocks rocked the country. The higher
severity ranking for the accident, which has sparked protests
against atomic energy across Europe, “cannot help but cause a
further increase in public concern about nuclear power,” which
provide one third on the region’s electricity, New Energy said.  “Stronger public pressure would make it even more probable
that there will be less atomic capacity in the coming years,”
Matthew Cowie, a London-based analyst at New Energy Finance,
said by e-mail today. “ Europe  will have to rely more on fossil
fuels and bear higher pollution costs.”  The stricken Japanese nuclear plant, about 220 kilometers
(135 miles) north of  Tokyo , is leaking radiation in the
country’s worst civilian nuclear disaster. The accident at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, triggered by an earthquake and
tsunami on March 11, was previously ranked 5 on the scale.  European Union carbon-dioxide allowances rose as much as
0.2 percent to 16.79 euros today on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, extending this year’s gain to 18 percent.  “In the short term, the difference in the EU carbon price
is only likely to be a couple of euros from the closure of older
plants,” Cowie said. “In the long-term scenarios, emission
prices are close to 10 euros higher as a result of lower nuclear
build are possible.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  announced a 90-day
moratorium last month on planned nuclear-plant lifespan
extentions, and British Energy Minister  Chris Huhne  asked the
country’s chief nuclear inspector to report on the implications
of Japan’s disaster. The European Union is also planning stress
tests on its 143 nuclear plants to reassess safety standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ; 