-- 
Japan Raises Radiation Disaster Alert to Highest Level, Matching Chernobyl

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-12T16:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/japan-nuclear-crisis-may-be-raised-to-highest-severity-level-on-radiation.html
Japan  raised the severity rating of
its nuclear crisis to the highest, matching the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster, after increasing radiation prompted the government to
widen the evacuation zone and aftershocks rocked the country.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency yesterday
raised the rating to 7. The accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant previously was rated a 5 on the global scale, the same as
the 1979 partial meltdown at Three Mile Island in  Pennsylvania .  The stricken plant, about 220 kilometers (135 miles) north
of Tokyo, is leaking radiation in Japan’s worst civilian nuclear
disaster after a magnitude-9 quake and tsunami on March 11. The
station, which has withstood hundreds of aftershocks, may spew
more contamination than Chernobyl before the crisis is
contained, operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said.  Fukushima has so far released about 10 percent as much
radiation as Chernobyl, Japan’s nuclear safety agency said in a
statement. The leaks won’t be stopped in “a few days or
weeks,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  U.S. stocks fell after Japan’s announcement, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index the longest losing streak since
November. The benchmark for American stocks has fallen for four
consecutive days, retreating 0.7 percent to 1,315.37 at 9:32
a.m. in  New York .  ‘Will Do Our Best’  “We are trying to resolve the situation as soon as
possible and will do our best to cool down the reactors and
prevent the spread of radioactive substances,” Masataka Shimizu, president of the utility, said in a statement after the
rating was raised. He also apologized for the accident.  The company’s shares fell 10 percent to close at 450 yen
Tokyo yesterday. The stock has slumped 79 percent since the
crisis began.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he has asked Tepco, as the
utility is called, to give an assessment of when the company
expects to resolve the crisis. “An outlook will be presented
soon,” he said at news conference in Tokyo.  Edano said April 11 that residents of some towns beyond the
20-kilometer evacuation zone around the plant will have a month
to move to safer areas.  “In contrast with Chernobyl, we have been able to avoid
direct health risks,” Edano said at a public event in Tokyo.
“The assessment level of 7 may be the same, but in terms of its
shape and contents, the process has been different.”  Fewer Exposed  The disaster in Ukraine spewed debris as high as 9
kilometers into the air and released radiation 200 times the
volume of the combined bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in
1945, according to a  2006 report  commissioned by  Europe ’s  Green
Party .  Fewer people have been exposed to high levels of radiation
from Fukushima than Chernobyl, said  Richard Wakeford , a
professor at the Dalton Nuclear Institute at the  University of
Manchester  in the U.K. “The important thing is monitoring and
protecting people on the ground,” Wakeford said by telephone.  The International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale
rates nuclear accidents in terms of their effects on health and
the environment, according to the  International Atomic Energy
Agency , which helped set up the system. Each of its seven steps
represents a ten-fold increase in severity.  A 7 rating means there has been a “major release of
radioactive material with widespread health and environmental
effects requiring implementation of planned and extended
countermeasures,” according to the INES  factsheet .  ‘Beginning to Wake Up’  The assessment is based on the combined severity of the
situation at reactor Nos. 1, 2 and 3, said Hidehiko Nishiyama,
deputy director-general of the Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency, or NISA.  The government “is at last beginning to wake up to the
reality of the scale of the disaster,” said Philip White,
International Liaison Officer at the Citizens’ Nuclear
Information Center, a Tokyo-based group opposed to atomic
energy. “Its belated move to evacuate people from a larger area
around the nuclear plant, likewise, is a recognition that the
impact on public health is potentially much greater than it
first acknowledged.”  The March 11 earthquake, the nation’s strongest on record,
and tsunami left about 27,500 dead or missing, according to
Japan’s  National Police Agency .  Japan was struck by two earthquakes stronger than magnitude
6 yesterday, hindering recovery efforts as workers were
temporarily evacuated. The temblors followed a 6.6-magnitude
quake April 11 and a magnitude 7.1 aftershock on April 7.  While there was no damage to the Fukushima plant from the
recent earthquakes, disruptions make it difficult to assess when
it will achieve cold shutdown of the three damaged reactors,
said Junichi Matsumoto, general manager of one of Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s nuclear divisions. The station has six reactors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  