-- 
Japanese Bonds Rise as Economic Assessment Cut on Quake, Nuclear Concerns

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-13T06:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/japan-s-bonds-may-advance-on-bets-nuclear-crisis-will-boost-safety-demand.html
Japan ’s 10-year bonds rose for the
first time in six days as the government lowered its assessment
of the economy, citing the nation’s worst earthquake and
unresolved nuclear crisis.  Ten-year yields fell from near a two-month high after
Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said yesterday
the disaster’s effect on the economy has been larger than
earlier estimated and the government raised the severity of the
accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant to match that of
the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. The Ministry of Finance will sell
2.4 trillion yen ($28.5 billion) of five-year notes tomorrow.  “It’s only natural that JGBs are slightly up on the day
given how much attention the Japanese nuclear reading has
received overseas,” said Makoto Kuroda, a strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo .  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 fell two
basis points to 1.31 percent as of 3:18 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price rose 0.176 yen to 99.912 yen. Yields climbed to 1.335
percent on April 11, the highest since Feb. 17.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery gained 0.13 to
138.75 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  ‘Shown Weakness’  A magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that hit the nation’s
northeast on March 11 left more than 28,000 people dead or
missing, according to the  National Police Agency . Three
earthquakes of magnitude 6 or more have hit Japan in the past
two days, along with a 5.4-magnitude temblor this morning,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  “Although the Japanese economy was picking up, it has
shown weakness” since the March 11 disaster, the Cabinet Office
said in its report today in Tokyo. A power shortage that
resulted from a crippled nuclear facility, delays in resolving
supply-chain disruptions and rising oil prices threaten to
depress growth further, it said.  The Fukushima plant that was damaged in the tsunami has
released about 10 percent as much radiation as Chernobyl,
Japan’s nuclear safety agency said in a statement yesterday. The
leaks won’t be stopped in “a few days or weeks,” Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said.  The gain in bonds was tempered before the Ministry of
Finance sells debt tomorrow. The previous five-year sale on
March 10 drew bids for 3.49 times the amount on offer, compared
with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 3.56 in February.  “It’s difficult for investors to make moves before the
five-year sale,” said  Makoto Yamashita , chief rates strategist
in Tokyo at Deutsche Securities, a unit of  Germany ’s Deutsche
Bank AG. “The auction should go OK if it’s a reopening of the
previous debt with a 0.6 percent coupon, but you never know what
will happen.”  Five-year yields fell 1.5 basis points to 0.54 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 