-- 
Japan Nuclear Plant Crisis  ‘Incrementally Better,’ U.S. Admiral Says

-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-12T21:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/japan-nuclear-plant-crisis-incrementally-better-u-s-admiral-says.html
The situation at  Japan ’s Fukushima
nuclear power plant is “improving every day,” and the
government’s increase of the accident-severity rating doesn’t
indicate the status is worsening, the top U.S. commander in the
region said.  “I think it’s actually getting incrementally better,”
Navy Admiral Robert Willard, U.S. Pacific Command commander,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  “We regard it as static, not yet completely stable, but
it’s improving every day,” he said. Willard called the risks
“manageable across Japan” and said U.S. forces will be in that
country for “weeks and perhaps months” to assist.  The U.S. military is working with Japan to contain
radiation from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear facility damaged
following an earthquake and tsunami on March 11. “We must see
these reactors stabilized,” Willard said.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency yesterday
raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to 7, matching
the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine, after increasing
radiation prompted the government to widen the evacuation zone
and aftershocks rocked the country.  The accident previously was rated a 5 on the global scale,
the same as the 1979 partial meltdown at Three Mile Island in
 Pennsylvania .  Rating Impact  Still, elevating the rating doesn’t mean an increased
radiation risk to the 38,000 U.S. personnel ashore in Japan,
dispersed among 85 facilities on Honshu, Kyushu and Okinawa, or
the 11,000 aboard ships in the region, he said.  “I monitor reactor status -- minute-by-minute,” Willard
said. Japan’s rating increase for what the disaster represented
“against the international standard is of much less consequence
to me than understanding the actual status of the reactors at
any given time,” he said.  “Though that status has changed to 7, we continue to see
incremental improvement in the overall stability of the
situation,” he said. “We are conducting very close monitoring
of all the bases.”  The U.S. is assisting Japan in the analysis and tracking of
radioactive air plumes and the “blooms” of radioactive water
discharges -- understanding how the currents may affect them and
how far they will travel before they dissipate.  George  Washington ’s Return  Willard said the  aircraft carrier  USS George Washington,
moved last month from its home port at Yokosuka as a precaution
to avoid a potentially costly and complex future cleanup, is
still in Japanese waters.  “As quickly as possible, I’d like to bring it back and we
are just waiting for when conditions with the ship and its
maintenance are favorable, then she’ll come back in,” Willard
said. “I need to do that sooner rather than later.”  Asked if returning the carrier to its home port would
reassure the public, Willard said, “If there were overreactions
to the GW pulling out, I would offer we have managed our way
through that.”  “There is no sign the U.S. is pulling out in any way,
shape or form,” Willard said.  The current U.S. effort in Japan is focused on the nuclear
response and less on humanitarian relief “because Japan Self
Defense Forces have executed brilliantly,” Willard said.  The  United States  continues to fly  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
Global Hawks drones over the Fukushima facility to gather
thermal images, which it shares with the Japanese, he said.  The U.S. also has provided a 150-man Marine Corps team that
specializes in chemical, biological and radiological warfare to
provide expertise on contamination and radiological monitoring,
Willard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  