-- 
Karzai Vows Probes in Kabul Bank Collapse

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-12T05:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/karzai-vows-probes-of-afghans-foreigners-in-kabul-bank-collapse.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
promised criminal investigations against units of consulting
firms Deloitte LLP, BearingPoint Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP for failures in helping to prevent fraud that undermined the
country’s biggest bank.  Karzai named the companies as he vowed authorities will
prosecute both Afghans and foreigners involved in the near
collapse of Kabul Bank, a crisis that has stalled foreign aid
upon which the government relies to operate.  "Hundreds of millions of dollars were paid to these
individuals and organizations to help with the banking system of
the country and they failed in their task," Karzai told
reporters yesterday, referring to the role of foreign advisers
to his government.  Beginning in 2003, the U.S. Agency for International
Development hired first BearingPoint and then Deloitte
Consulting LLP to provide advisers to  Da Afghanistan Bank , the
country’s central bank, to help build its capacity to develop
the financial sector and regulate commercial lenders.  At a press conference in the presidential palace, Karzai
also said authorities will prosecute "all shareholders who are
involved in the Kabul Bank crisis" if they do not repay within a
month illegal loans they received.  Asked by reporters whether prosecution might include his
younger brother, Mahmoud Karzai, who owned seven percent of the
bank, Karzai declined to answer directly.  "Whoever was involved in leading the bank into crisis, all
those people will be brought to justice," he said.  Erroneous Audits  Anna Tehan, a Deloitte spokeswoman for the Asia Pacific
region, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment left
on her voice mail. Petros Kosmopoulos, a Deloitte spokesman in
 Australia , didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The Afghan  Finance Ministry  said in February that Kabul
Bank’s problems were allowed to deepen because of erroneous
audits by A.F. Ferguson & Co., a PricewaterhouseCoopers  member
firm  based in  Pakistan . Ferguson said in an e-mail at the time
that “we don’t understand the basis for this comment,” the
 Associated Press  reported.  The U.S. Agency for International Development last month
canceled Deloitte’s $92 million contract to advise the central
bank. The agency acted after its inspector general said in a
March 16  report  that, while the firm "could not have stopped the
massive fraud" that caused Kabul Bank’s collapse, "Deloitte
advisers did not report fraud indicators" to the U.S. agency.  Bank Run  After a run on Kabul Bank in September, a review ordered by
the U.S. agency found that the bank fraudulently lent about $850
million to its own shareholders and other company insiders, the
inspector general’s March 16 report said. "This amount
reportedly represented 94 percent of the banks outstanding
loans," it said.  The  International Monetary Fund  has recommended that
 Afghanistan  place Kabul Bank into receivership and sell it, a
step that Da Afghanistan Bank Governor Abdul Qadeer Fitrat  said
he opposes. Fitrat has said the bank can be restored to
financial health and maintained as a key part of the country’s
small private banking system.  The IMF said in February it will not extend new credits to
Afghanistan’s government until Kabul Bank’s status is resolved,
a step that has led to a suspension of aid by some governments
that offer assistance on the condition that recipient countries
be eligible for IMF credits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  