-- 
King Wins ‘Breathing Room’ to Keep BOE Rate on Hold After Data

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-13T13:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/king-wins-breathing-room-to-keep-boe-rate-on-hold-after-data.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  won respite from pressure to end record low  interest rates 
as soon as next month after inflation unexpectedly slowed and
retail sales plunged.  The bank may now have greater scope to delay following the
 European Central Bank , which lifted rates for the first time in
almost three years on April 7. While King has kept calls from
some U.K. policy makers to raise borrowing costs at bay by
pointing to risks from the government’s fiscal squeeze, the
 International Monetary Fund  said this week a surge in inflation
above the 2 percent goal threatens the bank’s credibility.  “It gives them some breathing room,” said Azad Zangana,
an economist at Schroder Investment Management in London and a
former U.K. Treasury official. “It’s very unlikely they’ll move
in May now. Before they raise they’ll want to see evidence the
fiscal squeeze hasn’t derailed the recovery, and realistically
they can’t make that judgment until August at the earliest.”  Inflation slowed to 4 percent in March from 4.4 percent in
February, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday,
while the  British Retail Consortium  reported that retail sales
fell 1.9 percent from a year earlier, the most since the data
began in 1995. Data today showed jobless-benefit claims
unexpectedly rose by 700 in March, though the  unemployment rate 
fell to 7.8 percent in the quarter through February.  The reports came as the economic recovery, already
challenged by a contraction in the fourth quarter, grapples with
the budget squeeze, the biggest since World War II.  Investor Bets  Investors pared bets on the timing of the central bank’s
first rate increase after the inflation data. Having priced in a
quarter-point move by July as recently as April 8, they are now
betting that won’t happen until October, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average compiled
by Tullet Prebon Plc.  BNP Paribas economist Alan Clarke and JPMorgan economist
Malcolm Barr pushed back their forecasts for a quarter-point
rate increase to August from May.  The pound rose as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
today and traded at $1.6283 at 2:16 p.m. in London. It touched
the weakest in almost six months against the euro, reaching
89.24 pence before strengthening to 89.05 pence. Bonds fell,
with the yield on the two-year gilt rising 3 basis points to
1.28 percent.  ‘Inflation Fighter’  King’s reluctance to tighten is setting him apart from
European counterparts. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  left
the door open for further rate increases to control price gains
in the euro region after his Frankfurt-based bank lifted its
benchmark by a quarter point to 1.25 percent.  Poland ’s central bank raised interest rates for the second
time this year on April 5, while  Sweden ’s Riksbank lifted its
benchmark repo rate for a fifth time since July in February.  “U.K. inflation is still way above target and there’s a
chance that second-round effects will materialize,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Their
credibility as an inflation-fighter has taken a hit, while the
ECB have made their focus on  price stability  very clear.”  The IMF said on April 11 that the surge may threaten the
 Bank of England ’s credibility and that central banks “need to
communicate very clearly how they intend to respond to one-time
or relative price shocks.”  Wise King  King has tried to head off criticism, saying in a speech in
January that policy makers will “try even harder to explain the
basis for policy decisions.” He reiterated comments he made in
1997, that when price shocks hit the economy “it may be
sensible to extend the horizon over which inflation returns to
its target level.”  “The comments on extending the time period for meeting the
target show that King has been wise before the fact,” said
Richard Barwell, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and a former central bank official. “They should hold their
ground, because it doesn’t make any sense to raise rates given
what’s coming for the economy.”  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee remains split on
the outlook for rates. Three members called for a rate increase
last month and one said the bank should expand its bond program
from the current 200 billion pounds ($325 billion). Minutes of
this month’s meeting will be published on April 20.  The bank forecast last month there was a “significant
risk” inflation will exceed 5 percent due to a weak pound and
surging commodity prices. Andrew Goodwin, an economist at Ernst
& Young’s Item Club, said yesterday that this is “unlikely to
be realised,” while Allan Monks at JPMorgan said inflation is
likely to peak below this level.  “There’s a low probability they’ll raise rates now, there
are signs the recovery is starting to struggle,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at  Capital Economics  in  London  and a
former central bank official. “The bank has been in a difficult
position, but it’s taken the right course of action in keeping
rates on hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  