-- 
Kyoto Univ.’s Takahashi Says Radiation Data Within Estimates

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 4 6 6 4 6 6 0 ]   D r e w   G i b s o n   [ ] .
-- 
2011-04-12T07:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/kyoto-univ-s-takahashi-says-radiation-data-within-estimates.html
Sentaro Takahashi, a professor at
Kyoto University’s  Research Reactor Institute , said an
announcement by  Japan ’s nuclear safety agency that 130,000 tera
becquerels of iodine 131 has been released from the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant since the March 11 earthquake was within
estimates and “shouldn’t cause panic.” The disclosure came as
the agency today raised the incident level of the nuclear
accident to 7 from 5, on par with Chernobyl.  On today’s number:  “The government’s announcement would be the total
radioactivity as converted for iodine 131. We already last month
estimated that emissions from the nuclear plant may reach that
level, so it’s not a surprise. The number shouldn’t cause
panic.”  On cesium levels:  “The level of radioactive iodine has been decreasing with
its natural decay. More attention should be paid to radioactive
cesium, which can cause cancer in almost every part of the body.
Radioactive iodine only causes thyroid cancer. It’s possible the
amount of cesium released is about one-twentieth of the iodine
emitted.  On future risks:  “There is a lot of radioactive material still inside the
plant. I think 130,000 tera becquerels is only just several
percentage points of the total. We can’t say what’s going to
happen to the reactors. If there’s another hydrogen explosion
like the one in March, it may send radioactive materials as far
away as  Tokyo  (about 220 kilometers away).  “The government should assess the impact from inhaling
dust that was sent from the earlier explosion and should be
active in directing people as to which areas are safe for
activities like rice planting, livestock farming and growing
mountain vegetables.  “Precautions recommended by the government for the
evacuation area, including covering up with clothing and using
an umbrella in the rain, could also be applied to areas farther
from the plant, depending on measurements of radioactive dust.” 