-- 
Nails Used to Crucify Jesus May Have Been Found, Filmmaker Says

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-04-12T14:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/nails-used-to-crucify-jesus-may-have-been-found-filmmaker-says-in-israel.html
Two ancient nails discovered in a
Jerusalem archaeological excavation 20 years ago may have been
those used to crucify Jesus, filmmaker Simcha Jacobovici says.  The nails, discovered in an excavation of a first century
Jewish tomb in 1990, have divided historical opinion.
Jacobovici’s view is set out in a documentary that will be aired
on television in both the U.S. and  Israel .  A number of ossuaries were found in the tomb, which
belonged to the Caiaphas family, according to inscriptions on
two of the bone boxes, Jacobovici says. Caiaphas was the name of
the Jewish High Priest at the time of the crucifixion of Jesus,
according to the New Testament.  “I’m not standing here today and saying I know, for 100
percent sure, that these are the nails of the crucifixion,”
Jacobovici said in Jerusalem. “We have enough evidence to bring
this story to the world, that requires us to tell the story.”  The nails were not photographed at the time that they were
found, and there is no record of what was done with them,
according to the documentary. At around the same time as the
excavation, two ancient nails from the Second Temple period were
delivered to a Tel Aviv University lab from  Jerusalem  and
remained there since then.  These two nails are bent, which may be consistent with
their being used for crucifixion, according to the documentary.  Powerful Talisman  Jacobovici says that the crucifixion nails were seen as a
powerful talisman, that could protect the bearer in this life
and the afterlife, and were therefore included in the tomb. For
Caiaphas, the crucifixion of Jesus was one of the most important
events in his life, and this is another possible reason they
were included in his tomb, Jacobovici says.  The Israel Antiquities Authority said in response that
there is no scientific proof for Jacobovici’s theory. Nails are
commonly found in ancient burial caves from this period, and are
believed to have been used for chiseling the name of the
deceased on the sarcophagus, and there is no indication that
they have any other significance, it said.  The tomb found in Jerusalem has not been proven to have
belonged to the family of the High Priest of that name, and may
have belonged to another family with the same name, the IAA
said.  “There is no doubt that the talented director Simcha
Jacobovici created an interesting film, at the center of which
is a genuine archaeological artifact,” the IAA said in an e-
mailed statement. “However, the interpretation presented in it
has no basis in the find or in archaeological research.”  Proof Needed  While there is no proof that the nails came from the cave
of Caiaphas, or that they were used for crucifixion, or even any
textual evidence that Caiaphas kept the nails of the
crucifixion, it is a possibility, Gabriel Barkay, a Bar Ilan
University professor who appears in the documentary, said at a
news conference today.  “This is not the way to draw conclusions in science,”
Barkay said. “But on the other hand, those are possible things.
I think it is a fascinating film. One does not have to accept
every detail in it.”  The documentary will be aired on the History Channel in the
U.S. on April 20 and in Israel on Channel 1 on May 15, the first
of a series called “Secrets of Christianity”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 