-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Gain Versus Yen on Global Recovery Signs

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-13T16:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/new-zealand-dollar-rises-second-day-after-report-shows-house-prices-gained.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose versus most of their major counterparts as signs of
global growth boosted demand for the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets.  The currencies snapped a two-day drop versus the yen after
industry reports showed Australian  consumer confidence  rebounded
in April and New Zealand  house prices  increased in March. The
so-called Aussie and kiwi also strengthened as global stocks
rallied.  “On the part of both Aussie and kiwi, it’s still the
fundamentals that provide support and investors are looking for
yield,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy
at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The currencies are
surprisingly resilient, and buying on dips will continue.”  Australia’s dollar advanced 0.7 percent to 87.87 yen at
12:26 p.m. in  New York  from 87.23 yen yesterday. The currency
gained 0.6 percent to $1.0505. New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.9
percent to 66.05 yen, and strengthened 0.9 percent to 79.04 U.S.
cents.  The Australian currency has gained 1.3 percent and New
Zealand’s has risen 4.3 percent in the past month, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the
foreign-exchange rates of 10 developed nations.  The MSCI World Index of shares gained for the first time in
three days, adding 0.3 percent.  Sentiment Improves  An Australian sentiment index rose 1.2 percent to 105.3
this month from March, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and
Melbourne Institute survey released today. House prices in New
Zealand increased 0.5 percent in March, an index published by
the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand Inc. showed.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise its benchmark rate
by 27 basis points over the next 12 months, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index. A week ago, the index predicted 18
basis points of increases.  “We are now shifting our view to a further upswing in the
Australian dollar over the next one to two quarters,” Greg Gibbs, a Sydney-based currency strategist wrote in a report. Fed
officials “have frequently described rising commodity prices as
transitory that are unlikely to have a sustained impact on U.S.
inflation.”  The U.S. central bank will increase its key rate by 35
basis points in a year, a separate Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on swaps showed today, down from bets for 52 basis points
of tightening a week earlier.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and
4.75 percent in  Australia , compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronnie Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  