-- 
New York City Commercial Property Sales May Rise 50% in 2011, Knakal Says

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-04-12T19:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/new-york-city-commercial-property-sales-may-rise-50-in-2011-knakal-says.html
Commercial property sales in  New
York City  may rise as much as 50 percent this year while demand
intensifies before an expected interest rate increase, said
Robert Knakal, head of  Massey Knakal Realty Services .  “You have all this capital looking for property,” Knakal,
chairman of the New York-based brokerage, said today in a
presentation to reporters. “Most of our investors think we’re
going to have inflation.”  The dollar amount of sales this year may approach the $25
billion in deals across the city in 2008, when the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  froze the commercial real estate
market, Knakal said. Values will increase as investor demand to
buy while  interest rates  are low outpaces the availability of
properties for sale, he said.  About $14.5 billion in commercial property -- including
office buildings, apartments and retail spaces -- changed hands
last year, Massey Knakal data show.  The number of commercial properties sold in  New York  this
year may climb to 2,100, a 25 percent increase over 2010, Knakal
said. Investor demand for retail properties may drive values up
more than 30 percent on a price-per-square-foot basis.  In Manhattan, where demand is highest, the average price
per square foot of all commercial properties may increase 12
percent this year, according to Knakal’s forecast. Office values
in the borough may jump 20 percent, he said.  The dollar volume of commercial property sales citywide
increased 45 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
to $3.9 billion, according to a report released today by Massey
Knakal. Of that amount, $3.1 billion in sales were in Manhattan,
up 40 percent from a year earlier.  Dollar volume slipped 37 percent in the borough from the
fourth quarter, when sellers rushed to complete deals before an
expected increase in the capital-gains tax rate that didn’t
materialize, Knakal said. Fourth-quarter transactions totaled
$4.8 billion in  Manhattan  and $5.6 billion citywide, the highest
quarterly volume in two years, according to Massey Knakal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  