-- 
Nigeria’s Exchange Rate to Stay Within 3% Band, Central Bank Governor Says

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-04-12T14:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/nigeria-s-exchange-rate-to-stay-within-3-band-central-bank-governor-says.html
Nigeria’s official  exchange rate 
will remain within the band of 3 percent above or below 150
naira per dollar even as foreign-currency demand grows amid
elections, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  Nigeria sold $250 million at a foreign-exchange auction
yesterday, less than the $351.1 million demanded by lenders, at
152.21 naira to a dollar, the weakest rate in more than a year
at the Abuja-based central bank’s twice-weekly foreign-currency
auctions.  “In a pre-election period all investments are suspect,”
Sanusi said in a telephone interview yesterday, explaining
increased demand for dollars as  Africa ’s top oil producer holds
legislative, presidential and state governorship elections
during April. “The band is wide enough to ensure flexibility
without volatility.”  Investor concern over the recent surge of election and
sectarian violence triggered increased domestic demand for
foreign currency. That has weakened the naira, which reached an
18-month low to the dollar in inter-bank trading on March 17.  Elections for members of the national legislature on April
9, after two postponements, were generally orderly and reflected
the will of voters, local and international observers said. It
was a prelude to the presidential contest on April 16 that pits
President Goodluck Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former
military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the former head of the anti-
graft agency, Nuhu Ribadu. Voters on April 26 will choose the
governors and legislatures of  Nigeria ’s 36 states.  Naira Band  Nigeria’s last vote in 2007 was condemned by local and
international observers for being marred by violent intimidation
of opponents, falsification of figures and ballot-snatching.
Jonathan, who succeeded former President Umaru Yar’Adua on his
death in May 2010, pledged to conduct free elections and
appointed Attahiru Jega, a respected academic, to head the
electoral commission.  The official exchange rate is currently at the “mid-point
of the band” targeted by the central bank “and will be driven
by considerations of sustainable trends and not short term
pressure,” Sanusi said.  Foreign-currency reserves have climbed 8 percent this year
to $35 billion on April 7, according to  central bank figures , as
crude surged 21 percent over the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Abuja at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  