-- 
Nokia, AstraZeneca Say Separate Court Needed for EU Patent Plan

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-04-12T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/nokia-astrazeneca-say-separate-court-needed-for-eu-patent-plan.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones, and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  said a plan to
create a European Union-wide patent system won’t be successful
unless a separate patent court is established.  A regional patent without a dedicated court would be
“dangerous,” said Tim Frain, director of intellectual property
rights regulatory affairs at Espoo-Finland-based Nokia.  The European Commission today will propose the creation of
a region-wide patent over the objections of Spain and  Italy ,
which opted out of the plans over language issues. The plan --
the first in more than a decade of negotiations -- may be
hampered by a ruling from the EU’s top court that a separate
patent tribunal isn’t permitted.  “The patent should not get adopted into law, even in a
dormant stage, until it’s clear what direction the litigation
solution is going to take,” Frain said in an interview. The
failure to keep the patent and court as a package “may actually
be a deal breaker.”  Under the latest plans, patent applications could be
submitted in any of the region’s 23 official languages. The
patent would be examined and granted in English, French or
German and the claims translated into the other two languages.  Currently, companies can pay 18,000 euros ($26,000),
including 10,000 euros for translating a European patent valid
in 13 countries, the Brussels-based commission has said.  ‘Without a Gun’  A patent without a court would be like “bullets without a
gun,” said  Alan Johnson , a partner at Bristows in  London .  Michel Barnier , the EU’s internal markets commissioner,
said last month that the proposal wasn’t rushed and that “work
has been done for more than 20 years on this.” The commission
has said it will study the EU tribunal ruling on the patent
court and work to find a solution “as quickly as possible.”  The closest thing currently to an EU-wide patent is for
companies to file an application with the  European Patent
Office , which isn’t part of the EU and has 38 member countries.
Once granted, the patent breaks into a bundle of patents which
companies must defend in each individual country. Attempts to
reach an agreement on a region-wide patent since 2000 have
 failed  mainly over language issues.  Nokia is entangled in patent litigation around  Europe  as
Pullach, Germany- based IPCom GmbH & Co., an intellectual
property holding company, seeks royalties for a portfolio of
mobile technology patents it acquired from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in
2007.  IPCom Litigation  IPCom has sued Nokia in courts in  Germany  and the U.K.,
claiming infringement of its patents, while Nokia has sought the
annulment of IPCom patents with national courts and the European
Patent Office in Munich.  For  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software company,
“the inconsistent results that you can get by litigating in
Europe don’t really make a lot of sense,” said Ronald Zink,
associate general counsel and chief operating officer EU affairs
at Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  “There should be an infringement or no infringement -- one
answer,” Zink said in an interview. “That’s one of the big
downsides to the current system. The second downside is it’s
expensive to have litigations going on in various countries.”  The single patent “would remove inconsistent litigation
outcomes” between EU countries “and reduce costs arising from
the present need to carry out multi-state litigation,” Isabelle
Jouin, a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca said in an e-mail.
“Suitable regulations must be agreed to ensure consistency,
quality and appropriate cost of all court procedures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  