-- 
Luxury Home-Price Cracks Emerge for Australia in Gold Coast, Noosa Heads

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-04-13T05:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/noosa-queensland-coast-slip-as-australia-housing-cracks-emerge.html
Apartment prices in the luxury
beachside Australian town of Noosa Heads have tumbled by a fifth
since 2008 as cracks emerge in a housing market that’s so far
escaped the rout seen in the U.S., U.K. and Ireland.  The median apartment price in the tourism and retiree town
150 kilometers (93 miles) north of Brisbane has slumped 21
percent in three years to A$570,000 ($594,000), according to the
 Real Estate Institute of Queensland . Sales have more than halved
across Queensland state’s Sunshine coast, home to “Crocodile
Hunter” Steve Irwin’s  Australia  Zoo, and the Gold Coast, known
for its surfing beaches and casinos.  “We have a very overvalued housing market and even a small
adverse shock can be magnified by a large adverse impact on
property values,” said  Gerard Minack , Sydney-based global
developed markets strategist at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , who asserts
Australian  home prices  are as much as 40 percent overvalued.
“We’re seeing that now in parts of Queensland.”  Australia’s housing is the most overvalued in the world,
the  Economist  newspaper said last month. The country had the
most unaffordable homes among English-speaking nations, with the
Gold Coast and Sunshine Coast markets near the top, according to
a Jan. 24 report by Belleville, Illinois-based consulting
company  Demographia , which compared 325 housing markets in seven
developed economies.  The house price index of Australia’s eight capital cities
has gained 15 percent since the first quarter of 2008, according
to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Prices gained 16 percent
in Sydney and 26 percent in  Melbourne .  Unlikely to Spread  Economists and analysts at organizations including  RP Data ,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  have said the weakness in home prices along Queensland’s
southeastern coast is unlikely to spread as low unemployment and
a shortage of homes underpins prices.  In contrast, on the Sunshine Coast, where Noosa Heads is
located, and the Gold Coast a lot of stock hit the market at the
same time that the number of people moving there slowed, said
Cameron Kusher, senior analyst at Brisbane-based real estate
researcher RP Data. The two regions are among Australia’s most
popular attractions, drawing more than 1 million overseas
visitors last year.  Across the Sunshine Coast, sales halved from a 10-year
monthly average to 476 in December, the latest month for which
figures are available, according to RP Data. On the  Gold Coast ,
transactions dropped to 757 in December, after averaging 1,954 a
month over the past decade. Floods inundated three quarters of
Queensland in late December and early January.  ‘Cutting Prices’  “A lot of sellers are cutting prices and are preparing to
meet the marketplace,” said John Newlands, Gold Coast spokesman
for the real estate institute and principal at an  LJ Hooker
franchise  in Surfer’s Paradise, a northern Gold Coast suburb
that’s home to the  world’s tallest  residential tower. “In 2011,
more investors will start to come back into the marketplace as
prices fall.”  Median prices across Australia’s eight capital cities were
flat in  February  at A$459,000, RP Data said, as the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia’s seven rate increases between October 2009 and
November 2010 damped demand.  For the year to March 2012, prices are expected to climb by
a “modest” 0.6 percent, according to a survey by National
Australia Bank Ltd. released April 5.  Overvalued?  Some 63 percent of Australians consider the housing market
overvalued, a survey of mortgage holders commissioned by  QBE
Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) ’s lenders mortgage insurance division
released yesterday shows. More than a tenth of borrowers said
they would find it hard to repay their home loans if the central
bank raises interest rates by a quarter percentage point, and
almost a quarter would struggle with two increases, the survey
found.  Traders bet Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn
Stevens will raise the benchmark interest rate by 26 basis
points, or 0.26 percentage point, over the next 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  While prices in Sydney and Melbourne, the nation’s biggest
cities, hold up, in the northern city of Darwin, home prices
declined 9 percent in the three months ended February, and in
Brisbane they fell 3.3 percent, according to RP Data.  Housing finance approvals dropped in February and loans to
first-home buyers dropped to 14.9 percent, the lowest proportion
of home borrowing since 2004, the statistics bureau said on
April 6, as higher property prices and rising rates made
purchases more difficult.  ‘Opposite’ Market  Median apartment prices on both the Sunshine Coast and the
Gold Coast fell 1.3 percent to A$370,000 in the three months to
December from the previous quarter, RP Data’s latest figures for
the two regions show.  The Gold Coast market is the “opposite” of other parts of
the country, and the falling prices there won’t be replicated
Australia-wide, said Harry Triguboff, founder and managing
director of closely held  Meriton Pty , Australia’s biggest
apartment developer, who is building the 1,165-unit  Brighton on
Broadwater  apartment development on the Gold Coast.  “There’s not enough work there,” said Sydney-based
Triguboff, who has no more plans to build in the area once the
project is completed. “So here, it’s overcrowded, and there,
there’s not enough demand.”  About 6.7 percent of the Gold Coast’s population was
 unemployed  as of February, up from 5.7 percent six months ago,
according to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics  latest data.
The Sunshine Coast’s unemployment rate rose to 7.4 percent from
6.6 percent in September. Across Australia, unemployment fell to
4.9 percent in March.  Dollar Parity  The Australian dollar reached parity with its U.S.
counterpart in October for the first time since 1982 and has
been hovering at record levels since then. It traded around
$1.0470 recently and gained 37 percent in the past two years.  “With a strong Australian dollar, Australian tourists are
heading overseas and inbound tourism has been fairly flat,”
said David Cannington, a Melbourne-based property economist at
ANZ Bank. “That’s what has affected demand for housing,
especially serviced apartments, in the Gold Coast and Sunshine
Coast markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  