-- 
Northrop Unmanned Drone Cost Rises 25% After Order Is Cut, Air Force Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-04-12T21:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/northrop-unmanned-drone-cost-rises-25-after-order-is-cut-air-force-says.html
The average cost for one of
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk drone aircraft has risen
more than 25 percent because the U.S.  Air Force  cut the order by
about 14 percent in its 2012 budget request, Michael Donley, the
service’s top official, said in a letter to lawmakers.  After reviewing the $11.1 billion Global Hawk program last
year, the Air Force said the per-plane cost had increased 11
percent to $100.8 million since the program began in 2000.
Donley, the Air Force secretary, didn’t give the new cost per
plane in his letter, dated April 6.  “The primary driver of this average procurement unit cost
increase is the fiscal year 2012 budget decision to decrease the
Global Hawk procurement quantities from 77 to 66 aircraft,”
Donley said. More details will be provided in the so-called
selected acquisition report to be released soon, Donley said.  The primary reason for the cost increase is the “reduction
of Block 40 quantities from 22 to 11 aircraft due to budget
pressures,” Northrop spokesman  Randy Belote  said in an e-mail.
Block 40 refers to the current batch of drones being bought by
the Air Force.  Other factors include the addition of “two sensor depot
centers, increased spares, and initial operational test and
evaluation costs,” Belote said.  Marilyn Thomas, an Air Force budget official, told
reporters Feb. 14 during a fiscal 2012 budget  briefing  that the
11 aircraft were cut because of cost increases and “performance
of the program.”  Japan  and Libya  The Global Hawk is a high-altitude unmanned surveillance
plane powered by a single  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  engine. It has a
cruising speed of 310 knots. The U.S. has deployed the drone
over Japan to monitor nuclear radiation and over  Libya  to assist
in the international mission to enforce a no-fly zone and
protect civilians.  The cost increase of more than 25 percent would trigger the
1982 Nunn-McCurdy law, which requires the Pentagon to certify to
Congress the program’s importance to national security and to
justify why it shouldn’t be canceled.  Last week’s notification to Congress marked the fourth time
the program has breached the Nunn-McCurdy limit, according to
data compiled by the U.S. Government Accountability Office for
Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat.  Northrop fell 11 cents to $62.84 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 6.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  