-- 
Novartis Drug Wins FDA Advisory Panel’s Backing for Jobs's Type of Cancer

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T20:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/novartis-drug-wins-fda-advisory-panel-s-backing-for-rare-pancreatic-cancer.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  won a U.S. panel’s
unanimous backing to expand marketing of a cancer drug for
patients with the rare type of pancreatic tumor diagnosed in
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  Steve Jobs  in 2004.  The medicine, Afinitor, works sufficiently to outweigh
potential risks, outside advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in a 10-0 vote in White Oak, Maryland.
The panel later backed  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s drug Sutent for the same
illness in an 8-2 vote. The FDA usually follows its advisory
committees’ recommendations.  Novartis, based in Basel,  Switzerland , and New York-based
Pfizer are seeking to sell their kidney-cancer drugs for
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors that strike about  2,500 people 
a year in the U.S., according to the  University of Southern
California Center for Pancreatic and Biliary Diseases  in  Los
Angeles . Both drugs target cancer at the molecular level.  “I’m moved by the argument that there is really nothing
else out there in this disease, but I’m also cautious because I
do know that the tempo of this disease is extremely variable,”
panelist  Peter Choyke , chief of the National Cancer Institute’s
molecular imaging program in Bethesda, Maryland, said after the
vote.  Novartis won FDA approval for Afinitor in 2009 to treat
patients with advanced kidney cancer who didn’t benefit from
Sutent or Nexavar from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) 
Afinitor blocks a protein known as mTOR that some cancer cells
require to grow and multiply. The drug is also used at a lower
dose to prevent rejection of organ transplants. Revenue from the
medicine more than tripled last year to $243 million.  Progression-Free Survival  Novartis’s American depositary receipts, each representing
one ordinary share, rose 7 cents to $55.26 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Afinitor increased the time patients in a trial lived
without pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors spreading,  FDA staff 
said April 8 in asking the panel to evaluate the drug’s safety
and efficacy. The company’s research had “discordant” data,
the agency reviewers said that day in a  report .  The FDA cited an inability of Novartis’ pancreatic study,
and its separate trial on patients with similar tumors in other
organs, “to support each other.” Afinitor’s efficacy was hard
to assess in people with neuroendocrine tumors of the lung or
gastrointestinal organs, partly because of imaging difficulties
and “missing scans,” the agency said.  Modified Application  Novartis said April 8 that it had modified its FDA
application so the expanded use of Afinitor, if approved, would
apply only to tumors that originate in the pancreas. The company
had previously sought to also market the drug to patients whose
neuroendocrine cancer starts in the lungs, stomach or
intestines.  A study of 410 patients, funded by Novartis and published
Feb. 10 in the  New England Journal of Medicine , found that
people who took Afinitor lived for 11 months without their
advanced tumors spreading, compared with 4.6 months for those
taking a placebo.  Jobs, the 56-year-old co-founder of Cupertino, California-
based Apple, disclosed in 2004 that he’d had successful surgery
to extract a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. He took another
leave of absence in 2009 for a  liver transplant , sometimes done
when the cancer spreads.  Jobs hasn’t said whether the transplant was done to treat a
recurrence of the tumor, and didn’t say on Jan. 17 why he was
taking a third medical leave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  