-- 
Obama Said to Call for Cuts in Entitlement Spending, Higher Taxes for Rich

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-13T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/obama-said-to-call-for-cuts-in-entitlements-higher-taxes.html
President Barack Obama today will
outline a path to cutting the nation’s long-term debt through
reductions in entitlement spending and increased taxes on the
wealthy while seeking to draw a sharp contrast with Republican
proposals, according to a person familiar with the plan.  Obama’s approach will draw on the findings of the Simpson-
Bowles debt commission chairmen, including overhauling the  tax
code  to bring in more revenue, and proposals he has already set
out in his 2012 budget. The president also will try to align his
approach with the so-called Gang of Six, a group of three
Republican and three Democratic senators working on their own
fiscal recommendations, the person said.  The approach Obama is taking has four components, according
to a White House statement: holding down domestic spending,
trimming the  defense budget , curbing health-care costs and
closing tax loopholes.  “The president will make clear that while we all share the
goal of reducing our deficit and putting our nation back on a
fiscally responsible path, his vision is one where we can live
within our means without putting burdens on the middle class and
seniors or impeding our ability to invest in our future,” the
statement said.  Counterpoint  The administration is aiming to provide a counterpoint to
the budget plan released last week by Representative  Paul Ryan ,
which relies on deep cuts in federal spending to trim the
deficit. Obama will specifically reject the Wisconsin
Republican’s idea of a voucher-like system for future Medicare
recipients, the person said.  Obama’s address, scheduled for this afternoon at George
Washington University in the capital, is being delivered as the
administration is preparing for a fight with congressional
Republicans over raising the government’s debt limit and as the
president is trying to frame the debate for his 2012 re-election
campaign.  As he did with his proposal to overhaul the health-care
system, Obama likely will offer a broad overview of what he says
is needed to cut the deficit, leaving the details to be hashed
out in Congress.  Working With Congress  “He will provide the American people his vision for long-
term deficit reduction and dealing with our long-term debt,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday. Obama
“looks forward to working with leaders of Congress going
forward from there,” he said.  Many of Obama’s themes will reflect his Feb. 14 budget
proposal, including letting income tax rates for married couples
making more than $250,000 or for individuals earning above
$200,000 rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent when the current
rates expire and eliminating some deductions and breaks.  Signaling the political challenge, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in anticipation of Obama’s
speech that “tax increases are unacceptable and are a non-
starter.”  Boehner is among the Democratic and Republican leaders that
Obama has invited to the White House for a preview of the speech
this morning. Also invited are House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, and House Minority Leader   Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat; House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer,
a Maryland Democrat; Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  of
 Nevada , Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and
Senators Dick Durbin, Democrat of  Illinois , and Senator  Jon Kyl ,
Republican of  Arizona .  Deficits  Over the next five years, the government is forecast by the
administration to pile up a cumulative deficit of $3.8 trillion;
over the decade, the cumulative deficits would rise to $7.2
trillion.  While Obama’s budget forecast cutting the deficit by $1.1
trillion over a decade, the recommendations from the debt
commission’s co-chairmen, former Senator  Alan Simpson , a
Republican from  Wyoming , and former Clinton administration
official Erskine Bowles, a Democrat, would cut almost $4
trillion over the period. Both used a combination of spending
cuts and higher revenue.  Ryan’s  plan  would cut the deficit by $4.4 trillion over 10
years, primarily through deep cuts in federal spending. Ryan
proposes to reduce top income and corporate tax rates from 35
percent to 25 percent.  Entitlements  Both sides are girding for a fight on entitlements. Ryan
would phase out the traditional Medicare program for the elderly
and replace it with subsidies to buy private insurance. It also
would cap spending on Medicaid, the health-care plan for the
poor.  Obama will address some specific changes to Medicare, using
some of the recommendations in the Bowles-Simpson plan as a
template, according to one person familiar with White House
discussions.  The commission recommended that the  Department of Health 
and Human Services expand accountable care organizations that
reward doctors based on performance as quickly as possible and
use a new payment formula for physicians.  Carney called Ryan’s plan “imbalanced” because it relies
heavily on deep cuts in Medicare and Medicaid that would place
“all of the burden” on middle-income Americans, the elderly
and the disabled.  Different Approach  “That’s not the approach the president believes is the
right way to go,” Carney said.  For all the concern about the deficit in  Washington , in the
bond market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago even though
Treasury Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was at
3.49 percent yesterday, below the average of 7 percent since
1980 and compared with the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998
through 2001 period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Obama is seeking to regain momentum on the deficit issue
following the release of Ryan’s plan and an agreement with
congressional Republicans on cuts for the current fiscal year.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Chief Executive Officer  David Cote , a member of the president’s debt commission, said he would
like to see the administration embrace the goal of cutting at
least $4 trillion from the deficit over 10 years.  Praise for Ryan  Cote, who declined to say whether he has consulted with the
White House on Obama’s speech, commended Ryan for focusing
attention on the long-term deficit.  “He is the one guy who has really demonstrated guts here
in getting out there and being willing to be a lightning rod and
attract complaints,” Cote said.  “The president really stood up in establishing the fiscal
commission,” Cote said. “But I have to say, when it comes to
somebody putting forward a plan, Paul Ryan did that first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  