-- 
Lockheed-Martin F-35 Fighter Program Loses $2.16 Billion Under Budget Deal

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-04-12T16:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/lockheed-martin-f-35-fighter-program-loses-2-16-billion-under-budget-deal.html
The budget compromise up for
consideration by Congress cuts $2.16 billion from  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program and doesn’t
include money for the jet’s alternative engine being developed
by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Rolls Royce Group Plc.  The White House and congressional leaders agreed to a
$670.8 billion Defense Department appropriations bill for 2011
that is $18.1 billion below the Pentagon’s original request for
the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. The base budget proposed for
the Pentagon is $513 billion while funds for the wars in Iraq
and  Afghanistan  remain at $157.8 billion, the amount requested
by the Obama administration, according to budget details
released by the Senate.  The House and Senate are expected to vote on the bill by
April 15, part of the plan to avert a government shutdown when
the current stopgap funding measure is set to expire. The
numbers released today don’t include military construction
projects, which are approved by Congress in a separate bill.  The bill proposes a cut of $2.16 billion from the F-35
program because of production and aircraft testing delays,
according to the document. The $382 billion program to build
variations of the aircraft for the  Air Force , Navy and Marine
Corps is under scrutiny because of rising costs and schedule
slips, including technical hurdles in developing the Marine
Corps’ short-takeoff and vertical-landing version.  The bill would cut 10 aircraft from the Marine Corps
variant, down to three this fiscal year. The draft legislation
wouldn’t change the request for seven of the Navy’s aircraft
carrier version. Some of the funding from the Marine Corps
variant would go to the Air Force, which would buy a total of 25
jets, three above the original request.  F-35 Alternative Engine  The measure also doesn’t fund the GE/Rolls Royce engine for
the F-35. The Pentagon doesn’t want the engine and issued a 90-
day stop-work order last month. The primary engine for the
fighter jet is built by  Pratt & Whitney , a unit of  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The House in February also voted to strip funding for the
GE-Rolls Royce engine from a previous version of the defense
appropriations bill for 2011. The Senate hasn’t included money
for the project for the last two years, relying on negotiations
with the House to reinstate funding for the GE engine.  GE and Rolls Royce will keep the “fighter engine team
together by maintaining a core technical team to protect,
enhance and advance propulsion technologies” for the joint
strike fighter and “future combat aircraft,”  Rick Kennedy , a
GE Aviation spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Mine-Resistant Vehicles  Lawmakers are proposing an addition of $228.4 million to
test and buy  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Stryker vehicle, with a V-
hull to deflect roadside bombs. They also included the
administration’s requested $3.4 billion to buy  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) ’s
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected-All Terrain vehicles, or M-ATV.
The 2011 defense appropriations bill also funds about $2.5
billion for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
equipment, including 48 MQ-9 Reaper unmanned
reconnaissance/attack aircraft made by General Atomics.  The proposed bill cuts a total of $9 billion across all
operations and maintenance accounts. It also cuts $500 million
from the Obama administration’s request of $2 billion for Iraqi
security forces funds.  Lawmakers plan to fund the 1.4 percent authorized pay raise
for military personnel and agreed to add $670 million to cover
shortfalls related to military personnel expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  