-- 
Hoenig Says Basel Capital Standards Too Weak to Avert Future Bank Crises

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-12T15:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/hoenig-says-basel-capital-standards-too-weak-to-avert-future-bank-crises.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said international  capital requirements 
are too lax to prevent another U.S. banking crisis.  Standards set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
require “far too little capital,” Hoenig said today in a
speech in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “That will not prevent the
next crisis and will not adequately prepare institutions for the
next crisis.”  The rules drawn up by the Basel Committee and endorsed by
the Group of 20 leaders last year will require lenders to more
than triple the highest-quality capital they hold to cushion
against losses by 2019. The regulations may trim the return on
equity of European banks, on average, by 4 percentage points,
and U.S. banks by 3 percentage points, according to estimates by
McKinsey & Co. consultants.  In the years prior to the financial crisis,  capital ratios 
“systematically declined,” Hoenig said, adding that he
believes such an erosion may recur.  Large U.S. commercial banks should be broken up with their
activities restricted to lower-risk businesses, Hoenig, the U.S.
central bank’s longest-serving policy maker, said during a panel
discussion sponsored by the National Association of  Attorneys
General .  “We really do need to think about redefining the scope of
legitimate financial activities of the commercial banks,”
Hoenig said, voicing a previously stated view. “That means to
break them up, in essence.”  End Bailouts  Some Fed officials, including Hoenig, Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  and Richmond Fed’s Jeffrey Lacker, say
the Dodd-Frank law enacted last year won’t necessarily end
bailouts because it gives regulators discretion to provide such
rescues. Plosser has called for a bankruptcy law that would set
rules for how a large financial company is to be wound down.  The Dodd-Frank Act gave the Fed and other regulators powers
to take over and wind down failing institutions, mandated that
the central bank look for evidence of emerging risks to
financial stability and required annual stress tests of the
largest U.S. banks.  The largest banks have essentially become government-
sponsored enterprises or “a public utility” because of the
implied federal safety net, Hoenig said.  Dodd-Frank will fail to solve the problem because it
doesn’t adequately restrict risks, he said.  ‘Great Risk’  “Right now it is the American taxpayer” that is
supporting the institutions, Hoenig said. “We need to be very
mindful we are putting our citizens, our public, at great
risk,” he said. “We need to understand the safety net, the
incentives of the safety net, or we will repeat the mistakes of
the past.”  Because the largest banks operate with a safety net and are
deemed “too big to fail,” they have a competitive advantage
compared with the nation’s community banks, Hoenig said.  “They are terribly disadvantaged from too big to fail,”
he said. “I think they are at risk.”  Hoenig’s view was echoed by  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , on the
same panel. Zandi cautioned that too much regulation could hurt
risk-taking by smaller banks.  “Over-regulation will hurt our smaller institutions,” he
said. “I view the fact we have 8,000 banks as a strength of our
system and we need to preserve that. Any regulatory change
should be done through the prism of what it means for smaller
institutions.”  Hoenig is retiring Oct. 1 after a 20-year career as leader
of the Kansas City Fed. He has repeatedly urged the central bank
to tighten monetary policy to prevent inflation from
accelerating and asset price bubbles from developing. He voted
eight straight times last year against record monetary stimulus
led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry
Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a single year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Columbia,  South Carolina  at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  