-- 
Oil Falls a Second Day as IEA Says High Prices Hurting Economic Recovery

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-04-12T12:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/oil-falls-a-second-day-as-iea-says-high-prices-hurting-economic-recovery.html
Crude advanced in London as the
 International Energy Agency  stood by its demand forecast and
Libyan rebels rejected a cease-fire plan, damping optimism that
the nation’s exports may be restored soon. Oil fell in  New York .  Brent futures recovered from earlier losses after the IEA
said global oil demand will rise 1.6 percent this year, even as
it warned that crude prices above $100 a barrel are starting to
hurt the global economy. In Libya, rebels turned down the
African Union’s plan that would leave  Muammar Qaddafi  in power.  “Reports of strong demand have been in the public eye for
quite a while, and that is keeping the uptrend going,” said
Alexander Ridgers, head of commodities of CMC Markets in  London .
“I don’t think any new reports are changing the picture
significantly.”  Brent oil for May settlement rose as much as 1.1 percent to
$125.38 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London,
after falling as much as 1.6 percent. The contract traded at
$124.86 at 1:34 p.m. London time. Crude for May settlement on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  was at $109.67 a barrel, down
25 cents, after dropping $2.87 yesterday.  Worldwide oil consumption will rise by 1.4 million barrels
a day this year to average 89.4 million a day, Paris-based IEA
said today in its monthly Oil Market Report.  Still, preliminary data “already show signs of oil demand
slowdown” and global supplies are starting to look “thin” as
the Libyan conflict strains spare production capacity held by
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the IEA said.  ‘Real Risks’  “There are real risks that a sustained $100-plus price
environment will prove incompatible with the current expected
pace of economic recovery,” according to the IEA report. “The
surest remedy for high prices may ultimately prove to be high
prices themselves.”  Barclays Capital  said  oil prices  have yet to show any
“considerable” impact on demand as the economic backdrop is
different from 2008, when oil reached $148 in New York.  “While current prices will slowly initiate some reaction
from the consumer end, particularly in the OECD, it is far too
premature to signal that the first signs of demand destruction
are already noticeable,” Amrita Sen, London-based analyst of
Barclays Capital said in a research note.  Today’s monthly IEA report followed yesterday’s World
Economic Outlook from the  International Monetary Fund , which
said the  U.S. economy  will expand at a slower pace than in 2010
amid an  unemployment rate  above 8 percent and a drop in  consumer
confidence . The threat of further oil-price increases has become
a “key downside risk” for global growth, the IMF said.  Cease-Fire Plan  The U.S., the world’s largest economy and the biggest oil
consumer, will expand 2.8 percent this year, down from 2.9
percent last year and a January forecast for 2011 of 3 percent,
according to the IMF.  The IMF cut its Japanese growth forecast to 1.4 percent
from 1.6 percent before, citing the nation’s March 11 earthquake
and tsunami. Expansion in  China , the world’s second-largest oil-
consuming country, was projected at 9.6 percent this year,
unchanged from the January estimate.  Libya ’s rebels turned down an African Union cease-fire plan
that would leave Qaddafi in power as Moussa Koussa, the ex-
foreign minister who defected to the U.K., urged national unity
and warned of civil war.  “Qaddafi and his sons must leave immediately if he wants
to save himself,” the head of Libya’s rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, said after meeting the AU delegation in Benghazi
yesterday, echoing the demands of the U.S.,  France  and the U.K.,
who are supporting the insurgents with air strikes. Qaddafi’s
forces maintained artillery fire against Misrata, as UNICEF
warned that tens of thousands of children are at risk in the
besieged western city.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. gasoline supplies probably fell for an eighth week as
the longest stretch of declines since the summer of 2008 may
signal higher prices at the pump, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Inventories of the motor fuel decreased 1 million barrels,
or 0.5 percent, in the seven days ended April 8 from 216.7
million a week earlier, according to the median of 13 analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Crude oil stockpiles increased 1 million barrels, or 0.3
percent, in the seven days ended April 1 from 357.7 million a
week earlier, according to the survey. Supplies of distillate
fuel, which includes heating oil and diesel, probably rose
500,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, from 153.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 