-- 
Holocaust Plunder Book by U.S. Historian Stirs Polish Passions

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-04-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/holocaust-plunder-book-by-u-s-historian-stirs-polish-passions.html
A book by a Princeton professor
that says ordinary Poles plundered graves near Nazi death camps
is stirring debate in  Poland , with critics saying it is fiction
designed to cast the Polish as predatory anti-Semites.  “Golden Harvest,” by Poland-born historian Jan Tomasz
Gross, is scheduled to be published in the U.S. and U.K. next
year. After it came out in Poland, the book entered the chart of
the top 10 bestsellers at Empik Media & Fashion SA, which
operates stores across the country.  Gross takes as his starting point a photo of what, at first
glance, appears to be a line of smiling agricultural workers at
the end of a day’s work. At the bottom of the picture is a line
of skulls. The photo was taken in 1945 or 1946 near Treblinka,
the site of a death camp in which at least 800,000 people were
murdered, Gross writes. He says the people were searching for
valuables overlooked by the Nazis.  “Just as anti-Semitism exists, there’s also anti-
Polishness,” Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski, a Krakow priest who
says members of his family helped save Jews from the Nazis
during World War II, said in a telephone interview. “Gross is
driven by ill-will toward the Poles.”  Isakowicz-Zaleski supports a boycott of the publisher,
 Wydawnictwo Znak . The boycott was called by groups including the
League in Defense of Sovereignty, set up in 2002 to “take
responsibility for the future of the Fatherland.” The Catholic
daily newspaper  Nasz Dziennik  called the book “trivial
propaganda.”  Prison Profits  Gross and his wife, co-author Irena Grudzinska-Gross, say
about 500,000 people in Poland profited from the imprisonment
and murder of Jews during the Nazi occupation. Some took over
empty apartments, stores or workshops; others appropriated
furniture, clothes and toys.  “Plundering Jewish property was a basic element of the
circulation of goods, a component of social and economic life in
the areas surrounding the former death camps,” they write.
“The theft of Jewish property and murder of the Jews were two
elements closely connected with each other.”  Gross’s last book, “ Fear: Anti-Semitism in Poland After
Auschwitz, ” appeared in Poland in 2008 and sold out days after
the first 25,000 copies were published. The book, which blamed
the murder of hundreds of Jews after the defeat of  Nazi Germany 
in 1945 on Polish anti-Semitism and greed, was so controversial
that the public prosecutor decided to investigate whether it
violated a law prohibiting slander against the nation.  Legal Complaint  The District Public Prosecutor in Krakow is investigating
“Golden Harvest” after a private citizen complained that it
violated the same law, said Boguslawa Marcinkowska, a
spokeswoman for the prosecutor.  Critics say the new book is unscientific, using a small
number of incidents to exaggerate the crimes committed on the
basis of anti-Jewish sentiment by Poles, and doesn’t take into
account extreme wartime poverty that justifies some actions
considered unacceptable today.  “I can only be thankful that Gross wrote this book,”
Edyta Gawron, a lecturer in Jewish Studies at the  Jagiellonian
University  in Krakow, said in a telephone interview. “Otherwise
there wouldn’t have been a debate on the topic, and it’s
necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  