-- 
London’s West End Rents Surge as Retailers Seek European Growth

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-04-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/london-s-west-end-rents-surge-as-retailers-seek-european-growth.html
International retailers such as
Kate Spade and  Forever 21 Inc.  are competing for prime space in
London’s West End, pushing rents to new highs as landlords
elsewhere in the U.K. struggle with mounting vacancies.  Rents on Oxford Street,  Bond Street  and Regent Street,
central London’s premier retail locations, rose as much as 20
percent last year,  Colliers International  estimates. That
compares with gains of up to 17 percent on Avenue des Champs-
Elysees in Paris,  Hong Kong ’s Russell Street and Fifth Avenue in
 New York , the other three members of the world’s “retail super
league,” the broker said.  London has the highest proportion of international
retailers of any city in the world because it serves as a base
for expanding in  Europe ,  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  said.
Companies are jostling for outlets to prepare for an eventual
recovery of the continent’s economies and the influx next year
of hundreds of thousands of visitors for the Summer  Olympic
Games , brokers said.  “I have a number of clients saying they have to have a
shop open in time for the Olympics, so it’s focusing people’s
minds,” said Peter Mace, a partner in charge of London retail
leasing at broker  Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  “Any deal done now
on a new lease is at a record, for prime and secondary
locations. I have never known such limited supply.”  Retailers establishing or strengthening their London
presence in the past 12 months include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Prada SpA’s
Miu Miu, Barcelona-based Desigual, Limited Brands Inc.’s
Victoria’s Secret, Forever 21,  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) ’s Kate Spade,
 VF Corp. (VFC) ’s 7 For All Mankind,  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ’s Rugby,
Missoni SpA and German outdoor-clothing maker Jack Wolfskin.  Zone A Rents  Retail sales in London  topped all global cities  last year
at 64.2 billion pounds ($104 billion) as the weak pound
supported tourism,  Newark , England-based Centre for Retail
Research estimates. Sales on the West End’s three main shopping
strips rose 7.3 percent in 2010 compared with the U.K. average
of 0.8 percent, data compiled by destination visitor monitor
 Springboard show.   Zone A rents on Bond Street, the U.K.’s most expensive
shopping street, will eventually exceed 1,000 pounds a square
foot, said Cushman & Wakefield’s Mace. Zoning retail space is an
industry measure derived from actual rents and used to compare
leasing costs for different stores. Zone A rent is the cost
calculated for the most valuable storefront space.  The highest zone A rent on the street is the 965 pounds
that jeweler Piaget, a unit of Compagnie Financiere Richemont
SA, agreed to pay in December 2009 for 169 Old Bond Street.  ‘Necessary Pill’  Shoe retailer Aldo Group Inc. agreed in February to pay 725
pounds a square foot to open its third Oxford Street store, a
new zone A peak for  London ’s second-most expensive shopping
strip.  It was a “tough but necessary pill to swallow,” said
Marie-Andree Boutin, vice president of real estate and store
planning for the  Montreal-based chain , which has 1,500 outlets
in 56 countries. Competition for 309 Oxford Street meant Aldo
faced losing “the momentum we’ve established in that very
location over the past eight years,” Boutin said by e-mail.  Rather than immediately opening in cities across the
country, luxury and international retailers usually expand in
Britain with one or more stores in London and outlets in a few
dominant regional malls, backed up by their websites, according
to Mark Burlton, the London-based head of Cushman’s cross-border
retail advisory arm for Europe and  Asia .  Highest Vacancy Rates  Cities like “Leeds, Nottingham and Manchester will have to
wait a long time before they get implantations of these new
brands because there’s such a gap with London,” he said.  Towns in the Midlands and northern England account for all
10 highest shop-vacancy rates among the U.K.’s largest urban
centers, according to  Local Data Company Ltd.  in London.
Rotherham, near Sheffield, has a vacancy rate of more than 28
percent, a result of its proximity to Meadowhall, Britain’s
third-largest mall.  “The strong centers will get stronger and the rest will
feel real pain,” said Neil Saunders, head of consulting at
 Verdict Research Ltd. , a London-based data firm specializing in
retail. “This is the hangover of the decade-long credit boom
that kept consumers spending and resulted in some ill-advised
store openings by retailers.”  Prime rents in more than 400 town centers across the U.K.
are mostly little changed since June 2010 after a decline of
about 13 percent in the preceding 24 months, said Paul Moody, a
director of retail at Colliers International in London.  Exploiting Opportunity  That underscores the pressures retailers face across the
country as energy and commodity costs climb and shoppers spend
less because of rising prices, taxes and unemployment. Among
retailers reporting lower sales in the past months are Marks &
Spencer Group Plc, Dixons Retail Plc and John Lewis Partnership
Plc’s department stores.  As some retailers shut or retrench, newcomers seek to fill
the void.  Paris fashion chain Sandro paid more than 700,000 pounds
for the lease to 6 Marylebone High Street, off Oxford Street, to
the administrator of Descamps SAS, a high-end household-
furnishings chain that filed for insolvency.  HMV Group Plc (HMV) , the
book and music retailer that’s closing 60 stores across the U.K.
this year, sold its leasehold interest in 360 Oxford Street to
Los Angeles-based fashion company Forever 21 in November for
about 14 million pounds.  Regent Street Revamp  The rising sums paid for lease surrenders and record rents
on new leases reflect efforts by landowners and property
companies to attract new and higher-paying tenants, said Anthony
Selwyn, director for retail at broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  in London.  The largest program is the 750 million-pound revamp of
Regent Street by  Crown Estate , which runs the commercial
property originating from the British monarchy’s estates.  Apple opened its first European store there in November
2004, helping  Crown Estate  attract tenants including Michael
Kors, Gap Inc.’s Banana Republic and 7 for All Mankind.  To keep  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  on Regent Street,  Crown Estate 
bought furniture chain Habitat U.K. Ltd.’s lease in January.
Burberry also bought LK Bennett’s lease to an adjacent unit last
month for an undisclosed amount to create a larger outlet.  “It’s a very exciting time for London,” said Beverley Churchill, a director at  Capital & Counties Properties Plc (CAPC)  in
London who last year helped 36 new and higher-paying tenants to
open in Covent Garden, including Apple.  Mount Street  The firm’s appraisers estimated that if new leases were
signed for all its real estate at Covent Garden, the deals would
generate an additional 12 percent in rental income, Capital &
Counties said March 2. The value of the properties appreciated
14 percent to 640 million pounds last year.  The demand has allowed large landowners to improve a
district.  Grosvenor Group Ltd., which is owned by the Duke of Westminster’s family trusts, has transformed  Mount Street  in
Mayfair into a center for designer boutiques like Christian
Louboutin, Marc Jacobs and Vivienne Westwood.  Zone A rents are around 350 pounds a square foot compared
with 95 pounds in 2006, while the cost to buy the lease of a
prime unit there exceeds 1 million pounds.  “We are absolutely shocked at the key money changing
hands,” said Helen Franks, Grosvenor’s head of commercial and
retail leasing in London. Key money is the sum paid to acquire a
lease and persuade the existing tenant to move out.  Next Big Thing  Property developers and investors including Almacantar SA,
 Derwent London Plc (DLN)  and Great Portland Estate Plc have targeted
the eastern section of Oxford Street as the next big
redevelopment area.  The scruffy stretch from Oxford Circus to Tottenham Court
Road has a station under construction for  Crossrail , the planned
train link between Heathrow airport and east London.  Discount fashion retailer Primark Stores Ltd. agreed to
open an outlet near the new station being built at Tottenham
Court Road in a property being redeveloped by  Land Securities
Group Plc  and Frogmore Real Estate Partners LP.  “Since Primark went in, that part of Oxford Street is on
fire,” said David Kenningham, executive director of London
retail at CB Richard Ellis.  Not everyone is convinced that West End rents can continue
to scale new heights, given the new projects in the pipeline and
September’s opening of Europe’s largest urban mall, Westfield
Stratford City in east London.  “The benefits of London’s outperformance will be spread
more thinly and shoppers’ spend will become more diluted as a
result,” said Saunders at research firm Verdict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  