-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fall as IMF Cuts GDP Outlook, Oil, Metals Drop

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-04-12T09:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/hong-kong-stocks-fall-as-imf-cuts-gdp-outlook-oil-metals-drop.html
Hong Kong stocks fell for a second
day after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its economic
growth forecast for the U.S. and Japan, and as commodity
producers dropped on lower oil and metal prices.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil producer, dropped
2.9 percent. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s largest
producer of the lightweight metal, slid 1.8 percent. China
Telecom Corp., the country’s No. 1 fixed-line carrier, sank 5.2
percent after Pacific Crest Securities Inc. reduced its rating
to “sector perform” from “outperform.”  “The stock market already had strong accumulated gains, so
it has already started some correcting pressure,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd. Some traders may
be “unwinding their positions to lock in the profit in
commodities and the stock markets.”  The Hang Seng Index slid 1.3 percent to 23,976.37 at the
close, with more than six stocks falling for every one that rose
on the 45-member  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies’ H-shares declined 1.8
percent to 13,437.53. Stocks extended declines after Japan’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency raised its assessment of
the Fukushima nuclear accident to 7.  China’s consumer prices likely rose 5 percent in March,
China Business Indepth reported in a flash headline on its
website yesterday, citing an official of the National Bureau of
Statistics. The figure, together with first-quarter gross
domestic product, is due to be released on April 15.  U.S. stocks and crude prices fell yesterday after the IMF
cut its estimate for growth in the U.S., the world’s biggest
economy and oil consumer. In  New York , the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.3 percent yesterday while futures on the U.S.
equity benchmark slid 0.6 percent today.  Japan  Growth  The  U.S. economy  will expand 2.8 percent this year, slowing
from 2.9 percent last year and less than the 3 percent for 2011
forecast in January, the IMF said. The Washington-based fund
also cut its estimate of Japan’s growth to 1.4 percent from 1.6
percent in the previous forecast after the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  Cnooc dropped 2.9 percent to HK$19.86, while PetroChina Co.,
the nation’s No. 1 energy producer, declined 4.9 percent to
HK$11.74. They were among the three biggest drops in the Hang
Seng Index.  Oil for May delivery tumbled from a 30-month high, dropping
2.5 percent to settle at $109.92 a barrel in New York yesterday.  Aluminum Corp. of  China , known as Chalco, lost 1.8 percent
to HK$7.60 after Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
reported first-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.
Separately, the Ministry of Finance may cut export rebates for
some aluminum products to 9 percent from 13 percent, the China
Securities Journal reported, without citing anyone.  Miners Decline  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
retreated 3 percent to HK$26.30, while Zhaojin Mining Industry
Co., a miner based in China’s Shandong province, slid 0.4
percent to HK$36.65.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell for the
first time in five days yesterday, dropping 0.2 percent.  China Telecom sank 5.2 percent to HK$4.92, its steepest
drop in almost 12 months.  The Hang Seng Index rose 5.5 percent this year through
yesterday, after positive economic data from the U.S. and China
eased concern about the nuclear crisis in Japan and tensions in
the Middle East. Shares in the gauge traded at an average 12.8
times forecast earnings yesterday, compared with 14.4 times at
the end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are number of concerns this week that may be
keeping investors on the sideline, like the quarterly results
announcement in the U.S. and the upcoming inflation numbers in
China,” KGI’s Kwong said.  ‘Liquidity Squeeze’  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. dropped 2.4 percent to
HK$24.70, while  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the Hong Kong-based lender
backed by HSBC Holdings Plc, slid 2.2 percent to HK$122.50 after
 Barclays Capital  warned the city’s lenders are about to face a
“significant liquidity squeeze,” which it said means credit is
currently “mispriced.”  Separately, Credit Suisse Group AG said lenders will face
challenges in attracting new deposits as competition rises and
rates climb.  “It is clear that the same rapid pace of credit growth is
unsustainable,”  Norman Chan , chief executive officer of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said in a circular yesterday. Bank
credit expanded at an annualized 26 percent in the first two
months of 2011 after climbing 29 percent last year, he said.  Hong Kong  banks were given until the end of the month to
submit their funding strategies to the city’s de facto central
bank amid concern that “rapid” credit growth will curb
liquidity and reduce loan quality.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index lost 1.6 percent to 23,968.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong Kong
stock options, jumped 6 percent to 18.17, indicating options
traders expect a swing of 5.2 percent in the Hang Seng Index in
the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  