-- 
Oregon’s Governor Performs Triage Exercise on Ailing Budget

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-04-12T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/oregon-s-governor-performs-triage-exercise-on-ailing-budget.html
Oregon  Governor John Kitzhaber, who
spent 14 years as an emergency-room doctor, knows what it is to
make gut-wrenching decisions.  “When you suspect there’s been a penetrating wound to the
heart, you open up the chest, you have the heart in your hands,
and you better have been right,” Kitzhaber, a 64-year-old
Democrat, said in an interview last month in his Salem office.  He now must stanch the $3.5 billion the state is
hemorrhaging from its budget, a sum that represents almost a
fifth of the $17.9 billion needed to maintain services at their
current level. It is, he says, “an exercise in triage.”  Kitzhaber, who was governor from 1995 to 2003 before
embarking on a third term in January, is breaking from states
such as  Washington  by refusing to cut residents from health-care
coverage. He says the approach would force people into emergency
rooms, costing even more. As he tries to preserve health care,
he is proposing reductions in social services and education that
critics say will harm Oregon’s quality of life.  The  governor’s plan  calls for reducing benefits and
provider payments in the first year of the budget cycle to save
7 percent in health-care costs. In the second year, he wants to
focus on combining services, establishing incentives for disease
prevention and encouraging community groups to help manage
chronic illnesses.  Care for Pennies  “If you drop coverage for people, they don’t stop getting
care: They end up in the emergency room,” Kitzhaber said. “And
you treat their stroke for $50,000 instead of managing their
 blood pressure  for pennies.”  Oregon is among at least 44 states and the  District of
Columbia  projecting shortfalls that may total $112 billion in
the next fiscal year, according to a March 9  report  by the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington-based
nonprofit group focusing on issues affecting low-income
Americans.  The state, where  unemployment  peaked at 11.6 percent in May
and June of 2009, is starting to see signs of recovery. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 10.2 percent in February, the U.S.
Labor Department found. The national rate that month was 8.9
percent.  Turning a Corner  The number of Oregon properties with foreclosure filings
fell 26.7 percent to 2,427 in February from the same month the
year before, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data seller.  “Growth among Oregon’s primary revenue sources has now
turned the corner” as personal income-tax collections return to
average rates, said a  March report  prepared by the state Office
of Economic Analysis.  Even with that upturn, Tim Duy, an adjunct assistant
professor of economics at the  University of Oregon  in Eugene,
said Kitzhaber won’t find enough efficiencies.  “We’re at the tail end of a decade of weak revenue
growth,” Duy said in a telephone interview. “We’re starting to
cut more deeply into the bone. You’re getting deeper into the
critical services that contribute to livability in the state,
particularly when you start getting so deep into the education
budget.”  One of Kitzhaber’s most contentious proposals is his plan
to lower education spending to $5.56 billion from $5.74 billion
in the current two-year budget cycle.  Dismissing Teachers  “Oregon’s schools have already seen over $1 billion in
cuts over the last several years,” Gail Rasmussen, president of
the Portland-based  Oregon Education Association , said in an
April 1 telephone interview. Kitzhaber’s cuts would mean teacher
dismissals, closed schools and bigger classes, Rasmussen said.  Kitzhaber’s plan would limit payments to the  Temporary
Assistance for Needy Families  program to 18 months of the two-
year budget cycle.  Kristina Jeska, a 33-year-old mother who was imprisoned for
two years on drug charges, said she needs the $432 she gets each
month from the program to pay for rent, diapers and
transportation to school.  Jeska, who has a 9-month-old daughter, is a full-time
student at  Portland  Community College and plans to focus her
studies on drug and alcohol counseling.  “I’m just trying to get my life back on track and raise my
daughter and do things right,” she said in a March 25 telephone
interview. Without the money, “I don’t know what I would do.”  Medico and Lawmaker  Kitzhaber graduated from South Eugene High School in 1965.
He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1969 with a degree in
biology and got his medical degree from the University of Oregon
Medical School.  He practiced medicine in Roseburg from 1974 to 1988,
winning election to the  Oregon House of Representatives  in 1978,
and then the state Senate, where he served three terms, becoming
president in 1985.  “Working in the emergency department and seeing kids, tiny
infants, that we were resuscitating because their mother
couldn’t get access to primary medical care” made him see
“that what we do in this country is often about numbers and
balancing budgets,” Kitzhaber said. “It’s not really about
human beings with names and faces and hopes and dreams.”  ‘The New Approach’  In 2006, Kitzhaber founded the Archimedes Movement, a group
dedicated to overhauling U.S. health care, and was president of
the  Estes Park Institute , an Englewood, Colorado-based group
that organizes conferences for hospital executives, from 2003
until 2010. Kitzhaber defeated former NBA player  Chris Dudley , a
Republican nominee for governor, by a margin of 49 percent to
Dudley’s 48 percent.  “My challenge is to be able to draw a picture of the new
system, the new approach to education and health care, that’s
clear enough so people can see it, understand and believe in it
enough to let go of the old system,” Kitzhaber said.  Oregon and its 3.8 million people have not shied from
innovation or controversy. The state, the 33rd to enter the
union in 1859, was the first to allow assisted suicides in 1997.  The state has spawned a “Silicon Forest” in suburban
Portland that includes facilities belonging to  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the
world’s largest chipmaker. It is also home to sporting-goods
companies, including Nike Inc., the world’s largest maker of
athletic shoes, and  Columbia Sportswear Co. (COLM) , the maker of
outdoor clothing and footwear.  Systematic Exam  “One of the most important things that Governor Kitzhaber
brings to the job is he’s looking systematically at the cost
drivers in state government,” said Peter Bragdon, senior vice
president of legal and corporate affairs at Columbia and a
former chief of staff to Democratic Governor Ted Kulongoski.  Kitzhaber’s budget proposal does not call for general fund-
supported debt, Treasurer Ted Wheeler, 48, said in a March 9
interview in his Salem office.  “We will have $282 million in lottery debt capacity for
the next biennium,” Wheeler said. “We’ll have substantial
capacity coming back in 2014.”  Standard & Poor’s  raised Oregon’s general-obligation debt
rating to AA+ from AA on March 9, citing its willingness to
adjust its revenue and expenses.  Lawmakers will have to temporarily fund the government at
current levels if they don’t approve a spending plan by  June 30 .
Democrats and Republicans have 30 seats each in the House; the
Senate has 16 Democrats and 14 Republicans.  Leaving a Legacy  “This is a realistic budget,” Representative Dennis Richardson of Central Point, the lead Republican budget
negotiator in the Legislature, said in a March 24 telephone
interview.  “In the past, there have been too many attempts to base
budgets on hoped-for expenditures instead of dealing with the
realities of anticipated revenues.”  Kitzhaber said he hopes his spending plan reshapes Oregon:  “I want my legacy to be the governor who fundamentally
changed the debate from cutting programs and raising taxes to
growing the economy and redesigning how we deliver public
services.”  John Albert Kitzhaber at a glance:  Born: Colfax, Washington, March 5, 1947 (age 64); moved to
Oregon at age 11.  Party: Democrat  Partner: Cylvia Hayes, director for the West Coast Clean Economy
Collaborative at Rural Development Initiatives, a non-profit in
Eugene, Oregon.  Child: Logan, 13.  Education: Bachelor of Arts, biology,  Dartmouth College ,
Hanover,  New Hampshire , 1969; Doctor of Medicine, University of
Oregon Medical School, Portland, Oregon, 1973  Career: Emergency-room doctor in Roseburg, Oregon, 1974-1988;
Member, Oregon House of Representatives, 1979-1981; Member,
Oregon Senate, 1981-1993; Oregon governor, 1995-2003; president
of Estes Park Institute, 2003-2010; re-elected governor in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 