-- 
Mortgage Insurers Swaps Climb as Homebuilder Sales Stagnate

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-12T21:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/mortgage-insurers-swaps-climb-as-homebuilder-sales-stagnate.html
The cost to protect mortgage
insurers  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  and  PMI Group Inc. (PMI)  climbed as
 Wells Fargo & Co . forecast home sales were flat last month.  Credit-default swaps on MGIC, the largest private U.S.
mortgage insurer, increased 21.3 basis points to 432.5 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on PMI Group,
the third-biggest, surged 54.8 basis points to 959.6, and those
on second-largest  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  jumped 42.4 basis points to
690.9, the data show.  Homebuilder sales were probably relatively flat in March,
according to a report by Adam Rudiger, an analyst with  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  San Francisco . Qualifying for a mortgage
will persist as an issue for buyers, he wrote.  Contracts on U.S. homebuilders Lennar Corp., Pulte Group
Inc., Beazer Homes USA Inc., Ryland Group Inc. and KB Home have
jumped an average of 28.1 basis points since April 4, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KB Home, the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, reported a bigger-than-expected loss on April
5 as orders plunged. Their swaps climbed 6.7 basis points to
461.7 today. The companies are struggling with competition from
lower-priced distressed properties and weak demand as
unemployment hovers close to 9 percent.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
climbed to the highest level this month after Alcoa Inc.’s sales
trailed estimates and  Japan  raised the severity rating of its
nuclear crisis.  Alcoa Earnings  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.2 basis points to a mid-
price of 95 basis points as of 5:12 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported first-
quarter sales yesterday that missed analysts’ estimates as the
dollar weakened. Its credit swaps climbed 7.3 basis points to
158.4 today, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Japan was hit by two earthquakes stronger than magnitude 6
today and the government increased the severity level of its
nuclear crisis to the highest, matching the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster. The country’s Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister
 Kaoru Yosano  said the March 11 quake may hurt the economy more
than forecast.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, is at the
highest level since 95.8 basis points on March 31.  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which falls as investor confidence worsens, declined 0.3
percentage point today to 102.4 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  