-- 
Hot Tips for a Winning Inside-Trading Career: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-04-12T23:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/hot-tips-for-a-winning-inside-trading-career-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
You have to admire three guys who
can keep an insider-trading ring going for 17 years, pocketing
$34 million even as they toiled at their day jobs -- at least
according to prosecutors who filed a federal complaint last
week.  The ambitious threesome provides a road map to aspiring
inside traders at a time when a steady income can be hard to
come by. That’s to say nothing of the boost they’ve given to the
disposable cell-phone industry, but more on that in a minute.  Charged in the case were stock trader Garrett D. Bauer and
lawyer Matthew H. Kluger, both arrested on  securities fraud  and
other charges on April 6. A co-conspirator, Kenneth T. Robinson,
separately pleaded guilty for his role in the scheme in federal
court in  Newark , New Jersey, on Monday. He recorded his buddies
on the phone in March after the feds raided his home.  Lawyers for Kluger and Bauer declined to comment on the
allegations.  Consider some tips from this case, which in the hands of a
hustling publisher holds promise for a winning “Insider Trading
for Dummies” guide:  -- Start young. As the government tells the story in a
criminal complaint and a related civil lawsuit filed April 6 by
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Kluger was a law student
at  New York University  in 1994 when he landed a summer job at
the firm Cravath, Swain & Moore and discovered he had access to
confidential information about planned corporate mergers. The
greenhorn student allegedly called Robinson, whom he’d worked
with at a Manhattan real estate company in 1991, to suggest that
he track down a trader to buy and sell merger targets. Robinson
allegedly recruited Bauer, a former co-worker. It would be a
partnership made in heaven until the FBI raided Robinson’s  Long
Beach , New York, home on March 8.  -- Be open to learning from mistakes. The government says
lawyer Kluger initially passed on tips about deals he worked on,
but eventually realized it would be less risky to tap company
computers for deals where he wasn’t involved. The complaint
describes another shrewd decision: While Kluger allegedly read
titles of confidential documents to glean trading ideas, he
usually took care not to leave a record that he’d actually
opened a computer file.  -- Take a break once in a while. When you’re making a lot
of money, there’s no reason to be greedy. The complaint says the
men “became increasingly concerned” in 1999 that they might
get caught and decided to chill for a while. Robinson said in
court Monday that the group resumed trading in 2001. Four years
after that, when Kluger got a job at the law firm  Wilson Sonsini
Goodrich & Rosati  in  Washington , they picked up the pace,
trading in nine merger targets as a group from 2006 to 2011, the
complaint says.  -- Use prepaid cell phones that are harder to trace than a
phone in your name, and pay for them in cash. In fact, make each
new deal special by getting a brand new prepaid phone, and toss
your old one. The three “often got a new phone for each of
their insider trading deals,” the FBI said in a  press release .  -- Make it fun. Hey, this doesn’t all have to be about
raiding computer files and paranoid conversations on phones that
can’t be traced. According to the complaint, Kluger made a field
trip out of it when it was time for him to pick up his stash,
driving regularly from his Virginia home to  Long Island , where
Robinson would give him his cut. The government also says that
Bauer and Robinson ventured off to  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , to
create an alibi for bank withdrawals that could add up to “tens
or hundreds of thousands of dollars at a time.” Bauer used ill-
gotten gains to buy a $6.65 million condominium in Manhattan and
an $875,000 home in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , the government says,
plus $110,000 to spiff up the two places.  As for “don’ts” in the insider-trading saga, there are a
couple of those too.  -- Don’t deviate from the plan. In the end, the crew that
the feds describe as covering every base got sloppy. The
government says Robinson himself traded on Kluger’s tips in
2009, neglecting to use the setup that separated Kluger, the
information source, from Bauer, the trader. The  New York  Times,
citing an anonymous person with knowledge of the investigation,
reported that Robinson’s personal  trades  in Wilson Sonsini’s
deals alerted the SEC to his role in the ring.  -- If you know there’s been a raid, don’t answer your
phone. When Robinson started  recording  telephone calls with his
alleged collaborators after last month’s raid, his pals seemed
oblivious to the prospect that Robinson might have reason to set
them up. While a recorder was running, Kluger made reference to
a “thing” the group had done in April or May of 2006, a few
months after he’d arrived at Wilson Sonsini. And Bauer blurted
out that when he learned about the raid, “I went right up to my
apartment and I broke the phone in half,” dumping each half
into a different garbage can at McDonalds.  Bauer, the alleged trader for the group, was released on a
$4 million bond Monday. The once-active trader will be
electronically monitored in his $6.7 million  Manhattan 
apartment, and was sent off in the custody of his mother.  Which leads us to the most important thing to remember if
you’re considering an insider-trading gig: it pays to stay
friends with your mom.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  