-- 
Palm Oil May Slump Below 3,000 Ringgit Before Rebounding, Mistry Forecasts

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-04-12T06:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/palm-oil-may-drop-below-3-000-ringgit-before-rebounding-mistry-forecasts.html
Palm oil may drop to less than
3,000 ringgit a metric ton as output expands, before prices
rally on growing use of soybean oil in U.S. biodiesel,  Dorab Mistry , director of Godrej International Ltd., said today.  “I expect the 3,000-ringgit support to be penetrated, and
prices could go even lower,” Mistry, who has traded palm oil
for more than three decades, told a conference in Beijing.
“After August, or whenever soya oil usage in U.S. biodiesel
production is substantially raised, we shall see prices rally. A
few weeks after that development, prices can begin their journey
towards 4,000 ringgit.”  Palm oil has slumped 15 percent since climbing to a 35-
month high of 3,967 ringgit ($1,314) a ton on Feb. 10, as drier
weather boosted yields after rains had hurt output. The contract
for June delivery dropped 1.4 percent to 3,368 ringgit at the
midday trading break in Kuala Lumpur.  World food prices climbed to a record in February,
according to a  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization
index, before declining last month for the first time since
June. Costlier food contributed to riots across northern  Africa 
and the Middle East that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia 
and is driving up inflation, spurring central banks to consider
higher  interest rates  that may slow growth.  Food Prices  Food-price inflation may “moderate” in the coming months
because of improving weather, Mistry said. Drought in  Russia ,
 South America  and  China , flooding in  Australia  and heavy rains
in parts of  Asia  curbed harvests of food crops in the past year.  Palm oil output this year will be at least 3 million tons
higher than in 2010, he said. The supply of  soybean oil  may
increase by almost 3 million tons, while supplies of all oils
and fats will expand by as much as 6.5 million tons, compared
with demand growth of 5.5 million tons, he said.  “We see that recovering production will be an ongoing
trend due to improved weather conditions as well as the end of
the biological down-cycle,” Bernard Ching, an analyst at ECM
Libra Capital Sdn., wrote in a report today, referring to palm.  Output in  Malaysia , the second-largest producer, gained
29.4 percent from the previous month to 1.42 million tons in
March, the steepest monthly gain since June 1999, according to
data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board released yesterday.  ‘Undeniable Evidence’  “There is undeniable evidence of rising  palm oil 
production,” Mistry said. “We now need higher U.S. biodiesel
production in order to preserve current high prices.”  Crude oil’s advance to a 30-month high on April 8 lifted
the appeal of vegetable oils for biofuel.  “The expectation that high crude  oil prices  will last for
the next several months must keep biodiesel demand buoyant,”
said Mistry, who correctly predicted last year that palm oil
would rise to more than 3,000 ringgit. The pace of biodiesel
production may pick up from April onwards, he said.  Global biodiesel demand is expected to expand by 2.5
million tons this year, Mistry said on March 9. This forecast
may rise to 3 million tons over the next few months, he said
today. Biodiesel output in the U.S. will grow to 3.3 million
tons, from 1.1 million last year, he said on March 9.  “U.S. biodiesel is going to be the story of the second
half of 2011.” Mistry said. “I call the biodiesel situation
the gathering storm of 2011.”  Indonesian Output  Soybean oil rallied to 61 cents a pound yesterday, the
highest price since July 2008, and may climb to 70 cents if U.S.
biodiesel output expands, Mistry said. Soybean oil’s premium
over palm oil widened to $205.17 a ton on April 8, the most
since October 2009, boosting the appeal of the cheaper oil.  Indonesian palm oil production this year may increase by
2.5 million tons to 25 million tons, Mistry said. An earlier
estimate of 17.3 million tons for Malaysian output may be “too
low,” he said, without giving a new forecast.  Output from Malaysia may be 17.6 million tons, compared
with 17 million tons in 2010, Bernard Dompok, the nation’s
Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister, said on March 8.
That would match production in 2009 and compare with 2008’s
record 17.7 million tons, according to official data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  