-- 
Palo Alto 13-Year-Old Joins Generation of Zuckerberg Wannabes

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/palo-alto-13-year-old-joins-generation-of-zuckerberg-wannabes.html
The Facebook application High
School Memories lets people share recollections of their teenage
years. It might surprise some users to learn that the app’s
creator isn’t old enough for high school himself.  Cyrus Pishevar, a 13-year-old resident of Palo Alto,
 California , developed High School Memories after seeing how
popular it was for his friends to “tag” photos of one another
on the social network.  “The big idea is to make memories a social thing to do,”
said Cyrus, who learned entrepreneurship from his dad, the
founder of five startups. “When you type in your memories, it
speaks more than just pictures can, especially when your friends
help you through.”  Cyrus is part of Silicon Valley’s second generation of Web
innovators -- teenagers who grew up with the Internet and
witnessed the rapid ascent of Facebook Inc. and other nearby
companies. Raised by technology workers and introduced to
computers and business early on, many of the area’s youngsters
have chosen to build their own apps or start whole companies in
lieu of after-school sports or summer camps.  “I was surrounded by tech everyday for so long that I
gained a natural interest for it,” said Daniel Brusilovsky, an
18-year-old from  San Mateo , California, whose upbringing by a
software-manager father and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  veteran mother led him
to found two startups before he was old enough to vote.  Fewer Skills Needed  It’s easier for teens to become Web entrepreneurs these
days because writing software is cheaper and simpler, said
Daniel Gross, the 19-year-old founder of San Francisco-based
Internet-search startup  Greplin Inc.   “The tools require less expert knowledge,” Gross said.
“Building a Facebook app doesn’t require you to have four years
of computer science.”  Mentoring programs also have sprung up to help young
entrepreneurs build their companies. In September, Facebook
investor  Peter Thiel  pledged to make 20 grants of as much as
$100,000 apiece to teenagers with startup ideas. He says he
wants teens to pursue their dreams, rather than college, because
traditional education steers them away from entrepreneurship and
into steady jobs.  “We need to encourage young Americans to take more
risks,” Thiel, who co-founded  PayPal Inc.  and now runs the
investment firm Clarium Capital Management, said in an interview
at the time.  ‘Child Soldiers’  Such efforts have drawn criticism for encouraging students
to drop out, in the same way that a dream of playing in the
 National Basketball Association  might prevent some kids from
staying in school.  Pursuing entrepreneurship shouldn’t come before an
education, said Vivek Wadhwa, a  visiting scholar  at the School
of Information at the  University of California , Berkeley.  “These are Silicon Valley’s child soldiers,” he said.
“The vast majority of them will fail miserably. Then they’ve
screwed up their careers.”  Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  didn’t
drop out of  Harvard University  until his company was gaining
traction, when he was 20. That’s a model that young people
should heed, Wadhwa said.  “If by any chance you happen to achieve the success that
Zuckerberg did, then drop out of school,” he said. “But don’t
screw up your education until you’ve done that.”  Board Meetings  For Cyrus Pishevar, who was present at his dad’s company
meetings since he was a toddler, inspiration came well before he
had to make decisions about college.  “He used to crawl between board members’ legs when I had
meetings at home,” said Shervin Pishevar, who helped found Web
development software maker WebOS Inc., mobile-app startup  Social
Gaming Network  and three other companies, all since 1997.  By the time he was 6, Cyrus was learning how to use a
computer and giving feedback to his dad on apps. Last year,
Shervin Pishevar introduced him to Zuckerberg, now 26, at a
movie screening in  Palo Alto . Around that time, the preteen was
coming up with his idea for a Facebook app.  Living in Silicon Valley means kids have easy access to
programming help. With High School Memories, Cyrus got
assistance from Ryan Romanchuk, a 25-year-old engineer and
family friend who works at a nearby startup. His father,
meanwhile, is contributing $5,000 to $10,000 to the project,
mostly to pay for advertising.  Homework First  Cyrus works on the app most days after he finishes his
homework, in Palo Alto coffee shops or the garage of Social
Gaming Network’s headquarters, a two-story house converted into
an office near  Stanford University ’s campus.  Romanchuk, an employee of social shopping site  Blippy , has
helped him write code and solve problems that arise, such as how
to get more new users coming in through ads purchased on
Facebook. If the app takes off, Cyrus plans to expand the
service into a separate website with more features, as well as a
version for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Brusilovsky began a startup incubator, Teens in Tech Labs,
this year to support other young innovators. Even the most
entrepreneurial teens don’t always make good decisions, he said.
Brusilovsky himself  was fired  from an internship last year at
the technology blog TechCrunch for accepting gifts from startups
in exchange for coverage.  Another challenge: Young entrepreneurs aren’t taken
seriously by venture capitalists.  ‘Really Cute’  “When I was pitching VCs three years ago, the first thing
they said was, ‘That is really cute,’” Brusilovsky said. “I
don’t want to be cute, I am serious about this.”  Teens in Tech Labs, based in Palo Alto, will select five
teams of entrepreneurs in the summer and connect them with
accomplished mentors, including Kevin Hartz,  co-founder  of
Eventbrite, and David Hornik, a partner at venture capital firm
August Capital.  “These entrepreneurs might not have a billion-dollar idea
today,” but preparation helps, Brusilovsky said. “When they’re
done with high school or college, then maybe they will have a
billion-dollar idea and they will know what to do with it.”  Still, parents of would-be Mark Zuckerbergs are careful to
preserve a degree of childhood normalcy. Cyrus takes kung fu
lessons every week.  “I make sure he takes the time to be a kid,” his dad
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  