-- 
Paul Ryan Plan or Higher Taxes, Take Your Pick: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-04-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/paul-ryan-plan-or-higher-taxes-take-your-pick-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
This week President  Barack Obama  is
offering his plan to solve America’s  debt  problem. The
president’s approach will include tax increases.  Republicans will huff that the Grand Old Party will never
raise taxes. They will tell the president that they want to be
like  Ronald Reagan  or  Calvin Coolidge  or  Andrew Mellon , the
Treasury secretary from 1921 to 1932. Mellon, who cut income tax
rates to 25 percent from 73 percent in the 1920s, is the tax-
cutters’ deity. His anti-tax manifesto, “ Taxation: The People’s
Business ,” is so hot that a first edition sells for $1,250.  What Mellon’s admirers overlook is that that those cuts
made up only part of his program. Mellon also cut the budget.
Several years into the Great Depression experts concerned with
widening deficits went to the Treasury Department, demanding
 tax-rate  increases, levies on autos and radios and even a creepy
tax on checks.  Did the legendary Treasury secretary tell those wonks to
take a hike? He did not. Mellon duly trashed his own legacy and
pushed the top  tax rate  right back up, to 63 percent.  What caused Mellon’s humiliating surrender? Timing. By
December 1931, it was too late for him to do anything else but
raise taxes.  Mellon was trapped by errors made in preceding years, at
home and abroad. His own  Republican Party  had pushed through a
nasty tariff,  Smoot-Hawley . Investors had pushed stock prices
too high. The U.S. was on the gold standard, and people feared
that gold and dollars would flow overseas if the U.S. deficit
deepened too much.  Dwindling Options  The French were hogging gold at the time. Less gold in the
U.S. meant less currency in circulation, and the Great
Depression got even worse. Mellon had also tried raising money
by selling  government bonds , but he believed the bond tool was
exhausted. In 1931 Mellon feared the U.S. would lose its status
on the world stage if the country couldn’t prove it was solvent.
That winter’s tax increase was his, and the nation’s, last worst
resort.  Here’s what the Mellon story tells us: there comes a point
when even the most devoted tax cutter will raise taxes. The
trick for the country is to avoid getting to that point. In our
own cycle, that point of needing a dramatic tax increase is just
years, possibly even months, away.  Time Running Out  There was an era when U.S. politicians had the luxury of
ample time, and their motto could be “tax cuts first, deficits
second.” Another maxim was also popular: “deficits don’t
matter because we outgrow them.” In many instances from the
1960s to the 1990s, tax cuts did indeed promote growth and
prevent deficits.  The argument that tax cuts were the one answer for growth
was plausible because the U.S. lacked competition. Europe was
still divided by multiple currencies. China wasn’t yet on the
scene. Republicans could tell themselves that even ridiculous
 tax code  changes such as child credits helped the economy. The
 U.S. economy  was doing so well that a Republican who grumbled
about the debt looked like an irrelevant Scrooge.  Some Republicans still think this way. Indeed, Republican
denial about the damage of deficits neatly parallels Democratic
denial about the damage of high wages. Republicans pretend they
are living in the 1980s. Democrats pretend they are living in
the 1950s. Both parties ignore the fact that international
competition has now changed our situation.  Inhibiting Growth  What about today? We all are starving for growth. This week
I’ll be in  Dallas  at a conference on economic growth hosted by
the new  George W. Bush Institute . It’s part of the group’s
ambitious  4% Project , which seeks ways to achieve long-term
economic growth of 4 percent.  This time yearly growth in the U.S. can’t reach 4 percent,
or even 3 percent by tax changes alone. Cuts in debt and
entitlement reform are also necessary. The federal debt is too
big to outgrow, especially with  interest rates  heading up. The
very structure of our entitlement programs guarantees that
greater economic growth will yield larger budgetary shortfalls.
The formula for Social Security is pegged to the average real
wage. When the economy grows, that wage increases, driving up
the government’s pension obligations commensurately.  And this time, the competition from China and  Europe , in
terms of their economies and currencies, will not go away.
America’s next big financial crisis will be a money crisis. To
survive, the dollar will have to demonstrate that it’s not based
upon ever-widening debt and is worthy of investment by
foreigners.  Best Strategy  The best move for anyone of either party who wants even a
shot at blocking tax increases before it’s too late ought to
line up behind House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  like a
recruit at basic training.  Ryan’s proposal is imperfect, but the plan is at least
ready. Critics unhappy with elements of it can add their own
changes to the next budget, once unity creates momentum. In
short, the U.S. has to show it realizes it is confronting an
existential threat.  Monetary policy  must also change. Arbitrary
moves like the  Federal Reserve ’s second round of quantitative
easing make the U.S. look unreliable to investors with other
options.  This past weekend Ryan said, “we need a clean break” with
old history. True enough. But those who can’t remember Mellon’s
past are condemned to repeat it.  Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  