-- 
Pebblebrook to Spend Up to $600 Million on More Hotel Purchases, CEO Says

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-04-12T14:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/pebblebrook-to-spend-up-to-600-million-on-more-hotel-purchases-ceo-says.html
Pebblebrook Hotel Trust (PEB) , a lodging
 investment company  that announced three acquisitions over the
past month, plans to spend as much as $600 million more this
year amid a slew of properties for sale.  “I’ve gone through five real estate cycles, and I have
never seen a time where so many high-quality hotels are
available to be purchased,” Jon Bortz, president and chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview.  Pebblebrook, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , wants to spend an
additional $400 million to $600 million in 2011, Bortz said. The
company last week paid $51.2 million for the  Hotel Monaco  in
Seattle and completed its $110 million purchase of the  Westin
Gaslamp Quarter  in  San Diego  from  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  In March, Pebblebrook agreed to buy the  W Hotel 
in  Boston  for $89.5 million.  Hotel sales in the Americas are likely to jump as much as
25 percent this year, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s hotel
investment-services unit said on Jan. 4. Loans secured by more
than 1,540 hotels in the U.S. with a total outstanding balance
of $39.2 billion are on  Realpoint LLC ’s watch list and have
already experienced default or are at risk of default, according
to the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based credit-rating company.  “The number of those needing to sell has increased pretty
much on a monthly basis,” Bortz said. “So more assets are on
the market today, and we expect that to continue over the course
of the year.”  Share Sales  Pebblebrook raised $226.3 million, excluding costs, in a
share sale on April 1, according to a statement. The real estate
investment trust raised $402.5 million in a December 2009
initial public offering as a “blind pool” company, which seeks
to raise money before owning any assets.  The shares gained 5.1 percent through yesterday since the
Dec. 8, 2009, IPO, compared with a 47 percent rise in the
Bloomberg REIT Hotels Index in that period.  Five of the company’s 11 completed acquisitions were from
San Francisco-based Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants, including the
Monaco properties in  Seattle  and Washington, D.C.  Pebblebrook is focused on “four-diamond” properties -- a
notch below the highest-rated, luxury category -- in 15 major
U.S. cities concentrated in coastal areas, Bortz said. It is
seeking hotels priced at 20 percent to 50 percent of what they
would cost to build from the ground up.  “There are many bidders in the luxury sector,” Bortz
said. “We have a much less competitive situation with the kind
of assets we are pursuing. We don’t really pursue those that
trade for ego value and not for economics. We are totally
economically focused. Our shareholders aren’t in it for the
picture on the brochure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  