-- 
Pfizer Drug Wins FDA Panel’s Backing for Pancreatic Cancer

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-12T21:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/pfizer-s-sutent-wins-u-s-fda-panel-s-backing-for-rare-pancreatic-cancer.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  won a U.S. panel’s
backing to expand marketing of a cancer drug for patients with
the rare type of pancreatic tumor diagnosed in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
 Steve Jobs  in 2004.  The medicine, Sutent, works sufficiently to outweigh
potential risks, outside advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in an 8-2 vote in White Oak,  Maryland .
The panel concluded earlier today that Swiss drugmaker  Novartis
AG (NVS) ’s Afinitor is effective for the same illness. The FDA usually
follows its advisory committees’ recommendations.  Pfizer, based in New York, and Novartis want to sell their
kidney-cancer drugs for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors that
strike about  2,500 people  a year in the U.S., according to the
 University of Southern California Center for Pancreatic and
Biliary Diseases  in  Los Angeles . Both medicines, which target
cancer at the molecular level, helped slow progression of the
disease in clinical trials.  “There is a benefit that we can’t really determine the
magnitude of,” panel member Ralph Freedman, a professor of
gynecologic oncology at the  University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center  in Houston, said after voting in favor of Pfizer’s
drug. “On the other hand, this is a rare disease and there is
an unmet need here.”  Attacking Tumors  Sutent, approved by the FDA in 2006 for stomach and kidney
cancer, attacks tumors by cutting off their blood supply.
European regulators approved the medicine in December for
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors that have spread. Sales of
Sutent rose 11 percent last year to almost $1.1 billion,
according to company filings.  Pfizer lost 21 cents, or 1 percent, to $20.46 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Novartis’s American
depositary receipts, each representing one ordinary share,
gained 7 cents to $55.26.  Sutent slowed tumor growth in a clinical study that may
have overstated efficacy because initial success prompted
investigators to end the trial early, FDA staff said April 8 in
a  preliminary review  on the agency’s website.  The Pfizer study of 171 patients found that tumor
progression stalled for a median time of 11.4 months in patients
treated with Sutent, compared with 5.5 months for those taking a
placebo.  Pfizer announced in March 2009 that it had stopped the
study early, on the recommendation of an independent monitoring
committee, because it would have been unethical to keep some
patients on the placebo after Sutent showed a “significant
benefit.”  Study Ended Early  While FDA staff agreed that Sutent stalled pancreatic
neuroendocrine tumor progression five to six months longer than
a placebo, they found that “the effect size is likely an
overestimate due to multiple looks at the data and early
termination of the study,” according to the staff report.  Jobs, the 56-year-old co-founder of Cupertino, California-
based Apple, disclosed in 2004 that he’d had successful surgery
to extract a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. He took another
leave of absence in 2009 for a  liver transplant , sometimes done
when the cancer spreads.  Jobs hasn’t said whether the transplant was done to treat a
recurrence of the tumor, and didn’t say on Jan. 17 why he was
taking a third medical leave.  Novartis, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , won FDA approval for
Afinitor in 2009 to treat patients with advanced kidney cancer
who didn’t benefit from Sutent or Nexavar from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  Afinitor blocks a protein known as mTOR
that some cancer cells require to grow and multiply. The drug is
also used at a lower dose to prevent rejection of organ
transplants. Revenue from the medicine more than tripled last
year to $243 million.  Progression-Free Survival  Afinitor increased the time patients in a trial lived
without pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors spreading,  FDA staff 
said April 8 in asking the panel to evaluate the drug’s safety
and efficacy. The company’s research had “discordant” data,
the agency reviewers said in a  report .  The FDA cited an inability of Novartis’ pancreatic study,
and its separate trial on patients with similar tumors in other
organs, “to support each other.” Afinitor’s efficacy was hard
to assess in people with neuroendocrine tumors of the lung or
gastrointestinal organs, partly because of imaging difficulties
and “missing scans,” the agency said.  Novartis said April 8 that it had modified its FDA
application so the expanded use of Afinitor, if approved, would
apply only to tumors that originate in the pancreas. The company
had previously sought to also market the drug to patients whose
neuroendocrine cancer starts in the lungs, stomach or
intestines.  A study of 410 patients, funded by Novartis and published
Feb. 10 in the  New England Journal of Medicine , found that
people who took Afinitor lived for 11 months without their
advanced tumors spreading, compared with 4.6 months for those
taking a placebo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  