-- 
PG&E Continuing Its Nuclear License Renewal Application

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-04-12T00:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/pg-e-continuing-its-nuclear-license-renewal-application-1-.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of  California ’s
largest utility, is continuing to seek license renewals for its
Diablo Canyon nuclear plant while it conducts a study of the
earthquake risks at the site.  If its application is approved, PG&E asked the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission to hold off issuing the final licenses
until the company has received the results of the seismic
analysis, the company said in a statement today. The utility
will not suspend the renewal process as part of its request,
spokesman Paul Flake said in a telephone interview.  PG&E applied in November 2009 to renew the reactor
licenses, which expire in 2024 and 2025, according to the
commission’s  website .  After a March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out power
to a nuclear plant in  Japan , triggering radiation releases and a
partial meltdown, California lawmakers have called on PG&E to
suspend its request to extend the life of its Diablo Canyon
reactors until seismic studies can assess the risks. One reactor
is 25 years old and the other 26 years. In August 2010, PG&E
received funding from state regulators to conduct the risk
analysis, which was recommended by the state in 2008, according
to an April 10 letter sent by the company to the commission.  “We recognize that many in the public have called for this
research to be completed before the NRC renews the plant’s
licenses,” PG&E’s Chief Nuclear Officer John Conway said in the
statement.  PG&E expects to complete its seismic report no later than
December 2015, the company said in its letter to the commission.
The commission is considering the potential impact PG&E’s
request might have on the timing of the license renewal, Eliot
Brenner, a spokesman for the commission, said in an e-mail
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  