-- 
Pimco Opens Emerging-Market Mutual Funds in Gordon’s Push Into Equities

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-04-12T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/pimco-opens-first-emerging-market-funds-in-gordon-s-stock-push.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
opened its first mutual funds under Maria Gordon, the Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. portfolio manager hired last year to start an
emerging-markets stock group.  Pimco EqS Emerging Markets, a stock fund, is managed by
Gordon, while Pimco Emerging Multi-Asset, led by Curtis Mewbourne, will invest in equities, bonds and currencies. The
 Newport Beach , California-based firm is considering strategies
including global growth, dividends and alternative investments
such as absolute return funds,  Neel Kashkari , head of new
investment initiatives, said in an interview.  Pimco, which has been synonymous with bond investing since
it was co-founded by  Bill Gross  four decades ago, said in 2009
it would push into equities, and hired Kashkari, a former U.S.
Treasury official, to direct the effort. The emerging-markets
stock team will benefit from Pimco’s research on the fixed-
income side, Kashkari said.  “We’ve been a leader in emerging-markets fixed-income,
managing more than $200 billion in assets,” Kashkari said.
“This is a slam-dunk for us, strategically.”  Pimco’s global focus comes against the backdrop of the
firm’s “new normal” philosophy, adopted in May 2009 to
describe an era of lower returns, heightened  government
regulation , a diminishing clout for the U.S. in the world
economy and a bigger role for developing nations. Pimco, a unit
of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , manages about $1.2 trillion
in assets, with more than 90 percent in bonds.  Russia,  China   Pimco EqS Emerging Markets will combine stockpicking with
Pimco’s research on markets and currencies, which tend to
dominate developing-market returns, Gordon said in an interview
from  London . Russia and China stand out among the countries with
the most compelling investment opportunities, she said.  The fund will also use a technique called tail-risk hedging
to protect investors from losses during times of extreme market
volatility, Gordon said.  “We want to avoid the big black hole of returns in the
emerging markets,” Gordon said. “Tail-risk management will
help in capital preservation during periods of extreme market
conditions.”  Role of Dollar  The emerging-market multi-asset fund will use a combination
of Pimco’s own funds, exchange-traded funds and individual
securities, Mewbourne, a managing director at Pimco, said in an
interview. Helping Mewbourne will be Gordon, who will oversee
equities, and Michael Gomez and Ramin Toloui, who are co-heads
of Pimco’s emerging-markets bond team.  Emerging markets are growing much faster than their
developed counterparts, and that growth is apparent beyond the
equity markets, Mewbourne said.  “The strength that we’ve seen in the emerging-market
currencies versus the weakness in the dollar is a trend we
expect to continue,” Mewbourne said.  Last year, Pimco opened its first actively managed stock
fund, Pimco EqS Pathfinder, after hiring Anne Gudefin and
Charles Lahr from Franklin Resources Inc. That fund has gathered
about $1.2 billion in assets since it opened last year. It has
advanced 8.2 percent since its inception on April 14, compared
with the 11.7 percent increase in the MSCI World Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco has hired about 20 investment professionals as it
builds its equity unit, including seven analysts and traders
added last month in London,  New York  and  Singapore .  Unlike rivals such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which added products
through acquisitions, Pimco is expanding by hiring executives
and broadening teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in  Boston  at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 