-- 
Polish Inflation Probably Accelerated in March as Rate-Increase Bets Mount

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-04-12T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/polish-inflation-probably-quickened-in-march-as-rate-bets-mount.html
Poland’s inflation rate probably
rose to the highest in almost two years in March, boosting
speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates  for a
third time this year.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.9 percent in March after a
3.6 percent increase the month before, according to the median
estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate would
be the highest since April 2009. Prices probably rose 0.5
percent on the month, the survey showed. The statistics office
in Warsaw will release the data at 2 p.m. today.  Policy makers across the globe are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, propelled by soaring food and fuel
prices. The Narodowy Bank Polski may have to make “bigger, more
decisive” increases to the benchmark rate if commodity prices
drive inflation above 4 percent,  Andrzej Kazmierczak , a rate
setter, said in an April 7 interview.  “The Monetary Policy Council will remain on high alert,”
 Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  London , said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg. “The inflation outlook is still arguing in favor of
further monetary tightening, we expect inflation and inflation
expectations to continue to pick up for another 3 to 5 months.”  Central bankers in Warsaw lifted the benchmark seven-day
rate on April 5 to 4 percent, the second increase this year,
while the  European Central Bank  the same week raised borrowing
costs for the first time in almost three years.  ‘Danger Signal’  Consumer prices in February rose faster than the bank’s
target rate of 2.5 percent for a fifth month. The gap between
yields on  Poland ’s five-year government bonds and inflation-
linked notes, a measure of consumer price-increase expectations,
rose to 3.19 percent yesterday from 2.95 percent on April 9.  “If inflation reaches 4 percent, that’s the danger
signal,” said Kazmierczak, who voted against all motions for
higher rates in 2010, central bank records show. “If it exceeds
that level, then further rate increases are unavoidable. We may
even have to consider whether bigger, more aggressive hikes are
needed, especially if inflation expectations aren’t quelled.”  The two-year interest-rate swap, a gauge of short-term
interest rate bets over the next two years, rose yesterday to
5.28 percent, the highest since November 2008, indicating
investors are expecting the central bank to increase rates
further.  Budget Plan  Poland, the largest economy of the European Union’s members
from the former communist east, was the only country in the 27-
nation bloc to escape recession in 2009. The government expects
the economy to expand by 4 percent this year.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 54.8 in March from a
six-month low in February as output, new orders and input prices
all increased, potentially boosting inflation expectations and
wage demands. Corporate wages rose an annual 4.2 percent in
March compared with 4.1 percent in February, according to the
median estimate of 17 economists polled by Bloomberg. The
 Central Statistical Office  is due to report wage data April 18.  While central bank Governor Marek Belka said in January
that the zloty had scope to appreciate, the currency has gained
0.1 percent against the euro since the beginning of this year,
keeping imported goods more expensive.  “We do see zloty appreciation this year, but the scale of
rate hikes isn’t the most important factor,” said  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at Bank Millennium SA in Warsaw, by
phone. “It has far more to do with international sentiment,
whether things calm down in the Middle East and what gets done
about the peripheral states of the euro-zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  