-- 
Polish Borrowing Costs May Drop From Highest Since 2009 on Rates Outlook

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T08:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/polish-borrowing-costs-may-drop-from-highest-since-2009-at-sale-of-bonds.html
Poland ’s borrowing costs may fall
from the highest level since 2009 at a sale of two-year bonds
today as investors favor shorter-dated debt on expectations
interest rates will rise.  The government is offering between 3.5 billion zloty ($1.3
billion) and 5.5 billion zloty of bonds maturing in July 2013,
according to  Finance Ministry  data on Bloomberg. Similar-
maturity debt yielded 5.06 percent as of 9:08 a.m. in Warsaw.
The average yield at the previous auction on March 9 was 5.113
percent, the highest since October 2009.  Poland raised interest rates last week for the second time
this year to damp inflation expectations. Forward-rate
agreements used to lock in interest costs in nine months shows
investors expect an increase of 96 basis points, or 0.96
percentage point, based on the difference between the contract
and the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it
settles.  “This part of the curve looks extremely safe even if they
continue to raise rates every quarter,” said Olaf Pietrzak, a
fixed-income  fund manager  at Skarbiec Investment Management in
Warsaw, who helps oversee the equivalent of $1.5 billion in
assets. “The auction should sell with yields at around 5
percent.”  The yield on two-year bonds increased 26 basis points in
the three months through March, the most since the second
quarter of last year. Consumer-price growth stayed above the
upper end of the central bank’s tolerance range of between 1.5
percent and 3.5 percent for a fifth month in February. Inflation
accelerated to 3.9 percent last month, the statistics office
will say today, based on the median estimate from 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Aggressive Pricing  “With the market pricing in rate increase so aggressively
there is still money to be made in the two-year segment,” said
 Mateusz Szczurek , chief economist at ING Bank Slaski SA in
Warsaw. ING last week recommended investors buy the bonds at
today’s auction.  Investors should buy the debt at a yield of 5.02 percent in
anticipation that it will decline to 4.82 percent, according to
the report dated April 4. ING predicts policy makers will raise
the main interest rate by a total of 50 basis points. It
currently stands at 4 percent.  Debt Sales  Poland plans to raise as much as 24 billion zloty from the
sale of mostly short-term and inflation-linked bonds in the
second quarter, the Finance Ministry said on March 31. It won’t
offer 10-year fixed-rate bonds after last selling the debt in
January at the highest yields in 20 years, according to
ministry’s page on Bloomberg.  As the short-end “of the market is mostly dominated by
local investors we expect relatively good demand,”  Gyula Toth ,
a Vienna-based chief strategist for emerging  Europe , the Middle
East and  Africa  at UniCredit SpA, wrote in an e-mailed report
dated today.  The gap between yields on Poland’s 10-year and two-year
bonds has narrowed 15 basis points since the second-quarter
supply of debt was announced at the end of last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand
to hold longer-dated debt is the narrowest since November, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  