-- 
Pound Slumps, Gilts Advance as U.K. Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed in March

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-12T15:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/pound-falls-versus-dollar-as-retail-sales-plunge-most-on-record-in-march.html
The pound slid to the weakest level
in six months versus the euro and gilts rose as data showed
inflation unexpectedly slowed and retail sales tumbled, damping
speculation that the  Bank of England  will raise  interest rates .  Sterling fell to its lowest level in a week against the
dollar. Consumer prices rose 4 percent from a year earlier after
a 4.4 percent increase in February, the  Office for National
Statistics  said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the
rate would remain unchanged. The yield on the two-year note
tumbled as much as 14 basis points, while short-sterling futures
advanced as traders scaled back bets for higher borrowing costs.  “The trajectory for the pound is lower, certainly versus
the euro, and potentially against the dollar,” said Kathleen Brooks, London-based research director at Forex.com, part of
online currency trader Gain Capital Holdings Inc. “The Bank of
England won’t hike interest rates until either late third
quarter or early fourth quarter.”  The pound depreciated 0.6 percent to 88.87 pence against
the euro as of 4:38 p.m. in London, after dropping as much as
0.9 percent to 89.14 pence, the weakest level since Oct. 25. The
U.K. currency declined 0.6 percent to $1.6256, after falling to
$1.6227, the least since April 5.  The Bank of England kept the main rate at an all-time low
of 0.5 percent on April 7, while the  European Central Bank 
raised its main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent from 1 percent
on the same day to contain above-target inflation.  U.K., German Spread  The drop in two-year gilt yields was the biggest since Jan.
25 before they yielded 13 basis points lower at 1.26 percent.
Ten-year yields fell 10 basis points to 3.71 percent.  The difference in yield between German two-year notes and
similar-maturity gilts increased eight basis points to 60, the
widest margin since January 2009. The U.K. securities yielded
more than their German counterparts as recently as February.  The U.K. Debt Management Office plans to sell an additional
5 billion pounds ($8.1 billion) of 2 percent notes due January
2016 tomorrow.  Gilts have lost investors 0.8 percent this month, pushing
their decline in 2011 to 1.6 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. German bunds returned
negative 0.8 percent this month and minus 3 percent this year,
while  U.S. Treasuries  have returned minus 0.4 percent in April,
down 0.6 percent since Dec 31.  The implied yield on the September short-sterling futures
contract dropped 13 basis points to 1.04 percent as traders
reduced bets the Bank of England will lift rates.  Sterling has strengthened 0.3 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure 10
developed-market currencies. It trails behind the euro’s 4.4
percent gain on speculation that the ECB would raise rates
faster than the Bank of England.  Retail Sales  Britain’s currency underperformed its European counterpart
amid speculation the central bank would refrain from raising
rates to revive growth, even as inflation accelerated to more
than twice its 2 percent target. Gross domestic product fell 0.5
percent in the fourth quarter, a government report showed on
March 29.  Data from the British Retail Consortium today showed retail
sales plunged by a record in March. Sales at stores measured by
value fell 1.9 percent from a year earlier, partly due to the
timing of Easter in 2010, the London-based BRC said in a report
today. That’s the biggest drop since the series began in 1995
and compares with a 1.1 percent gain in February.  “Anemic growth and high inflation is probably the worst
cocktail of economic data you can have,” said Shant Movsesian,
a strategist in  London  at 4Cast Ltd., a research company that
counts central banks among its subscribers. “There’s no real
upside for sterling from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 