-- 
Punch Taverns Posts First-Half Loss After Impairment Charge

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-12T19:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/punch-taverns-posts-first-half-loss-after-impairment-charge-3-.html
Punch Taverns Plc (PUB) , a U.K. pub
operator that plans to sell more than a third of its leased pubs
and split in two, said today it had a first-half loss after
taking a charge.  The 324.8 million-pound ($529 million) loss in the 28 weeks
ended March 5 compared with a profit of 59.2 million pounds a
year earlier, the Burton-Upon-Trent, England-based company said
today in a statement distributed by the Regulatory News Service.
It booked a 367 million-pound impairment charge after writing
down the value of pubs it plans to sell.  Punch Taverns said last month it will separate Spirit, the
managed-pub unit that includes brands such as Chef & Brewer and
Flaming Grill, from its Punch leased-pub division. Hit by
recession and falling beer sales, the company aims to sell about
2,300 of the 5,200 leased outlets, it said today.  Douglas Jack, an analyst at Numis Securities, said in a
note after today’s announcement that it makes sense to buy the
stock on growth at Spirit and gain a “free share” of the
demerged leased-pub unit in the process.  Sales at managed pubs open more than 12 months rose 4.9
percent in the half and 8.6 percent in the second quarter,
according to today’s statement. Net income at leased pubs open
more than a year fell 6 percent in the second quarter, compared
with “double-digit profit declines” in the past two years.  “We have had a good start to the third quarter and are on
track to meet our full-year expectations,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Dyson said in the statement.  The nominal amount of Punch’s debt amounted to 3.1 billion
pounds at the end of the half year, compared with 3.3 billion in
August, the company said. That included 260 million pounds of
assets held outside securitization structures.  Moody’s Downgrades  On April 5, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded its
ratings on more than a dozen notes issued by Punch Taverns
units, based on the lower values of underlying pub assets and
their long-term sustainability. Dyson said the company will
engage with bondholders on possible changes to “debt
documentation” after the demerger, which is on track for
completion by the end of the summer.  Punch Taverns fell 5.3 percent to 75.3 pence in  London ,
valuing the company at 484.3 million pounds.  Dyson will become the new CEO of Spirit, and Walker Boyd,
the chairman of retailer WH Smith Plc, will become chairman of
the demerged division, the company said in today’s statement.
Roger Whiteside, currently a Punch Taverns managing director,
will become CEO of the demerged Punch part of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 