-- 
Traders Bet Rising Interest Rates Delayed as Inflation Ebbs: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-04-12T21:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/traders-bet-rising-interest-rates-delayed-as-inflation-ebbs-mexico-credit.html
Traders are betting for the first
time in four months that interest-rate increases will be delayed
after inflation slowed and Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens signaled he’ll keep borrowing costs unchanged.  Futures contracts for the 28-day  interbank rate , known as
TIIE, show investors expect policy makers will increase the key
rate from a record low of 4.5 percent as soon as September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As recently as today,
they predicted Carstens would raise rates in August. In Brazil,
where the central bank has boosted borrowing costs 100 basis
points this year, futures indicate policy makers will increase
the benchmark rate another 25 to 12 percent this month.  Mexico is the only major Latin American country that hasn’t
raised  interest rates  in the past year as consumer prices
increase at the third-slowest pace in the region after  Chile  and
 Peru . While rising exports are fueling the expansion in Latin
America’s second-largest economy, unemployment and slower
private investment growth are helping keep inflation in check,
Carstens said at a banking convention in  Acapulco ,  Mexico , on
April 7.  “We are seeing better signs of domestic demand recovery,
but we still don’t think that’s going to force the hand of
authorities to hike in 2011,”  Gray Newman , chief Latin America
economist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “You can really divide up the region into two camps:
the first camp is Mexico and the second camp is everyone else.
In  Argentina , Chile,  Colombia , Peru, Brazil there’s a tremendous
boom in private consumption. Mexico is the exception.”  Benchmark Yields  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2021 fell
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, last week and touched
a two-month low of 7.40 percent today, according to Banco
Santander SA. The yield compares with 3.47 percent for 10-year
U.S. Treasuries and 12.83 percent for similar-maturity Brazilian
bonds denominated in reais.  Inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.04 percent in the 12 months
through March, the lowest level since May 2006. The rate is half
the 6.3 percent recorded in  Brazil , the region’s largest
economy. Consumer prices in the U.S. rose 2.1 percent in
February from a year earlier.  “The Mexican economy still has enough slack to grow as it
has been without generating inflationary pressures,” Carstens
said on April 7, citing the country’s unemployment rate.  Mexico’s jobless rate was 5.38 percent in February,
compared with 3.24 percent in May 2008, according to the
national statistics agency.  ‘Mistake’  Mexico’s 6.1 percent contraction in 2009, the worst since
1995, means the economy still isn’t at levels from before the
global financial crisis, according to Benito Berber, an
emerging-market analyst at Nomura Securities in New York. Berber
predicts the central bank won’t raise rates until the first
three months of next year, in line with the median forecast in a
survey of economists by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  “People are making a mistake when they compare Mexico to
other countries in the region,” Berber said in a telephone
interview. “Mexico never had the consumer demand they had. You
have to remember that while Mexico contracted these other
countries didn’t.”  The  International Monetary Fund  and Mexico’s government
raised their forecasts for economic growth in the past week.
Gross domestic product will grow 4.6 percent this year after
expanding 5.5 percent in 2010, the fastest in a decade, the IMF
said yesterday. It previously predicted the economy would grow
4.2 percent.  Exports  Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said Mexico may expand as
much as 5 percent this year, up from a previous estimate of 4
percent, on U.S. demand for automobiles and other exports. The
rebound in the U.S. last year helped drive Mexican exports to a
record $298 billion.  The central bank declined to comment because of its policy
meeting this week, according to an official in the bank’s press
office.  Banco de Mexico  will likely keep the lending rate unchanged
at its meeting on April 15, according to the median estimate of
14 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract maturing in
August fell 4 basis points to 4.96 percent today, indicating
traders no longer expect a rate increase that month. The yield
on the September contract fell 1 to 5.08 percent. In the past
five years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE and the overnight
rate has averaged 36 basis points.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 2 basis points
to 131 at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso dropped 0.8 percent to 11.8381 per dollar.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 2 basis points to 100 today, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Inflation will quicken to between 4.1 percent by August,
according to calculations by  Alonso Cervera , chief Latin America
economist at Credit Suisse Group in Mexico City, using data from
an April 1 survey by the central bank.  “If that materializes, there may be pressure on the
central bank to react to that,” Cervera said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “The central bank may be forced to
do something as early as August.”  Breakeven Rates  The yield gap between debt tied to inflation and fixed-rate
bonds, a gauge of investor expectations for annual price
increases over the next five years, was 3.90 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank has a target
range of 2 percent to 4 percent.  In Brazil, the so-called breakeven rate over the next two
years was 6.81 percent. The government targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Mexico sold all 25.1 billion pesos of the debt it offered
at its weekly auction today, the central bank said on its
website.  Investors bought 5.5 billion pesos of 28-day CETES to yield
4.28 percent, 6.5 billion pesos of 91-day CETES to yield 4.36
percent and 6.5 billion pesos of 175-day CETES to yield 4.59
percent, the bank said on its website. The government auctioned
4.5 billion pesos of 2.5-year fixed-rate bonds and 2.1 billion
pesos of 2.5-year inflation-linked debt, the bank said on its
website.  “The mistake is to simply place Mexico in the same
category as the rest of the region,” Morgan Stanley’s Newman
said. “Mexico is the country whose performance looks most like
a developed market, and it happens to be sitting in an emerging-
markets region called Latin America.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  