-- 
Rajaratnam Met Goldman’s Cohn in July 2008, Galleon President Tells Jurors

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/rajaratnam-met-goldman-s-cohn-in-july-2008-galleon-president-tells-jurors.html
Raj Rajaratnam talked with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President  Gary Cohn  on July 31, 2008, about the
possibility that Goldman Sachs would merge with a commercial
bank, Galleon Group LLC’s former president said.  Richard “Rick” Schutte, testifying yesterday in
Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial about how the hedge fund
gathered information, told federal court jurors in New York that
he and Rajaratnam met with Cohn and discussed “the alternatives
available to the investment bank, including the combining of an
investment bank with a large commercial bank.”  “During that conversation, did you hear any discussion of
any inside information?” Rajaratnam’s lawyer, Michael Starr,
asked Schutte. “No, I do not believe so,” Schutte told the
jurors. Schutte, who was Galleon’s chief of research, testified
that the group also discussed “the second option,” a secondary
offering to raise additional capital.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers presented to jurors a page from
Schutte’s July 2008 calendar showing he and the Galleon co-
founder, along with another Galleon employee, had a two-hour
lunch that day with Cohn and David Loeb, plus a third Goldman
Sachs employee.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He
denies wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  Wiretapped Conversation  Schutte’s testimony involved the same time period as a
secretly recorded wiretap played by prosecutors earlier in the
trial. Schutte’s testimony gave another explanation for Galleon
and Rajaratnam’s trades of Goldman shares in September and
October of 2008.  In the July 29, 2008, wiretapped conversation, Rajaratnam
was told by  Rajat Gupta , then a member of the Goldman Sachs
board, that the bank was having talks about whether to buy
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or Wachovia Corp.  During the wiretapped conversation, Rajaratnam asked about
a “rumor that Goldman might look to buy a commercial bank.”  “Yeah, this was a big discussion at the board meeting,”
Gupta replied, adding the board was “divided.” Gupta told
Rajaratnam that the board’s discussions included  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Wachovia, now part of  Wells Fargo & Co .,
and New York-based insurer AIG, according to the transcript.  Wachovia ‘Obvious’  Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs,
told the jury on March 23 that Gupta had violated the firm’s
confidentiality policies by telling Rajaratnam about its
strategic plans.  After prosecutors objected repeatedly yesterday during
Starr’s questioning of Schutte about what “would have been
discussed,” at the meeting with Goldman Sachs, Schutte
answered, “Generally there was a discussion to combine with an
entity that had a large commercial base, such as Wells Fargo,
Wachovia, even a Citibank.”  “The Wachovia one was an obvious one to bring up, so that
was a natural one,” Schutte said.  Defense lawyers questioned Schutte about Rajaratnam’s
trades during this period and the timing of news accounts and
analysts’ reports that preceded his trading in Goldman Sachs and
other stocks. Rajaratnam isn’t accused of trading on Gupta’s tip
about Wachovia.  Goldman’s Future  Schutte said that after Bear Stearns Co. announced it would
be acquired by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in April 2008, Galleon fund
managers were concerned about Goldman Sachs’s future. He said
Galleon paid Goldman Sachs $30 million to $35 million in fees
and that the investment bank held about $600 million in Galleon
investor assets.  Galleon hired an independent research firm that monitored
the likelihood that Congress would pass the Toxic Asset Relief
Program, or TARP, Schutte said. He testified that in late
September 2008, Rajaratnam and Galleon fund managers were
concerned about the likelihood of TARP’s passage and the effect
on Goldman Sachs if it didn’t.  Starr showed the jury a Sept. 23, 2008, e-mail that the
research firm sent to a Galleon executive at 3:29 p.m. “In our
view the bill will pass in the coming days,” the firm said in
the e-mail. TARP was signed into law by President  George Bush  on
Oct. 3, 2008.  Starr showed Schutte and the jury a chart that showed that
at 4:10 p.m. that day, Rajaratnam bought 1 million shares of
exchange-traded funds, an index-based investment product, called
“XLF.” Rajaratnam also bought more than 217,000 shares of
Goldman Sachs.  Prosecutors have argued that, on that same afternoon, Gupta
tipped Rajaratnam in 2008 about a $5 billion investment in the
bank by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Berkshire Deal  Gupta hung up the phone after learning of the Berkshire
investment at 3:53 p.m. that day, prosecutors said, and called
Rajaratnam two minutes later. Two minutes later, Rajaratnam
bought $43 million worth of Goldman Sachs stock, the government
said.  “This order was so big, even the biggest brokerages house
on  Wall Street  couldn’t fill it,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jonathan Streeter told jurors in his opening statements.  The investment reaped a $1 million profit for Galleon,
Streeter said. “$1 million, two minutes.”  Schutte is scheduled to continue his testimony today.
Defense lawyers said in court last week that at least five
witnesses would testify in Rajaratnam’s defense. They haven’t
said whether Rajaratnam will testify.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  