-- 
Treasuries Advance as Nuclear Crisis Burnishes Safety Appeal of U.S. Debt

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-04-12T16:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/treasuries-japan-australia-bonds-gain-after-fukushima-warning-increased.html
Treasuries gained for the first
time in three days after a nuclear warning and earthquakes in
 Japan  sent stocks lower, boosting demand for the safety of  U.S.
government debt .  Ten-year note yields fell the most in more than three weeks
as Japan lifted the severity rating at the nuclear-power plant
crippled in the March 11 temblor and tsunami to the level of the
1986 Chernobyl disaster. The move stoked concern that problems
in the world’s third-largest economy may slow global growth. The
U.S. prepared to auction $32 billion of three-year notes.  “It’s a risk-off trade amid nervousness over Japan and the
rates market realizing that the recovery is not necessarily a
one-way move up, but will remain inconsistent,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG,
one of 20 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the  Federal
Reserve . “It remains to be seen how the auction will fare given
the rally.”  Benchmark 10-year yields fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.49 percent at 12:15 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.625 percent
note maturing in February 2021 rose 23/32, or $7.19 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 2/32.  The yields tumbled as much as 10 basis points, the biggest
intraday drop since March 16. Yields on three-year notes lost
nine basis points to 1.24 percent before the auction of the
debt, the first of three note and bond sales this week totaling
$66 billion.  Stocks Drop  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1 percent, and
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index declined 1.3 percent.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency raised the
rating of the accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant to 7, the
highest. Increased radiation prompted the government to widen
the evacuation zone.  “The global investment community is taking the latest
developments as good reason to reinitiate the flight-to-quality
trade by fleeing riskier assets in favor of Treasuries,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital markets at the
brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote
in a note to clients.  Two- and five-year Treasury yields dropped to the lowest
levels since April 5. The five-year security’s yield tumbled as
much as 12 basis points to 2.20 percent, while two-year yields
fell as much as seven basis points to 0.75 percent.  Economic Outlook  Japan’s record temblor and the ensuing tsunami last month
led the  International Monetary Fund  to lower the nation’s
economic outlook yesterday, while higher commodity prices
spurred a cut in its U.S. growth forecast.  The three-year U.S. notes scheduled for sale today yielded
1.295 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.298
percent at the previous auction of the securities March 8.
Investors bid for 3.22 times the amount of available debt last
month. The average for the past 10 auctions is 3.14.  The U.S. will follow today’s offering with sales of $21
billion of 10-year notes tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds on April 14.  “Today’s three-year auction should not and does not appear
to need a concession,” Justin Lederer and Amrut Bharambe,
interest-rate strategists at the primary dealer Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York, wrote in a research note to clients.
“It will go smoothly and be fairly underwritten.”  Further Cuts  U.S. lawmakers still must vote on the extension of the
congressionally mandated borrowing limit of $14.29 trillion,
which will be reached by mid-July at the latest.  Republicans such as Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota  say they won’t vote to raise the country’s borrowing
threshold without further slashing spending.  Since the government shut down non-essential services in
1995 the debt ceiling has been increased 12 times. In half of
those instances, Congress waited until the ceiling had been
reached before it was adjusted.  “The market is betting that cooler heads will prevail on
the debt-limit front,” said Credit Suisse’s Jersey. “If they
get a deal done by May or June the market will look past it, but
if it drags on, the market could react very negatively.”  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities increased yesterday to
2.67 percentage points, the most in three years, before a report
this week forecast by economists to show consumer price gains
are accelerating. The spread, a gauge of trader expectations for
inflation over the life of the debt called the break-even rate,
was 2.60 percentage points today.  Pre-Crisis Average  The 10-year break-even rate for the five years before the
onset of the financial crisis in 2008 averaged 2.42 percentage
points. It touched 2.74 percentage points in May 2006.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said the  U.S.
economy  is “far away” from what policy makers aim for on
employment and job creation to allow for an exit from record
stimulus. The 8.8 percent jobless rate will decline “slowly,”
Dudley said during a panel discussion in  Hong Kong  today.  Consumer prices gained 2.6 percent in March from a year
earlier, after increasing at a 2.1 percent pace in February,
according to the median forecast of 40 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before a Labor Department report on April 15. Core
prices, which exclude food and fuel, may have climbed at an
annual pace of 1.2 percent, from 1.1 percent the previous month.  The New York Fed will release its monthly schedule for its
Treasury purchases including those for its program to purchase
$600 billion of the securities through June to support the
economy. The announcement is scheduled for 2 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  