-- 
Law Enforcement, Environment Funds Cut in U.S. Budget Deal

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-04-12T19:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/republicans-democrats-reach-agreement-on-38-billion-of-u-s-budget-cuts.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, high-speed rail and law enforcement are among the
programs targeted for budget cuts as part of a long-fought deal
to avert a government shutdown.  Details of the cuts for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30
were unveiled this morning. They are the result of a compromise
to produce more than $38 billion in savings reached last week
among President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders just
hours before the government’s spending authority was to run out.  The measure maintains funding for the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting, the AmeriCorps volunteer program, the
public financing of presidential campaigns and job training
grants to states, all of which Republicans had slated for
elimination.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, called the bill “the result of this new
Republican majority’s commitment to bring about real change in
the way Washington spends the people’s money.”  Obama and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, “made a bad situation less bad” in negotiations with
the Republicans, second-ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer told
reporters today.  Hoyer, of Maryland, said he and many other  House Democrats 
remain undecided about whether to vote for the measure. “We
will have to see, first of all, what the specifics are of the
legislation,” he said.  Obama Speech  Obama is scheduled to give a speech tomorrow addressing
longer-term fiscal issues and a coming vote in Congress on
raising the government’s  debt ceiling . He will call for a
combination of spending reductions on entitlement programs and
tax increases on higher-income Americans, according to a person
familiar with the plan.  The $1.049 trillion legislation for the 2011 fiscal year is
set for a House vote on April 14, with a vote in the Senate to
follow. The bill would replace a stopgap measure keeping the
government in business through April 14 and also bring to a
close the first major budget battle between Republicans who won
the House majority in November’s elections and Obama.  Representative  Norm Dicks  of Washington, the ranking
Democrat on the Appropriations panel, called the measure “an
imperfect result, to be sure, but it represented a compromise
that the president believes is in the best interests of the
nation.”  Republican Reaction  Not all Republicans, who originally pushed for $61 billion
in cuts, were satisfied either.  Jim Jordan  of Ohio, chairman of the House’s Republican Study
Committee, a group of self-described fiscal conservatives,
announced today that he would vote against the plan. “Voters
are asking us to set our sights higher,” he said in a
statement.  Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent who caucuses
wide Democrats, said today he would vote against the plan
because it cuts too much.  Lawmakers announced a framework for cutting the budget
April 8, less than two hours before the government was set to
begin shutting down for the first time in more than 15 years.
They left the question of how to apportion those cuts among
hundreds of individual programs to be settled by congressional
aides who worked through the weekend and into this morning.  The agreement includes $12 billion in reductions already
approved as part of previous stopgap spending bills.  Arts Endowment  A number of programs won a reprieve from the full extent of
cuts  House Republicans  approved in February as part of their $61
billion budget-reduction measure, include food safety
inspections, the National Endowment for the Arts, Head Start,
the  Peace Corps , Community Development Block Grants and Pell
college tuition grants.  “There are many more examples in this vast budget,
examples of programs Republicans wanted to destroy but that
Democrats demanded we protect,” Reid said on the Senate floor
today. “There are many examples where they wanted to cut
recklessly and we insisted on cutting responsibly.”  The maximum Pell grant, which go to students from low-
income families, would remain at the current $5,550; Republicans
had proposed cutting that by 15 percent. Democrats agreed to
instead cut  Pell grants  for students in summer school.  EPA Budget  The Environmental Protection Agency’s budget would be cut
by about $1.6 billion -- about half of what Republicans had
initially proposed, though still a 16 percent reduction. Grants
offered by the Clinton administration’s “COPS”  law enforcement 
program would be cut 17 percent. The  National Institutes of
Health  would be cut by $260 million, rather than a proposed $1.6
billion.  “Democrats in Washington finally got the message,” said
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. “Spending
reductions Democrats recently described as extreme and
draconian, they are now calling historic and commonsense.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission would get slight increases in funding
-- the SEC up $74 million from fiscal 2010 to $1.185 billion,
and the CFTC up $34 million, to $202.7 million. Both agencies
have added responsibilities under the Dodd-Frank financial
regulatory overhaul law enacted last year.  F-35 Engine  The legislation provides $513 billion for the Defense
Department, $2 billion less than Republicans had sought. It
doesn’t include funding for a second engine for the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter, a project backed by House Speaker  John Boehner 
that was killed during debate over his chamber’s draft of the
legislation. The Ohio Republican’s home district is near a plant
that would be threatened with job losses as a result of
defunding the program.  Negotiators dropped a number of policy changes Republicans
had sought, including ones barring funding for the
administration’s health-care overhaul enacted last year and for
 Planned Parenthood .  The legislation does include a Republican “rider” barring
Washington, D.C., from spending local tax money to provide
abortions to poor women. The city’s mayor, Vincent Gray, and
other city officials were arrested yesterday protesting the
provision outside a Senate office building.  “Why should women in the  District of Columbia  be subjected
to a set of rules that no other woman is subjected to?” Gray
said. “This is an absolute travesty.”  Bond Market  On the  bond market , yields in the U.S. are lower now than
when the government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago
even though Treasury Department data show that the amount of
marketable debt  outstanding  has risen to $9.13 trillion from
$4.34 trillion in mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was at
3.53 percent today, below the average of 7 percent since 1980
and compared with the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998
through 2001 period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Derivatives tied to  U.S. government debt  show investor
perceptions of America’s creditworthiness is improving.  Credit-default swaps on Treasuries stand at about 41.5
basis points, according to data provider CMA. The swaps are down
from this year’s high of 51.5 basis points on Jan. 27 and last
year’s high of 59.7 in February. The  price levels  are the
seventh-lowest of 51 sovereign debt markets tracked by Bloomberg
and CMA.  Low borrowing costs mean that the U.S. is spending less to
service its debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
Interest expense was 2.7 percent of GDP in fiscal 2010 ended
Sept. 30, down from 3.8 percent in 2001, the last time the U.S.
had a budget surplus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Investors  The shortfall is also failing to drive foreign investors
away from U.S. financial assets or the dollar.  The class of investors that includes foreign central banks
 purchased  60 percent of the $66 billion in benchmark 10-year
U.S. notes sold this year, up from 42 percent in 2010, according
to the Treasury Department. Foreign investors owned $4.45
trillion of Treasuries as of January, up from $3.7 trillion a
year earlier, according to the latest government data.  The  dollar ’s share of global currency reserves stood at
61.4 percent at the end of 2010, little changed from 61.5
percent in 2009, the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington
said March 31. The euro’s share dipped to 26.3 percent from 27.9
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  