-- 
Richard Prince Fetes Hippies, Beatniks, Punks in Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-04-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/richard-prince-fetes-hippies-beatniks-punks-in-paris-review.html
An unfortunate coincidence or a PR
agent’s dream?  Ten days before the opening of Richard Prince’s first major
exhibition in Paris, a  New York  judge ruled that he violated the
law by creating a series of collages and paintings based on
photographs by Patrick Cariou.  Prince, 61, is a star among the so-called appropriation
artists who pirate images, manipulate them and present them as
their own work. His best-known series feature cowboys, taken
from the Marlboro Man advertising campaign, and blonde nurses
copied from pulp-fiction covers. Ethical issues clearly do not
perturb his clients.  After a 2007 retrospective at the  Guggenheim Museum  in New
York, prices for his works soared. Prince is now one of the
biggest earners on the contemporary art market.  Amazingly, it’s the  National Library , not a museum, that
presents his work to Parisians. Prince is a compulsive collector
of books, from rare first editions to dime novels and porn
paperbacks whose covers are waiting to be blown up, painted over
and sold for a fortune.  The exhibition, “American Prayer,” its title
notwithstanding, isn’t aimed at evangelicals. It’s a homage to
beatniks and hippies, punk rockers and Hell’s Angels and to the
three decades between 1950 and 1980 when the Woodstock
generation discovered LSD, flower power and sexual liberation.  Atlantic Divide  At the center stands a wooden hut symbolizing what the
French call “l’Amerique profonde,” rural America. Here are
some 40 U.S. and U.K. first editions of the same book, glued to
homemade trays. The covers are supposed to illustrate the
differing sensibilities on both sides of the Atlantic.  The hut is surrounded by 17 display cases in which Prince
presents his treasures. They include first editions and
autographed copies of classics such as Nabokov’s “Lolita,”
Kerouac’s “On the Road,” Ginsberg’s “Howl” and Burroughs’s
“Naked Lunch.”  There’s also an early draft of Lenny Bruce’s “How to Talk
Dirty and Influence People,” which the comic abandoned because
he decided it was too raw to be published. Admirers of Truman Capote will be happy to discover him with his bulldog Charley on
a postcard to Perry Smith, one of the two killers immortalized
by Capote’s book “In Cold Blood.”  The National Library has invited Prince to delve into their
own holdings and look for precursors of his heroes --
“paleopunks,” as he calls them. He has come up with proofs of
Baudelaire’s “Flowers of Evil,” a draft of Rimbaud’s “A
Season in Hell” and “Suck,” an early European sex paper,
published in 1969 in Amsterdam.  Naked Brooke  The walls are covered with Prince’s assemblages --
photographs, posters, book covers, and cartoons, reworked and
neatly framed by the artist.  They include a nude snapshot of the actress Brooke Shields,
taken when she was 10. Two years ago, the  Tate Modern  in  London 
was forced to remove it from an exhibition because of concern
that it violated obscenity laws. Whether those laws also apply
in Paris, remains to be seen.  To get you in the right mood,  Bob Dylan , Rosemary Clooney,
the Byrds and others sing in the background.  To complement the National Library show, Prince’s dealer,
the  Gagosian  gallery, displays two series of his variations on
Willem de Kooning’s “Women.” To the Dutchman’s savage females
Prince has added well-endowed males and other figures, some
drawn, some cut and pasted from catalogs and vintage porn
magazines. Prices are revealed only to serious customers.  “American Prayer,” the exhibition at the Bibliotheque
Nationale de  France  (Site Francois Mitterrand), is supported by
Champagne Louis Roederer SA,  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
and Banque Neuflize OBC SA. It runs through June 26.
Information:  http://www.bnf.fr  or +33-1-5379-4949.  Galerie Gagosian is at 4 Rue de Ponthieu. Its show runs
through May 21. Information:  http://www.gagosian.com  or
+33-1-7500-0592.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 