-- 
Ringgit Declines Most in Four Weeks on Growth Risk; Bonds Rise

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-04-12T09:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ringgit-declines-as-imf-flags-risk-to-global-economic-recovery.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit fell by the most
in four weeks on concern a commodity-price rally will undermine
the global economic recovery and prompt policy makers to hold
off from raising borrowing costs.  Government bonds  gained.  The currency retreated for a second day from its strongest
level in 13 years after the  International Monetary Fund  cut
growth forecasts for the U.S. and Japan, citing “key downside
risk” tied to a 20 percent surge in crude oil this year.
Raising interest rates in a year of elections may not be a
popular choice in Malaysia, said Godwin Chan, a foreign-exchange
trader at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.  “If policy makers think the oil rally is transitory in
nature, it’s likely that they won’t rush to raise  interest rates 
in the near term,” said Chan, who is based in  Kuala Lumpur .
“People are selling into the ringgit rally” following the IMF
assessment, he said.  The ringgit dropped 0.3 percent to 3.0280 per dollar as of
5 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, the most since March 15, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 3.0165
yesterday, matching the strongest level since October 1997.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of equities slid 1.5 percent,
the most in almost a month, as an aftershock that rocked Japan
yesterday heightened supply chain disruptions that may dent
exports to the world’s third-largest economy.  The IMF cut its forecast for U.S. growth this year to 2.8
percent from 3 percent, while lowering  Japan ’s to 1.4 percent
from 1.6 percent, according to the  World Economic Outlook  report
published on its website. Together, the two countries accounted
for 20 percent of Malaysia’s exports last year.  Bond Auction  Bank Negara Malaysia will next review interest rates on May
5. Policy makers have kept the overnight policy rate at 2.75
percent since July, after lifting it three times earlier in 2010.
Central banks in  Indonesia  and  South Korea  kept benchmark rates
on hold at policy meetings today.  Malaysia will hold regional elections in the state of
Sarawak on April 16, according to the Election Commission. The
country may hold federal elections by 2013.  Five-year notes rose, driving yields to the lowest in more
than two weeks. The treasury will auction 3 billion ringgit
($991 million) of 15-year securities on April 14.  The yield on the 4.262 percent note due September 2016 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.59 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{David Yong} in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  