-- 
Rio Tinto's '11 Profits Signal No Boon for Shipping Lines: Freight Markets

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-04-12T08:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/rio-tinto-s-11-profits-signal-no-boon-for-shipping-lines-freight-markets.html
Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  will report record profits this year as  Australia  ships
more  iron ore  than ever and still fails to meet Chinese demand
that has increased sevenfold in a decade.  The biggest ore-exporting nation will send 425 million
metric tons overseas, 5.5 percent more than in 2010, according
to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics
and Sciences, the government’s commodities forecaster. Global
seaborne supply of the raw material for steel will fall about 15
million tons short of demand, compared with an 11 million-ton
surplus last year, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  The Sydney-based bank is forecasting a 12 percent jump in
prices this year, on top of 2010’s 84 percent advance, showing
why analysts estimate that Rio and BHP will report gains in
profit of as much as 74 percent. Demand will also strengthen as
 Japan , the world’s second-biggest ore importer, rebuilds after
its worst-ever earthquake. That still won’t be enough to make
shipping rates in the spot market profitable.  “Chinese appetite for iron ore isn’t showing any signs of
abating,” said  Chris Hall , who helps manage $4 billion of
assets at Argo Investments Ltd. in Adelaide, including shares of
BHP. “Add to that all the steel Japan will need to help rebuild
after the earthquake and it’s looking like Australia’s iron-ore
exporters are in for a good year.”  Capesize Rates  Record profit for mining companies won’t necessarily mean
profitable rates for the shipping firms hauling the material.
Rates for capesizes, carriers three times the size of the Statue
of Liberty, slumped 62 percent this year because of a glut of
vessels, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which
publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  Forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
hedge or bet on future transport costs, are pricing in a fourth-
quarter rate of $14,586 a day. While that’s 92 percent more than
now, it’s still less than the $25,000 a day owners of capesizes
valued at $60 million need to cover expenses such as crew and
financing, according to HSBC Shipping Services Ltd. in  London .  Rates are volatile, rising or falling 10 percent or more in
all except two of the last 30 months. The capesize fleet of
1,082 vessels will expand 17 percent this year, compared with a
7 percent gain in demand to ship iron ore, the biggest cargo,
according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. About
90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations.  Commodities Demand  “With the amount of new ships on order, it will not really
be enough to make a massive difference,” said Peter Norfolk, an
analyst at Freight Investor Services Ltd., a broker of shipping
derivatives in London. “It will help, but I wouldn’t expect it
to lead to a significant increase in rates later in the year.”  Investors are already concerned that demand for commodities
may weaken as  China  seeks to restrain growth. The People’s Bank
of China raised  interest rates  for a fourth time in six months
on April 5, before a report forecast to show consumer prices
climbed 5.2 percent last month from a year before, the fastest
pace since 2008.  China’s growth of 9.5 percent this year, compared with 10.3
percent in 2010, will still be three times bigger than the U.S.
and five times that of the  euro zone , according to the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys of as many as 89 economists.  The anticipated surge in iron-ore exports to Japan may be
delayed because the country first has to repair the ports and
roads damaged by the magnitude-9 earthquake and 23-foot tsunami
on March 11.  Steel Association  While the Brussels-based  World Steel Association  said March
25 that most of the country’s steel plants are back to pre-
disaster level, Japan Iron and Steel Federation Chairman  Eiji Hayashida  told reporters March 29 that scheduled blackouts to
cope with power shortages will affect smelters.  Analysts aren’t anticipating any slowdown in demand.
Seaborne supply will expand 4.9 percent to a record 1.1 billion
tons this year and prices in the  spot market  will average $164 a
ton, compared with $147 last year, according to Macquarie.  “It’s an extremely tight market and it looks like it will
stay that way for a while,” said  Jim Lennon , a senior analyst
with Macquarie in London. “We see prices trading in a $150 and
$200 range for the next two years.”  Rio, based in London, will report net income of $19.07
billion this year, or $9.79 per share, a gain of 33 percent on
2010, according to the mean of 17 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Iron ore accounted for 39 percent of revenue last
year and 68 percent of its net income, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Rio is the world’s second-largest iron-
ore exporter, behind Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA.  Analysts’ Estimates  Shares of Rio in London have declined 1.5 percent since the
end of December, trading at a multiple of 7.3 times anticipated
profit. Of 32 analysts covering the company, two rate it a
“sell,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP, based in  Melbourne  and the world’s largest mining
company, will have net income of $22.13 billion, or $4.11 a
share, in its fiscal year ending in June, an increase of 74
percent from a year earlier, based on the mean of as many as 14
estimates. Its Sydney-listed shares increased 8 percent since
the end of December, trading on a price-to-estimated earnings
ratio of 12.4 from about 14 last fiscal year. Of 19 analysts
with recommendations tracked by Bloomberg, none rate it a
“sell.” Iron ore accounted for 21 percent of revenue in its
last 12-month reporting period.  Equity Index  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron
ore miner, will more than double profit to $1.44 billion in the
year to June, or 42.8 cents a share, the mean of as many as 11
estimates shows. Its shares are unchanged this year, compared
with the 4.8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of equities.  Mining companies are contending with ores that yield less
metal and development costs for new mines that have doubled in
five years, according to Macquarie. In Australia, higher
production also means spending billions of dollars on new
railroads and bigger ports able to handle more ships.  BHP is paying $9.5 billion to increase iron ore and coal
production in Australia, including new rail links and extra
loading facilities at  Port Hedland  in  Western Australia , already
the world’s largest bulk export terminal. Perth-based Fortescue
is planning expenditure of $8.4 billion on expansions, including
the construction of 340 miles of railroad.  Rio opened it operations center in Perth in June, with more
than 400 people managing its network of mines, ports, rail and
power lines across the Pilbara about 750 miles north of the city.  The companies also face constraints from weather.
Australian iron-ore exports slumped 13 percent in January, the
most in two years, because rainfall flooded mines in Pilbara.  Crush and Ship  Almost all the iron ore from Pilbara is high-grade hematite,
containing more than 60 percent iron, which is crushed before
being loaded onto trains and ships. It can be fed directly into
blast furnaces without processing.  World trade in iron ore  will rise  4.6 percent to 1.09
billion tons this year, according to Canberra-based Abares.
Growth will quicken to 6.8 percent next year, it said. China
imported 641 million tons of iron ore and concentrate in the
year ended March 31, seven times more than the 92 million tons
shipped in 2001, according to customs data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Iron-ore prices are still holding up,” said  Peter Chilton , who helps manage the equivalent of $790 million at
Constellation Capital Management Ltd., including BHP shares.
“We’re not expecting China to slow down for several years at
least. BHP and Rio have performed better than many people said
was possible a couple of years ago. They’re benefitting from the
out-performance from commodities. While there’s demand for their
products, those companies will do well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  