-- 
Rising Railroad Shipments Show U.S. Expansion Gaining Momentum

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-04-12T18:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/rising-railroad-shipments-reflect-increasing-momentum-in-u-s-expansion.html
Growth in railroad-shipping volume
shows the U.S. economic expansion is gaining momentum, even with
rising energy prices in the first quarter.  Total rail volumes excluding grain and coal shipments rose
7.9 percent to 4.6 million carloads in the quarter ended March
31, according to data compiled by the  Association of American
Railroads  in  Washington . It was the second-highest increase in a
first quarter, following last year’s 9.3 percent rise.  “This is almost double the first-quarter growth rates of
the last economic recession, during the 2003-2006 recovery
period,” said John Mims, a transportation analyst in Richmond,
 Virginia , at BB&T Corp. Rail volumes were on the “high end” of
his expectations for the first quarter, and his projections for
the second quarter assume the pace of volume recovery will
continue.  Rail-car shipments that exclude coal and grain, such as
chemicals and metals, represent the bulk of materials that go
into industrial production, so an increase in volumes bodes well
for the broader economy, Mims said.  “We’ve had no indications from the rails that they’re
pulling back on their projections for strong commodity shipments
throughout the year, which is a strong indication that
industrial production will continue to improve,” he said.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the third-largest U.S. railroad, will increase
margins by reducing expenses as a percentage of revenue this
year and into 2012, Chief Executive Officer Michael Ward said
last week.  Continue to Grow  The company’s plan is “that we’re going to continue to
grow and that we’re going to continue to invest,” Ward said in
an April 6 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  Mims has a “buy” rating on CSX, in Jacksonville,  Florida ,
and on Omaha, Nebraska-based  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , which are
“seeing more margin improvement” because of strong pricing
gains and cost management, he said.  CSX fell 75 cents to $75.46, up 17 percent this year, and
Union Pacific rose $1.24 to $96.59, gaining 4 percent this year,
as of 1:55 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  According to Mims’ calculations, the correlation between
the 12-month average of total rail-car loadings excluding grain
and coal and the  Federal Reserve ’s industrial-production index
is 0.88. A correlation of 1 would show the rail volumes and
index move in lockstep, while a value of zero shows there is no
relationship.  Rising Output  Manufacturing output, which makes up 75 percent of all
industrial production, rose 0.6 percent in February, the eighth
consecutive monthly increase, according to Fed data released
last month.  The gains in the rail industry show the economy was able to
withstand shocks such as severe winter weather, unrest in the
Middle East, the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and higher
gasoline prices in the first quarter, said Art Hatfield, a
transportation analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co., based in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee .  “It’s pretty good when you consider we’re at the tail end
of all the stimulus projects out there,” Hatfield said.
“That’s an indication the economy is beginning to right
itself.”  In its March meeting, the Fed’s policy-making Open Market
Committee said indicators of industrial production “were at
levels consistent with solid increases in factory output in the
coming months” and its business contacts are planning to expand
production to meet an anticipated rise in sales.  “A further increase in business activity also indicated
that the economic recovery remained on track,” according to the
minutes of the Fed’s meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  