-- 
Rousseff Says Brazil to Seek International Rates in 4 Years

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-04-12T16:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/rousseff-says-brazil-to-seek-international-rates-in-4-years-1-.html
Brazil’s interest rates are high in
comparison to the rest of the world and the government will seek
to reduce borrowing costs to international levels during the
next four years, President  Dilma Rousseff  said today.  It’s the second time the president has commented on
Brazilian interest rates since taking office Jan. 1, according
to the presidency’s website. Rousseff earlier this year said
Brazil could cut rates by reducing net debt.  “During my administration, we will necessarily seek rates
compatible with international levels,” Rousseff said in Beijing
today during her state visit to  China . “This is not a situation
that can be resolved by decree.”  Brazilian policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate
by 50 basis points at each of their two meetings this year to
11.75 percent in a bid to cool domestic demand and slow
inflation running at the fastest pace in over two years.  Economists surveyed weekly by the central bank expect
policy makers to raise the so-called Selic by 50 basis points at
the bank’s April 19-20 meeting, according to an April 8 survey
published yesterday. Traders are wagering that policy makers
will raise by at least 25 basis points, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures.  Yields on the interest rate future contract maturing
January 2012 declined after Rousseff’s comments, falling four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.27 percent at
11:28 a.m. New York time.  ‘Great Concern’  Rousseff’s comments show that “no one is talking about
exploding interest rates,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at
Gradual Corretora said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s borrowing costs are the world’s second highest
after  Croatia ’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg data.  Policy makers signaled in their quarterly inflation report
published March 30 that they may also rely on measures other
than rate increases to bring inflation back to the mid-point of
their target range by the end of 2012. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in March from the same
month a year earlier, the highest annual inflation rate since
November 2008.  Spending cuts and measures to curb credit will help slow
domestic demand after Latin America’s biggest economy grew at
the fastest pace in more than two decades in 2010, they said.  The rally by  Brazil ’s real “is a great concern” and the
government is doing everything possible to contain the
currency’s appreciation within a floating exchange-rate policy,
Rousseff said.  The real has gained 4.7 percent in the last month, reaching
its strongest level since 2008 last week.  In trading today, it declined 0.4 percent to 1.5903 per
dollar at 12:14 p.m. New York time from 1.5833 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  