-- 
Rupiah Declines as Central Bank Keeps Reference Rate Unchanged

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-12T10:50:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/rupiah-declines-on-speculation-central-bank-may-hold-key-rate.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah retreated from a
seven-year high as the central bank kept its key lending rate
unchanged for a second month today. Benchmark bonds declined.  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, it said in Jakarta today, a decision predicted by all
18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News after inflation slowed
for a second month in March. Consumer prices rose 6.65 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with an increase of
6.84 percent in February, according to official data released
April 1. Core inflation, which excludes food and fuel,
accelerated to 4.45 percent from 4.36 percent.  “The rate decision was expected after the slower inflation
data in March,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based
economist at  Barclays Capital . “However, core inflation
continues to rise, and that is something investors remain
concerned about. We’re expecting two more rate hikes this year;
one in June and another in the third quarter of the year.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 8,663 per dollar as of 5:17
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 8,637 yesterday, the strongest level since
April 28, 2004.  The currency’s appreciation may continue this year,  Bank
Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution told reporters in Jakarta
today. Still, the central bank wants to ensure the currency
won’t strengthen too fast, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said
at the same briefing.  “Our sense is that we are probably nearing the bottom for
dollar-rupiah,” Sofat said.  Ten-year  government bonds  slipped. The yield on the 8.25
percent note due July 2021 rose three basis points to 7.73
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer
Market Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  