-- 
Russia Seeking Interest-Rate Swaps Boost With Fixed-Rate Gauge

-- B y   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n
-- 
2011-04-12T12:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/russia-seeking-interest-rate-swaps-boost-with-fixed-rate-gauge.html
Russia is seeking to boost the
market for interest-rate swaps by creating a new gauge of the
fixed rate investors are offering to exchange for floating
costs.  The  National Foreign Exchange Association , which has 70
members including banks and brokerages, will begin publishing
from April 15 its new so-called ROISfix rate, Kirill Vergunov,
the central bank’s head of domestic market operations, said in
an interview yesterday. The gauge will show the average of fixed
rates offered by nine banks in exchange for floating. Rates for
one week, as well as one, two and three-month swaps will be set
each day, Vergunov said.  Bank Rossii  introduced the Ruonia, or Ruble Overnight Index
Average, in September as a more transparent indicator of the
cost of lending between local banks. Ruonia is the average rate
31 Russian lenders charge each other for unsecured ruble debt
and, unlike the overnight MosPrime rate, is based on
transactions verified by the central bank.  “By launching a fixing for interest-rate swaps in the
Ruonia rate the National Foreign Exchange Association is making
the first serious step toward the creation of the money market’s
main curve,” Vergunov said.  It could bolster the market for bonds with variable
 interest rates  as the rates on corporate and government local
debt could be tied to ROISfix, he added. Ruonia fell 47 basis
points to 2.52 percent on April 8, the latest available data.  Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest currency trader, and
ICAP Plc already offer interest-rate swaps tied to the Ruonia
rate.  ROISfix “will provide a new boost to the development of
interest-rate derivatives and the development of market
infrastructure,” Vergunov said.  The Moscow-based  Micex Exchange  is working with Bank Rossii
and market participants on trading instruments based on Ruonia,
Dmitry Shcheglov, who oversees futures instruments at the Micex,
said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Artyom Danielyan in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Nicholson at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net  