-- 
Scene Last Night: Mack, Couric, Ephron, Norman Lear, Dr. LaPook

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-12T15:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/scene-last-night-mack-couric-nora-ephron-norman-lear-jonathan-lapook.html
“Congratulations, a million
dollars, that’s terrific,” said  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chairman  John Mack  as he made his way into the gala for Ballet Hispanico last
night.  Mack, a vice chairman of the event, was addressing Kate
Lear, a Ballet Hispanico board member, recipient of the event’s
Civic Inspiration Award and daughter of television pioneer
Norman Lear. She was credited for the event’s breaking a record
by bringing in more than $1 million.  “I’ve known Kate longer than anyone else and she’s still a
babe!” Lear said as he introduced his daughter at the podium.  Ballet Hispanico, which performs across the country and
conducts workshops in New York public schools, was founded 40
years ago.  Sonia Manzano of “Sesame Street” fame received the Creative
Inspiration Award. She noted how much the landscape has changed
for Latinos.  “When we started ‘Sesame Street,’ we wanted children to
know Latins live in America,” she said. “This morning, I taped a
bit with Supreme Court Justice  Sonia Sotomayor .”  Kate Lear recalled how a fellow tenant in her Manhattan
building, Ballet Hispanico Chairman Jody Arnhold, recruited her.  “Jody cornered me in the elevator and pointed at me and
said, ‘You owe it to yourself to learn about Ballet
Hispanico.’” Soon after, she became devoted. “It’s the work
Ballet Hispanico does with children that keeps me glued.”  Other vice chairmen for the event were: Edward Forst, co-
head of  investment management  at Goldman, Sachs Group Inc.;
writer Nora Ephron; and Roland Betts, chief executive officer of
Chelsea Piers L.P.  On the Dance Floor  The company and students performed in the Plaza Hotel’s
ballroom as the 450 guests were grazing on a green-bean salad.
Later the Spanish Harlem Orchestra raised the volume several
decibels, and it was the guests’ turn.  “You’ve got to be aggressive, you’ve got to look your
partner in the eye, and you’ve got to take a risk,” said Ballet
Hispanico’s artistic director,  Eduardo Vilaro .  “I think you should watch us and learn,” added Katie Couric as she locked hands with Vilaro.  Kate Lear’s husband, Dr. Jonathan LaPook, a
gastroenterologist famous for giving Couric an on-air
colonoscopy, took hold of his wife’s arms and busted a few
Spanish moves.  “I can fake it,” he’d said earlier. “It’s about sharp
angles. Every few moments, I sing ‘cha cha cha.’ Sometimes I
break out the moonwalk.” He demonstrated.  Above all, he cautioned: “Avoid that upper-lip bite. Guys
who are not cool tend to do that, and it is a bad move.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 