-- 
Schneider Defies Shareholders Sweating Tyco Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e ,   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-12T20:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/schneider-defies-shareholders-sweating-tyco-valuation-real-m-a.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , which is
weighing a bid for  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , may be betting the
U.S. economy will grow fast enough to make the acquisition cheap
for shareholders who lost $1.7 billion yesterday.  France’s Schneider is working with bankers to assess a
potential takeover of Tyco, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter. Tyco, owner of security-systems firm
ADT, was valued at 8.1 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization last week, lower than 12 of the 14
largest diversified manufacturers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Meanwhile, Tyco’s free cash flow yield is higher than
its biggest peers  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) ,  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ,  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  ITT Corp. (ITT)  and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)   While the acquisition would more than double Schneider’s
North American sales, Tyco may command a $32 billion price tag,
more than the company can “comfortably” finance, according to
Gimme Credit LLC’s Carol Levenson. The prospect of Schneider
attempting the biggest industrial takeover on record by a
European company helped spur a 3.7 percent decline in the shares
yesterday, wiping out $1.7 billion in market value.  “This is a great foray into the U.S. market through a
quality company that is selling very cheaply,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $53 billion. However,
“Tyco’s market capitalization is not inconsequential. The risk
could be that the economy peters out and suddenly Tyco’s
business rolls over,” he said.  Not Imminent  Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Tyco, declined to comment.
Anthime Caprioli, a spokesman for Schneider, couldn’t be reached
outside regular business hours.  Schneider’s shares retreated 3.5 percent to 112.90 euros in
Paris today. Tyco climbed 7.4 percent to $52.33 at 4:01 p.m. on
the New York Stock Exchange.  Schneider’s efforts are at an early stage and no deal is
imminent, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the matter is private. The company would be buying the
world’s biggest maker of security and fire-prevention systems,
as well as industrial valves, businesses largely outside of its
current markets.  The U.S. accounted for 49 percent of Schaffhausen,
Switzerland-based Tyco’s fiscal 2010 sales, with the rest of the
Americas making up an additional 10 percent, according to its
annual filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  U.S. Economy   Schneider, the world’s largest maker of circuit breakers,
also has offerings in industrial automation and energy
management systems for manufacturers, oil and gas companies, and
utilities. About 24 percent of the Rueil-Malmaison, France-based
company’s 19.6 billion euros ($28.3 billion) in revenue last
year came from  North America .  The U.S. economy will expand 2.9 percent this year and 3.1
percent in 2012, extending its recovery from the longest
recession since the Great Depression, according to the median of
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would outstrip
projections for the euro zone of 17 countries to grow 1.7
percent this year and in 2012, the data show.  Tyco’s security solutions unit, including  ADT , benefits
from rising commercial and home construction. The company
estimates that it has 11 percent of the $68 billion global
industry through its sale of residential and commercial
monitoring, video surveillance, card-access and loss prevention
systems. The fire-protection unit offers sprinkler, alarm and
detection systems.  ‘Undervalued and Leveraged’  Schneider “is looking to buy into a vehicle in the U.S.
market that is well-managed, undervalued and leveraged to
sectors of the economy that will grow as the economy continues
to improve,” said  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief
equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which
manages $358.2 billion.  Tyco may fetch more than $32 billion in an all-cash sale,
requiring equity and debt financing, Gimme Credit’s Levenson,
who’s based in Chicago, said in a report yesterday. That would
make Schneider’s potential acquisition of Tyco the largest
takeover of an industrial firm by a European company on record,
Bloomberg data show. It would also be the biggest of any
industrial deal globally after Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s $35.8 billion purchase, including net debt, of
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., which was completed in 2010.  “The magnitude of this transaction would be an absolute
landmark within the industrial sector,” said Ben Uglow, a
London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley. “It’s a much, much,
much broader discussion than simply the fact Tyco looks a little
bit cheap at the moment.”  Biggest Slump  Schneider’s shares retreated 3.7 percent to 117 euros
yesterday in Paris, the biggest slump since March 16, trimming
its market value by 1.2 billion euros to 31.8 billion euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tyco advanced 3.3
percent to $48.72 on the NYSE, boosting its value by about $744
million to $23.1 billion, the data show.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward Breen, 55, took
over in July 2002 after L. Dennis Kozlowski exited amid a
criminal investigation for tax evasion. Since Tyco split into
three companies in June 2007, Tyco International’s shares have
fallen 8.1 percent through yesterday, trailing gains of 3.5
percent for  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell and 20
percent for United Technologies in Hartford,  Connecticut .  Tyco now trades at a cheaper valuation on average than its
peers. Before the news of Schneider’s interest, Tyco was valued
at 8.1 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, less than the 10.2 times
median for diversified manufacturers with market capitalizations
higher than $10 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Only
White Plains, New York-based ITT was cheaper at 6.8 times.  Cash Flow  The company’s free cash flow yield, or the amount of cash
from operations after capital expenses generated per shareholder
dollar, of 10.4 percent is higher than Honeywell, Cooper
Industries, United Technologies, Munich-based Siemens, ITT,
Secom Co. of  Tokyo  and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  in Milwaukee.  “You’re looking to expand into markets that you’ve been
thinking of getting into, but you don’t have any expertise,”
said Federated Investors’ Orlando. “You could develop the
expertise, but it would take years. The alternative strategy is
just to find someone who’s already doing a good job that happens
to be cheap and just go out and pay a premium and buy them.”  While Tyco’s security division and part of its fire-
protection business may be compatible with Schneider’s building
unit, an acquisition wouldn’t fit the company’s focus on energy
management and factory automation, wrote Martin Prozesky, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London .  ‘Strategic Logic’  “We have no doubt that the large European electrical
diversifieds have significant acquisition ambitions here, but
this particular deal doesn’t seem to have much strategic logic
for Schneider,” said Jeffrey Sprague, co-founder of Vertical
Research Partners in Stamford, Connecticut.  Cooper Industries, a manufacturer of switches and other
 electrical distribution equipment , is a “far more credible
target,” for Schneider, Sprague said. Dan Swenson, a Houston-
based spokesman for Cooper Industries, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Schneider would probably seek to sell Tyco’s flow-control
division because it doesn’t fit with CEO Jean-Pascal Tricoire’s
current businesses, according to analysts at New York-based
Morgan Stanley and Vertical Research.  Tyco Flow Control had $3.4 billion in revenue last year. It
may be able to get twice that in a sale because its business in
emerging markets would be attractive to an acquirer, Morgan
Stanley analyst Scott Davis said in a note yesterday.  Credit Ratings  Schneider’s debt is rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and A- by  Standard & Poor’s . Tyco’s is rated A- by S&P while
Moody’s has a Baa1 rating. Both companies may have their
investment-grade ratings cut by one to two notches, according to
 Joel Levington , a managing director at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in  New York .  “It would be a huge deal for Schneider to undertake,”
Levington said.  Overall, there have been 6,823 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $690.8 billion, a 30 percent increase from
the $530.5 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at +1-214-954-9453 or  edufner@bloomberg.net . 