-- 
CFTC, SEC Get Boost in U.S. Budget Deal That Cuts Other Federal Agencies

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-12T16:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/sec-cftc-get-boost-in-u-s-budget-deal-that-cuts-other-federal-agencies.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are rare
beneficiaries of increased funding as part of a budget deal
worked out by Congress for the current fiscal year.  The plan announced today, which imposes $38 billion in cuts
on many federal agencies, adds $74 million to SEC spending for
the rest of the 2011 fiscal year. That will raise the agency’s
annual budget to $1.19 billion as the SEC prepares to meet
additional oversight responsibilities mandated in last year’s
Dodd-Frank financial-regulatory overhaul.  “It’s certainly good to hear that the SEC was not cut back
as some had originally proposed,” said Stephen Crimmins, a
former SEC lawyer who is chairman of the Federal Bar
Association’s securities law executive council. He said the
budget is still well below the $1.3 billion that the Dodd-Frank
Act authorized for this year.  Under the budget deal, the CFTC would also see an
additional $34 million, bringing its budget to $202.7 million
for fiscal 2011. The legislation sets a floor of $37.2 million
to be spent on “the highest priority information technology
activities” -- almost doubling the current spending level.  “I am grateful to have a budget agreement in place that
will provide the Commission with the budgetary certainty we need
to fulfill our statutory mandate,” CFTC Commissioner Scott D. O’Malia said in a statement.  The $1.049 trillion budget legislation, which funds the
government through Sept. 30, is set for a House vote tomorrow
with a Senate vote to follow.  Republicans vs. Democrats  The SEC’s spending became a symbol of efforts to strengthen
financial regulation while being attacked as an example of
ineffective governance by Republican critics, such as
Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey , who heads the House
subcommittee that oversees the agency.  Democrats such as Representative  Barney Frank  of
 Massachusetts  had accused Republicans of trying to undercut
Dodd-Frank by underfunding the regulators.  The congressional budget debate ended with an agreement
late last week just before a partial shutdown of the government
that would have shuttered many agency functions.  The securities regulator’s spending is offset by fees on
firms it regulates, however its spending must still be approved
by Congress.  ‘Sad Story’  “It’s kind of a sad story to see an agency that uses no
tax dollars at all and has zero deficit impact being starved
like this,” said Crimmins, a partner at the K&L Gates law firm
in  Washington .  In one concession to Republicans, the budget deal requires
the Government Accountability Office to conduct an annual study
on “the impact of regulation on the financial marketplace,
including the effects on the safety and soundness of regulated
entities.”  The SEC and CFTC have been held to the previous fiscal
year’s spending levels even though regulators have been working
to implement hundreds of new rules under Dodd-Frank.  “We’re stretched incredibly thin,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in an April 8 speech at the Society of American
Business Editors and Writers conference in  Dallas . “We can get
the rules written, but what we’re not going to be able to do is
operationalize them.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined immediate
comment on the budget increase.  -- With assistance from Silla Brush and Brian Faler in
Washington. Editors: Maura Reynolds, Gregory Mott  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 