-- 
Serbia Grants Telekom Austria Extension for Phone Company Bid Until May 3

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-04-12T14:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/serbia-grants-telekom-austria-extension-for-phone-company-bid-until-may-3.html
The Serbian government gave  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA)  three more weeks to work on its offer for a 51
percent stake in Telekom Srbija AD before deciding whether to
accept or reject it.  Telekom Austria has offered as much as 950 million euros
($1.38 billion) in cash and 450 million euros in investments
over three years, less than the 1.4 billion euros in cash
demanded by Serbia. The  Finance Ministry  said in a statement
from Belgrade that it granted an extension to May 3 at the
request of the Austrian company, which cited the need to
“submit additional information.”  The administration of Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  is
aiming for the highest price it can get for the main phone
company to bolster the economic recovery, trim the  budget
deficit  and steer the Balkan country closer to the European
Union.  “This shows that both sides are interested in a deal,”
said Bernd Maurer, an analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG in
Vienna. “Maybe they will come to a conclusion via
negotiations.”  Maurer rates Telekom Austria at “hold.” Telekom Austria
shares fell 0.6 percent to 10.26 euros in Vienna at 4:11 p.m.,
snapping two days of increases.  East Europe Holdings  The Austrian phone company, which runs mobile networks in
seven east European nations, placed the sole bid on March 21 for
the stake, putting pressure on the government to accept an offer
it deems insufficient.  Cvetkovic said earlier today that the Telekom Austria still
has not turned over its final bid, which  Serbia  wants improved
if formal talks are to begin.  “The Austrian company has got the additional 15 days to
complete its documentation and adjust the financial part of
their offer to conditions set in the tender,” the Finance
Ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  jagomez@bloomberg;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  