-- 
Serbian Inflation Accelerates to Fastest Pace Since June 2008

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-04-12T15:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/serbian-inflation-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-since-june-2008.html
Serbia inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in almost 3 years in March as imported food and
fuel-price pressures blunt the effects of  Europe ’s highest
benchmark interest rate.  The inflation rate rose to 14.1 percent from 12.6 percent
in February, the Belgrade-based statistics office said today in
a statement. The result compared with the median forecast of
11.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey. On the month, consumer
prices advanced 2.6 percent, the most since the office began
tracking consumer prices in January 2007.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and oil costs rise amid turmoil
in the Middle East. The Narodna Banka Srbije hopes to slow
inflation to the upper end of its 3 percent to 6 percent target
band by the end of 2011. It has raised the benchmark interest
rate three times this year, including a quarter-point increase
on April 7 to put the two-week repurchase rate at 12.5 percent.  It “seems to us that the NBS is gradually accepting the
fact that even if they push the key rate to the sky, the year-
end target will still be out of the reach,” analysts at
Raiffeisenbank’s unit in Belgrade wrote today in a note.  Food and beverage prices rose 5.3 percent on the month in
March, and were 22.9 percent higher on the year, the statistics
office said.  A stronger dinar has helped damp inflation pressures,
though the central bank shouldn’t rely on the currency as a main
tool against consumer-price growth, said Stojan Stamenkovic, an
economic adviser to Premier Mirko Cvetkovic.  The dinar has gained 4.3 percent against the euro since the
start of the year, mainly driven by capital inflows attracted by
high-yielding Serbian debt.  “ Monetary policy  has become increasingly inefficient
because it doesn’t regulate surplus dinar liquidity created by
the government’s debt issues,” said Vladimir Vuckovic, a member
of the Fiscal Council. “The dinar is getting stronger and
no one is draining the dinar liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  