-- 
Serbian GDP May Grow 3% in 2011, Inflation a Risk, IMF Says

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-04-12T16:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/serbian-gdp-may-grow-3-in-2011-inflation-a-risk-imf-says-1-.html
Serbia ’s economy will probably grow
3 percent this year, putting the Balkan nation “in the middle
of the pack” for the region, said Bogdan Lissovolik, the
International Monetary Fund representative in Serbia.  “Serbia is a good place to invest, certainly as far as I
have seen over the two years that I’ve been here,” Lissovolik
said today at a news conference in Belgrade.  Lissovolik spoke three days before a 3 billion-euro ($4.3
billion) IMF bailout expires. Serbian officials have said they
plan to ask for a new, precautionary loan program, whose size is
yet to be negotiated. The deal would provide a safety net,
helping Serbia move toward a sustainable economic recovery,
without necessarily drawing on the funds.  Inflation, which accelerated to an annual rate of 14.1
percent in March, remains “by far” Serbia’s biggest challenge
as neighboring countries also face pressure from increasing food
and fuel prices, Lissovolik said.  “The overstaffed public sector, which serves as an
excessive wage leader and drives up regulated prices,” is among
the biggest issues facing Serbia, he said.  Lissovolik also advised the country to spend more on public
investment than the current 3 percent of gross domestic product,
overhaul education and health-care programs and strengthen
publicly owned companies. Inadequate infrastructure as the
biggest deterrent to investment in Serbia, he said.  “Serbia’s public debate has to shift from divide-the-pie
to grow-the-pie issues,” Lissovolik said.  The prospect of joining the European Union is a good goal
for Serbia and may help ensure pro-growth policies, he said.  Serbia’s economy grew 1.9 percent last year after shrinking
3 percent in 2009. The central bank has raised its benchmark
two-week repurchase rate by 4.5 percentage points to 12.5
percent over the past 11 months as it struggles to control
inflation.  Central bank Governor Dejan Soskic, who appeared alongside
Lissovolik, described the current inflation rate as higher than
acceptable, adding that he expected inflation to slow in the
second half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  