-- 
Shadow-Banking Regulation May Be Hampered by Data Gaps, FSB Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-12T09:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/shadow-banking-regulation-may-be-hampered-by-data-gaps-fsb-says.html
Global regulators said information
gaps may undermine their efforts to limit risks to the financial
system from so-called shadow banks, including  hedge funds .  The  Financial Stability Board  has “already spotted a
number of significant limitations in both the macro and micro
perspectives in monitoring the shadow-banking system,” the
board said in a report on its website today.  Authorities have warned that shadow banks such as
structured investment vehicles, hedge funds and money market
mutual funds, could be used to evade attempts by regulators to
clamp down on excessive risk taking in the wake of the crisis.
The shadow-banking system had liabilities of about $16 trillion
in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York  said in a  report  last year.  FSB Chairman  Mario Draghi  said last week the board will
submit recommendations on how to regulate shadow banks to the
Group of 20 nations before the end of the year.  “Although authorities can provide some data for regulated
non-bank entities, it is extremely difficult for them to provide
high quality information on entities outside their regulatory
perimeter,” the FSB said in today’s report. “It is also
difficult to identify and assess the risks of entities and
activities located in offshore financial centers,” it said.  Separately, the FSB said that financial innovations may be
increasing the risks attached to investment funds that are
traded on  stock exchanges .  “Developments in some segments of the ETF market, but also
of the commodities and high-yield markets, are examples that
warrant closer surveillance by regulatory authorities,” the FSB
said in a statement, referring to exchange-traded funds, or
ETFs.  The FSB was founded in 2009 and brings together regulators
and finance ministries from G-20 nations, as well as
international standard-setting organizations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 