-- 
Singapore Growth Probably Gained; Policy May Be Tightened

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 
2011-04-13T02:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/singapore-s-expansion-probably-accelerated-in-signal-for-stronger-currency.html
Singapore ’s economy probably grew
at the fastest pace in three quarters, stoking inflation and
adding pressure for faster currency appreciation.  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 11.4 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, when it climbed 3.9
percent, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The trade ministry will release the
data at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  The Singapore dollar is close to its highest level on
record and the central bank, which uses the currency to conduct
monetary policy, will favor a stronger  exchange rate  in its
review tomorrow, according to another Bloomberg survey. Asian
counterparts from Thailand to  China  have raised  interest rates 
this year as rising oil and food prices fuel inflation.  “Singapore’s economy remains relatively strong and
inflation is a concern that needs to be addressed,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at OSK-DMG Group in Singapore. “The
policy of a strong  Singapore dollar  has definitely helped and we
are leaning on the central bank to do more this week.”  The Singapore dollar has climbed more than 10 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year, the best performer
in Asia excluding  Japan . It traded at S$ 1.2584 versus the  U.S.
dollar  as of 10:35 a.m. local time today.  Taming Inflation  Singapore’s consumer prices gained 5 percent or more in the
first two months of 2011. The government expects inflation to
moderate and average 3 percent to 4 percent this year “assuming
no further escalation in global oil prices,” Trade Minister Lim Hng Kiang said in parliament this week.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  revalued the currency
in April 2010 and said in October it would steepen and widen the
currency’s trading band while continuing to seek a “modest and
gradual appreciation.” The central bank guides the Singapore
dollar against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band.  The central bank will re-center the band in which the
dollar is allowed to trade, 10 of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted. Six forecast no change from the stance
adopted in the last policy meeting, while four expect faster
gains in the currency will be achieved through a steepening of
the band.  The government is distributing cash to its citizens and
giving out utility rebates to limit the effect of inflation
ahead of general elections that must be held by February 2012.
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ruling People’s Action Party
has unveiled new candidates to compete in the upcoming polls.  Currency Tool  “The government adopts various measures to mitigate the
effects of higher inflation on households,” Lim said. “One of
the key strategies is to allow the Singapore dollar to
strengthen. This would dampen the cost of imported goods
including essential food items. But we are mindful that
strengthening the Singapore dollar too much could hurt export
competitiveness.”  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait, has remained vulnerable to
fluctuations in overseas demand for manufactured goods even
after the government boosted financial services and tourism.  Non-oil shipments may increase 8 percent to 10 percent in
2011, after growing 22.8 percent last year, according to
government predictions.  Tourists are arriving in Singapore in record numbers,
benefiting companies from  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  to hotel
operator Shangri-La Asia Ltd., as the island plays host to more
conventions and exhibitions. The city state’s two casinos run by
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  are also luring
gamblers from around the region.  Las Vegas Sands, the world’s biggest casino operator by
market value, is asking Singapore for more land because it wants
to double the space for conventions at its $6 billion resort,
billionaire Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson 
said in February.  The government expects economic growth of as much as 6
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  