-- 
Small-Business Index in U.S. Fell to Five-Month Low in March

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-12T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/small-business-index-in-u-s-fell-to-five-month-low-in-march.html
Confidence among U.S. small
companies fell to a five-month low in March, damped by a
deteriorating outlook for sales, profits and the economy, a
private survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index decreased to 91.9, the Washington-based group said today
in a statement. February’s reading of 94.5 was the highest since
the recession began in December 2007.  Worsening expectations for sales and business prospects
underscore the damage done by mounting costs for oil and raw
materials. The report also showed the proportion of small-
business owners who reported raising selling prices jumped to
the highest level since October 2008, which may fuel debate at
the Federal Reserve on the outlook for inflation.  “A major force behind the price hikes is the elimination
of inventory excesses which appeared in 2008,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
“The ‘fire sale’ is over and profits are badly in need of some
price support.”  A net 9 percent of small businesses said they raised the
average selling price in March, up from a net 5 percent in
February. The increases began before gains in energy prices
became an issue, Dunkelberg said in the statement, signaling
“these problems for prices lie ahead.”  Those planning to increase prices climbed to a net 24
percent of owners, the highest reading in 30 months, according
to the report.  Fed Debate  The results may concern some Fed officials. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and  Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley are among those
saying the surge in commodity prices will probably have only a
temporary impact.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles
Plosser  and  Richard Fisher , his counterpart at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Dallas , have been among those advocating that
the central bank consider removing monetary stimulus before
inflation flares.  The NBIB’s survey’s net figures are calculated by
subtracting the percent of business owners giving a negative
answer from those with a positive response, and adjusting the
results for seasonal variations.  A gauge of expectations for better business conditions six
months from now dropped 14 points to a net minus 5 percent from
9 percent in February. A gauge of whether small firms think this
is a good time to expand fell 2 points to a net 5 percent.  Sales Expectations  The net share of owners projecting higher sales, adjusted
for inflation, fell 8 points to 6 percent. A measure of earnings
trends decreased by 5 points to a net minus 32 percent.  “It is not clear why owners expect a deterioration in the
economy over the next six months,” Dunkelberg said in the
report. Economic growth and employment “have not been
spectacular, but have maintained positive momentum,” he said.  A measure of respondents planning to hire over the next
three months fell 3 points to a net 2 percent, while job
openings hard to fill held at a net 15 percent. Plans for
 capital investment  rose by 2 points to a net 24 percent.  The NFIB report was based on 811 small-business owner
respondents through March 31. Small businesses represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers and have created 65
percent of new jobs in the past 17 years, according to the U.S.
Small Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  