-- 
Sokol Knew Lubrizol Board Would Be Told of Berkshire Interest, Filing Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-12T15:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/sokol-knew-lubrizol-board-would-be-told-of-berkshire-interest-filing-says.html
Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , which agreed last
month to be bought by Berkshire Hathaway Inc., expanded its
disclosure to regulators to show that  David Sokol  purchased
stock after he was told the company’s board would be notified of
the takeover interest.  Sokol, the Berkshire manager who resigned last month, was
told Dec. 17 by Citigroup Inc. bankers that Lubrizol Chief
Executive Officer James Hambrick planned to discuss Berkshire’s
interest with directors, according to a regulatory filing
released late yesterday. The original filing on March 25 omitted
the disclosure. Sokol bought Lubrizol stock on Dec. 14, sold it
on Dec. 21 and then acquired about 96,000 shares between Jan. 5
and Jan. 7, Berkshire said on March 30.  “On December 17, 2010, Citi informed Mr. Sokol that Mr.
Hambrick had indicated that he would discuss Berkshire
Hathaway’s possible interest with the Board,” Lubrizol said in
yesterday’s filing. The company first learned of Sokol’s stock
purchases on March 30, Lubrizol said.  Sokol, 54, may have made a $3 million profit on the January
purchases after Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire announced its
takeover on March 14, according to the company’s records and
data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is probing whether Sokol bought the shares on inside
information, according to a person who declined to be identified
because the investigation is secret.  Sokol told CNBC on March 31, the day after his resignation
as chairman of Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., that
he doesn’t believe he did anything wrong. “I was making an
investment that I believe in,” according to a  transcript  on the
station’s website.  Warren Buffett , Berkshire’s chairman and CEO,
said that he feels Sokol’s share purchases were legal.  Initial Purchase  Sokol purchased 2,300 shares of Lubrizol on Dec. 14 and
sold them on Dec. 21, Buffett, 80, said in a statement
announcing Sokol’s resignation. Sokol then bought 96,060
Lubrizol shares on Jan. 5, 6 and 7, Buffett said.  Berkshire agreed on March 14 to pay $135 a share, or about
$9 billion, for Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol, compared with
the closing price of $105.44 on the New York Stock Exchange in
the last trading day before the announcement.  Sokol’s stake as reported by Buffett would have been worth
about $9.92 million on Jan. 7, based on the closing price on the
New York Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 27 percent to
$134.06 since Buffett’s deal was announced, boosting the stake,
if Sokol still owns it, to $12.6 million.  Sokol was also CEO of NetJets Inc., Berkshire’s luxury-
flight unit. His resignation as chairman of MidAmerican is
effective April 21, according to an April 1 filing. Ann Thelen,
a spokeswoman for MidAmerican, didn’t respond today to a
telephone message seeking comment from Sokol.  Lubrizol’s expanded regulatory filing was reported earlier
today by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  