-- 
South Africa Needs Lower Interest Rates to Increase Job Creation, IMF Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-12T11:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/south-africa-needs-lower-interest-rates-to-increase-job-creation-imf-says.html
South  Africa ’s central bank should
keep interest rates low as the economy’s recovery won’t be
strong enough to reverse job losses since 2009, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Growth in Africa’s biggest economy is projected to reach
3.5 percent in 2011 and 3.8 percent next year, the Washington-
based lender said in its World Economic Outlook report today.
That’s little changed from estimates published in January.  South Africa’s  Reserve Bank  has left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year,
forecasting that inflation will remain inside its 3 percent to 6
percent target range until the end of 2012. Rising food and fuel
costs are threatening to push inflation outside the target,
adding to pressure on the central bank to raise rates this year.  “Policymakers should remain alert to inflation pressure
from rising commodity prices, especially with limited spare
capacity in many economies,” the IMF said. “For  South Africa 
and a number of middle-income countries where output remains
well below potential, however, continued monetary accommodation
will be appropriate.”  Inflation will probably average 4.9 percent this year and
5.8 percent in 2012, the IMF said. Consumer prices rose an
annual 3.7 percent in February, unchanged from the previous
month, the statistics office said on March 23.  Unemployment  While  consumer spending  is rebounding, manufacturers are
still holding back on investment, undermining the economy’s
recovery. The government says it needs economic growth of 6
percent a year in order to meet a target of creating 5 million
jobs by 2020. South Africa’s unemployment rate of 24 percent is
the highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The IMF left its growth forecast for sub-Sahara Africa
unchanged for this year at 5.5 percent and raised its estimate
for 2012 to 5.9 percent from 5.8 percent.  Ghana , which became
Africa’s newest oil producer, is expected to grow the fastest
this year at 13.7 percent, the IMF said.  The economy of  Ivory Coast , which stalled after a disputed
election on Nov. 28 left the country with two rival
administrations, will probably contract 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 