-- 
South Africa’s IDC Delays Planned 26 Billion-Rand Share Sale

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-12T09:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/south-africa-s-idc-postpones-3-9-billion-share-sale-until-it-needs-money.html
South Africa ’s  Industrial
Development Corp. , which owns stakes in  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  and  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , delayed plans to sell about 26 billion rand ($3.9
billion) of shares to fund new investments because it doesn’t
need the money, Chief Executive Officer Geoffrey Qhena said.  The IDC, a state-owned lender, said on Sept. 14 that it
expected to lend between 105 billion rand and 129 billion rand
over the next five years and that it would need to raise between
53 billion rand and 64 billion rand in funding.  While the IDC intended to start selling shares in the year
through March, none were sold, Qhena said in an interview in
Cape Town yesterday. Some shares will be sold in the current
fiscal year with the timing “determined by the pace at which we
invest,” Qhena said, declining to comment further.  “We don’t want to sell and keep the cash,” he said. “We
have put in a 15 billion rand medium-term note program which we
can tap” if funds are needed.  The IDC, based in Johannesburg, owned 7.9 percent of
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , a steelmaker, and 12.9 percent
of Kumba, an iron ore producer, as of April last year, according
to Bloomberg data. As of November, it also owned about 8 percent
of Sasol, the largest producer of motor fuels made from coal and
gas, the data shows.  According to the company’s annual report for the year
through March, 2010, it owns 30 percent of  York Timber Holdings
Ltd. (YRK) , a lumber producer, and 22 percent of  Merafe Resources
Ltd. (MRF) , a ferrochrome maker.  Investment Plans  Economic Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel  said today that
the IDC will provide 102 billion rand in funding for projects
with potential to create jobs and expand the economy over the
next five years, up from a previous forecast of 66 billion rand.  “This is a dramatic improvement in available funding, made
possible by greater use of the strong balance sheet of the
IDC,” Patel told lawmakers in  Cape Town . The interest rate
charged on “on new IDC loans will be up to 100 basis points
lower for high development impact investments” than charged by
banks.  About 22.4 billion rand will be invested in “green
industries” such as alternative energy projects, 22.1 billion
rand in mining and mineral processing, 20.8 billion rand in
manufacturing, 7.7 billion rand in agriculture and 14.8 billion
rand in tourism.  The IDC intends to help fund a train carriage manufacturing
business with the potential to employ 3,000 people and a chicken
producing project that may create 1,300 jobs, Qhena said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 