-- 
South Africa Considering Covered Bonds to Lower Bank Costs, Regulator Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-13T08:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/south-africa-considering-covered-bonds-to-lower-bank-costs-regulator-says.html
South Africa ’s central bank said
it’s considering laws to allow the sale of covered bonds to help
reduce borrowing costs for lenders.  The South African Reserve Bank’s regulatory division is in
talks with lenders about new rules to allow the securities,
Michael Blackbeard, deputy registrar of banks, said by phone
from  Pretoria . The bonds, pioneered in 18th-century Prussia, get
higher credit ratings because they’re backed by mortgages or
public-sector loans and are guaranteed by the issuer.  Banks in Africa’s biggest economy may save between 20
percent and 38 percent by selling covered bonds, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Allowing lenders to sell the bonds
may require changes to the Banks Act, which would have to be
made by the country’s parliament, Blackbeard said, without
giving a timeframe.  “It’s all about finding cheaper ways of financing,” Bruce
Stewart, head of debt origination at Nedbank Capital, a unit of
South  Africa ’s fourth-largest bank, said by phone from
Johannesburg yesterday. “You may see it replacing normal
subordinated unsecured debt.”  Known as Pfandbriefe in  Germany , covered bonds were created
by Frederick the Great of Prussia in 1770 when aristocrats
needed credit after parts of the country were devastated by the
Seven Years War. The bonds made up about 46 percent of European
bank issuance this year, up from 37 percent in 2010, according
to  Barclays Capital . The debt is also sold in  Canada  and New
Zealand, while  Australia ’s parliament is considering draft
legislation to allow the securities.  Cost Saving  Moody’s estimated savings of 20 percent for Australia’s
banks when Treasurer  Wayne Swan  announced in December that he
planned to allow the sales. Bank of  New Zealand  priced NZ$425
million ($333.4 million) of covered bonds in June, the nation’s
first such sale, at a 38 percent discount to what lenders would
pay on senior debt, Moody’s said in a report at the time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold covered bonds in
euros rather than government debt has fallen to an average 152
basis points, or 1.52 percentage points, from 183 at the end of
December, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Covered Bond Index. The spread fell for the past three months,
the longest winning streak since spreads shrank for the seven
months ending September 2009.  ‘Down the Waterfall’  Covered bonds would have priority for payment over senior
unsecured debt, which South African banks use to raise most of
their liquid regulatory capital.  “From a banking perspective, it is going to be great and I
can see why they’re pushing it,” said Michael van Rensburg, who
helps manage about 100 billion rand ($14.8 billion) at
Futuregrowth Asset Management in  Cape Town , a unit of Old Mutual
Investment Management, the country’s biggest investor. “But as
an investor, you’re putting yourself at a disadvantage. You
bought debt a year or two years ago, and priced it according to
the prevailing risks, and now you automatically move down the
waterfall. Nobody is going to reimburse you for moving down the
waterfall.”  Making the regulatory changes to allow South African banks
to sell the securities will be a long process, possibly taking
more than a year, Nedbank’s Stewart said.  “It’s a great idea but South Africa’s regulatory regime is
not quick,” he said. “It certainly is rigorous and thorough,
and it keeps us safe.”  South African lenders first made a proposal to introduce
covered bonds to the country’s central bank in 2008. It was
rejected by the regulator because the bonds would supersede
depositors’ claims, Rand Merchant Bank analysts Elena Ilkova and
Jana Kershaw wrote in a March 4 research note.  Basel Rules  The debate has been reopened because Basel III rules
recognize covered bonds as tradeable assets for the purposes of
regulatory capital reserves.  “Banks need to diversify their funding mix,” Ilkova and
Kershaw wrote. “Covered bonds will be another, cheaper
option.”  In the aftermath of  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record,
concerns about stability in the Gulf, and bailouts for Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal , banks in  Europe  issued 36 percent less
unsecured notes than a year ago and relied instead on covered
bonds.  The securities may offer higher yields than  government
bonds , without significantly increasing the risk profile of a
portfolio, said Victor Mphaphuli, who helps oversee about 165
billion rand of fixed-interest investments at Stanlib Asset
Management in Johannesburg.  “As an asset class, covered bonds would be welcome,”
Mphaphuli said by phone. “It is always better to have more
asset classes for investors to look at in order to balance
risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  