-- 
Stark Says ECB Intends to Raise Its Interest Rates at ‘Appropriate’ Pace

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-04-12T14:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/stark-says-ecb-intends-to-raise-its-interest-rates-at-appropriate-pace.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said the bank will raise  interest
rates  and withdraw other emergency measures at an appropriate
pace.  “The ECB will adjust its policy interest rates and its
provision of liquidity at a pace and to a degree commensurate
with the evolution of risks to price stability and as
appropriate to maintain an orderly and functional monetary
policy transmission,” Stark said in a speech in Hong Kong
today. “As with the phasing-in of non-standard measures, there
are no pre-defined steps between phasing them out and exiting
from very low policy interest rates.”  Stark’s comments indicate the Frankfurt-based ECB has
embarked on a gradual tightening cycle even though President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week’s rate increase, the first in
almost three years, wasn’t necessarily the start of a series.
Officials are balancing the need for higher borrowing costs in
countries like  Germany , whose economy is booming, against the
risk that they could exacerbate the sovereign debt crisis
afflicting peripheral euro-area nations.  The ECB on April 7 lifted its key rate to 1.25 percent from
a record low of 1 percent to stem faster inflation. At the same
time, it maintained programs to provide unlimited liquidity to
banks and purchase the bonds of debt-strapped governments.  ‘More Normal’  These “non-standard monetary policy measures are an
extraordinary response to exceptional circumstances” and are
“temporary in nature,” Stark said. “A return to a more normal
liquidity management and to a more moderate scale of central
bank intermediation is warranted to avoid distortions in
financial incentives with longer-term adverse consequences for
the economy.”  The ECB’s stance contrasts with that of the U.S. Federal
Reserve, which is mandated to contain inflation and nurture
economic growth and is reluctant to raise its key rate from near
zero. Speaking at the same event as Stark in Hong Kong today,
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley
said the  U.S. economy  is “far away” from what the Fed aims for
in terms of employment and job creation.  Dudley’s comments suggest the Fed will maintain its
quantitative easing through June as planned and that “U.S.
rates are not going up anytime soon,” said  Nick Kounis , an
economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “The remarks of the ECB and
Fed officials emphasize the chasm that has opened up between the
direction of monetary policy on either side of the Atlantic,”
he said.  Inflation Breach  The policy divergence is driving the euro up against the
dollar. It reached $1.45 today for the first time since January
2010.  Stark suggested the ECB can keep raising rates while
leaving some non-standard measures in place, saying they can
“coexist with any interest rate level.”  “The maintenance of price stability over the medium term
guides all monetary policy decisions,” he said.  Inflation breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit in December
and accelerated to 2.6 percent last month, the fastest pace in
more than two years. The ECB aims to keep inflation just below 2
percent.  Policy makers will follow last week’s rate increase with 25
basis-point steps every three months, taking the benchmark to
1.5 percent in July and 1.75 percent in October, according to
the median of 20 estimates in the Bloomberg News survey. The
pattern will continue in 2012 with increases every quarter, so
that the key rate reaches 2.75 percent before the end of next
year, the survey shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  