-- 
Statoil Chief Says ‘Important to Show’ Can Succeed in Shtokman

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-04-12T09:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/statoil-chief-says-important-to-show-can-succeed-in-shtokman.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ’s chief said the
Norwegian explorer’s main focus in Russia is the Shtokman Arctic
natural-gas project and that it is “important to show” that
the venture can succeed.  “Our focus in Russia has first and foremost been on
Shtokman -- it’s a big and complicated project, so it’s
important for us to show that we can succeed in this and learn
from it, and it’s important for us to signal that it’s our main
priority to make it happen,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund 
said today in an interview in Bergen,  Norway .  OAO Gazprom,  Total SA (FP)  and Statoil will reconfirm time lines
for development when they meet this month to discuss an
 investment decision , Pavel Oderov, the head of Gazprom’s
international business department, said last week. The partners
had planned to decide last month on investment in pipeline gas
from the offshore field, which holds enough gas to meet world
demand for one year. The project has been delayed on concerns
that markets are oversupplied and over costs.  “We’re in the process of finishing the development of the
technical concept and then all the other conditions need to be
in place for an investment, that is to say everything that has
to do with commercial and fiscal terms,” Lund said.  Shtokman Development is seeking tax breaks similar to those
granted for projects on the Yamal Peninsula, Peter Mellbye,
Statoil’s head of international development and production, said
in an interview last month. Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir
Putin  in October told the government to consider making gas
produced for LNG on Yamal exempt from the mineral extraction tax
for as long as 12 years. Russia raised the tax for gas by 61
percent this year.  Yamal LNG  Gas output at Shtokman is still expected to start in 2016
and LNG output the year after, according to Mellbye. Shtokman
Development is 51 percent owned by Gazprom, while Total owns 25
percent and Statoil 24 percent.  Total last month agreed to buy 12 percent of OAO Novatek
for $4 billion and gain a 20 percent stake in Yamal LNG. Lund
declined to comment on whether Statoil was in talks with Novatek
to join Yamal.  “We have to weigh the business opportunities in  Russia  up
against the alternatives we see elsewhere,” Lund said.  LNG is gas cooled to liquid to ease shipping and storage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  