-- 
Strong Australia Dollar Imposes Burden on Economy, Swan Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-12T07:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/swan-says-strong-australia-dollar-imposes-burdens-on-economy.html
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the
appreciation of  Australia ’s currency was a burden on parts of
the nation’s economy, echoing comments made by Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  last month.  “A higher currency for Australia means that it has an
impact on many of our export industries such as tourism and the
export of educational services and those types of industries,”
Swan said in an interview in Canberra today. “There is no doubt
that it is a burden for some of those industries.”  The so-called Aussie has risen 13 percent over the past
year to $1.051 as of 5:10 p.m. in Sydney, the third-best
performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The currency reached $1.0584 on April 8, the strongest since
exchange controls were removed in 1983.  Swan heads to the U.S. to attend meetings of the  World
Bank , International Monetary Fund and Group of 20. He said
currencies would be discussed as part of addressing so-called
global financial imbalances.  “We have a floating  exchange rate  which we are committed
to and we want to see market mechanisms in place
internationally,” Swan, 56, said. “That is an important part
of the discussion at the G-20 and IMF about how we reduce global
financial imbalances.”  Bond Market  Swan, asked about imposing a minimum on bond issuance as
the budget moves into surplus in 2012-13, said Australia’s
 Council of Financial Regulators  is considering the future of the
 debt market .  “I am in the process of consulting with them now about
what their views are about the future of the bond market,” Swan
said.  Australia had the second-lowest debt among Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development members at 8.1 percent of
gross domestic product in 2009 and there are currently A$171.7
billion ($179 billion) in bonds outstanding.  Australia’s GDP will increase 3 percent in 2011, half a
percentage point lower than an October estimate, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its semi-annual World
Economic Outlook released this week.  “I’ll be highlighting the financial strengths and
underpinnings of the Australian economy and the very bright
prospects we have,” Swan said. “Australia is a great place to
invest and you can see that in the very strong investment
pipeline currently in place.”  Australia’s central bank paused interest-rate increases
this year to allow Queensland state to recover from torrential
rains and storms. In contrast, policy makers from Beijing to
Frankfurt are trying to stamp out inflation with higher rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  