-- 
Swaziland Security Forces Fire Tear Gas, Water Cannons to Break Up Protest

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-04-12T16:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/swaziland-labor-union-leaders-arrested-ahead-of-protest-against-government.html
Swaziland security forces arrested
union leaders and fired tear gas and water cannons to break up
anti-government protests in the southern African nation,
protesters and labor unions said.  About 1,000 people marching in Manzini were forced off the
streets by police and some were beaten, Memory Masuku, an
agricultural union member, said in an interview in Swaziland’s
main industrial city about 40 kilometers (25 miles) east of the
capital, Mbabane. The U.S. is concerned by the government’s
response to the protest and urged restraint during
demonstrations, the country’s Mbabane-based embassy said in an
e-mailed statement.  Unions are demanding change in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s last
absolute monarchy, after a fiscal crisis led the government to
raise taxes, cut recurrent spending and press civil servants to
retire. A Facebook campaign called a mass uprising today.
Security officials are questioning people at the regional
headquarters in Manzini, police spokeswoman Wendy Hleta said by
phone. Protests are due to continue tomorrow.  “The security forces are literally grabbing everyone they
can lay their hands on from the streets and detaining them,”
Johannesburg-based Cosatu said in an e-mailed statement, citing
unions officials in Swaziland.  Members of Cosatu and the youth wing of South Africa’s
ruling  African National Congress  protested at the border with
Swaziland, demanding that political parties are unbanned, a
multiparty democracy is introduced and that all laws preventing
freedom of association and choice be repealed, Cosatu said.  Block Border  The union federation will block the border and stop trade
between the two countries if the Swazi government doesn’t adhere
to the demands within two weeks, it said.  South African unions backed the protests as the budget cuts
threaten to drive up Swaziland’s 43 percent unemployment rate
and push thousands of people to search for work in  South Africa .
Many Swazi workers are employed in South African mines and other
industries.  Swaziland Solidarity Network, an activist group, said
police were stopping buses from traveling into city centers and
security forces weren’t allowing students to leave their
university campuses.  The government should negotiate with protesters to
construct a “political system suitable for the demands of the
21st century,” Cape Town-based Institute for Democracy in South
Africa said.  “If the events in Swaziland are anything to go by, the
citizen protests against unaccountable and totalitarian
leaderships currently sweeping across Africa and the Middle East
may well be spreading to the Southern African Development
Community states,” the policy group said in an e-mailed
statement.  14 Wives  Swaziland, Africa’s third-biggest sugar producer wedged
between South Africa and  Mozambique , wants a $100 million loan
from the  African Development Bank  and asked the  International
Monetary Fund  on April 8 for a six-month “staff-monitored
program” after income from a regional customs union declined
during the global economic crisis. The IMF and AfDB have told
the government it must cut state jobs.  The nation’s 1.2 million people are ruled by 42-year-old
King Mswati III, who appoints the prime minister. Lawmakers
aren’t allowed to belong to a political party. Security forces
have quashed opposition protests during 32 years of emergency
rule, and arbitrarily detained and assaulted human rights
activists, according to  Amnesty International .  Mswati, who has 14 wives, has a personal fortune of $200
million,  New York ’s Forbes Magazine said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  