-- 
Swedish Inflation Rate Exceeds Target for Fourth Month in March

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-12T07:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/swedish-inflation-rate-exceeds-target-for-fourth-month-in-march.html
Swedish inflation accelerated in
March, increasing the likelihood that policy makers will deliver
on a forecast to raise  interest rates  at least four more times
this year.  Headline inflation accelerated to 2.9 percent, exceeding
the central bank’s 2 percent target for a fourth consecutive
month, from 2.5 percent in February,  Statistics Sweden  said
today. The median estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 2.9 percent. On the month, prices rose 0.7 percent.  The Riksbank has raised its benchmark rate five times since
July, bringing it to 1.5 percent in February from a record-low
0.25 percent. The bank is trying to prevent  Europe ’s fastest
recovering economy from overheating and to keep inflation in
check. Governor Stefan Ingves has said he can’t rule out that
the bank may need to raise rates at all five remaining policy
meetings this year.  “Inflationary risks are primarily on the upside,” Svante Oeberg, first deputy governor at the Riksbank, said in a speech
on March 18. “It is quite possible that it will need to be
raised by more than 0.25 percentage points at one or more
meetings and that it will need to be increased to 4 percent
already next year.”  The Swedish economy grew 5.5 percent last year, the most
since 1970, as exports revived along with the global economy.
Sales abroad make up about half of Swedish economic output.  Consumer prices will accelerate faster than previously
estimated in the next two years as higher food and energy prices
trickles through the economy, according to a survey of Swedish
money market participants, purchasing managers and employers
published by the Stockholm-based central bank last month.  The bank will announce its next rate decision on April 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  