-- 
Swedish Builder Aims to Revive AstraZeneca Lab as Research Park

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-04-12T15:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/swedish-builder-aims-to-revive-astrazeneca-lab-as-research-park.html
Swedish construction magnate Mats Paulsson, whose son died of cancer, is leading an effort to
transform laboratories being abandoned by  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  into a
campus aimed at keeping medical research in the country.  Paulsson, who co-founded  Peab AB (PEABB)  with his brother in 1959
and is the building company’s chief executive officer,
 established  a foundation to buy and redevelop the laboratory
site in Lund, Sweden, and pledged 100 million kronor ($16
million) in January. The group is meeting today with about 100
potential investors, said Mats Leifland, who is leaving as
Peab’s deputy CEO to become the research park’s president.  AstraZeneca, the second-biggest U.K. drugmaker,  said  last
year that it’s closing the 80,000-square-meter (861,000 square-
foot) facility,  one of three in Sweden . Leifland said the
London-based manufacturer expects to leave the site by June.
About 32,000 people were employed in  Sweden ’s life-science
research industry in 2009, a 5.9 percent decline from 2006,
according to a  March study  by Vinnova, a government innovation-
promotion agency.  Paulsson “saw how a lot of money and research were about
to leave Sweden,” Leifland said in a phone interview. “What we
wanted to do was to continue the possibility of doing research
at a high level in Sweden.”  The Peab CEO’s son, Stefan, was 40 when he died three years
ago, said Goesta Sjoestroem, chief information officer of the
company. Paulsson, who is from the region near Lund, is
interested in the health of his company’s 14,000 employees,
Sjoestroem said.  Property Sale  AstraZeneca agreed to sell the property, which Peab built,
for 450 million kronor and will turn it over to foundation by
about next January, said Leifland, whose departure from the
Forslov, Sweden-based construction company was announced today.  The first tenants are expected to be identified by then,
with the aid of the potential investors invited to the meeting
tonight, Leifland said. The financial partners would also act as
a support network for researchers and participate as investment
partners, Leifland said. He declined to specify how much the
foundation expects to spend.  Cutbacks in pharmaceutical research in Sweden began as long
as a decade ago, propelled by the former Stockholm-based
Pharmacia AB combining with competitors abroad and selling its
research operations in the country, according to the study by
Vinnova.  “We can see that research in Sweden hasn’t been a priority
through a number of years,” and the facility’s establishment
will be aimed at creating a “world-class” industry in Sweden,
Leifland said.  The research complex will be dubbed Ideon Medicon Village,
the foundation said today in a statement. It will “complement”
the  Ideon Science Park , which focuses on  information technology ,
Leifland said.  Both projects have ties to Lund University. Among the
enterprises committed to setting up at the life-science center
is a cancer research center that the university will set up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  