-- 
Syria Vows Crackdown as Human Rights Watch Decries Deadly Use of Force

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-12T16:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/syria-vows-to-crush-protests-as-human-rights-watch-criticizes-use-of-force.html
Syrian authorities vowed to crush
what they called a conspiracy against the regime as  Human Rights
Watch  said at least 130 people have been killed in a crackdown
against protests and urged authorities to stop using force.  The National Progressive Front said in a statement that it
“distinguishes between the reform aspirations of citizens and
their legitimate demands” and conspirators who are exploiting
protests. “There is no room for complacency in dealing with
these gangs,” it said.  The front is dominated by the Baath party of President
Bashar al-Assad, which has run the country since 1963, and
includes a number of small, mostly leftist and nationalist
groups. It said Syria’s foreign enemies are taking advantage of
the regional wave of unrest to undermine the regime and its
support for anti-Israeli groups.  Syria  backs the Shiite Muslim
Hezbollah movement in Lebanon and the Palestinian Hamas
organization.  Protests have spread throughout Syria in recent weeks,
following a wave of uprisings this year that have ousted
longtime rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  and are threatening the
leaders of Yemen and  Libya . Assad, facing the strongest
challenge to his rule since he inherited power from his father
in 2000, said last month he won’t be rushed into political
changes, and his security forces have killed dozens of
protesters and detained many more.  Near Banias  Security forces attacked the villages of Baida and Ajnad
near the coastal city of Banias, which has one of Syria’s two
oil refineries, said  Haitham Maleh , 80, a former judge, human-
rights activist and lawyer who was recently released from prison
as part of an amnesty.  “The situation is bad,” Maleh said by telephone today.
“After the Interior Ministry issued its statement a couple of
days ago the security forces are out in force. The operation
started at 10:30 a.m. today.”  “There are dead and wounded but I don’t have a precise
tally yet,” he said. “The villages are under siege. Security
forces prevented medical aid from coming into the towns.”  The  Interior Ministry  said it “will not allow the
deliberate mixing between peaceful protests and vandalism to sow
discord and destabilize the established national unity.”  Student Protest  Security forces cracked down yesterday on about 1,500
students protesting on a Damascus campus to demand wider
freedoms in the country, rights activists said. They cited
unconfirmed reports that one student was killed during the
rally. The dean of the sciences faculty at Damascus University,
Mohammad Said Mahasni, denied the reports, the state-run  Syrian
Arab News Agency  reported today.  Syrian security forces in at least two towns have prevented
injured protesters from accessing hospitals and medical
personnel and others from reaching them,  Human Rights Watch  said
in an e-mailed statement today based on interviews with 20
witnesses from three towns.  The New York-based group said at least 28 people were
killed in protests on April 8, bringing the death toll from
almost four weeks of unrest to at least 130.  “The Syrian authorities are responding to protests against
repression with more repression: killings, mass arbitrary
arrests, beatings and torture,” Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East
director at HRW, said in an e-mailed statement. “Syria’s
security forces should free those arbitrarily detained for
participating in public protests and put an end to torture and
ill-treatment of detained protesters.”  Prisoners Freed  Assad ordered the release of 191 people detained amid
unrest in Douma, a suburb of Damascus, Al Watan newspaper
reported yesterday. The decision came after the president met
with relatives of 12 people killed in the city, it said.  The Obama administration is “deeply concerned” about
reports that Syrians injured in protests are being denied access
to medical care and condemns continuing violence in the country,
White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said today.  “The escalating repression by the Syrian government is
outrageous, and the  United States  strongly condemns the
continued efforts to suppress peaceful protesters,” Carney said
in a statement. “The Syrian government must respect the
universal rights of the Syrian people, who are rightly demanding
the basic freedoms that they have been denied.”  ‘Alarming and Outrageous’  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called on Assad to
“guarantee the right to free and peaceful speech and peaceful
demonstration,” her spokesman Steffen Seibert said. Seibert
called the violence against protesters “alarming and
outrageous.”  SANA today published the names, ranks and some pictures of
15 soldiers and policemen killed and another 190 who were
injured in unrest in Damascus, the central city of Homs, the
port of Latakia and the southern town of Daraa, where protests
first erupted in Syria last month.  Among them were nine members of the military, including two
officers, who were killed along with 23 others who were injured
in an ambush in  Banias  two days ago, the agency said. Army tanks
have since been deployed in the town, whose oil terminal is the
nation’s main export point, Al Arabiya television said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  