-- 
Dubai Index Leads U.A.E. Gains on Optimism on MSCI Upgrade; DFM Advances

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-12T13:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-a-e-shares-gain-led-by-dubai-on-msci-upgrade-optimism-dfm-rallies.html
United Arab Emirates shares rose,
sending Dubai’s benchmark to a two-month high, on investor
speculation changes to the exchanges’ settlement system may
secure emerging market status at index provider MSCI Inc.  Dubai Financial Market PJSC gained 3.1 percent. The head of
the bourse said about 30 companies expressed interest in listing
shares in Dubai. Aramex PJSC climbed for a second day this week.
The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  jumped 1.1 percent to 1,590.48, the
highest since Feb. 16, at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate.  Abu
Dhabi ’s gauge rose 0.5 percent. Dubai Group LLC’s $6 billion
debt restructuring is in the final stages, Noor Islamic Bank
PJSC’s chief executive officer said.  The U.A.E. and Qatar are seeking to secure an upgrade from
frontier markets status at MSCI, which will revalue its
assessment in June, according to its website. MSCI indexes are
tracked by investors with an estimated $5.2 trillion in assets,
according to a May report by Shinhan Investment Corp. The so-
called delivery-versus-payment system, an MSCI requirement for
emerging market status, will start April 28, in the U.A.E. after
Qatar introduced the system yesterday.  “We are seeing positive catalysts such as the
announcements that delivery-versus-payment will be implemented
in the U.A.E.,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head
of investment at Royal Capital. “If Qatar and the U.A.E. make
prompt announcements on foreign ownership limits, there could be
an upgrade.”  Marginal Weighting  Foreign investors face limits on the amount of shares they
can own in a company. These restrictions are related to the
company law, the chief executive officer of the DFM Essa Kazim
said yesterday. Under existing regulations, foreign companies
must have U.A.E. nationals as their sponsors and are limited to
a maximum 49 percent ownership, except in free zones. Short-
selling, borrowing and lending are part of a second phase of
changes the regulator will address, Kazim said.  “While an upgrade of the U.A.E. would be a great boost for
local markets, one should not assume that all emerging market
funds will invest in the U.A.E., as the weight will still be
marginal,” Royal Capital’s Talhaoui said. Qatar’s index dropped
0.7 percent, paring yesterday’s 1 percent gain.  Hussain al Qemzi, the chief executive officer of Noor
Islamic, said an accord on Dubai Group’s restructuring is
expected to be signed before the end of June. Dubai Group,
controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is seeking to alter terms on
borrowings after property prices slumped amid the global
financial crisis, limiting access to credit markets.  IPO Backlog  Dubai Financial Market (DFM) , the only Gulf Arab stock market to
sell shares to the public, increased 3.1 percent, the most since
March 20, to 1.35 dirhams. There is a “relatively big backlog”
building up for initial public offerings, Kazim, who is also
chairman of Borse Dubai, said yesterday. The companies that met
with the DFM and Nasdaq Dubai expressed interest in going public
in the next three to five years, he said.  Aramex, the Middle East’s largest courier company, rose 1.1
percent to 1.88 dirhams.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  advanced 0.7 percent, while Bahrain’s
measure declined 0.7 percent. Kuwait’s gauge was little changed
and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  dropped 0.3 percent.  Delivery versus payment is a securities industry procedure
in which payment for a security must be made when the security
is delivered. The payment is typically made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  