-- 
U.A.E. Crackdown Widens as Police Arrest Two More Activists

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-12T16:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-a-e-crackdown-widens-as-police-arrest-two-more-activists-1-.html
Two more political activists have
been arrested in the  United Arab Emirates  after calling for
democratic and constitutional reforms in the Arab federation, a
lawyer and fellow activist said.  Nasser bin Ghaith, an economics professor at the Abu Dhabi
branch of  France ’s Sorbonne University, was arrested April 10 in
Dubai, Mohammed al-Mansouri said in a phone interview late
yesterday. Ghaith has called for wider representation of
citizens on the Federal National Council, which advises the
government.  Fahad Saleh al-Shehhy was detained April 9 at his home in
the U.A.E. emirate of Ajman, al-Mansouri said, after he and
Ghaith participated in an online pro-democracy discussion group
called  UAE Hewar . The group’s website and its page on Facebook
Inc.’s social-networking site have been blocked in the U.A.E.  While the U.A.E. has been spared in the wave of protests
taking place across the Arab world this year, the government has
taken measures to appease its citizens. It said March 2 that it
would allocate 5.7 billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) to fund water
and infrastructure projects in the country’s northern emirates,
which have traditionally lagged behind the rapid development of
others such as Dubai and Abu Dhabi.  “The government is calling these people traitors and
depriving them of basic rights just because they spoke out,”
said al-Mansouri. “We want to be civilized but how will the
world take us seriously if our own people are too afraid to
talk?”  Earlier Arrest  News of the arrests followed that of Ahmed Mansour, an
activist and blogger, who was taken April 8 after 10 police
officers entered his Dubai home, searched the house for three
hours and seized documents and two  laptop computers  belonging to
him and one of his sons, his wife, Nadia, said in a phone
interview the next day.  Mansour was charged today with possession of alcohol, his
lawyer, Abdulhamid al-Kumaity, said. Possession of alcohol is
illegal in the U.A.E. for Muslims or non-Muslims who don’t hold
a government-issued liquor permit. Mansour denies the charge,
according to al-Kumaity.  A spokesman for the federal government declined to comment
on the arrests. No one at the offices of Dubai’s police was
available for comment. Calls and e-mails to the local branch of
the Sorbonne seeking comment weren’t immediately answered.  The three men had signed an online petition calling for
changes that would allow members of the Federal National Council
to be elected. The petition, signed by about 140 people in early
March, also calls for the constitution to be amended to give the
council full legislative and regulatory authority. Half of the
members of the council are elected by a government committee and
the rest are appointed by the rulers of the seven emirates.  On March 17, the government said it set Sept. 24 as a date
for elections to choose council members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 