-- 
U.S. to Have Largest Deficit of Major Economies, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-12T16:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-to-have-largest-deficit-of-major-economies-imf-says-1-.html
The U.S. is set to have the largest
 budget deficit  among major developed economies and should narrow
it now rather than face tough adjustments in the next two years,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The U.S. shortfall will reach 10.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, ahead of  Japan  and the U.K., the
Washington-based agency said in a report released today. It
estimates that President  Barack Obama  will need to cut the
deficit by 5 percentage points of GDP in the next two fiscal
years, the largest adjustment in “at least half a century,” to
meet his pledge of halving it by the end of his four-year term.  “Market concerns about sustainability remain subdued in
the U.S., but a further delay of action could be fiscally
costly, with deficit increases exacerbated by rising yields,”
the IMF wrote in its Fiscal Monitor report, published several
times a year to analyze public finances.  The IMF recommended “a down payment” in the form of
 deficit reduction  this year that would make the government goal
“compatible with a less abrupt withdrawal of stimulus later.”  Obama is set to announce long-term proposals for cutting
the federal deficit tomorrow, following a budget deal he reached
with congressional leaders last week that averted a government
shutdown. In May, the government may be forced to increase the
$14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling to ensure the U.S. will meet
its financial obligations.  Economic Stimulus  The U.S. delayed its fiscal tightening with the adoption of
a package extending tax cuts in December, the IMF said. It
estimates that the stimulus measures, which also include
emergency unemployment benefits, will have a small impact on
growth relative to fiscal costs.  It’s important for the U.S. to start reducing its deficit
“sooner rather than later,”  Carlo Cottarelli , the director of
the IMF’s fiscal department, said at a press conference in
Washington today.  The IMF also called for a U.S. commitment to a medium-term
debt target “as an anchor for fiscal policy.”  China  is the
biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries with a portfolio of
$1.15 trillion in January, according to U.S. government data.
Japan is the second-largest with $885.9 billion.  In Japan, where the government is planning additional
spending for reconstruction after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, the deficit is likely to reach 10 percent of GDP this
year, the IMF said.  The country’s authorities will need to incorporate such
costs into a medium-term plan “backed up by measures more
clearly identified than in the past,” according to the IMF.  ‘Prudent’ Debt  A few days after  Europe ’s Greek-born debt crisis forced
Portugal to seek financial aid from the European Union and the
IMF, the fund said it is “essential” for all advanced
economies to start bringing their debt to “prudent levels” in
the medium term.  It forecast that the average gross domestic debt ratio in
advanced economies will breach 100 percent of GDP for the first
time since the years after World War II. Debt will peak at 107
percent of GDP in 2016, 34 percentage points above levels before
the global financial crisis, the report said.  The IMF estimates that financing needs in the richest
nations will continue to rise this year after surging in 2010,
and will remain high in 2012.  Japan has the highest financing requirements for its
deficit and its maturing debt this year, with the total
amounting for 56 percent of its GDP. The U.S. is second at 29
percent of GDP, followed by  Greece ,  Italy ,  Belgium ,  Portugal  and
 France , all above 20 percent of GDP, according to the IMF.  Euro Members  In the euro region, “market conditions remain tense in
several smaller countries, in part due to ongoing concerns about
possible feedback between the financial sector and the
sovereign,” it said.  As the region narrows its deficit, investors are
“discriminating in favor of countries with credible policy
frameworks,” according to the IMF.  In the U.S., the stronger economic outlook “has been
reflected in higher real yields, leading towards more normal
interest rate levels,” the report said. At the same time, the
 Federal Reserve ’s latest bond purchase program is likely to have
lowered them, it said.  Benchmark 10-year yields fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.49 percent at 10:29 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They will increase to
3.90 percent by year end, according to the weighted-average
forecast of 71 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Tail Risk’  “Rollover problems for the largest advanced economies
remain a tail risk, but one that would entail huge costs for
them and the rest of the world,” the IMF said.  The U.S. in particular has a “lot of credibility,” faster
growth than Europe and less uncertainty about its banking
system, Cottarelli said today. As a consequence, the risk of
problems on its debt management is “relatively low,” he said.  By contrast, investors perceive emerging-market risks as
“benign,” according to the report, with deficits narrowing
amid fast growth and higher commodity prices. The average
deficit in emerging economies will narrow to 2.6 percent of GDP
this year, compared with 7.1 percent in developed counterparts,
the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 