-- 
U.S. Federal Budget Cuts to Hit Cash-Strapped Cities, Transit, Housing

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-12T19:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-budget-cuts-to-hit-cash-strapped-cities-transit-police-nationwide.html
U.S. cities and local governments
will lose at least $3 billion in funds for housing, community
redevelopment projects, public transportation and police and
fire departments as part of the budget agreement that averted a
 federal government shutdown .  The agreement struck between President  Barack Obama  and
Congressional leaders will reduce money for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s community development fund by
$942 million to $3.5 billion, according to a breakdown of cuts
released by the House Appropriations Committee today.  It would also eliminate $680 million from public
transportation grants, more than $700 million from low-income
housing, and $786 million from grants for local agencies that
respond to emergencies.  “It’s definitely going to have an impact at the local
level,” said Greg Minchak, a spokesman for the  National League
of Cities  in Washington. “This is going to mean projects aren’t
going to go forward, cities are going to have to reprioritize
what they’ve been working and we’re going to see layoffs because
of this.”  The community development block grant program is used by
 local governments  from Newton,  Massachusetts  to Los Angeles
County,  California , for road work, public housing and other
projects.  Averting Shutdown  The cuts affecting cities are among those needed to produce
the $38 billion that Obama and congressional leaders agreed to
for the remainder of the 2011 budget year. The reductions
resolved a standoff between the White House and Republican
leaders that last week threatened to force the first federal
government shutdown in 15 years.  The $1 trillion legislation is set for a House vote later
this week, with a Senate vote to follow, as lawmakers push to
bring the budget fight to a close.  City leaders had urged Congress not to cut community
development funding, saying doing so threatened to deal a blow
to their already struggling economies. The Housing and Urban
Development program provides federal grants to states and
localities for affordable housing, infrastructure improvements,
economic development and other projects.  The cut to the grant program was smaller than the almost $3
billion  initially  proposed by the Republicans. The budget
agreement also cuts $600 million from community health centers.  ‘Bad Deal’  In Davenport,  Iowa , Mayor  Bill Gluba  said he’s anticipating
that the budget cut may eliminate some $400,000 the city uses to
keep homeless shelters and job-training programs afloat and
criticized Congress for slashing the budget after its decision
in December to keep in place the Bush-era income tax cuts.  “It’s a bad deal for the least fortunate among us,” said
Gluba, a Democrat. “I’m pretty disappointed in Washington --
all of them -- for essentially abandoning to a big degree those
who need help in our society while at the same time having no
qualms about bestowing huge tax cuts on the wealthiest.”  He said his city can’t make up for lost funds by raising
taxes, which he said would be a burden to elderly residents.  “We don’t have the revenue-raising sources at the local
level,” he said.  Local governments have eliminated 416,000 jobs since their
payrolls peaked in September 2008, before the financial crisis
worsened, and state and local tax collections have yet to
recover to the  peak hit  more than two years ago.  Public Transit  The budget agreement also eliminates new financing for
high-speed rail projects and rescinds $400 million of funds in
previous budgets. The moves save $2.9 billion, according to the
list.  Robert Healy, a lobbyist for the American Public
Transportation Association, said the cutbacks come at a time
when rising gasoline prices are illustrating the need for
investments in public transportation.  “We’re very concerned about the impact of the deal on
public transit and high-speed rail,” he said. “It’s short-
sighted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  