-- 
U.S. Economy: Trade Deficit Narrows Less Than Forecast

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-12T20:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-trade-deficit-narrowed-in-february-as-imports-decrease.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed less
than forecast in February, indicating soaring commodity prices
hurt the world’s largest economy at the start of the year.  The gap shrank 2.6 percent to $45.8 billion from a larger-
than-previously-estimated $47 billion in January, according to
figures from the Commerce Department today in Washington.
Another report showed the cost of imported goods jumped in March
by the most in almost two years.  Economists at Morgan Stanley and Barclays Capital Inc. were
among those cutting estimates for first-quarter growth after the
data showed exports dropped along with imports, failing to make
up for a slowing in consumer spending. The earthquake and
tsunami in Japan may further reduce trade in coming months after
parts shortages caused some factories to close.  “Everything was weaker across the board,” Ted Wieseman,
an economist at Morgan Stanley in  New York , said, referring to
the trade data. “Import prices are reflecting surging energy
prices,” he said, they “are going through the roof and that
has been weighing on  consumer spending .”  Prices of imported goods rose in March at the fastest pace
since June 2009, led by a gain in  crude oil  and the biggest jump
in food costs since 1994, according to figures from the Labor
Department. The 2.7 percent increase in the import-price index
followed a 1.4 percent rise in February. Costs excluding fuel
rose 0.6 percent.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is among policy
makers saying the increase in food and fuel costs will have only
a temporary impact on inflation and consumer spending and
warrants no reversal of record monetary stimulus.  Yellen on Prices  “The surge in commodity prices over the past year appears
to be largely attributable to a combination of rising global
demand and disruptions in global supply,” Yellen said yesterday
in a speech in New York. “These developments seem unlikely to
have persistent effects on consumer inflation or to derail the
economic recovery and hence do not, in my view, warrant any
substantial shift in the stance of monetary policy.”  Stocks dropped as sales at Alcoa Inc. missed analyst
estimates and Tokyo Electric Power Co. said its earthquake-hit
nuclear power plant may release more radiation than Chernobyl.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent to 1,314.16 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. Oil fell, capping the biggest two-
day drop in almost 11 months on the outlook for growth.  Projected Drop  The median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the  trade gap  would shrink to $44 billion.
Estimates ranged from deficits of $41 billion to $50.5 billion.
The Commerce Department had previously estimated the January
shortfall at $46.3 billion.  Morgan Stanley lowered its tracking estimate for gross
domestic product in the first three months of the year to a 1.5
percent annual pace from a 1.9 percent forecast prior to the
data.  Barclays Capital  in New York lowered it to a range of 1.5
percent to 2 percent, down a half point. GDP climbed at a 3.1
percent pace in the last three months of 2010.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which renders
the figures used to calculate GDP, the trade deficit narrowed to
$49.5 billion from $50.3 billion. The figures exceeded the
fourth-quarter average of $45.3 billion.  Exports decreased 1.4 percent to $165.1 billion after
climbing 2.6 percent in January to a record $167.5 billion.
Decreased demand for autos and parts and for capital goods like
semiconductors and engines contributed to the drop.  Imports Fall  Imports fell 1.7 percent to $210.9 billion after climbing
5.4 percent in January, the biggest gain since 1993. Decreasing
demand for autos and petroleum products led the decline.  An early Chinese New Year may have contributed to the
volatility in trade this year. Chinese manufacturers typically
run flat-out prior to the holiday then shut down for at least a
week, according to  Andrew Tilton , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York. The Year of the Rabbit was celebrated on
Feb. 3, slightly earlier than the average timing.  The trade gap with  China  slumped to $18.8 billion from
$23.3 billion the prior month.  A 6 percent drop in the value of the dollar in the year to
April 8 against a weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners is making American-made goods
cheaper for buyers abroad. Combined with growth in emerging
economies, the decrease will probably lift exports later this
year and benefit manufacturers like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   Business ‘Booming’  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is seeing a “slow, steady increase” in demand in
 North America , Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said at
an industry conference on March 23. “Business is booming
outside the U.S.”  The world economy will expand 4.4 percent this year and 4.5
percent in 2012, the Washington-based  International Monetary
Fund  said yesterday in its World Economic Outlook report.
Developing nations will grow 6.5 percent this year and next
while advanced economies will expand 2.4 percent in 2011 and 2.6
percent in 2012, the IMF said.  The earthquake and tsunami in Japan may hamper trade flows
as parts shortages shutter factories.  “We’re going to have some headwinds in the first half of
the year, given the  Japan  situation, though we do expect trade
to pick back up,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’re going to have
some disruptions in the supply chain, especially in the auto
side, with all the news coming out of Japan.”  Crude Oil  Amid stronger global growth and turmoil in the Middle East,
commodity costs are on the rise. The average price of a barrel
of imported crude oil climbed to $87.17 in February, today’s
trade figures showed, the highest since October 2008. Americans
responded to the increase by importing 242 million barrels in
February, the fewest in 12 years.  Increases in food and fuel costs have hurt consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
Household purchases probably climbed at a 2 percent annual pace
in the first quarter, half the 4 percent gain in the previous
three months, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  