-- 
U.S. Trade Gap Probably Narrowed in February as Exports Climbed

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-trade-gap-probably-narrowed-in-february-as-exports-climbed.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
narrowed in February from a seven-month high as overseas demand
for American goods outpaced the rising cost of imported oil,
economists said before a report today.  The gap shrank to $44 billion from the $46.3 billion
shortfall in January, according to the median of 71 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department data.
Another report may show the price of goods from abroad increased
in March by the most in more than a year.  Countries from  Russia  to  Indonesia  are ramping up demand
for U.S. goods as their economies grow, benefiting manufacturers
like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  The global expansion is also pushing up
costs of commodities like fuel, which means it will be difficult
for the  trade gap  to narrow much more in coming months.  “Energy prices and energy imports are going to combine to
make the energy trade gap worse, but we’re seeing very strong
export demand right now,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . Sales
overseas “will also help offset the increase in U.S. consumer
demand that’s driving imports.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates of economists surveyed ranged from
gaps of $50.5 billion to $41 billion.  January’s deficit was the widest since June as demand for
crude oil helped push imports up by 5.2 percent, the biggest
jump since 1993.  Growth Outlook  The world economy will expand 4.4 percent this year and 4.5
percent in 2012, the Washington-based  International Monetary
Fund  said yesterday in its World Economic Outlook report.
Developing nations will grow 6.5 percent this year and next
while advanced economies will expand 2.4 percent in 2011 and 2.6
percent in 2012, the IMF said.  Amid stronger global growth and turmoil in the Middle East,
commodity costs are on the rise. The price of imported petroleum
climbed 3.7 percent in February from the prior month and was up
3.5 percent from a year earlier, Labor Department figures show.  Labor Department figures today will show the cost of goods
from abroad increased 2.1 percent in March from a month earlier,
the biggest gain since June 2009, after rising 1.4 percent in
February, according to the Bloomberg survey median. They rose
8.6 percent from a year earlier, according to the forecasts.  A weaker dollar is making American-made goods cheaper for
buyers abroad, boosting exports and generating more orders to
U.S. manufacturers, the drivers of the economic recovery. The
currency has fallen 6 percent in the year to April 8 against a
weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest trading
partners. It’s lost 17 percent since reaching an almost five-
year high on March 3, 2009.  Factory Gains  Increased overseas demand helped manufacturing expand in
March at close to the fastest pace in almost seven years. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index was little
changed at 61.2, after February’s 61.4 reading that was the
highest since May 2004, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
April 1. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  With factories churning out more goods to meet growing
global demand, their shares have strengthened. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial Machinery Index, which includes
manufacturers such as Caterpillar and Deere & Co., has jumped 37
percent in the past 12 months, compared with an 11 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 .  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is seeing a “slow, steady increase” in demand in
 North America , Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said at
an industry conference on March 23. “Business is booming
outside the U.S.”  The Peoria, Illinois-based company may also benefit from
President Barack Obama’s April 7 decision to ask Congress to
approve a free-trade agreement with  Colombia , one of
Caterpillar’s 10 largest U.S. export markets by country.  “Colombia is a huge market for us,” Oberhelman said in an
interview March 30. “There’s infrastructure, there’s mining. We
send a lot of equipment today, all of it built in the Midwest,
most of it built in central  Illinois .”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  