-- 
U.S. Deficit to Rise to Largest Among Major Economies, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-12T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-deficit-will-expand-to-largest-among-major-world-economies-imf-says.html
The U.S. is set to have the largest
budget deficit of major developed economies this year and should
narrow it now rather than face tough adjustments in the next two
years, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The U.S. shortfall will reach 10.8 percent of its gross
domestic product this year, ahead of  Japan  and the U.K., the
Washington-based IMF said in a report released today. It
estimates that President  Barack Obama  will need to cut the
deficit by 5 percentage points of GDP in the next two fiscal
years, the largest adjustment in “at least half a century,” to
meet his pledge of halving it by the end of his four-year term.  “Market concerns about sustainability remain subdued in
the U.S., but a further delay of action could be fiscally costly,
with deficit increases exacerbated by rising yields,” the IMF
wrote in its Fiscal Monitor report, published several times a
year to analyze public finance development.  The IMF recommended “a down payment” in the form of
 deficit reduction  this year that would make the government goal
“compatible with a less abrupt withdrawal of stimulus later.”  Obama is expected to announce long-term proposals for
cutting the federal deficit tomorrow, following a budget deal he
reached with congressional leaders last week that averted a
government shutdown. In May, the government may be forced to
increase the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling to ensure the
U.S. will meet its financial obligations.  Economic Stimulus  The U.S. delayed its fiscal tightening with the adoption of
a package extending tax cuts in December, the IMF said. It
estimates that the stimulus measures, which also include
emergency unemployment benefits, will have a small impact on
growth relative to fiscal costs.  The IMF also called for a U.S. commitment to a medium-term
debt target “as an anchor for fiscal policy.”  China  is the
biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries with a portfolio of
$1.15 trillion in January, according to U.S. government data.
Japan is the second-largest with $885.9 billion.  In Japan, where the government is planning additional
spending for reconstruction after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, the deficit is expected to reach 10 percent of GDP this
year, the IMF said.  The country’s authorities will need to incorporate such
costs into a medium-term fiscal adjustment plan “backed up by
measures more clearly identified than in the past,” according
to the IMF report.  ‘Prudent’ Debt  A few days after  Europe ’s Greek-born debt crisis forced
 Portugal  to seek financial aid from the European Union and the
IMF, the fund said it is “essential” for all advanced
economies to start bringing their debt to “prudent levels” in
the medium term.  It forecast that the average gross domestic debt ratio in
advanced economies will breach the threshold of 100 percent of
GDP for the first time since the years after World War II. Debt
will peak at 107 percent of GDP in 2016, 34 percentage points
above levels before the global financial crisis, the report said.  The IMF estimates that financing needs in the richest
nations will continue to rise this year after surging in 2010,
and will remain high in 2012.  Japan has the highest financing requirements for its
deficit and its maturing debt this year, with the total
amounting for 56 percent of its GDP. The U.S. is second, with
needs at 29 percent of GDP, followed by  Greece ,  Italy ,  Belgium ,
Portugal and  France , which all have needs above 20 percent of
their GDP, according to the IMF report.  Euro Members  In the euro region, “market conditions remain tense in
several smaller countries, in part due to ongoing concerns about
possible feedback between the financial sector and the
sovereign,” it said.  As the region narrows its deficit, investors are
“discriminating in favor of countries with credible policy
frameworks,” according to the IMF.  In the U.S., the stronger economic outlook “has been
reflected in higher real yields, leading towards more normal
interest rate levels,” the report said. At the same time, the
 Federal Reserve ’s latest bond purchase program is likely to have
lowered them, it said.  Yields on U.S. 10-year notes were little changed yesterday
at 3.59 percent in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. They will increase to 3.90 percent by year end,
according to the weighted-average forecast of 71 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “Rollover problems for the largest advanced economies
remain a tail risk, but one that would entail huge costs for
them and the rest of the world,” the IMF said.  By contrast, investors perceive emerging-market risks as
“benign,” according to the report. Deficits in such countries
are narrowing amid fast growth and higher commodity prices, it
said. The deficit in emerging economies will narrow to 2.6
percent of GDP this year, compared with 7.1 percent in their
developed counterparts, the IMF forecasts.  Still, the pace of fiscal tightening is short of what is
needed and these nations should refrain from increasing spending
in the near term and rebuild fiscal space, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 