-- 
Senators Kerry, McCain Introduce Privacy-Protection Bill

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-04-12T22:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-senators-kerry-mccain-introduce-privacy-protection-bill.html
A bill introduced in the U.S.
Senate today would require companies to protect personal
information they collect online and allow consumers to opt out
of having businesses store their data.  The 2011 Commercial Privacy Bill of Rights Act, introduced
by Senators  John Kerry , a Democrat from  Massachusetts , and  John McCain , a Republican from Arizona, directs the  Federal Trade
Commission  and state attorneys general to verify that companies
follow the measure’s provisions, which include limiting the
amount of information online trackers collect.  “Plenty of companies collect data and use it with high
ethical standards,” generating economic growth that “benefits
all of us,” Kerry said today at a news conference unveiling the
bill.  Ill-intentioned companies “can do virtually anything they
want” with the personal information of Web users, who have no
legal means to control the collection of their data, he said.  “The bill isn’t perfect,” and is the result of
negotiations, McCain said at the news conference. The bill
provides a starting point for further discussion, he said.  The bill “correctly recognizes that a balance must be
struck between regulations that slow down innovation and those
that protect consumers,” Daniel Castro, an analyst at the
 Information Technology and Innovation Foundation , a research
institute that promotes innovation, said in a statement.  No Do-Not-Track  “The potential economic consequences of certain
requirements” can “have a negative impact on the Internet
ecosystem,” which contributes $300 billion annually to the  U.S.
economy , Castro said.  The bill does not include so-called do-not-track
provisions, which limit Web companies from tracking online
consumers browsing habits. Kerry said he didn’t think the option
was necessary.  The measure also allows for safe-harbor programs, in which
some information-collecting companies may receive an exemption
from some elements of the bill. Participating companies would
design their own privacy plans that nongovernmental
organizations, approved by the FTC, would certify. These
businesses would not be required to comply with the strictest
provisions of the bill, Kerry said.  Allowing companies to create their own privacy programs was
necessary to win support from consumer and industry groups,
Kerry said.  Backing the Legislation  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the  Consumers Union  and the
Consumer Federation of America are among companies and groups
that support the bill.  “We have long advocated for comprehensive federal privacy
legislation, which we believe will support business growth,
promote innovation and ensure consumer trust in the use of
technology,” according to a joint statement today from Hewlett-
Packard, Microsoft, EBay and Intel.  “The complexity of existing privacy regulations makes it
difficult for many businesses to comply with the law,”
according to the companies’ statement.  “The senators’ desire to ensure consumers can engage in
interstate commerce and trust that their information will be
treated properly” is appreciated, TechAmerica, a technology
industry association, said today.  The organization “believes strongly that industry codes of
conduct and technological solutions can and should be the
primary methods of protecting consumer privacy,” according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  