-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline Amid Japan’s Nuclear Crisis as Alcoa Slumps

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-12T20:52:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-alcoa-falls-after-sales-miss-estimates.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a fourth day, as Japan
raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to the highest
level, oil plunged and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s sales missed estimates.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
declined at least 3.1 percent as commodity prices slumped on
speculation investors may avoid riskier assets after Japan’s
radiation alert matched the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. Alcoa, the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, tumbled 6 percent after saying
first-quarter earnings were curbed by a weaker  U.S. dollar  and
higher energy and raw-material costs.  The S&P 500 declined 0.8 percent to 1,314.16 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The benchmark index had the longest losing stretch
since November. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated
117.53 points, or 1 percent, to 12,263.58 today. Crude oil
slumped 3.3 percent to $106.25 a barrel. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, which measures the
cost of using options as insurance against declines in the  S&P
500 , climbed 3 percent to 17.09.  “We’ve gone from a period of knocking the cover off the
ball to just treading water,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment
officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which oversees $60
billion. “We’ve been approaching the earnings season with
trepidation because high energy and commodity prices are going
to crimp profit margins. Not only will higher costs crimp
profits but it will also prompt consumers to cut back on
discretionary spending.”  Corporate Profits  The S&P 500 has risen 4.5 percent in 2011 amid government
stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated corporate profits.
In the first three months of last year, 78 percent of S&P 500
companies topped the average projection, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The figure was the second-highest ever,
trailing only the 80 percent recorded in the third quarter of
2009. Since then, the percentage approached the historical
average of 60 percent. The fourth-quarter figure, 68 percent,
was the lowest for the current  bull market .  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 countries
fell 1.2 percent, the biggest decline in about a month.  Japan ’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency today raised the rating for
its nuclear crisis to 7. The accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station was previously rated 5 on the global scale, the same as
the 1979 partial reactor meltdown at Three Mile Island in
 Pennsylvania .  Radiation  The stricken nuclear plant, located about 220 kilometers
(135 miles) north of  Tokyo , is leaking radiation in Japan’s
worst civilian nuclear disaster after a magnitude-9 quake and
tsunami on March 11. Tokyo Electric Power Co. said its plant,
which has withstood hundreds of aftershocks, may spew more
radiation than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained.  “Investors are taking some risk off the table,” said
Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “Every time you mention the word
radiation, you end up scaring people. I don’t think there were
any illusions that Japan was not one of the most serious nuclear
accidents we’ve seen.”  Japan’s Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said the March 11 earthquake may result in a larger hit to the
economy than previously seen, indicating a greater appetite for
stimulus one month after the disaster.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose in March at the
fastest pace since June 2009, led by a gain in crude oil and the
biggest jump in food costs since 1994. The 2.7 percent increase
in the import-price index exceeded a 2.1 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices excluding fuel rose 0.6
percent.  Improving Economy  Directors at Federal Reserve regional banks saw the economy
improving even as energy prices rose and governments at all
levels cut spending, according to minutes of Board of Governors’
meetings in February and March.  “Federal Reserve Bank directors generally viewed recent
information as showing the economic recovery was progressing,”
the minutes said, adding that directors saw “downside risks
posed by rising energy and commodity prices and by increased
fiscal stringency.”  Energy and raw-material producers had the two biggest
declines in the S&P 500 within 10 industries today, falling at
least 1.3 percent. Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy
company, dropped 3.3 percent to $104.18. Freeport, the largest
publicly traded copper producer, lost 3.1 percent to $53.70.  Alcoa Tumbles  Alcoa slumped 6 percent, the most in the Dow average, to
$16.70. The company’s sales increased 22 percent from a year
earlier to $5.96 billion, Alcoa said yesterday in a statement.
That trailed the $6.06 billion average estimate of eight
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  may report weak revenue for the first quarter after
lending by the industry dropped in almost every category. Bank
loans and leases fell $87.4 billion to $6.97 trillion from the
end of 2010 through March 30, or 1.3 percent, according to
Federal Reserve data. Deposits at U.S. banks rose the same
percentage to $7.97 trillion, showing households and businesses
are still hoarding cash instead of borrowing, analysts said.  “While loan growth tends to be seasonally weak in the
first quarter, this quarter is tracking worse than seasonality
would suggest,” Barclays Capital Inc. analysts led by  Jason Goldberg  wrote in an April 8 report. “We fear companies have
been disappointed.”  Investors will get their first look at the quarter’s
results tomorrow when New York-based JPMorgan, ranked second by
assets in the U.S., is scheduled to report. The biggest lender,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, will report
April 15, followed next week by New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , ranked third and
fourth by assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  