-- 
U.S. Squabbles Over Peanuts to Tame Elderly: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-04-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-argues-over-peanuts-to-tame-elderly-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
The time to disagree agreeably is
over for health-care policy in America.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Congress last week approved
a measly budget cut of $39 billion and no tax increases. That
leaves us with a massive deficit equal to 9 percent of gross
domestic product and a debt-to-GDP ratio that will exceed 90
percent within six years.  Our politicians touted this deal as the biggest compromise
since 1850 and the largest cut in spending ever. But it really
just constituted more fiscal child abuse that will force the
young to take on additional debt while the elderly are let off
the hook. While our officials crow over peanuts, other countries
are getting their fiscal houses in order. The U.K.’s budget cuts
and tax increases are 32 times larger when scaled by GDP.  Fortunately, the political euphoria over the budget deal
lasted but a day. Whether you like his ideas or not, House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s long-term budget plan
shifted attention from keeping the government running to keeping
it solvent. And Obama, too, will now present his views about
spending and taxes.  The single biggest fix -- one that can eliminate about 60
percent of our $202 trillion long-term fiscal gap -- is keeping
government (federal and state) health-care spending (including
tax subsidies) constant at 10 percent of GDP. That’s a lot of
GDP for any government to spend on health care.  Germany ’s total
health-care bill (private plus government) is only 11 percent of
GDP, and its health outcomes beat ours by a mile.  Lid on Costs  But keeping a lid on  government spending  is just one of our
collective goals. The others are making sure that everyone has a
basic health plan, that people aren’t penalized for having bad
genes or bad luck, that health-care provision remains private,
that people face strong incentives to improve their health, and
that treatment be determined by medical, not legal, concerns.  Whether we are Republican or Democrat, the vast majority of
us support these goals. How do I know? The answer is by
observing what society values from what it chooses. And what it
is choosing -- albeit in a slow, piecemeal and costly fashion --
is to ensure that everyone has a basic health plan that costs
the same, regardless of pre-existing conditions.  ‘Quality Health Care’  Whether we look at the establishment of Medicare Parts A
and B and Medicaid under President  Lyndon Johnson ; the rapid
growth or Medicare and Medicaid benefit levels under  Jimmy Carter  and  Ronald Reagan ; the introduction of Children’s
Medicaid under  Bill Clinton ; the enactment of Medicare Part D
under  George W. Bush ; or the provision of health exchanges under
Obama, we see a policy to guarantee, in the words of  Richard Nixon , “that every citizen will be able to get quality health
care at a reasonable price regardless of income.”  We also read in our policies a desire to maintain private
health-care provision. And today, at long last, we perceive an
urgent desire to control costs, part of which, both parties
acknowledge, requires changes to malpractice laws.  So if we agree on what is needed, why don’t we go for it?  One answer is that there are too many interests vested in
the generational status quo. This is demonstrated by Ryan’s
decision to exempt the current elderly from his proposed
Medicare overhaul. The last politician to take on the aged over
health care was Dan Rostenkowski. In 1989, he was accosted by
hundreds of oldsters for daring to propose they help pay for a
catastrophic nursing-home insurance benefit.  Bills for  Washington   A second answer is that we like to fight. Ryan’s proposals
are remarkably similar in structure to Obamacare’s, and leading
Democrats immediately said he was out to destroy Medicare. Let’s
be clear: Ryan isn’t out to destroy Medicare. Medicare is out to
destroy Medicare. Specifically, Medicare’s service-for-
government-fee system, also called fee-for-service, is an
ongoing invitation for the health-care system to spend what it
wants on the elderly and ship the bills to Washington. Left in
place, it will lead the government to limit the fees because it
can’t limit the services. This will only force doctors to stop
taking Medicare patients.  It’s beyond time for us to agree. Our generational policy
is immoral and about to blow up in our faces. In my column last
week I offered the Purple Health Plan, which would cap
government health care costs at 10 percent of GDP. It offers the
elderly and everyone else the same basic, but also very generous
health-care plan. It’s the way to go.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff  is a professor of economics at  Boston
University , and is the author of “The Healthcare Fix.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  