-- 
U.S. Import Prices Increase More Than Forecast on Higher Food, Fuel Costs

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-12T12:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-import-prices-increase-more-than-forecast-on-higher-food-fuel-costs.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose in March at the fastest pace since June 2009, led by a
gain in crude oil and the biggest jump in food costs since 1994.  The 2.7 percent increase in the import-price index followed
a 1.4 percent rise in February, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 2.1 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Prices excluding fuel rose 0.6 percent.  Growth in emerging economies and a decline in the value of
the dollar are leading to higher costs of commodities that
Federal Reserve policy makers view as “transitory.” Still,
companies such as the  Jones Group Inc. (JNY)  are beginning to pass on
some of the higher raw materials costs to consumers, while
seeking ways to maintain demand.  “The weak dollar and higher oil and commodity prices
continue to lift inflation,” said Sam Bullard, a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “Pricing power is still limited at the manufacturing
level. That said, we’re starting to see  core inflation 
accelerate.”  Projections in the Bloomberg survey of 50 economists ranged
from increases of 1 percent to 3.9 percent.  The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed in February from a seven-
month high as demand for imports decreased for the first time in
four months. The gap shrank 2.6 percent to $45.8 billion from a
larger-than-previously-estimated $47 billion in January,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. Imports
had reached a more than two-year high in January and exports
were at record levels.  Stock-Index Futures  Stock-index futures held losses after the reports. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
fell 0.7 percent to 1,310.5 at 8:46 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries
rose, pushing down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to
3.51 percent from 3.59 percent late yesterday.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices increased 9.7
percent, the most since April 2010. They were forecast to rise
8.6 percent, according to the survey median.  The cost of imported petroleum increased 10.5 percent in
March from the prior month, the biggest jump since June 2009,
and was up 31 percent from the same month last year.  Import prices excluding all fuels rose 4.2 percent from
March 2010, reflecting higher food costs, the largest increase
since October 2008.  Higher Food Costs  Imported food was 4.2 percent costlier last month, and was
up 19 percent from a year earlier. The gain in food prices
compared with a month earlier was the largest since July 1994.  Costs of imported automobiles, parts and engines rose 0.2
percent for a second month. Consumer goods excluding vehicles
showed a 0.2 percent decrease, while costs of imported capital
goods dropped 0.1 percent.  “Sizable increases in prices of crude oil and other
commodities pushed up headline inflation, but measures of
underlying inflation were subdued and longer-run inflation
expectations remained stable,” the Fed said in minutes of its
March 15 policy meeting released last week.  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 0.9 percent in February from a year earlier.
Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.6 percent
to 2 percent.  Unemployment, Wages  An 8.8 percent rate of unemployment and limited wages gains
will help contain inflation, according to the Fed.  “In light of the projected persistence of slack in labor
and product markets and the anticipated stability in long-term
inflation expectations, the increase in inflation was expected
to be mostly transitory if oil and other commodity prices did
not rise significantly further,” the Fed said in minutes of its
March 15 meeting.  Imported goods are also more expensive because of the
weakening dollar. Since reaching a one-year high on June 7 of
last year, the dollar has fallen 9.7 percent against a trade-
weighted basket of major currencies.  Some companies are beginning to raise prices. The Jones
Group, a New York-based wholesaler of apparel and footwear, has
increased supply-chain efficiencies and raised prices for some
products to offset higher costs.  Higher Cotton Prices  “The cost of all the raw materials, particularly cotton,
skyrocketed,” Chief Executive Officer Wesley Card said in a
teleconference on March 9. “We raised some prices in the first
part of this year. We’re working everything we can work without
taking quality out of the product to offset the effect of those
cost increases, things in logistics, and whatever we can do.”  Today’s report showed the cost of goods from  China  rose 0.6
percent, the most since July 2008, while those from  Japan 
climbed 0.2 percent. Goods from Latin America gained 4.1
percent, the most since June 2008, and those from the European
Union increased 1.1 percent. Prices of Canadian imports rose 2.4
percent, and goods from  Mexico  climbed 3 percent.  U.S. export prices increased 1.5 percent after rising 1.4
percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices of
farm exports rose 2.3 percent, while those of non-farm goods
climbed 1.3 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due April
14 followed by the consumer-price index on April 15. The
Bloomberg survey median for those measures indicates inflation
excluding volatile food and fuel expenses remains contained.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  