-- 
UBS’s Walker Says U.S. Won’t Raise Rate This Year; Yen to Fall

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-04-12T15:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ubs-s-walker-says-u-s-won-t-raise-rate-this-year-yen-to-fall.html
Chris Walker , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in  London , comments on the prospects of the
U.S. lifting  interest rates . Walker spoke in an interview in
London today.  The most-accurate currency strategists expect the  Federal
Reserve  to delay raising interest rates after the scheduled end
of its $600 billion asset-purchase program in June, its second
round of quantitative easing, known as QE II, reducing the
likelihood of dollar appreciation.  The yen has traded weaker than 80 per dollar since March 18
when the Group of Seven nations jointly intervened in the
 currency markets  to stem an advance that threatened a recovery
of the export-driven economy after its largest recorded
earthquake.  On the prospect for U.S. rate hikes:  “The most likely scenario is that QEII will end by June as
planned. But the Fed is unlikely to hike rates until January
next year. These are unprecedented measures and they will want
time to see how they impact the market.  “There’s no reason for the Fed to want a strong dollar at
the moment. Employment data is looking better but while
inflation is low they’ll keep plugging away at stimulating the
economy.  “Once that happens and CPI begins to print higher they
will turn their focus back to inflation. While the dollar’s
strength is not their immediate concern, that’s when they might
be happier to see the dollar appreciating.  On UBS’s call for the yen to slide to 90 per dollar by
year-end:  “The G-7 intervention is a game changer in the sense that
it puts a floor under dollar-yen at 80.  “If there’s any form of  risk aversion  and the yen
strengthens, policy makers will come in and weaken it. No trader
wants to be on the wrong side of that trying to push the yen to
75.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  