-- 
UBS Hires Cummings as Chairman of Americas Investment Bank

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-12T17:15:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/ubs-hires-former-wachovia-executive-cummings-in-investment-bank.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
hired former Wachovia Corp. executive Stephen Cummings as
chairman of  investment banking  in the Americas.  Cummings, 55, will join April 18 and work in New York, the
Zurich-based company said in a statement today. He’ll work with
Aryeh Bourkoff, head of Americas investment banking, and report
to Jimmy Neissa, Matthew Grounds and Simon Warshaw, joint global
heads of investment banking, UBS said.  “His deep expertise and insight will help us enhance and
support our investment-banking business during what will be a
strong growth phase for our U.S. business,” Neissa said in the
statement.  Cummings was most recently a senior executive vice
president at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Wachovia and head
of corporate and investment banking there. He left in January
2009, after  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  completed its purchase of the
bank, according to records on the website of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Cummings started his career at Kidder, Peabody & Co. and
later joined Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co., a Charlotte-based
boutique founded by  Erskine Bowles . Cummings joined Wachovia
predecessor First Union Corp. in 1998 when it bought Bowles
Hollowell.  UBS last month appointed Grounds and Warshaw co-heads of
global investment-banking business with Neissa after John Wall
retired, and promoted Bourkoff to lead investment banking in the
Americas. The Swiss lender hired more than 15 people for
investment banking in the Americas in the first quarter,
Bourkoff said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week. He
said that hiring will continue in the second quarter.  UBS’s revenue last year from managing stock and bond sales
and advising clients on merger deals was the lowest compared
with its eight biggest competitors, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 