-- 
HudBay to Start Building Peru Copper Mine in 2012, CEO Says

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-04-12T20:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/hudbay-to-start-building-peru-copper-mine-in-2012-ceo-says-1-.html
HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM) , a Canadian
metals producer, plans to start building a $1 billion  copper
mine  in  Peru  next year as it expands into Latin America, Chief
Executive Officer David Garofalo said.  Toronto-based HudBay aims to start production at its
Constancia mine in the southern Andes at the end of 2014,
Garofalo said yesterday in a telephone interview. The company,
which this year is spending $116 million on the mine’s design
and engineering, will make a final decision in January, he said.  “This project is very robust economically,” Garofalo
said. “We hope to scale up the current design of 85,000 tons of
annual production after we increase reserves through exploration
work this year.”  The company, which produces copper, zinc, gold and silver,
seeks to expand its project portfolio to replace aging mines in
 Canada ’s Manitoba province, he said. HudBay added the Constancia
project after it finished the acquisition of 98 percent of
Toronto-based  Norsemont Mining Inc. (NOM)  on March 16 for C$520
million ($541 million).  Development of the mine “is not contingent” on the April
10 presidential election results in Peru, Garofalo said.
Opposition candidate Ollanta Humala, who has pledged to
renegotiate contracts with foreign mining companies if elected,
won the first round of voting on April 10 and faces a June
runoff against first-term Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori.  “We’re confident that democratic institutions will enable
the country to ride out any candidate,” Garofalo said. “The
balance of Congress reflects the maturity of democracy in
Peru.”  Copper Constraints  Copper supply may be constrained “for the rest of the
decade” if Humala is elected president, as companies including
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., and Rio Tinto Group delay
projects, Citigroup Inc. analysts including  David Thurtell  said
in a report today.  HudBay, which also is developing a nickel mine in
 Guatemala , is seeking assets in  Brazil , Colombia and  Chile  to
expand metals production, Garofalo said.  The company, which has a market capitalization of $2.7
billion, is seeking financing for its 50 million-pound-a-year
 nickel project  in Guatemala, where it is finishing work on a
feasibility study, he said. Production is slated to average 48.5
million pounds annually over the 20-year life of the Fenix mine,
according to the company’s website.  Hudbay will make a decision in July on a concentrator plant
at its $560 million  Lalor deposit  in Canada, Garofalo said. The
company will start gold production at the mine in the second
quarter of 2012, he said.  HudBay fell 61 cents, or 3.7 percent, to C$15.94 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The stock has dropped 11
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  