-- 
Unilever, P&G Said to Settle EU Case Over Detergent Price

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-12T14:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/unilever-p-g-said-to-settle-eu-cartel-case-over-detergent-price.html
Unilever NV (UNA)  and  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  agreed to pay fines to end a European Union investigation
into allegations the companies colluded on the price of
detergents, two people familiar with the decision said.  The settlement and fines could be announced by the European
Commission as soon as tomorrow, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the decision isn’t public. Henkel KGaA,
the German maker of Persil detergent, may escape fines because
it was the first company to supply evidence to regulators, the
people said.  Unilever and Henkel said in June 2008 they were among
detergent makers raided by EU officials. The settlement would be
the third between companies and the European Commission,
following deals last year that ended EU probes into producers of
D-RAM memory chips and animal feed phosphates.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said last week
that settlements were a “win-win situation” because they cut
companies’ fines and reduced enforcement costs and freed up
resources for regulators.  “A number of manufacturers in our industry are subject to
antitrust inquiries in Europe and we have routinely reported on
this every quarter for the last three years,” Paul Fox, a
spokesman for P&G in Cincinnati, said in an e-mailed statement.
He declined to comment further.  Eleanor Bowden, a spokeswoman for Unilever, and Wulf
Klueppelhoz, a spokesman for Henkel, declined to comment.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission in
Brussels, declined to comment on any decision.  Price Fixing  Antitrust agencies across  Europe  have been investigating
cosmetics and detergent manufacturers for agreements to fix or
increase prices. Last year,  Italy   fined  Unilever, P&G and 13
other companies for coordinating price increases for cosmetics.
It didn’t fine Henkel because it was the first to inform
regulators of the cartel. German units of Unilever, Henkel and
Sara Lee were fined about 37 million euros ($54 million) by the
country’s cartel office in February 2008 for fixing toothpaste
and detergent prices.  The EU fines were reported by Reuters yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 