-- 
Union Cuts Needed to Avert State Takeover, Detroit Mayor Warns

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-12T17:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/union-cuts-needed-to-avert-state-takeover-detroit-mayor-warns.html
Detroit  risks a state takeover and
“control of our destiny” unless the city restructures its
operations and employees agree to wage and benefit concessions,
Mayor Dave Bing said.  Bing called today for the city’s 12,000 employees to pay
more for health care and share in pension and other benefit
costs as part of his 2012 budget proposal, saying, “Everyone
must accept that times have changed.”  Detroit recorded a 25 percent decline in population --about
65 people per day -- in the past decade, reducing the city to
713,777 from a peak of 1.85 million in 1950, according to the
Census Bureau.  “We face challenges unlike any the city has ever seen,
challenges that demand bold action,” Bing said in his budget
presentation to Detroit City Council.  “We do not have the luxury of waiting for someone else to
solve our problems,” he said in a prepared text.  Detroit, the largest U.S. city whose debt is rated below
investment grade, warned investors in bond documents in March
2010 that it might have to consider reorganizing under Chapter 9
bankruptcy protection. Bing later said insolvency was no longer
an option.  The mayor said today that the city’s $155 million current-
year deficit could balloon to $1.2 billion by 2015 without
spending discipline.  Stopping the Exodus  “The state has made it clear that any city that fails to
address its financial issues on its own will have an emergency
financial manager appointed,” Bing said.  Under the $3.1 billion budget plan from Bing, 67, city
unions would have to agree to renegotiate their contracts. The
budget proposal is part of a five-year plan intended to
eliminate the deficit and reduce the risks of a state financial
takeover.  Bing also proposed a one-year, $20 million increase in the
city’s casino tax, noting that gambling houses in Detroit pay
lower taxes than those in neighboring Indiana and  Ohio .  Detroit’s population is the smallest since 1910, according
to the census. Michigan’s population fell 0.6 percent in the
past decade to 9,883,640, census data show. Michigan is the only
U.S. state to lose population in the past decade.  “The decline in services had a direct effect on the exodus
of people in the last decade,” Bing said. “Some argue the
answer is to make unprecedented cuts to city services and lay
off hundreds of employees. Fundamentally, that is just the wrong
approach.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  