-- 
Vale’s $1.1 Billion Metorex Bid ‘Low,’ Say Fidelity, Metam

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-12T17:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/vale-s-1-1-billion-bid-for-metorex-a-little-too-low-metropolitan-says.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the second-largest copper
miner, should boost its bid for  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  by about 35 percent
because its $1.1 billion offer undervalues the company, Fidelity
International Ltd. and Metropolitan Asset Managers said.  The 7.35-rand-a-share ($1.10) bid by  Brazil ’s Vale is too
low, considering the “limited number” of available copper
producers, as well as Minmetals Resources Ltd.’s $6.3 billion
offer for Equinox Minerals Ltd. earlier this month, said Peter Yandle, a spokesman for London-based Fidelity, which manages
about $246 billion of assets and owns 2.4 percent of Metorex.  An offer closer to 10 rand a share would be
“appropriate,” Stephen Roelofse, a  fund manager  at Cape Town-
based Metropolitan, said yesterday. Metropolitan, also known as
Metam, manages about $8.4 billion and holds 0.7 percent of
Johannesburg-based Metorex. “Ten rand is in the right
ballpark,” Yandle said by phone today.  Vale’s April 8 offer for Metorex, which has copper and
cobalt mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo, represents a
21 percent premium to the 20-day average price to April 7. That
compares with a 32 percent premium proposed by Minmetals for
Perth, Australia-based Equinox, and a 16.6 percent average
premium among global copper-industry deals announced over the
past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman Accepts  Shareholders owning more than 25 percent of Metorex,
including Chairman Rob Still and Director Alberto Barrenechea,
have agreed to accept the offer.  Metorex traded at 7.15 rand in Johannesburg, up 0.9
percent, at the 5 p.m. close. It traded at 7.10 rand the day
before Vale  announced  its bid, and has gained 30 percent over
the past month, valuing the company at 7.17 billion rand.  Metorex is developing the Lubembe and Dilala copper sites
in Congo, both of which it calls “growth” projects.  “On a five-year view, once the Lubembe and Dilala
expansions have taken place and excluding a political risk
discount for the DRC, we estimate the offer to be on the low
side,” Cape Town-based stockbroker  BoE Private Clients  said
today in an e-mailed comment. Investors should hold out for a
better offer, Johannesburg-based broker  Imara SP Reid  said in a
note, adding that it values the company at 7.81 rand a share.  A rival offer is possible, Metam’s Roelofse said yesterday.
Metorex would be an “especially attractive” target for a mid-
cap mining company, he said.  Metorex has an estimated 4.74 million metric tons of copper
resources, including 1.8 million tons at the Lubembe project,
the company said earlier this month. Copper for delivery in
three months traded at $9,625 a ton in  London , having gained 22
percent over the past year.  “Copper is a relatively scarce commodity and is one that
makes this company an attractive target,” Yandle said today.  Chile’s Codelco is the world’s largest copper producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  