-- 
Vivendi Seeks More Than $6 Billion of Loans for SFR Deal

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-12T15:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/vivendi-is-seeking-more-than-5-8-billion-of-loans-to-fund-sfr-purchase.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , the owner of the
world’s biggest music and video-game companies, is in talks with
banks to raise more than 4 billion euros ($6 billion) from
loans to fund the acquisition of SFR, three people familiar with
the situation said.  Vivendi plans to borrow for 18 months, three years and five
years, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the deal is private. The creator of video-game publisher
Activision Blizzard said last week it agreed to buy the 44
percent of shares in SFR it doesn’t already own, gaining full
control of the French mobile-phone operator.  Solange Maulini, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Vivendi,
declined to comment on details of the financing.  The transaction, which will be “entirely funded from
incremental debt and cash,” weighs on Vivendi’s Baa2 rating,
Moody’s Investors Service said. The company is ranked BBB by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Credit-default swaps linked to Vivendi’s debt rose to 97.5
basis points from 96.3 yesterday, according to CMA in  London .
Swaps are used to speculate on a company’s ability to repay debt
and increase when perceptions of  credit quality  deteriorate.  Vivendi has 3.2 billion euros of cash and 5.9 billion euros
of undrawn credit lines, the company said on April 4. Net debt
is forecast for 13.5 billion euros at the end of this year,
which won’t compromise its BBB rating, Vivendi said.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  