-- 
Wal-Mart, Sears, Siemens Support First Lady’s Campaign

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-12T20:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/wal-mart-sears-siemens-sign-on-for-first-lady-s-campaign.html
First lady  Michelle Obama  and Jill Biden are starting a campaign to support military families that
includes commitments from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD)  and Siemens AG. Retired General Stanley McChrystal will
help lead the effort to educate, employ and mentor U.S. service
members and their families.  The first lady and Biden, Vice President Joe Biden’s wife,
kicked off the initiative, called Joining Forces, at a White
House event today. The nationwide effort will build on President
Barack Obama’s January directive to get Cabinet agencies to
better coordinate the federal government’s aid to military
families, according to the White House.  “One percent of Americans may be fighting on our behalf,
but 100 percent of Americans need to be supporting our troops
and their families,” Michelle Obama said in the White House
East Room.  McChrystal, dismissed last year by the president as the
head of U.S. and NATO forces in  Afghanistan  after he and his
aides were quoted in Rolling Stone magazine making disparaging
comments about administration officials, will help lead the
advisory board for the campaign.  McChrystal and Patricia Shinseki, wife of Veterans Affairs
Secretary Eric Shinseki, will serve on a board of advisers set
up by the  Center for a New American Security , a nonpartisan
research institution that develops national security policies.
The center will be providing support for the administration’s
campaign.  Security Implications  “The deployment-related needs of veterans, military
service members and their families have significant national
security implications,” said Nathaniel Fick, the center’s chief
executive officer, in a statement.  At the White House event, President Obama said it’s
America’s “solemn duty” and “moral obligation” to help
military personnel and their families who sacrifice to safeguard
U.S. national security. He called military families “the force
behind the force.” The audience included McChrystal, Joint
Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen and General David Petraeus, the top commander in Afghanistan.  “Freedom is not free,” the president said. “For 243
years our freedom has been paid by the service and sacrifice by
those who step forward, raise their hand and say ‘send me.’”  Business Commitments  The campaign includes commitments from businesses,
according to a White House release detailing the pledges made by
U.S. companies. Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club, a brand of Wal-Mart,
are guaranteeing jobs for all military personnel and spouses
already employed by the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company if
they or their spouses are relocated by the military.  They will also continue to pay the difference in salary if
an employee is making less money when called to active duty.  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears is also pledging to
help transfer personnel and spouses in case they are relocated.
The company is planning to hold a virtual career fair for
military spouses this summer.  Siemens, a global company that manufactures industrial and
consumer products such as traffic-control systems and electrical
 power plants , is pledging to reserve 10 percent of the more than
3,000 open positions in its clean-technology industries for
veterans. The company will also put in place a job training
program for veterans. Eric Spiegel, president and chief
executive officer of Siemens Corp., the U.S. unit of  Germany ’s
 Siemens AG (SI) , was at today’s event.  Career Fair  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobby, is also participating. The chamber will host a career
fair for veterans and military spouses in 100 communities
nationwide. The chamber’s “Hiring Our Heroes” program in
conjunction with the Labor Department’s Veterans Employment and
Training Service, local chambers of commerce, and the Employer
Support of the Guard and Reserve, is trying to reach 50,000
veterans and military spouses, according to the White House.  The first lady said the administration has gotten
television networks,  Major League Baseball  and  NASCAR  to agree
to raise public awareness about military families through
continuing campaigns and public service announcements.  The first lady has been making visits to military
communities since her husband’s 2008 presidential campaign. She
will travel with  Jill Biden  to Camp Lejeune,  North Carolina ,
tomorrow for an event with 3,000 Marines, soldiers, sailors and
military family members. They will also make stops in  San
Antonio , Denver,  Colorado Springs  and Columbus,  Ohio .  Jill Biden described watching her son, Beau Biden,
 Delaware ’s attorney general, leave to serve in  Iraq  two years
ago. “Not a day passed during his year away when I didn’t worry
about his safety,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  