-- 
Wal-Mart Plans to Reduce Space for Electronics in Stores

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-04-12T20:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/wal-mart-plans-to-reduce-space-for-electronics-in-stores.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
biggest retailer, plans to cut back on space for electronics as
sales in that category have declined, contributing to the
company’s two-year U.S. sales slump.  The company, which is based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , will
reduce the floor space devoted to items like flat-screen
televisions and give some of that space to apparel, according to
Rosalind Brewer, who runs the Wal-Mart East division. Brewer
spoke at a retail conference in Atlanta today.  The reduction is a reversal of Wal-Mart’s 2009 move to
allocate 21 percent more floor space to entertainment gadgets
and comes after electronics contributed to a 1.8 percent decline
in sales at U.S. stores open at least a year in the fourth
quarter, its seventh consecutive drop.  “It’s something Wal-Mart has needed to do for a year,”
said  Craig Johnson , president of Customer Growth Partners, a  New
Canaan , Connecticut-based consulting firm, in an interview.
“You don’t need as much space in that area with products
shrinking and purchases going online, and electronics has narrow
profit margins. Floor space is a scarce commodity.”  At an investor conference last month, Wal-Mart’s U.S. chief
 Bill Simon  said “we couldn’t possibly sell enough TVs,” during
the holiday season to justify the space allotted to electronics.
In February, Simon cited electronics as the “primary factor”
for the company’s negative comparable-store sales result.  Best Buy, Amazon  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
said in a report today that Wal-Mart could reduce the
electronics section by about 2,000 square feet per store. The
New York-based analyst recommends buying the shares. Greg
Rossiter, a company spokesman, said the space reductions will
vary by store.  Retailers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy Co., the world’s
largest consumer electronics retailer, have seen slowing sales
of gadgets amid heightened competition from online retailers
like Amazon.com Inc. Best Buy also is reducing the number of
items it sells to focus on products that sell well, executives
have said.  Brewer, who oversees about 1,600 stores, also said that
Wal-Mart will resume sales of fabric and crafts products.
Yesterday, the retailer said it was restoring 8,500 products to
store shelves and kicking off an ad campaign in a bid to lift
sales.  Wal-Mart rose 70 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $53.52 at 4:00
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen almost one percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  