-- 
Tyco Rises Most Since 2009 as Schneider Said to Weigh Bid

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-12T21:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/tyco-rises-most-since-2009-as-schneider-said-to-weigh-bid-3-.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  surged the
most in more than two years in New York trading as  France ’s
 Schneider Electric SA (SU)  pursued a possible bid for the company.  Tyco’s shares have now gained 11 percent since Bloomberg
News reported Schneider’s interest on April 11, marking the
biggest two-day increase since February 2009. Tyco today rose
$3.61 to $52.33 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
after  London ’s Daily Telegraph newspaper, citing sources it
didn’t identify, said the company’s board favors Schneider’s
offer and has approved the start of due diligence.  Tyco may be unwilling to accept less than $65 a share, the
Telegraph said. Such a price would value the U.S. company at
$30.8 billion. Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Schaffhausen,
Switzerland-based Tyco, and Anthime Caprioli, a Schneider
spokesman, declined to comment.  “CEO Ed Breen and the Tyco board have a track record of
making tough decisions to help enhance  shareholder value ,”
including the spinoff of two units completed in 2007, Ajay Kejriwal, an analyst at New York-based FBR Capital Markets,
wrote today in a note. He rates Tyco’s shares “outperform.”  Schneider, based in the Paris suburb of Rueil-Malmaison, is
working with bankers to evaluate a potential takeover of Tyco,
three people with knowledge of the matter have told Bloomberg
News. Schneider has hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch as advisers, and the banks have worked
with the French company since September, the Telegraph said.  Tyco, owner of security-systems provider ADT, was valued at
8.1 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization last week, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  