-- 
Tyco Rises Most Since 2009 on Report of Schneider Interest

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-12T21:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/tyco-surges-as-speculation-of-schneider-takeover-intensifies-1-.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  surged the
most in more than two years in New York trading after a report
that  France ’s  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  is stepping up efforts in a
possible bid for the company.  Tyco’s board favors Schneider’s offer and has approved the
start of due diligence,  London ’s Daily Telegraph newspaper
reported, citing sources it didn’t identify. Tyco may be
unwilling to accept less than $65 a share, the Telegraph said.
Such a price would value the U.S. company at $30.8 billion.  Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Schaffhausen, Switzerland-
based Tyco, and Anthime Caprioli, a Schneider spokesman,
declined to comment.  Tyco rose $3.61, or 7.4 percent, to $52.33 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That was the biggest
daily percentage gain since February 2009.  “CEO Ed Breen and the Tyco board have a track record of
making tough decisions to help enhance  shareholder value ,”
including the spinoff of two units completed in 2007, Ajay Kejriwal, an analyst at New York-based FBR Capital Markets,
wrote today in a note. He rates Tyco’s shares “outperform.”  Schneider, based in the Paris suburb of Rueil-Malmaison, is
working with bankers to evaluate a potential takeover of Tyco,
three people with knowledge of the matter have told Bloomberg
News. Schneider has hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch as advisers, and the banks have worked
with the French company since September, the Telegraph said.  Tyco, owner of security-systems provider ADT, was valued at
8.1 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization last week, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  