-- 
Yen, Franc Gain as Japan’s Nuclear Crisis Saps Risk; Canadian Dollar Falls

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-12T21:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/yen-strengthens-as-japan-earthquake-boosts-demand-for-currency-as-a-refuge.html
The yen and Swiss franc rose
against most of their major counterparts after Japan raised the
severity rating for the nuclear crisis that began last month to
the level of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, damping demand for
riskier assets.  New Zealand ’s dollar advanced to a five-month high against
the greenback as the central bank said exports will support the
currency.  Canada ’s dollar dropped the most in almost four weeks
as the  Bank of Canada  left interest rates unchanged and said the
persistent strength of the loonie hampers exports. The pound
slid versus the euro and dollar as inflation in the U.K.
unexpectedly slowed.  “Swiss and yen are up against everything,” said  Win Thin ,
head of emerging-market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “It’s one of those prototypical risk-off days,
which we haven’t seen in a while. It has been risk-on for the
past couple of weeks, and people were just caught overly long.”
A long is a bet an asset will gain in value.  The yen appreciated 1.2 percent to 83.58 versus the dollar
at 5 p.m. in  New York , from 84.60 yesterday. It earlier reached
83.47, the strongest level since April 1. The Swiss franc
advanced 1.1 percent to 89.69 centimes versus the dollar, from
90.67. The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.4477, from $1.4436, after
touching $1.4520.  Euro Above $1.45  The euro reached a level above $1.45 for the first time
since January 2010 as officials of the  International Monetary
Fund , the European Commission and the  European Central Bank  were
due in Lisbon to start preparing an estimated 80 billion euros
($116 billion) in aid for  Portugal . The European Union aims to
reach an agreement on the aid package on May 16, about three
weeks before Portugal’s early election June 5.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet and colleagues raised the
main refinancing rate last week to 1.25 percent from a record
low 1 percent, where it had been since 2009, and left the door
open for further rate increases.  “The market is paying attention to the volatile backdrop,
but in part it’s paying attention to central bank talk, growth
and  interest rates ,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “The euro is up
today even in these unsettled markets on interest rates and the
recent ECB hike.”  Canada’s dollar fell 0.7 percent after weakening as much as
0.9 percent to 96.58 cents against the greenback, in its biggest
intraday decline since March 16. The Bank of Canada held its
target lending rate at 1 percent, where it has been since
September. The currency touched 95.27 cents on April 8, the
strongest level since November 2007.  Boost in Kiwi  The  New Zealand dollar  rose 0.4 percent to 78.31 cents per
U.S. currency after touching 78.85, the highest since Nov. 9.
Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard said the economy will get a
boost from higher farm export prices, which will underpin the
nation’s currency and may stir inflation.  The pound slumped to its weakest level against the euro in
almost six months as the U.K.’s inflation unexpectedly slowed in
March, discouraging the  Bank of England  from raising its 0.50
percent target lending rate.  Consumer prices rose 4 percent from a year earlier, down
from a 4.4 percent pace in February, which was also the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Sterling lost 0.8 percent to 89.05 pence per euro after
reaching 89.16, the weakest level since Oct. 25. The pound
decreased 0.5 percent to $1.6258.  Nuclear Crisis  The yen and franc gained as  Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency raised the severity rating of the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi crisis to 7, the highest level.  An earthquake striking Chiba, east of  Tokyo , and shaking
buildings in the capital had a magnitude of 6.2, according to
the U.S. Geological Survey. Another earthquake with a magnitude
of 6.3 struck the Fukushima prefecture, according to the Japan
Meteorological Agency.  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
earthquake damage may hurt the economy more than previously
estimated. The government last month said damage may reach as
much as 25 trillion yen ($300 billion).  Japan’s currency soared to a post-World War II record of
76.25 versus the dollar on March 17, six days after a magnitude-
9 quake and tsunami hit northeastern Japan. The yen had gained
on bets insurance companies would repatriate overseas assets to
pay for reconstruction. Group of Seven nations intervened on
March 18 by selling the yen to stem its advance.  “The yen strength today is a temporary concern and is not
the reversal of the trend put in place by intervention,” Wells
Fargo’s Bennenbroek said.  The dollar remained lower versus the yen as the  U.S. trade
deficit  narrowed in February less than forecast, indicating
soaring commodity prices hurt the economy.  The gap shrank to $45.8 billion from $47 billion in
January, Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decrease to
$44 billion from a previously reported $46.3 billion  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  