-- 
Yogi Berra, Granny Gnocchi Crown Pasta: Interview John Mariani

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/yogi-berra-granny-s-gnocchi-crown-king-pasta-interviewing-john-mariani.html
In the autumn of 1977,  John Mariani  and his new wife, Galina, took a culinary drive
across the U.S. that ground to a halt in Birmingham,
 Alabama , when a waitress in velveteen shorts served up a
really terrible steak.  A lot of haute cuisine in those days came out of cans
and would have brought tears to the eyes of his Italian
granny, who stuffed little Giovanni with the most beautiful
gnocchi.  Now we eat a lot better and, more often than not,
Italian.  FedEx, visions of “La Dolce Vita” and a new
generation of chefs all contributed to this happy
evolution, writes Mariani in “How Italian Food Conquered
the World” (Palgrave Macmillan).  I spoke with Mariani, who is the food and travel
columnist for Esquire and a wine writer for Bloomberg News,
at Felidia, an Italian restaurant in  New York  owned by
Lidia Bastianich, who wrote the book’s foreword.  Hoelterhoff: Look at the menu and compare it to
Italian restaurants, say, a generation ago.  Mariani:  Nothing on this menu would you have seen in
an American restaurant and very little of it would be
available even in  Italy , which is to say they didn’t eat
raw fish. They didn’t eat sushi in Italy until very, very
recently.  Chicken livers? We don’t kill chickens because they
lay eggs. You only kill them when the bird gets very old
and then you have it for Sunday dinner.  What Tomatoes?  Hoelterhoff: I imagine polenta would be too common for
restaurant eating?  Mariani: It was considered something that the poor ate
three times a day, hating every spoonful.  Hoelterhoff:  Some might be surprised at the complex
attitude to tomatoes. I see there are a few lurking on this
menu.  Mariani: You have to remember how regional Italian
cuisine was and is. Italians from the south used tomato
sauce, brought it here to the U.S. and made it the
signature of their cuisine.  I just spent two weeks in Piedmont and  Venice  and
never saw tomato sauce.  Hoelterhoff: What did you see?  Mariani: I saw butter sauces, I saw cream sauces, I
saw vegetable sauces, I saw black cuttlefish sauces. I
never saw any tomatoes at all.  Hoelterhoff: The pizza also got transformed in
America, ending up supersized.  Mariani: It was really a snack food. Here, I think
they just said, we can make it bigger, it’s not going to
cost any more.  When  Yogi Berra  got a pizza delivered to the dugout,
he looked at it and said, “They cut it into eight slices.
How is anybody supposed to eat eight slices? If they cut it
into six slices, I could eat the thing.”  Memorable Meal  Hoelterhoff: What’s the first memorable meal you had
other than grandma’s gnocchi?  Mariani: In the summer of 1965 when I had my first
bite of real French food at the Gare du Nord in Paris. It
just threw me back in my chair, it was so delicious.  Hoelterhoff: What was it?  Mariani: Blanquette de veau in white cream sauce
brought in a ceramic dish. The waiter put it in front of
me, lifted off the lid, steam came up and hit me in the
face like catnip.  Another catalyst was our 14-week honeymoon drive
across the  United States . The food was simply awful.  Hoelterhoff: Fresh from a can! You write that even New
York only had a handful of great restaurants in the 1970s.  Mariani: They didn’t have the ingredients. There was
no good olive oil, forget about extra virgin, they didn’t
have real prosciutto, they didn’t have a real parmigiano.
There was no imported pasta and nobody was really making
fresh pasta either.  Hoelterhoff: For an evening out, you went to a French
restaurant.  Le Pavillon  Mariani: Though they weren’t great either. Henri
Soule, the owner of Le Pavillon, this fantastic haute
cuisine restaurant, said that he might have the richest
people on earth dining at Le Pavillon that night, but he
could not obtain the ingredients that a French bourgeois
housewife was serving to her husband. No fraises de bois,
wild mushrooms, French cheeses or foie gras.  Hoelterhoff: Then in the 1960s, cheap international
flights really changed everything, didn’t they? Americans
got educated about how real Italian food tastes.  Mariani: Those 707s took off from JFK and from Paris,
 London  and  Rome  loaded with young Americans, who had seen
the movies “Three Coins in a Fountain” and “La Dolce
Vita.”  And in their backpack they had the most important
travel book ever written, Frommer’s “ Europe  on $5 a Day.”
Which could be done.  Chef Boyardee  Hoelterhoff: Is there a part of the world that Italian
food hasn’t conquered?  Mariani: It seems  Peru  might be an exception. I got
this little reproach from The Washington Post’s book
critic. But really, except for darker recesses of  Africa , I
honestly can’t think of any places.  Hoelterhoff: And they probably have Chef Boyardee.  Mariani: They’ll sell a million cans this afternoon.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own. This interview was adapted from a
longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 