-- 
Japan Sees Greater Hit to Economy Than First Estimated on Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-12T09:51:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/yosano-says-quake-hit-to-economy-worse-than-first-estimated-on-fukushima.html
Japan’s Economic and Fiscal Policy
Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said the March 11 earthquake may result in
a larger hit to the economy than previously seen, indicating a
greater appetite for stimulus one month after the disaster.  “The damage to the economy may be bigger than we initially
expected,” Yosano told reporters today in Tokyo. “In addition
to disruptions in the supply chain, we have the added
seriousness of the situation with the nuclear power plant,” he
said, referring to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi crisis that officials
today said has a severity rating matching Chernobyl in 1986.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  may need to turn to additional
debt sales or to tax increases in coming months, given
opposition at the central bank to funding deficit spending. A
record of the Bank of  Japan ’s meeting last month showed today
that officials refrained from any discussion of specific
additional monetary stimulus they would be prepared to endorse.  Stocks slid on concern that the economy faces a longer
slump, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average falling 1.7 percent.
Consumers won’t be willing to spend until funds are deployed
to the northeast and government rebuilding take hold, according
to economist Noriaki Matsuoka.  “There’s talk of a tax hike, but that risks exacerbating
the drop in  consumer confidence ,” said Matsuoka, an economist
at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The BOJ will probably
want to avoid increasing its monthly bond purchases because they
think that would be similar to monetizing debt.”  Bond Underwriting  The central bank is barred by law from directly buying
public debt from the government, and instead purchases 1.8
trillion yen ($21 billion) of the securities from lenders each
month, an amount that’s been unchanged for two years.  Confidence among merchants closest to Japan’s consumers
tumbled at the fastest pace in March since the Cabinet Office
began tracking the data in 2000, a survey showed last week.  Analysts from  Capital Economics  Ltd. are now forecasting
the economy will shrink 1.5 percent this year, revised from a
previous estimate for gross domestic product to be unchanged.  “GDP should then rebound as activity recovers from the
initial shock and reconstruction spending kicks in, but the
recovery will be held back by increases in taxes and cuts in
other expenditure required to help pay for the government’s
contribution,” economists led by  Julian Jessop , chief
international economist at Capital Economics, said in a note
last week.  Damage Estimate  The Cabinet Office last month estimated damages from the
earthquake and tsunami will be as much as 25 trillion yen,
prompting several lawmakers to call for a stimulus package as
large as 20 trillion yen. Those projections covered destruction
to infrastructure while excluding wider implications to the
economy, including how radiation will affect food and water
supply.  The government will make sure that victims of the nuclear
disaster will be appropriately compensated and has asked  Tokyo 
Electric to indicate when problems afflicting its nuclear
reactors will be resolved, Kan told reporters today in Tokyo. He
added that he wants opposition parties to help draft the
government’s plans for reconstruction.  Japan raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis at
 Tokyo Electric ’s Fukushima plant to 7 today, the highest reading.
Increasing radiation has prompted the government to widen the
evacuation zone and halt shipments of contaminated vegetables
produced in regions surrounding the facility.  Kan is aiming to compile the first stimulus this week that
chief spokesman Yukio Edano says may be as much as 4 trillion
yen. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has said he wants to avoid
selling new bonds to finance that first package, and today
reiterated to lawmakers that it’s important for the country to
demonstrate its commitment to fiscal discipline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  