-- 
Zoellick Sees Economic Risks From Food Prices, Debt, Inflation

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-12T15:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-12/zoellick-sees-economic-risks-from-food-prices-debt-inflation.html
World Bank  President Robert Zoellick said the global economy faces risks from inflation,
sovereign-debt woes and rising food and energy prices.  “The world is coming out of one crisis, the financial and
economic crisis, but we are facing other risks and tumultuous
changes,” Zoellick told reporters on a conference call in
 Washington  today.  Europe ’s debt crisis, repeated natural
disasters and political turmoil in the Middle East all pose
risks to the recovery, even as emerging markets face rising
inflation and a risk of overheating, he said.  Zoellick urged the Group of 20 nations to take action to
shore up the economy and curb rising hunger. “This is not a
time for complacency,” Zoellick said. “The best way for the G-
20 to show it’s alive and active is to do things.”  The Washington-based World Bank is planning ways to help
African countries in the midst of political transition, like
 Tunisia , Egypt and the Ivory Coast, Zoellick told reporters. The
bank’s financial arm, the International Finance Corp., will meet
this week with multilateral development banks on the agenda.  For Tunisia, the World Bank is putting forward $500 million
that could combine with up to $700 million in aid from the
 African Development Bank  and other nations, Zoellick said.
Zoellick added he is planning a trip to Tunisia next month and
will meet with Ivory Coast’s finance minister this week.  The World Bank will be looking at short-term aid measures
for the Ivory Coast as well as longer-term issues like debt
relief, Zoellick said. And for Egypt, Zoellick called for
cooperation on ways to help its economy.  Egypt  can’t afford to return to the “old, failed ways” of
a government-driven economy, Zoellick said. The country needs
new ways to create jobs and use aid, rather than using old
models that “blow a hole in budgets and won’t be sustainable,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  