-- 
‘Bad’ Winter Grains in Russia Reach Up to 6%, Center Says

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-05-11T16:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/-bad-winter-grains-in-russia-reach-up-to-6-center-says-1-.html
Between 3 percent and 6 percent of
winter-grain plantings are “bad” in southern and central
 Russia , according to the  Federal Hydrometeorological Center .  Losses may range between 10 percent and 13 percent in some
parts of European Russia, including Tambov, Penza, Volgograd and
the Republic of Kalmykia, Anna Strashnaya, head of agro-
meteorological forecasts at the Moscow-based center, said by
telephone today.  The Krasnodar and Stavropol regions, Russia’s traditional
breadbasket, have no bad winter plantings, according to
Strashnaya. Farms will probably reseed winter crops in areas
where plantings are poor, she said.  Russia was hit by its worst drought in at least 50 years
last year, which cut the grain harvest by 37 percent to 60.9
million metric tons. This year cold and rainy weather delayed
spring sowing by two weeks, according to the Agriculture
Ministry.  The pace of spring sowing in the North Caucasus region is
behind schedule, mainly because of local rainfall in May’s first
10 days, Strashnaya said. Rains lasted for between five and
seven days in the area, exceeding the norm by up to five times,
she said.  Between 45 millimeters (1.8 inches) and 85 millimeters of
rain fell across the region in the period and the Republic of
North Ossetia-Alania received up to 107 millimeters, according
to Strashnaya.  The sowing delay may have no effect on crops in Russia
because weather will improve, helping plantings to mature,
Strashnaya said. She also put the probability of a repetition in
2011 of last year’s drought at less than 20 percent.  “We do not expect such a thing yet,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  