-- 
M-I-C-K-E-Y Mouse Teaches Chinese English, Love for Disney

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T09:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/m-i-c-k-e-y-mouse-teaches-chinese-to-speak-english-love-disney.html
Five-year-old Wei Ziyun chose
“Robot” as his English name after the title character in the
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  movie “Wall-E.” Now a Disney learning center
in Shanghai is teaching him how to spell it.  “I want to come here every day,” he said after one of his
twice-weekly lessons at a  Disney English  classroom in the
Chinese city’s Pudong area. “It’s fun to learn English.”  “Robot” and his classmates are also learning to love
Disney characters as the world’s biggest theme-park operator
builds the $4.4 billion  Shanghai Disney Resort , scheduled to
open in five years. Teaching English to children in the world’s
most populous nation has proven so lucrative that Burbank,
California-based Disney has tripled its number of language
schools there in the past year, with plans for more.  “It’s a very efficient way of marketing their brand as
well as the amusement park,” said Shang Yang, chairman of
Shangyang Enterprise Management Consulting Co. “They’re
starting years early, brainwashing Chinese children and
cultivating them as potential clients in a very indirect, yet
penetrative, fashion.”  Growth Forecast  China ’s private-education market, including international
schools, is projected to grow to 517 billion yuan ($79.6 billion)
by 2012 from 356 billion yuan in 2009, according to a December
report by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. The
catalysts include increased domestic consumption, government
subsidies for schooling and a cultural emphasis on education,
the report said.  The market for children’s English-language learning may
increase 29 percent annually over the next four years from the
current 24 billion yuan, said Andrew Sugerman, senior vice
president and general manager of  Disney English .  The first Disney English center opened in Shanghai in
September 2008 and the number has increased in the past year to
22 from seven. China is the only market where unit Disney
Publishing Worldwide operates the language schools.  “Being surrounded by all sorts of Disney products and
characters, it’s almost impossible for children and their
parents not to love Disney,” said Wang Bing, an analyst with
Phillip Securities Research in  Shanghai .  “All good feelings toward the company will surely
translate into visitations to its theme park.”  Focused on China  Sugerman declined to give financial details about Disney
English except to say that it’s profitable. There also are
 learning centers  in Beijing, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Ningbo, Tianjin
and Suzhou.  The company eventually will look to expand the business
outside China, Sugerman said, declining to provide details.  “All of our focus right now is geared on China,” he said.  Disney said Tuesday its profit in the quarter ended April 2
fell 1.2 percent to $942 million, or 49 cents a share, as a
shrinking movie box-office, a park shortfall and the disaster
caused by the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  overshadowed gains in
television.  “I believe Disney English is profitable without taking
into account licensing fees for these cartoon characters,” said
Jason Ding, a Beijing-based partner and vice president at
management consultant Roland Berger AG. “The business may have
a huge potential if Disney licenses its content and teaching
methods to others.”  ‘Most Important Subject’  The market is fragmented, according to the Merrill Lynch
report.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc. is the
largest private education company in the country with less than
1 percent market share as of 2009.  New Oriental, based in Beijing, made about $64 million from
children’s English training in the year through Feb. 28, an
increase of more than 35 percent from a year earlier, President
Louis Hsieh said. The “POP Kids” program, launched in 2001, is
expected to expand by at least 40 percent during the next couple
of years, he said in an interview.  “As families get a higher income, they are going to spend
a lot of money on early-childhood education,” said Hsieh, who
also is the chief financial officer. “The most important
subject for Chinese kids is English. It’s also seen as an
absolutely necessary skill to get a good-paying job.”  Disney English  worked with an academic advisory board to
create its Disney Immersive Storytelling Approach, and the
company produced more than 300 songs for the program, it said.  Education Standards  The curriculum follows standards set by the national and
Shanghai education ministries, Sugerman said. A team of 10 Los
Angeles-based Disney staff creates culturally relevant content.  “What Disney is doing now in China is growing a future
consumer base,” said Mary Bergstrom, founder of Bergstrom Group,
a Shanghai-based consumer consulting company. “They are giving
them the opportunity not only to learn English, but also to
create really deep, intimate memories with those characters.”  Disney charges between 3,000 yuan and 12,000 yuan for the
programs, including “Hello World” for 2- to 4-year-olds;
“Foundation” for 3- to 6-year-olds; and “Step Up” for
primary-school ages.  Classes typically last 45 minutes and are taught by a
native English-speaking “trainer” -- certified in teaching
English as a foreign language to children -- and a Chinese-
speaking assistant. When it’s time to start, kids march down a
hallway decorated with characters from “Bolt” and
“Ratatouille” to classrooms referencing “The  Lion King ” and
“Mulan,” a Chinese warrior princess.  Sleeping Beauty  After the “Hello Song,” children interact with two
projection screens, called the Magic Theatre, to study words and
phrases. Their lessons include learning the colors of fish on
 Mickey Mouse ’s boat and the articles of clothing Goofy needs
when the weather gets cold.  They also manipulate a warrior who fends off a dragon’s
fireballs to save Sleeping Beauty while also teaching the words
“defeat,” “defend” and “celebrate.”  “Their use of English becomes a comfortable, natural
reality as opposed to a forced, painful reality,” Sugerman said
in a room filled with stuffed toys including gray cats, blue
birds and watermelon slices with bite marks.  Children are tested every six weeks on their reading,
writing, speaking and listening comprehension. They also can
study at home with  materials  featuring Mickey Mouse, Winnie the
Pooh and  “Monsters, Inc.”   Meredith Ge, who works for the regulatory affairs
department at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , enrolled her 4-year-old
daughter, Melody, at the center after trying others. Her
daughter says the way Disney teaches English is “relaxing.”  “English language is a very useful tool,” said Ge, 33.
“I want to lay a solid foundation before Melody goes to primary
school.”  -- Michael Wei  and Margaret Conley. Editors: Michael Tighe,
Frank Longid  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  