-- 
‘Tractor’ Traylor, Former NBA Player, Found Dead in Puerto Rico at Age 34

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-11T19:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/-tractor-traylor-former-nba-player-found-dead-in-puerto-rico-at-age-34.html
Robert “Tractor” Traylor, who spent
seven seasons in the  National Basketball Association , was found
dead in his apartment in  Puerto Rico , according to his
professional team there. He was 34.  Traylor may have died from a massive heart attack, the
Bayamon Cowboys said on their  website .  Traylor, the sixth pick in the 1998 draft from the
University of Michigan, underwent surgery in 2006 because of an
enlarged aortic valve. The condition was detected during a
failed physical following his signing with the  New Jersey Nets 
before the 2005-06 NBA season.  The 6-foot-8 Traylor, who earned his nickname because he
weighed about 300 pounds, last played in the NBA in 2005 with
the  Cleveland Cavaliers . Over 438 games with Cleveland, the
Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets and the  Milwaukee Bucks , Traylor
averaged 4.8 points and 3.7 rebounds.  “Robert was a fierce competitor on the court who helped
the Bucks reach the playoffs in each of his two seasons in
Milwaukee,” the Bucks said in a statement. “Off the court he
was a gentle giant, displaying his smile and care, especially
toward young people through his involvement in school visits and
his work with the Special Olympics clinic.”  After his heart surgery, Traylor played in professional
basketball leagues in  Turkey ,  Italy  and Puerto Rico.  Puerto Rico  He hadn’t played for Bayamon recently because of an
undisclosed injury, though the team said he remained in Puerto
Rico while undergoing rehabilitation. Traylor was found dead in
his apartment in Isla Verde after he hadn’t been seen for
several days, the team said.  Bayamon postponed its game today after learning of
Traylor’s death.  Traylor was one of the one-time Michigan players found to
have taken money from Ed Martin, a former Wolverines booster who
pleaded guilty to running an illegal lottery at Ford Motor Co.
plants in  Detroit . Martin used some of the proceeds to loan
money to Traylor, Chris Webber and other Michigan players,
either before or while they played at the school.  Traylor pleaded guilty in 2007 to hiding assets for a drug
dealer. According to court documents, Traylor’s name was used to
make it appear that he purchased rental properties in Detroit
when the purchases were actually funded and owned by a man who
was sentenced in federal court on charges of narcotics
trafficking and money laundering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  