-- 
Abengoa Net Income Climbs 8.4% as Solar Plants Begin Producing Power

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-11T16:54:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/abengoa-net-income-climbs-8-4-in-first-quarter-as-operating-income-surges.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , the Spanish engineering
company that builds solar projects and ethanol refineries,
increased profit 8.4 percent in the first quarter as three sun-
powered plants went into operation.  Net income rose to 56.4 million euros ($81.2 million) from
52.1 million euros a year earlier, while sales jumped 43 percent
to 1.7 billion euros, the Seville-based company said today in a
regulatory  filing . Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization gained 30 percent to 254 million euros.  Abengoa is expanding its international business as the
Spanish government cuts subsidies for renewable energy and curbs
infrastructure investment in a bid to rein in its  budget
deficit . More than half the company’s sales came from North and
South America in the quarter.  “This represents a remarkable diversification,” Chief
Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega said on a conference
call today. “It is difficult to hide that things are going well
in Q1 and looks like they will continue going well in Q2.”  Abengoa said revenue will increase in the “mid teens”
this year, compared with an earlier forecast of growth in the
“low teens.” It maintained its goal of reaching 1.5 billion
euros of Ebitda by 2013 because surging commodities prices are
squeezing profit margins in its ethanol business.  The company rose 3.6 percent to 21.76 euros in Madrid
trading.  Power Production  Solar-power production in the quarter rose more than
sixfold to 49.2 gigawatt hours as three solar-thermal plants
went into operation. Abengoa plans to invest another 1.9 billion
euros through 2013 to expand its generating capacity, and
expects to build 14 solar-thermal plants with 1.3 gigawatts of
capacity over the period.  Sales grew 43 percent from a year earlier to 1.66 billion
euros. The U.S. contributed 22 percent of revenue while  Brazil 
accounted for 18 percent and 26 percent came from  Spain .  “The biggest positive for us is the level of order
backlog, and the focus for the company to deleverage over the
next year, through asset rotation,” said Rupesh Madlani, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  who has a “buy” recommendation on
the stock.  The company’s order backlog was 8.7 billion euros at the
end of March, compared with 9.3 billion euros three months
earlier.  Latin America  is the biggest source of pending orders
with 38 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  