-- 
Absolute Poker Agrees to Return Funds to Players Following U.S. Shutdown

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-11T23:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/absolute-poker-agrees-to-return-funds-to-players-following-u-s-shutdown.html
Absolute Poker of Costa Rica agreed
to return funds owed to U.S. customers and prohibit deposits of
American players, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York  said
today. The agreement permits foreign-based online poker players.  The agreement, announced in an e-mailed statement, follows
agreements two other online poker companies,  PokerStars  and  Full
Tilt Poker , arrived at with Bharara last month which facilitate
the return of money to players. The founders of all three
companies faced charges of illegal gambling.  On April 15, Bharara announced an indictment against the
founders of PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker
alleging the three companies circumvented a 2006 federal law
barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites.  All three companies “are moving forward with the process
of returning the funds they owe to their U.S. customers,”
Bharara said in the statement. “This office expects the
companies to return the money that U.S. players entrusted to
them.”  The agreement “expressly allows for” players outside the
U.S. to play “online poker for real money,” according to the
statement.  Lawyers for Absolute Poker, Marc Rothenberg and Jerry Bernstein, didn’t immediately return calls made after business
hours seeking comment.  PokerStars, based on the Isle of Mann, Ireland’s Full Tilt
Poker and Absolute Poker of  Costa Rica  are the leading online
poker sites doing business with U.S. customers, according to
prosecutors.  The Internet poker market was $5.1 billion last year,
7.1 percent higher than 2009, according to U.K.-based H2
Gambling Capital, which supplies data on the industry. The
global online gambling market now is about $30 billion.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  