-- 
ACS May Sell Renewable Assets by June, Solar Energy Plants Most Likely

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-11T11:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/acs-may-sell-renewable-assets-by-june-solar-energy-plants-most-likely.html
Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios SA,  Spain ’s biggest construction company, said it may
complete the sale of some renewable power plants in the first
half of the year and negotiations on the disposal of its solar-
thermal generators are at an advanced stage.  The company expects to complete the sale of six bundles of
clean-energy plants including solar generators and wind farms by
the end of the year, General Manager Angel Garcia Altozano said
on a conference call with investors today.  Selling the plants may bolster ACS’s case to win a seat on
the board of  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the power company in which it
controls a 20 percent stake. Bilbao-based Iberdrola has refused
to grant ACS a slot on the board, arguing that the builder’s
clean-energy holdings make the two companies competitors.  ACS also expects to increase its 43 percent stake in
Hochtief SA to 50 percent by the end of the first half of the
year.  Net income at the Madrid-based company fell 31 percent to
204 million euros ($293 million) compared with the year earlier
because Iberdrola’s dividend payment fell in the second quarter,
ACS said yesterday. On a like-for-like basis, profit increased
36 percent.  The company’s plan to boost profit by 10 percent this year
remains “fully achievable,” Altozano said today.  ACS is selling clean-energy power plants with about 1,800
megawatts of capacity. It may earn about 1.76 billion euros from
the sale after paying off debts linked to the projects, said
Olivia Peters, an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in  London .  ACS also expects to make an after tax capital gain of about
250 million euros from the sale of its cleaning services unit,
known as Clece, Altozano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  