-- 
Macy’s Credit Swaps Decline to Lowest Since 2007 After Earnings

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-11T21:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/macy-s-credit-swaps-decline-to-lowest-since-2007-after-earnings.html
The cost to protect  Macy’s Inc. (M)  debt
against default dropped to the lowest in more than three years
after the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain raised its
profit forecast and reported surging online sales.  Credit-default swaps on debt issued by Macy’s declined 8.1
basis points to 112.5 basis points, the lowest level since Oct.
31, 2007, according to data provider CMA.  Sales and profit at the Cincinnati-based retailer are
increasing as consumers ramp up spending amid an improving job
market. Macy’s target of no more than 2.7 times debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization shows a
“clear indication that its board of directors is currently
committed to a balanced and prudent financial policy,” said
Maggie Taylor, senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors
Service.  “This further strengthens our current positive outlook,”
she wrote in a note today.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The cost of protecting U.S. company bonds against default
rose as reports of rising inflation drove stocks lower.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 89.2 basis points as of 4:56 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  ‘Risky Assets’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.1 percent as
commodities tumbled and amid concern rising global inflation
will lead to higher  interest rates . Reports showed inflation in
Germany and  China  exceeded the estimates of economists.  Earlier today, the credit swaps index was at the lowest
level since April 29 on better-than-expected earnings and the
first decline in the price of gasoline in three days. The
benchmark typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates
and falls as it improves.  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which falls as investor confidence deteriorates, declined 0.2
percentage point to 103 percent of face value.  Sears Holdings Corp. is the biggest department-store
company in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  