-- 
Mladic Still Thought to Be Hiding in Serbia, UN’s Brammertz Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-05-11T16:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/mladic-still-thought-to-be-hiding-in-serbia-un-s-brammertz-says.html
Serbia  must step up efforts to find
and arrest Ratko Mladic, who is believed to be hiding in the
Balkan country, Chief  United Nations ’ War Crimes Prosecutor
Serge Brammertz said.  “We believe that Serbia can do more and must do more,”
Brammertz told reporters today at the end of a two-day visit to
the capital, Belgrade. “I’ve said it on many occasions, there’s
no alternative to the arrest of the fugitives.”  Serbia’s progress in arresting and handing over Mladic and
former Croatian Serb leader  Goran Hadzic  to the war crimes
tribunal in the Hague Tribunal is one of the top conditions
Serbia must meet to start advancing toward its accession to the
European Union.  The government plans to gain candidate status by the end of
the year to follow former Yugoslav partners  Slovenia , an EU
member since 2004 and  Croatia , which seeks to conclude entry
negotiations this year.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s administration is
implementing changes to improve the judicial system and fight
corruption and organized crime in hopes of getting a positive
assessment from  EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule on Oct.
12.  Brammertz, who has been on a month-long tour of the
Balkans, will send a report to the U.N. Security Council next
week on Serbian efforts to apprehend the two fugitives. The EU
“will look very closely at the report,” he said.  Mladic’s family asked a Serbian court to declare him dead
after he left his Belgrade home in 2001 and the family lost
all contact with him in 2003. Mladic’s son this week said that
his father is still alive,  Blic  newspaper reported, citing
Serbian Deputy War Crimes Prosecutor Bruno Vekaric.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  