-- 
Picard $59 Billion Suit Uses ‘Novel’ Theory, UniCredit Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-11T14:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/madoff-trustee-using-novel-arguments-unicredit-says-in-bid-to-move-suit.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  a defendant in a
$58.8 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, asked a judge to consider whether the
racketeering law invoked by the trustee applies outside the U.S.  Trustee Irving Picard named the Italian bank in a December
bankruptcy-court suit against Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja Kohn, and dozens of other parties in Austria and Italy. He
sought $19.6 billion for the conman’s investors, invoking the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act to triple the
amount. The claim is the largest of more than 1,000 filed by
Picard.  A district-court judge must address “the viability of the
unprecedented Rico claims asserted here,” Milan-based UniCredit
said in a court filing yesterday, referring to the case as an
“Everest” among molehills. “The exorbitant claims will
require significant interpretation of what even the trustee must
concede is non-bankruptcy federal law.”  A U.S. District Court judge in Manhattan temporarily took
the case, along with one against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , to decide
whether Picard can bring common-law claims such as unjust
enrichment and can sue on behalf of customers, since his job is
to liquidate the Madoff firm. UniCredit urged the judge to focus
on Rico as well.  Supreme Court   A recent Supreme Court ruling “upended” historical tests
for extraterritorial application of U.S. law, UniCredit said.
That casts doubt on whether Picard can use Rico to reach “an
alleged enterprise existing almost wholly outside of the United
States and expressly directing its alleged conduct to persons
living abroad,” the bank said in its court filing.  According to Picard’s suit, Kohn ran a scheme centered on
Bank Medici, parts of which overlapped with Madoff’s own
fraudulent enterprise, delivering $9.1 billion into the  Ponzi
scheme . The participants funneled $4 billion of the total
through feeder funds, he said.  Shortly before Madoff confessed, in December 2008, Kohn
withdrew $536 million from Madoff’s firm and took steps to hide
her connection to the  money manager , according to Picard.  Kohn and UniCredit are fighting the suit.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-5411,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 