-- 
Maersk Shares Rise After Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-11T09:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/maersk-shares-rise-after-profit-beats-estimates.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the owner of
the world’s largest container line, rose the most in eight
months in Copenhagen trading after reporting first-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates.  Maersk shares advanced as much as 5.3 percent, the biggest
intraday jump since Sept. 1, after the Copenhagen-based company
said profit rose 85 percent. Net income before minority
interests climbed to 6.35 billion kroner ($1.2 billion), beating
the 4.89 billion-krone average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
five analysts.  The container industry returned to profit last year as
volumes and freight rates recovered, and Maersk today repeated
its forecast that the market will expand by as much as 8 percent
this year. Maersk said that while freight rates are under
pressure, the market will improve in the second half of the
year.  “Very strong results,” Finn Bjarke Petersen, an analyst
at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen, said in a note, repeating his
“buy” recommendation on the shares. “We believe that this is
a positive relief for the market.”  Maersk rose as much as 5.3 percent, the most since Sept. 1,
and traded at 51,300 kroner, a 4 percent gain, as of 11:43 a.m.
in the Danish capital. The increase erased the stock’s loss for
this year and lifted the company’s market value to 221.9 billion
kroner.  Sales Rise  Maersk, which this year has ordered 10 of the world’s
largest container ships, said first-quarter sales rose 11
percent to 79.1 billion kroner.  Net income for the container operations jumped to 2.39
billion kroner in the quarter from 904 million kroner a year
earlier. Maersk transported the equivalent of 1.84 million 40-
foot containers, 5 percent more than a year earlier. Rates were
2 percent higher on average in the quarter, including fuel
surcharges, the company said.  The container industry may be unprofitable this year as
shipping lines cut rates to compete for orders as they launch
ships faster than demand grows, Drewry Maritime Research said
April 13. Maersk Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said today that rates will have to go up as some
companies in the industry will “definitely need it.”  “The industry will have a tough second quarter, but I
think that will lead to an increase in rates during the quarter,
so the second half should be better,” Andersen said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s ‘On The Move with Francine Lacqua.’  Maersk’s oil-and-gas unit, the Nordic region’s second-
largest explorer, after  Statoil ASA (STL) , said first-quarter net
income rose 15 percent to 2.8 billion kroner. The division was
helped by  oil prices  that were on average 38 percent higher than
in the same period a year earlier, Maersk said.  The company,  Denmark ’s biggest, also said it’s seeking a
buyer for its Maersk LNG unit, which operates liquefied natural
gas transporting vessels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  