-- 
Agfa Profit Drops 72% on Raw Materials; Customers Shun Film

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-11T07:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/agfa-profit-drops-72-on-raw-materials-customers-shun-film-1-.html
Agfa-Gevaert NV (AGFB) ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of prepress products, said first-quarter profit fell 72
percent on higher raw-material costs and reported revenue that
missed estimates as customers bought fewer film products.  Net income dropped to 5 million euros ($7 million), or 3
cents a share, from 18 million euros, or 14 cents, a year
earlier, the Mortsel, Belgium-based company said today in a
statement. Sales rose 11 percent to 736 million euros, missing
the 745 million-euro average of three analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Soaring silver prices and higher aluminum costs cut Agfa’s
gross margin, the proportion of revenue left after subtracting
costs of goods sold, by 3.1 percentage points, with a higher
impact in the health-care unit. Agfa said it managed to
neutralize half of the raw-material impact in the graphics unit,
even as price increases led some customers to postpone or cancel
purchases of analogue equipment and film.  “Encouragingly, Carestream, Fuji and Kodak have announced
similar indexation moves, which could allow Agfa to improve its
track record,” Arnaud Goossens, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
in Brussels who rates Agfa “underperform,” wrote in a note
last week. “However, Kodak announced recently that it has
hedged its silver exposure.”  Silver Prices  Agfa shares rose as much as 5.9 percent to 3.44 euros after
dropping 4.1 percent yesterday. The stock traded at 3.41 euros,
or 4.9 percent higher, at 9:15 a.m. in Brussels.  Agfa said the effects of price increases for film products
will become “more visible” in the second half, without
providing figures.  The surge in spot silver prices, which reached $49.53 a
troy ounce on April 28 compared with an average $20.24 an ounce
last year, may lead Agfa to report a net loss for the full year,
analysts including Goossens, Nico Melsens at KBC Securities NV
and Siddy Jobe at Banque Degroof SA wrote in notes before the
earnings were announced.  Agfa also reported it consumed 26 million euros of cash
from operations in the quarter as inventories climbed by 98
million euros. The company generated 24 million euros of cash
from operations in the same three-month period a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  