-- 
Taj Highway Clash Shows India’s Land Struggle

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-11T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/taj-highway-clash-shows-india-s-land-struggle.html
A deadly confrontation this week over
a highway to the  Taj Mahal  may add pressure on Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  to accelerate changes to land laws as
growth threatens to alienate the nation’s 234 million farmers.  Police in the nation’s  Uttar Pradesh  state clashed with
villagers demanding greater compensation for land earmarked for
a new motorway from  New Delhi  to the city of Agra, home to the
 Taj Mahal , the 17th century monument that is India’s biggest
tourist attraction. Two policemen and two farmers were killed.  Conflict between farmers and companies trying to secure
land for projects has hampered India’s plans to expand  highways ,
crucial to luring investment as they account for 2 percent of
the nation’s road network and carry 40 percent of the traffic.
Singh, 78, is trying to replace the colonial 1894  Land
Acquisition Act  with a law aimed at reducing disputes over
valuation and limiting the social impact of projects.  “The clashes around land acquisition highlight the need
for greater efficiency in dealing with this issue,” said
Siddhartha Sanyal, a Mumbai-based economist at Barclays Plc.
“Policy makers need to come out with clear policies to ensure
land acquisition is done as smoothly as possible and doesn’t
come in the way of development programs.”  Tussles over land have sparked rioting and stalled more
than $100 billion of projects across India, according to the
 Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry.  In the fiscal year
ended March 31, 2010, only 3,360 kilometers of road projects
were awarded in India against a target of 9,800 kilometers
because of tardy progress in procuring land, according to the
nation’s  Planning Commission.   Major Bottleneck  The delays have prevented India from reducing business
costs and making it easier for companies to operate in  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy.  “Congested highways is the major bottleneck hurting
manufacturing companies like us,” said Ajay Seth, New Delhi-
based chief financial officer at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker. “We have no choice but to spend more
on logistics and that adds to the cost of doing business.”  The cost of hauling goods on Indian roads is 30 percent
more than in the U.S. because of inefficiencies, resulting in
higher prices and lower competitiveness while curbing economic
growth, according to McKinsey & Co. It estimates that India’s
poor logistics infrastructure costs the economy an extra $45
billion, or 4.3 percent of gross domestic product, each year.  India’s reliance on roads to move freight is three times
larger than that of  China , and a 2 1/2-time increase in traffic
in the next decade will put further pressure on the nation’s
transportation, McKinsey said in a  report on its website.   Five-Hour Trip  The South Asian nation transports 57 percent of its goods
by road, 36 percent by rail, 6 percent on waterways and less
than 1 percent by air. China transports 22 percent by road, 47
percent by rail, 30 percent by water and less than 1 percent by
air, according to McKinsey report.  The government has said the highway between New Delhi and
Agra will promote economic development and cut about two hours
off the current five-hour trip. The 165-kilometre, six-lane
Yamuna Expressway being constructed by  Jaypee Infratech Ltd. (JPIN) , a
unit of the country’s biggest builder of dams, is due to be
finished by October.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) , which owns Jaypee Infratech,
said in a statement May 8 that “all required land for
development has been acquired and mutually agreed compensation
paid to the farmers.”  Torching Vehicles  Still, protesting villagers torched several vehicles and
tents at a road construction site over the weekend, Rajeev
Malhotra, a spokesman for police in Uttar Pradesh, said May 9.
The violence that began in Noida, on the outskirts of New Delhi,
spread to cities including Agra and Aligarh on May 8. Extra
police teams have been dispatched along the motorway to maintain
law and order, Uttar Pradesh Special Director General of Police
Brij Lal said the next day.  Past protests have held up industrial projects such as a
proposal from  Posco (005490) ,  South Korea ’s biggest steelmaker, to build
a $12 billion plant in eastern Orissa state.  Posco on May 2 won final environmental clearance for its
planned steel complex in India, delayed since 2005 because of
resistance from farmers unwilling to give up their land. The
environment ministry has asked Orissa’s government to resolve
issues pertaining to forestry laws with two villages affected by
the project.  Prime Minister Singh is seeking to scrap the  1894 law, 
which allows state governments to buy land cheaply on behalf of
private projects. Under the provisions of the new bill, still
under discussion, companies would have to agree on terms with
farmers for at least 70 percent of the land they need before
asking authorities for help with the rest. The proposals provide
specific guidelines for valuing land and require a social impact
study before evictions.  “The recent clashes are symptomatic of inefficiencies in
the land acquisition system,” said Manoj Singh, an adviser at
the nation’s Planning Commission in New Delhi. “Roads are
especially vital for  India ’s economic progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  