-- 
Takeda Is Said to Be in Talks to Buy Nycomed for More Than $14.2 Billion

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i ,   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-05-12T10:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/takeda-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-nycomed.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.,  Asia ’s
largest drugmaker, approached closely held Swiss competitor
Nycomed about a possible takeover, said three people with
knowledge of the situation.  The negotiations are at an advanced stage, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. Takeda may pay more than 8 billion euros ($11.4
billion), said one person, while Nycomed may seek more than 10
billion euros, according to another. There’s no agreement yet
and the talks could fail.  Nycomed, a Zurich-based company  controlled  by Nordic
Capital and Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit, would
broaden Takeda’s reach in emerging markets and add products for
heartburn and smokers’ cough. Takeda will focus on medicines for
unmet needs and tapping new markets as blockbuster pills become
harder to find, President Yasuchika Hasegawa said yesterday. The
Osaka-based company sells most of its drugs in  Japan  and the
U.S.  “Takeda was slow to expand its business in emerging
markets,” said Hiroshi Tanaka, an equities analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co., in a telephone interview today. “The deal would
give Takeda a chance to diversify, and that would be valuable.”  Takeda expects profit to reach a 13-year low by 2014 as
generic competitors of its best-selling diabetes pill Actos
erode sales. The stock declined 1.4 percent to 3,870 yen at the
3 p.m. close of trading on the Tokyo stock exchange. The
benchmark Topix index shed 1 percent. The shares have decreased
3.1 percent this year.  A deal may be announced as soon as next week, according to
one of the people.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is advising Takeda, another
person said.  Cash Pile  The Japanese drugmaker, which had 874.2 billion yen ($10.8
billion) in cash, deposits and short-term investments as of
March 31, may seek mergers and acquisitions to spur growth, it
said yesterday.  An acquisition at 8 billion euros or more would be Takeda’s
biggest ever and the largest for a Japanese pharmaceutical
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker,
which traces its origins to a medicine wholesale business opened
in  Osaka  in 1781, bought Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. for
$8.9 billion in 2008.  “Takeda doesn’t comment on rumors about business
development activities,” Elissa Johnsen, a spokeswoman for the
company in Deerfield,  Illinois , said yesterday. Tobias Cottmann,
a spokesman for Nycomed, also declined to comment.  Smokers’ Cough  Nycomed  earned  774.9 million euros before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization last year. It sells pantoprazole
for heartburn and the smokers’ cough drug roflumilast, which is
sold in the U.S. as Daliresp and in Europe as Daxas. Daliresp
sales are shared with  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  in the U.S. The
Swiss drugmaker’s main markets are Russia, Brazil,  Germany ,
Italy and Spain.  Emerging economies accounted for 39 percent of its 3.17
billion euros in revenue last year. The Swiss manufacturer aims
to increase that proportion to 60 percent by 2015, Chief
Executive Officer Hakan Bjorklund said in an interview in March.  The Swiss drugmaker agreed in February to buy Laboratorios
 Farmacol SA (FCL)  of Colombia and in November said it had bought a
majority stake in Chinese biotechnology company Techpool Bio-
Pharma Co.  Takeda generated 86 percent of its 1.4 trillion yen of
revenue in Japan and  North America  last fiscal year.  “Finding blockbusters is becoming difficult and we are
forced to focus on more, smaller products,” Hasegawa said at an
earnings briefing in Tokyo yesterday. To bolster growth, Takeda
will seek drugs for “unmet needs, increase our presence in
developing countries and cut costs,” Hasegawa, 64, said.  India  R&D  Nycomed has about  12,500 employees , four research and
development centers in  Europe  and India, and 15 production
facilities and two joint ventures in 13 countries, according to
its website.  Nordic Capital, based in Stockholm, owns 41 percent of
 Nycomed , while Credit Suisse’s DLJ Merchant Banking unit holds
26 percent, according to the company’s website. London-based
Coller Capital has a 9.7 percent stake and New York-based Avista
Capital Partners owns 8.9 percent.  Nycomed was  founded  in  Norway  in 1874 by pharmacist Morten
Nyegaard as an agent for imported pharmaceutical products. The
company has changed hands repeatedly over the past 12 years,
moving in the process from Norway to Denmark and then, in 2007,
to  Switzerland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at +65-6212-1579 or  j.gale@bloomberg.net . 