-- 
Taliban Attacks Dim U.S. Hopes Bin Laden’s Killing May Hasten Afghan Exit

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-05-12T07:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/taliban-attacks-dim-u-s-hopes-bin-laden-s-killing-may-hasten-afghan-exit.html
Taliban attacks and warnings of a
stepped-up offensive following the death of  Osama bin Laden  may
damp U.S. hopes that the al-Qaeda leader’s death will encourage
the militants to negotiate an end to the Afghanistan war.  Bin Laden’s “martyrdom” will give a “new impetus” to
the Taliban’s fight, the movement said May 9 in a statement on
the Ansar Al-Jihad website it uses for announcements. The
declaration coincided with the group’s most ambitious attacks
this year, including a two-day battle in Kandahar, the country’s
second-biggest city, which killed 19 people.  U.S. leaders have said bin Laden’s death underscores their
message to his former Taliban hosts that they should abandon
violence and embrace negotiations. That’s unlikely, say analysts
and former Taliban members, who point to the group’s commitment
to expelling foreign forces and desire to prove that its
military capability remains undiminished.  “His demise might damage the Taliban’s morale, but it
doesn’t mean they will stop fighting,” said Abdulhakim Mujahid,
a diplomat in the Taliban’s 1996-2001 regime, who  serves on
President Hamid Karzai’s council seeking peace talks. “You see
they are conducting dramatic operations nationwide after his
death,” Mujahid said by phone in Kabul.  After U.S. commandos killed bin Laden May 2 in the
Pakistani town of Abbottabad, 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of
Islamabad, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the al-Qaeda
leader’s death may add “even greater resonance” to America’s
advice to the Taliban that “you can make the choice to abandon
al-Qaeda and participate in a peaceful political process.”  ‘Robust’ Troop Cut  Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, told reporters bin Laden’s death strengthens the
chances for a “robust,” rather than symbolic, reduction of U.S.
troops in Afghanistan from July. President  Barack Obama  says the
U.S. will keep combat forces in Afghanistan until 2014, handing
security duties to the Afghan police and army forces America
helps train.  The Obama administration hopes bin Laden’s death “might
encourage some Taliban members to view their situation
differently in terms of the reconciliation efforts led by
President Karzai,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said
yesterday on ABC television. “That’s, obviously, informed
speculation,” he said.  While Karzai has asked  Turkey  and  Saudi Arabia  to help
broker reconciliation, Taliban spokesmen say the movement will
consider peace talks only when U.S.-led NATO troops withdraw and
Afghans are running their own country.  U.S. Casualties  The U.S., which the  iCasualties tracking group  says has had
1,571 soldiers killed in Afghanistan, formally endorses Karzai’s
efforts to seek peace with the Taliban who accept the country’s
2004 constitution.  Bin Laden’s death won’t move the Taliban toward talks, said
Waheed Mujda, who was part of the al-Qaeda leader’s camp in the
1980s war against Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. While the
Taliban offered bin Laden shelter after his 1996 expulsion from
 Sudan , the nine-year-old war sparked by the Sept. 11 attacks led
them gradually “to abandon al-Qaeda and fight in their own land
against forces they see as non-Muslim occupiers,” Mujda said by
phone in Kabul.  The discovery of America’s most wanted man in a Pakistani
military town has given the U.S. leverage in its already
strained relations with Pakistan, said Andrew Wilder, director
of the Afghanistan and Pakistan programs at the non-partisan
 United States Institute of Peace  in  Washington .  Taliban Roots  Leaders of Pakistan’s army, which Afghanistan says
continues to back the Taliban, “could use their influence over
Afghan Taliban based in Pakistan to push them to come to the
negotiating table,” Wilder said.  The Taliban arose during the 1990s among rural mullahs and
religious students in the ethnic Pashtun homeland of southern
 Afghanistan  and western Pakistan. As warlords who had emerged
during the anti-Soviet fight began battling each other, the
Taliban seized power with covert support from Pakistan’s army,
according to scholars such as  Husain Haqqani , now Pakistan’s
ambassador in Washington.  Thousands of Afghans, mostly from non-Pashtun central and
northern regions, rallied May 5 in Kabul to protest
reconciliation, further complicating Karzai’s peace overtures.  Misguided ‘Brothers’  Karzai, a southern Pashtun, often refers to the Taliban as
misguided “brothers,” urging them to stop fighting and join
the political process. He agreed last month with Pakistani Prime
Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  to step up cooperation in seeking an
eventual peace deal with the Taliban.  At last week’s rally, northerners such as Karzai’s former
intelligence chief, Amrullah Saleh, an ethnic Tajik, called the
Taliban “terrorists” with whom no deal should be made.  Saleh accused the  Pakistan  military of secretly backing the
Taliban in an attempt to dominate Afghanistan. Pakistan should
be excluded from efforts to settle the Afghan war, he said.  Karzai, who was backed by the U.S. after its forces ousted
the Taliban in 2001, has lost public support. His government has
been unable to provide security or jobs and is seen as corrupt,
according to opinion surveys such as the one published in July
by the  Gallup polling organization . He relies on foreign aid for
90 percent of the country’s budget, the  World Bank  says.  The Taliban say their spring offensive will undercut U.S.
claims to have weakened them in the south. Two days after
security forces regained control of Kandahar, hundreds of
Taliban attacked May 10 in northeastern Nuristan province, on
the border with Pakistan.  The Taliban’s raids “are aimed at showing the world that
the surge by NATO has not harmed their ability to attack
throughout the country,” said Haroun Mir, director of the
Kabul-based Afghanistan Center for Research and Policy Studies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  