-- 
Allied Irish Seeks Up to 90% Discount on $3.7 Billion Debt

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-05-11T13:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/allied-irish-seeks-up-to-90-discount-in-buyback-of-3-7-billion-of-bonds.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  will inflict
losses of as much as 90 percent on holders of $3.7 billion of
junior debt it’s offering to buy back as the nation seeks to
share the costs of bailing out its lenders.  The Dublin-based lender said bondholders who refuse to take
up the offer may be paid just 1 cent for every $1,000 of debt
held, according to a statement today. Ireland’s Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said the terms of the so-called liquidity
management exercise are “the minimum acceptable.”  “While it’s formally a voluntary offer, there’s clearly a
very large stick involved,” said Roger Doig, who helps manage
the equivalent of about $46 billion in fixed-income assets as an
analyst at Schroders Plc in  London . “This is pretty coercive.”  Ireland has injected 7.2 billion euros ($10.4 billion) into
the country’s second-largest lender over the past two years to
shore up its balance sheet against mounting losses. The bank,
which posted a record 10.4 billion-euro net loss last year, was
ordered by the central bank to raise an additional 13.3 billion
euros after stress tests on the country’s lenders in March.  Restrictions Removed  Allied Irish said on April 14 that the government had
secured a High Court order to remove restrictions on buybacks of
some subordinated bonds and to push the maturities of some
securities out to 2035. This order was challenged in the Dublin-
based court on April 20 by two New York-based investment firms,
Abadi & Co and Aurelius Capital Management LP.  The securities being tendered for are denominated in
pounds, euros and dollars.  “It’s good to see Allied Irish getting a move on with
this, even with the legal challenges outstanding, as they only
have until the end of July to raise capital,” said  Stephen Lyons , a fixed-income analyst with Dublin-based securities firm
Davy.  Allied Irish is offering to buy back most of its junior
securities at a 75 percent discount to face value. Others are
being asked to accept a 77.5 percent haircut, while holders of
perpetual subordinated bonds are only being offered 10 percent
of par.  The buyback is similar to an exercise carried out by the
nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which also offered
creditors a fraction of their claim while vowing to pay a
smaller amount to those who held out.  If the liquidity management exercises fails to deliver the
required core Tier 1 capital gain to the bank the government
will take “whatever steps are necessary” to achieve at least
that level of contribution, Noonan said in a statement. “Any
further action, after investors have had an opportunity to take
part in the LME, will result in severe measures being taken in
respect of subordinated liabilities,” he said.  Ireland’s central bank ordered four lenders including
Allied Irish, to raise a total of 24 billion euros on March 31.
Allied Irish is to be merged with smaller state-controlled EBS
Building Society as part of the government’s plan to restructure
the nation’s banking industry around Allied Irish and larger
Bank of Ireland Plc.  Ireland’s new government has agreed not to impose losses on
senior bondholders in the face of opposition for the  European
Central Bank , which had lent 114.5 billion euros to Irish
lenders as of March 25, according to Irish central bank
statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  