-- 
Alon Refinery Will Shut If Spillway Opens, Jindal Says

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-12T00:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/alon-refinery-will-shut-if-morganza-spillway-opens-jindal-says.html
Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ) ’s Krotz Springs
refinery will be shut if the Morganza spillway is opened to
relieve flood pressure on the  Mississippi River , said Louisiana
Governor Bobby Jindal.  The  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  is beginning the work
needed to open the spillway, Jindal said during a press
conference in  Baton Rouge . The decision on whether to the
spillway would be made by the Corps.  When the river’s flow reaches 1.5 million cubic feet per
second at Louisiana’s Red River Landing, the Corps will open the
spillway and send a torrent of water down the Atchafalaya River
basin for the first time since 1973, said Jindal. The flow is at
1.36 million cubic feet per second now, he said.  Alon is completing a plan to build an extra levee to
supplement the levees on the Krotz Springs refinery’s north and
east sides, the company said today in a statement. The refinery,
on the west bank of the Atchafalaya, can process 83,000 barrels
a day of crude oil, according to the statement.  The  river in Memphis  crested at 47.87 feet yesterday, just
below the 1937 record of 48.7, according to the weather service.
The bulge of water caused by the convergence of the swollen
Mississippi and Ohio rivers at Cairo,  Illinois , is moving slowly
downstream toward  New Orleans  and the Gulf of Mexico, which it
will reach in about two weeks.  The rising water has interrupted coal shipments to  power
plants  in Tennessee, flooded more than 100,000 acres of Missouri
cropland, forced thousands from their homes and prompted the
Army Corps of Engineers to open the Bonnet Carre Spillway to
reduce the river’s force through New Orleans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  