-- 
Tronox Judge to Decide on Anadarko Cap in $15.5 Billion Suit

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-11-29T19:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/anadarko-kerr-mcgee-can-dismiss-some-tronox-claims-judge-says.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s request
to limit damages claimed in a $15.5 billion pollution lawsuit
brought by the U.S. and creditors of formerly bankrupt Tronox
Inc. will be decided soon, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  said he
will issue a written ruling on whether The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko and its  Kerr-McGee  unit can cap the claims
against them, after hearing more than two hours of arguments
today. His ruling will determine whether Tronox creditors and
the U.S. government can argue for billions to clean up thousands
of polluted sites around the U.S. and pay people who claim they
were harmed by Kerr-McGee’s toxins.  “It’s important to get the decision out quickly,” Gropper
said. “I will give you a decision as soon as possible.”  Tronox sued Anadarko and Kerr-McGee in 2009 during its
bankruptcy to recover what it said were billions of dollars in
environmental liabilities that Anadarko dumped on it through a
2006 spinoff. U.S. government agencies also sued, and a trust
created when Tronox exited bankruptcy Feb. 14 is now pursuing
the lawsuit. The U.S. will get 88 percent of whatever is won in
the lawsuit and tort claimants will get the remainder, according
to court papers.  The case is set to go to trial May 15. Gropper said today
that the parties should mediate the dispute.  ‘Windfall’ Objection  Anadarko said in court papers that the plaintiffs shouldn’t
be able to profit from a recovery, and redacted their pleadings
to hide their estimates as to how much the trust had allegedly
over-stated its claim.  “They admit to you they’re seeking over $15.5 billion.
That’s a windfall,’ Lydia Protopapas, a lawyer for Anadarko,
told Gropper today.  Kerr-McGee transferred about 2,800 polluted sites and
liability for 70 years’ worth of pollution to Oklahoma City-
based Tronox after moving its most valuable oil and gas assets
to a new company that Anadarko acquired in 2006 for $18 billion,
Tronox said in its 2009 lawsuit. Tronox has called the
transactions a two-step fraud.  David Zott, a lawyer for the trust, said the estate and all
its creditors, including environmental and tort claims, are
entitled to recover money that was fraudulently transferred out
of the estate.  Lawsuit Proceeds  “We’re entitled to avoid in entirety the fraudulently
transferred oil and gas assets,” Zott told Gropper.  Proceeds from the lawsuit will go to the litigation trust
which has taken on the case. Proceeds from the trust will go to
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies.
Lawyers for the U.S. have said the federal government and
several states are involuntary creditors now dealing with
pollution strewn across the country.  In a separate, related lawsuit, Tronox shareholders sued
Anadarko in July 2009, seeking unspecified damages over the same
two transactions. They claim they were misled by company
disclosures about the size of Kerr-McGee’s potential
environmental liabilities.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  