-- 
Landis+Gyr Said to Get TPG, Toshiba Bids in Sale That May Fetch $2 Billion

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/landis-gyr-is-said-to-get-takeover-offers-from-toshiba-tpg-capital-eqt.html
Landis+Gyr AG, a Swiss electronic
metering company, received bids from  Japan ’s  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and
two private equity firms in a sale that may fetch about $2
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  TPG Capital and EQT Partners AB submitted proposals by the
May 9 deadline, and Landis+Gyr’s board had planned to discuss
the matter at a meeting May 10, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the details are private. Other companies
including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Bain Capital LLC dropped out
of the process, said one of the people.  Founded in 1896, Landis+Gyr operates in 30 countries with
about 5,000 employees offering meters for clients including E.ON
AG,  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas unit and PG&E Corp. The company,
controlled by Australian investment firm Bayard Capital, makes
smart meters that allow utilities to check energy use remotely
and can be connected to equipment that shows customers when
rates are highest.  “The company’s client network is probably attracting
bidders like Toshiba,” said  Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “For
Japanese firms such as Toshiba, an acquisition is a quick way to
expand in the smartgrid-related businesses after focusing mainly
on information technology operations.”  Keisuke Ohmori, a Toshiba spokesman in Tokyo, declined to
comment on any specific bid and said the company is working on
the smartgrid business in a “variety of ways.” The Nikkei
reported this week that Toshiba is bidding for Landis+Gyr.  Largest Smart Grid  “We do not comment on speculation,” Thomas Zehnder, a
spokesman for Landis+Gyr, based in Zug, Switzerland, said by
phone yesterday. Johan Hahnel, an EQT spokesman in  Stockholm ,
and TPG’s  Owen Blicksilver  declined to comment.  In January, Landis+Gyr was chosen by State Grid Corp. of
 China  to help build the world’s largest smart grid, agreeing to
supply more than 10,000 commercial and industrial advanced
electricity meters in six Chinese provinces.  Tokyo-based Toshiba, which lost a bid for Areva SA’s power-
grid business in Dec. 2009, is seeking to expand its energy
operations to transmission equipment countries such as the U.S.
invest in upgrades of their electrical systems.  The maker of power-generating equipment including nuclear
reactors is expecting sales of 700 billion yen ($8.6 billion)
from “smart grid ” and “smart communications” businesses,
the company said last year.  A smart-grid system more efficiently regulates use of
energy from the main grid  and independent sources with current
that fluctuates like solar, wind and biogas and storage of the
energy they produce. The network reduces reliance on a
centralized energy source, better handling spikes in demand and
reducing likelihoods of power disruptions.  Landis+Gyr is working with Credit Suisse Group AG and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to examine options, including a sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in London at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net  