-- 
ArcelorMittal South Africa Sees Improved Quarterly Profit on Sales, Prices

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-11T06:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/arcelormittal-south-africa-says-it-expects-improved-second-quarter-profit.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the
continent’s largest steelmaker, said it expects a “significant
improvement” in its second-quarter financial results as it
boosts sales and passes on higher input costs to customers.  “Higher expected sales volumes and prices, partially
offset by higher raw material input costs and electricity
tariffs,” should bolster earnings in the second quarter
compared with the previous three months, the steelmaker said in
a statement today.  Net income for the first quarter fell to 184 million rand
($27.3 million), or 46 cents a share, from 745 million rand, or
1.86 rand, a year earlier, the Vanderbijlpark-based company
said. Sales rose 3.6 percent to 7.8 billion rand.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, controlled by the world’s
biggest steelmaker, has seen its profit eroded by a surge in the
price of steelmaking ingredients including coal,  iron ore  and
alloys. The rand’s 39 percent gain against the dollar over the
past 12 months also crimped export earnings, the company said.  The drop in quarterly profit “was due to a 7 percent
decrease in liquid steel production, a 3 percent decrease in
sales volumes and a 20 percent increase in the cash cost per
ton” of steel sales, it said.  Global steel consumption rebounded strongly during the
first quarter as increased demand from  China ,  India ,  Brazil  and
 Russia  offset weak demand in developed countries, the steelmaker
said.  ‘Severe Financial Impact’  The construction industry in South Africa “remains
depressed with minimal activity coming through from both
commercial and residential segments,” it said.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa is concerned by South African
government tax proposals aimed at reducing carbon emissions that
would have a “severe financial impact” on the company if
implemented, it said.  “The company is engaging with the relevant state
departments to seek a more feasible alternative,” it said. “At
this stage the steel sector has only limited potential to reduce
greenhouse gases significantly.”  The ArcelorMittal unit expects a dispute with Anglo
American Plc’s Kumba Iron Ltd. over an ore supply contract to be
addressed during arbitration hearings next month, it said.  In March last year, Pretoria-based Kumba canceled a nine-
year deal that compelled it to supply ore from its Sishen mine
to the steelmaker at 3 percent more than the cost of production
after the steelmaker missed a deadline to renew mineral rights.  The companies agreed an interim supply accord on July 22
under which ArcelorMittal  South Africa  will pay $50 a metric ton
for ore supplied to its Saldanha mill on South Africa’s west
coast and $70 a ton for deliveries to its two inland mills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  