-- 
ArcelorMittal South Africa Plans Own Mine to Cut Reliance on Ore Suppliers

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-11T12:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/arcelormittal-south-africa-targets-iron-ore-from-northern-cape.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the
continent’s largest steelmaker, plans to mine as much as 3
million metric tons of  iron ore  a year in Northern Cape province
to reduce reliance on purchases of the raw material.  “ArcelorMittal will mine for its own account,” Chief
Executive Officer Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita said on a
conference call today. The company intends to buy a property
“in the general area of Sishen,” subject to regulatory
approval, and expects to give the market more details “within
the next six months,” he said.  The plan comes after  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  canceled a nine-
year deal in March 2010 that compelled it to supply ore from its
Sishen mine to the steelmaker at 3 percent more than the cost of
production. Kumba, controlled by Anglo American Plc, scrapped
the accord after Vanderbijlpark-based  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa
missed a deadline to renew mineral rights.  The companies reached an interim supply accord on July 22
under which ArcelorMittal will pay $50 a metric ton for ore
supplied to its Saldanha mill on South Africa’s west coast and
$70 a ton for deliveries to its two inland mills.  Arbitration over the disputed contract “is still set to
take place in May 2012,” and there is no truth to reports of a
possible resolution to the dispute, Nyembezi-Heita said. “We
need to extend the supply arrangements to cover the period up
until the arbitration” is complete and talks have begun with
Pretoria-based Kumba about prolonging the interim agreement.  Profit Slump  Earlier today ArcelorMittal  South Africa  said net income
fell to 184 million rand ($27.2 million), or 46 cents a share,
in the first quarter, from 745 million rand, or 1.86 rand, a
year earlier. Sales rose 3.6 percent to 7.8 billion rand.  The drop in quarterly profit “was due to a 7 percent
decrease in liquid steel production, a 3 percent decrease in
sales volumes and a 20 percent increase in the cash cost per
ton” of steel sales, it said in a statement. “Higher expected
sales volumes and prices, partially offset by higher raw
material input costs and electricity tariffs,” should bolster
earnings in the second quarter.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, controlled by the world’s
biggest steelmaker, has seen its profit eroded by a surge in the
price of steelmaking ingredients including coal, iron ore and
alloys. The rand’s 39 percent gain against the dollar in the
past 12 months also crimped export earnings, the company said.  “The big story in quarter one was costs, rather than
volumes,” Nyembezi-Heita said. “We have seen encouraging signs
of recovery in steel demand, both locally and internationally.”  The shares dropped as much as 4.7 percent, and traded 2
percent lower 80.49 rand at 12:50 p.m. in Johannesburg today,
giving the company a market value of 35.9 billion rand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 