-- 
ArcelorMittal Profit Beats Estimates; Sees Seasonal Slowdown

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-05-11T16:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/arcelormittal-posts-1q-ebitda-of-2-6-billion-beating-estimates.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, posted first-quarter profit that beat estimates and
forecast higher earnings in the three months to June, before a
seasonal decline in demand in the second half.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 52 percent from a year earlier to $2.58
billion, Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal said today in a
statement. That beat the $2.39 billion average estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income climbed to $1.07
billion, from $640 million a year earlier.  Higher prices driven by increased demand from manufacturers
and automakers are aiding steelmakers who have struggled to pass
on rising costs for iron ore and coking coal, used in blast
furnaces. The cost of European hot-rolled steel coil, a
benchmark product used in buildings and cars, rose 25 percent in
the quarter. The World Steel Association last month forecast
steel use would gain 5.9 percent this year.  “We are encouraged by ArcelorMittal’s ability to offset
higher raw material costs with higher selling prices in the near
term, although recent softening in steel prices in  Europe  and
 North America  suggest ArcelorMittal’s margins may come under
pressure later in the year,”  Jeffrey Largey , a London-based
Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst, wrote in a note today.  Second-Quarter Outlook  ArcelorMittal slipped 80.5 cents, or 3.2 percent, to 24.485
euros in Amsterdam trading, the biggest drop in almost six
months.  Ebitda will be $3 billion to $3.5 billion in the second
quarter, ArcelorMittal said. That compares with the average
estimate of $3.21 billion from 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “We have seen a stronger start to the year, with an
increase in both shipments and selling prices,” Chief Executive
Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in the statement. “This is expected
to further improve in the second quarter as the underlying
demand recovery continues. We remain confident that 2011 will be
a stronger year than 2010.”  Aditya Mittal, chief financial officer, said that while
guidance for the second quarter was “good,” steel volumes may
decline in the second half of the year.  “The guidance is good for the second quarter as we’re
expecting volumes to increase as the gradual underlying demand
recovery continues and  market sentiment  improves,” he said on a
media conference call.  Capacity Use  ArcelorMittal said use of capacity will rise to 80 percent
in the second quarter from 75 percent in the first three months
of the year. Shipments will also increase further in the quarter
and price gains will “more than offset” cost increases, it
said.  Average selling prices rose 7 percent in the first quarter
from the last three months of 2010 and steel shipments climbed 4
percent to 22 million metric tons, ArcelorMittal said.  While the company gave no financial guidance for the second
half, Aditya Mittal said that based on 2010, it sees steel
volumes declining in the last six months of the year.  “On a seasonal basis, volumes in the second half are lower
than the first half and we would expect a similar outcome in
2011,” the CFO said. ArcelorMittal also expects capacity use to
peak for the year in the second quarter.  Interest Costs  Debt, which increased by $2.9 billion to $22.6 billion
following the acquisitions of  Baffinland Iron Mines Corp. (BIM)  and  G
Steel Pcl (GSTEEL)  and because of working capital costs, will rise
further in the second quarter, the company said.  Interest costs in 2011 will be higher than last year’s $1.6
billion, Aditya Mittal said yesterday at the steel producer’s
annual general meeting.  Iron ore costs increased 77 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, according to Banco Santander SA, while
coking-coal costs gained 68 percent after flooding in the
northeast of  Australia  disrupted mining.  In an attempt to cope with higher costs and increase self-
sufficiency in raw materials, ArcelorMittal said in February it
planned to spend $1.4 billion on mine  capital spending  in 2011
and boost  iron-ore  output by 10 percent. In 2010, the company’s
iron-ore production grew 30 percent to 48.9 million tons.  Steelmakers face volatile prices after being forced to buy
iron ore and coal for immediate delivery or in quarterly supply
accords following the collapse of a decades-old annual pricing
system. ArcelorMittal, formed by the takeover of Arcelor SA by
Mittal Steel Co. in 2006, said in November it would welcome a
return to annual pricing because of the difficulty of predicting
costs and passing them on to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  