-- 
Harrisburg Incinerator, Source of Fiscal Woes, May Save Its City

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/harrisburg-incinerator-may-save-the-city.html
Harrisburg’s incinerator, a
$310 million debt burden that’s driven the Pennsylvania capital
to weigh bankruptcy, may become the city’s salvation.  The site has drawn two offers -- of $124 million and $140
million -- that the city could use to pay some of the debt from
a 2003 overhaul and expansion it guaranteed and other expenses.  The trash-to-energy incinerator, now running near capacity,
still can’t cover the project’s costs. That prompted some
officials in the  city,  which faces obligations five times larger
than annual general revenue, to consider bankruptcy. Cash from
the two offers -- one to buy and one to lease -- may mark the
beginning of a way out.  “It’s a good start,” said Alan Schankel, director of
fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, an
 investment adviser  in Philadelphia. “You can see the outlines
of a solution emerging.”  Harrisburg racked up debt after the plant, built in 1972,
violated environmental regulations in the 1980s and 1990s. In
2003, city officials decided on a $125 million “retrofit,”
calculating the power generated by a bigger site would pay off
the debt incurred.  It hasn’t worked out that way. The city’s tab for $282
million of loans and bonds it guaranteed for the plant’s owner,
the Harrisburg Authority; restructuring costs; and money owed to
Dauphin County and insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. for
covering missed payments has grown to $310 million, according to
consultants for the state’s Act 47 program governing distressed
municipalities.  Relief Ahead?  A $124 million purchase offer from the  Lancaster County
Solid Waste Management Authority  may bring some relief. The bid,
which started at $45 million in March, was recently raised with
conditions: the city and county must guarantee the amount of
waste available to generate power and the electricity rates it
can charge.  Acquiring the Harrisburg facility would be cheaper and less
risky than expanding Lancaster’s own site, 18 miles (29
kilometers) away,  James Warner , the waste authority’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Any arrangement we enter, we would have to get it free
and clear,” he said. “We’re not paying any existing debt. We
want to be the operator of the plant. We don’t plan to get mired
in the squabbles that would have preceded the ownership of the
facility.”  The $140 million 99-year lease proposal came May 5 from New
York-based  LambdaStar Infrastructure Partners LP  and  EQT
Infrastructure Ltd. , part of a Stockholm-based private equity
fund.  Parking Stipulation  The offer stipulates that the city must agree to the
venture’s previous offer to lease its parking garages and lots,
for either 75 years for $215 million or 50 years for $195
million. In addition, the city and county must create a joint
authority to own the plant.  “It’s part of a comprehensive solution to the city’s
fiscal crisis,” Charlie Gerow, a spokesman for Jacob Frydman,
managing partner at LambdaStar, said in a telephone interview
May 9. Johan Hahnel, an EQT spokesman, didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  “It’s good for Harrisburg to have these offers because no
one is coming to the rescue,” said Howard Cure, director of
municipal research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC in  New
York . He said the state is unlikely to offer assistance outside
of the Act 47 program.  Asset Sales Recommended  The city of 49,500 people 106 miles west of Philadelphia
should negotiate with creditors and consider selling assets and
increasing fees before entering bankruptcy, according to a
report released last month by the New York law firm Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP.  Investors have become more optimistic that the city will
solve its fiscal problems. A zero-coupon Harrisburg general-
obligation bond maturing in September 2021 traded May 6 at an
average price of 39.6 cents on the dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from 30 cents three months
earlier.  The two bids for the incinerator prompted officials of the
Harrisburg Authority to seek more suitors, said Marc Kurowski,
its chairman.  He said no action on the offers is expected before the
state’s consultants announce their recovery plan for the city.
That’s scheduled for early June, according to Bob O’Donnell, a
spokesman for the team.  “The facility is running well,” Kurowski said in a phone
interview May 9. “The debt is its own issue.”  Details Awaited  Robert Philbin, a spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , said
she declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Assured Guaranty,
Ashweeta Durani, said yesterday in an e-mail that company
officials are “aware of the proposals and look forward to
hearing more details.”  The plant is running at 92 percent capacity, compared with
40 percent at the beginning of 2007, said Jim Klecko, a vice
president at Covanta Energy Corp.  “We think it’s been a success story,” Klecko said. “It
becomes extremely evident when you see the proposals on the
table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 