-- 
Hartford Financial Said to Seek Buyers for Fund Business

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-12T20:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/hartford-financial-is-said-to-seek-buyers-for-mutual-fund-unit.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the 201-year-old U.S. insurer, is seeking buyers for its
mutual-fund unit, which may fetch $1.5 billion or more, said
four people with knowledge of the matter.  Hartford has contacted companies with rival asset-
management operations as well as private-equity investors, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Hartford’s
mutual-fund business had about $104 billion of assets under
management at the end of the first quarter, according to a
regulatory filing.  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , hired in 2009, has
reorganized the life insurance and savings business to conserve
capital following losses under his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer .
McGee sold stock last year to repay a $3.4 billion U.S. bailout
and divested a Canadian mutual fund business. The company, which
returned to profit in 2010, may need to contribute capital to
its Japanese business,  Standard & Poor’s  said last month.  “Freeing up a billion dollars worth of capital would be
pretty nifty,” said Randy Binner, an insurance analyst with FBR
Capital Markets. “You have this lingering issue in Japan, which
could cost a lot to hedge.”  Hartford, which discontinued sales in Japan in 2009,
retains liabilities tied to customers who purchased variable
annuities, the equity-based retirement products, before the
financial crisis. Hartford is working on “a more comprehensive
hedging solution in Japan,” Chief Financial Officer Christopher Swift told analysts on a conference call on May 3.  Wealth Management  McGee, 56, grouped the company’s mutual fund, life
insurance, annuity and retirement plan businesses under a  Wealth
Management  division. David Levenson was promoted in July to
president of Wealth Management, reporting to McGee.  Hartford advanced 39 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $27.95 at
4:01 p.m. on the  New York  Stock Exchange and has gained about
5.5 percent this year.  Hartford boosted profit by selling the Canadian fund
business and a third-party claims-administration operation. Net
income was $1.68 billion last year after a loss of $887 million
in 2009. The net loss was $2.75 billion in 2008.  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
is using bankers at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and UBS AG to
handle the potential sale, the people said. Shannon Lapierre, a
Hartford spokeswoman, declined to comment, as did  Andrea Rachman 
of Goldman Sachs and Torie von Alt of UBS.  The mutual-fund unit had net income of $132 million in
2010, according to a regulatory filing. Hartford entrusts
management of a portion of its mutual funds to Wellington
Management Co. The insurer manages some of the funds through its
investment-management division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net .
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 