-- 
Asian Stocks, Won Climb on Global Recovery; Commodities Rally

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-05-11T07:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/asian-stocks-gain-on-economic-outlook.html
Asian stocks rose for a third day and
 South Korea ’s won gained the most in three weeks amid signs the
global economic recovery is accelerating. Silver led a gain in
metal prices.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.6 percent, with about
three stocks advancing for every two that fell, while the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index was little changed as of 4:15 p.m. in Tokyo.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1 percent.
The yen weakened against emerging-market currencies as signs the
global recovery is picking up damped demand for  Japan ’s currency
as a refuge.  Government data showed South Korea’s unemployment rate fell
to a three-month low of 3.6 percent in April, while investment
and retail sales sustained growth in  China .  Europe ’s economy
expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the first quarter after
a 2 percent pace in the previous quarter, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a May 13 report. Inflation in
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, accelerated more than
initially estimated in April.  “The global economy is on track to recovery,” said
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “The yen’s appreciation, which was weighing on
exporters and related stocks, is taking a pause. That will
likely boost the stock market.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.5 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 1.3 percent, while  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 1.2 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s biggest mining company, increased 1.7 percent in Sydney,
while South Korea’s  S-Oil Corp. (010950)  surged 2.5 percent. Honda Motor
Co. advanced 2.1 percent in Tokyo after the yen weakened,
boosting the earnings outlook for Japanese exporters.  ‘Looking Strong’  The yen touched 81.09 against the dollar, the weakest since
May 4, before trading at 80.75 in Tokyo from 80.88 in  New York 
yesterday. It was at 116.21 per euro from 116.54 yesterday, when
it fell 1 percent. The euro fetched $1.4390 from $1.4409. The
won rose 0.8 percent to 1,075.20 per dollar and 0.8 percent to
13.316 against the yen.  “The data are showing the global economy is looking very
strong,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP
Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker.
“Against this backdrop, safe-haven currencies such as the yen
and the Swiss franc are likely to be sold.”  Earnings Strength  Of the 463 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have reported earnings since April 1, more than half said profit
grew. About the same number of companies in the gauge have
exceeded estimates as have failed to meet them.  In Tokyo, Orix Corp., a financial-services company, climbed
4 percent after full-year net income surged 78 percent from a
year earlier. Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd., Japan’s second-
biggest tiremaker, gained 4.9 percent after raising its net
income forecast for the year ending Dec. 31 by 28 percent.  Australian department-store operators Myer Holdings Ltd.
and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  affirmed their annual earnings forecast
after sales declined amid natural disasters and stalling
 consumer spending .  “Sentiment is now shifting because of the strengthening
earnings environment and the positive prospects for corporate
activity,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under
management.  China Car Sales  Shares of Chinese automakers and developers dropped after a
report showed consumer prices in China rose more than the
government’s full-year target, raising concern the nation will
take more steps to curb inflation. China’s consumer prices rose
5.3 percent in April from a year earlier, exceeding economists’
median estimate of 5.2 percent.  The government is seeking to control consumer prices that
rose to the highest in three years in March, without stifling
growth that’s powering the world’s second-biggest economy. The
nation’s passenger-car sales slowed in April from the previous
month as the government raised fuel prices and Japan’s record
earthquake slowed deliveries.  BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett ,
retreated 2.3 percent in  Hong Kong , while  Geely Automobile
Holdings Ltd. (175) , the unit the Chinese automaker that owns Volvo,
sank 1.3 percent.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-owned
developer, lost 0.7 percent, while Hang Lung Properties Ltd.,
which gets about 16 percent of sales in China, fell 1.3 percent.
The  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 0.2 percent. The Chinese yuan
was little changed at 6.4925 against the dollar.  ‘Bad Scenario’  China’s fixed-asset investment grew 25.4 percent in the
first four months of 2011 from a year earlier, today’s report
showed. Retail sales rose 17.1 percent in April and industrial
production gained 13.4 percent.  “The higher-than-expected inflation fueled investors’
concern over inflation and more tightening measures,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“The economy has shown signs of a slowdown and inflationary
pressure isn’t easing at all. That makes it a bad scenario for
the market.”  Silver futures advanced 2 percent to $39.295 an ounce,
bringing their increase this week to 11 percent after a 27
percent plunge last week, the worst since at least 1975. Copper
for three-month delivery lost 0.5 percent, erasing earlier gains.
Oil futures in New York gained 0.2 percent to $104.08 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 