-- 
AT&T Whacks IPhone With Mutt & Jeff Options: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-05-11T20:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/at-t-whacks-iphone-with-mutt-jeff-options-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When it comes to smartphones, one
size doesn’t fit all. If you don’t believe me, check these out.  The Veer, from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , is sort of the  iPod
Nano  of wireless handsets, so small you can hide it in your palm
-- which is appropriate, since it comes from the company known
as Palm before HP bought it.  At the other extreme is the Infuse from Samsung Electronics
Co., whose relatively enormous 4.5-inch screen is its
outstanding feature. Both go on sale next week from  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
which seems to be responding to the loss of its exclusive
franchise on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone with a flood of new devices.  The Veer, which costs $99.95 on a two-year contract, is the
first new phone to reach the market carrying the HP brand since
the Palm acquisition last year. It runs WebOS, the operating
system also used on Palm’s Pre and Pixi smartphones, and on the
forthcoming HP TouchPad tablet.  It’s hard to convey just how dinky the Veer is. At 3.3
inches tall by 2.15 inches wide, it’s more than 30 percent
smaller than an iPhone 4, and at 3.6 ounces is 25 percent
lighter. At the same time, it’s a good deal chunkier, thanks to
a Munchkin-size, slide-out keyboard.  Finger-Flicking Good  I’ve long been a fan of the simple, elegant WebOS
interface, which uses a card metaphor for scrolling through,
launching and, with the flick of a finger, dismissing
applications. Its biggest drawback has been the paucity of apps
available for it. HP says there are now about 6,000 of them,
which compares to more than 350,000 in Apple’s ITunes Store and
more than 150,000 in the Android Market for phones running the
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  operating system.  The company plans to bring WebOS to its line of personal
computers, which should make writing for the operating system
more attractive to developers. But there’s no telling how or
when that will happen, or how successful the effort will be.  The Veer has some nice features, including a data and
charging cable that attaches to the phone magnetically rather
than requiring you to fiddle with a tiny jack, and an optional
charging pad that allows you to juice up your phone just by
laying it on top. A text-entry window called Just Type
interprets your intentions based on context, figuring out from
the first characters you type whether you want to start an e-
mail message or search the phone’s contents.  Sausage Fingers  In the end, how comfortable you are using the Veer comes
down to the size of your hands. With what my kids used to call
my sausage fingers, typing on it was very slow. Having longer
fingernails would have been a help. And I found myself grateful
for the dots that appeared when I pressed an item on the touch
screen: It provided a visual cue to reassure me I had hit the
right spot. Smaller folks looking for an entry-level device
might be much more comfortable using something this size, though
I could imagine difficulties finding it at the bottom of a purse
or backpack.  There’s little such danger with the Infuse. It’s gigantic,
measuring 5.2 inches tall by 2.8 inches wide. At the same time,
it’s barely a third of an inch thick, and it’s one of the
lightest phones of its screen size out there -- 4.9 ounces,
about the same as the much smaller  iPhone 4 .  It isn’t just the screen’s size that’s so striking: It’s
what Samsung calls Super AMOLED Plus technology. For my money,
Samsung makes the nicest displays around, with bright, vivid
colors and deep, rich blacks. The Infuse comes preloaded with
“ Angry Birds ,” and playing it is as nice a gaming experience
as you can have on a smartphone.  Brighter and Dimmer  Or it would be, if not for the screen’s annoying tendency
to brighten and darken during the game, part of the phone’s
effort to adjust to surrounding lighting conditions. I
eventually disabled the automatic brightness adjustment, and had
no similar problems running a movie rented from Samsung’s Media
Hub service, which comes pre-loaded on the Infuse. It was a
pleasure to watch on that gorgeous screen.  The Infuse costs $199.95 on a two-year contract, $100 more
than the Veer, and the extra dollars buy you a number of
additional features, including a front-facing camera for video
chatting and 16 gigabytes of storage for your music, movies and
other data, twice the Veer’s capacity.  While both phones are labeled “4G,” they actually run on
AT&T’s existing 3G network, which has been tweaked in some areas
to offer faster performance. They’re likely to be surpassed in
the speed arena later this year when the company starts to roll
out a new network and devices based on a technology called LTE,
which is already in use by rival  Verizon Wireless .  Neither the Veer nor the Infuse will make anyone forget
about the iPhone. But unless and until Apple comes up with new
iPhone form factors -- which has been reported, but never
confirmed -- it leaves the field open for products at either end
of the scale.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 