-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Deal May Hurt Competition, Senators Say

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-05-11T18:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/at-t-t-mobile-may-hurt-competition-senators.html
U.S. senators said they are concerned
that  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA
Inc. will harm competition by further consolidating the nation’s
wireless phone-carrier market.  Democrat  Herb Kohl  of  Wisconsin  set the tone for a hearing
in Washington of a Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee that
he heads by saying the deal has “profound implications.”
Prices may rise if the acquisition is approved by federal
regulators, he said, putting the phone-carrier market “in
danger of reverting to a duopoly in this century.”  The deal, announced March 20, would combine the second- and
fourth-largest carriers to create a new market leader ahead of
No. 1  Verizon Wireless  and No. 3  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  While
Republican and Democratic lawmakers expressed reservations about
the consolidation, it will be the  Justice Department  and Federal
Communications Commission that will decide whether the merger is
completed.  AT&T and T-Mobile executives testified that the combination
will speed up Internet service and result in fewer dropped
calls, a necessary improvement as video and handheld tablet
computers increase wireless traffic.  The transaction “will benefit consumers in many ways,”
AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson said.  ‘About a Year’  AT&T expects a decision from regulatory agencies will take
“about a year,” Stephenson told reporters after the hearing.  “If we look at this on facts -- what are the facts and
what does the data tell us about this particular transaction --
we feel confident this transaction will be approved,” he said.
Asked if he expected regulators to require the combined company
to sell assets, Stephenson said, “There will be some
concessions, of course.”  “We’ve done a number of these transactions, large and
small. In each transaction there have been concessions, where
we’ve agreed to divest certain assets,” Stephenson said. “And
so I have no doubt that this will have similar requirements on
it.”  During the hearing, Kohl said it was “undoubtable” that
the government would require AT&T to meet conditions in order to
approve the deal.  Kohl questioned the assertion by AT&T that T-Mobile wasn’t
one of its biggest competitors.  “How can you say T-Mobile isn’t a close competitor,” the
senator said.  Wireless Technology  Without the merger, T-Mobile couldn’t afford to upgrade to
faster wireless technology known as LTE, said  Philipp Humm ,
president and chief executive officer of  T-Mobile USA .  “T-Mobile’s parent, Deutsche Telekom, is not in a position
to finance the necessary large-scale investments in the U.S. for
T-Mobile to remain competitive,” Humm said. “The combination
with AT&T allows T-Mobile to address these challenges.”  Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah, the panel’s ranking Republican,
said he generally opposes government interference in business
decisions. Still, “I share some of the concerns” of Kohl, he
said.  “I fear that, if approved, the merger would take us one
more step, just one step away, from the monopoly market that we
had under Ma Bell,” said Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota
Democrat. He was referring to the AT&T empire that was broken up
by U.S. District Judge Harold Greene in 1984 in an antitrust
case brought by the Justice Department.  AT&T Powerhouse  Allowing the deal to go forward wouldn’t recreate the
powerhouse AT&T was in the 1980s when there was little
innovation in the industry, said Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas
Republican.  “I don’t think there’s any danger of doing that,” he
said.  Today’s hearing is entitled, “The AT&T/T-Mobile Merger: Is
Humpty Dumpty Being Put Back Together Again?”  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  testified the
acquisition would put his company in a position to be acquired.  The government’s review of the combination will test the
strength of antitrust enforcement, said  Gigi Sohn , president of
 Public Knowledge , a Washington-based advocacy group. “This
merger is unfixable” and should be challenged in court, she
said.  Opposition to the acquisition is increasing, Ed Black,
president of the Computer & Communications Industry Association,
said in a conference call yesterday. Members of the Washington-
based trade group include Sprint,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and
Yahoo! Inc.  Faster Services  If the government requires AT&T to deliver on its promise
to expand faster wireless services, the acquisition would help
the U.S. compete against other countries that are upgrading
their networks, said Larry Cohen, president of the
Communications Workers of America.  “This merger represents an opportunity for this country to
accelerate high-speed broadband deployment,” he said, and rural
communities, in particular, may benefit.  The need for faster wireless services is forcing the
industry to consolidate, he said. “The real story here is
whether Sprint or AT&T acquires the company,” Cohen said.  The planned acquisition also has the support of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the AFL-CIO,
Stephenson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ; 