-- 
Tata Consultancy Says Social Networks, Outsourcing Drive 20% Sales Growth

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-05-12T12:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/tata-consultancy-says-sales-will-rise-20-annually-on-outsourcing-demand.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s largest computer-services provider by value, said its
annual sales may expand at least 20 percent a year in the
“foreseeable future” as companies outsource more contracts.  Demand for mobile, radio-frequency identification and
social-networking applications will drive revenue growth, Chief
Financial Officer S. Mahalingam, 63, said in a May 10 interview
in  Mumbai , where the company is based. Cloud-computing services
for small- and medium-sized businesses will also spur growth, he
said.  Such growth would help Tata Consultancy double sales every
four years as it scales up operations and challenges rivals
including  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in winning larger outsourcing orders
from global customers. Analysts estimate the Indian software
exporter’s revenue will rise 25 percent this fiscal year after
climbing 24 percent the previous year.  “The bigger you are, the better you’ll be at getting
shortlisted” for contracts, said Richard Nguyen, an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in Paris. “Lots of clients are shortening
their supplier lists.”  Tata Consultancy fell 2.5 percent to 1,111.75 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares have fallen 4.6 percent
this year, compared with an 11 percent drop in the benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Worldwide spending on information technology outsourcing by
businesses and governments will gain 7.1 percent this year to
$254 billion after rising 2.8 percent last year, Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  said in January.  70,000 Workers  Tata Consultancy added about 70,000 workers in the year
ended in March as customers send more network maintenance and
other computer technology work to  India  to benefit from the
nation’s low-cost advantage.  By comparison, Accenture had revenue of $23.1 billion in
the year ended in August 2010, almost unchanged from the
previous year. Sales for the Dublin-based company fell 8.5
percent in the year ended in August 2009.  Accenture’s sales this year may reach $25 billion,
according to the average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Tata Consultancy’s revenue may rise 25 percent to 466
billion rupees in the year ending in March 2012, according to
the average of 52 analyst estimates.  “This kind of growth is feasible, at least for the
foreseeable future,” Mahalingam said. “If you were to look at
the available market, it continues to expand, because the needs
of almost all companies are becoming technology-driven.”  Cloud Computing  Tata Consultancy has invested “a lot of money” to develop
its cloud-based services and applications for small and medium-
sized enterprises, Mahalingam, who joined the company in 1970 as
a consultant, said.  Cloud computing services, where a shared pool of resources
including servers and data storage is operated by contractors,
were estimated to be 10.2 percent of the spending on external
 information technology  services last year, according to a
worldwide  survey  by Gartner Inc.  Tata Consultancy may also seek acquisitions of smaller
technology companies to gain intellectual property and new
customers in non-English speaking countries, Mahalingam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  