-- 
Canadian Fertilizer Stocks Decline as Wheat Drops; BCE Advances

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-12T18:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/atlantic-power-cp-provident-energy-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks swung between gains
and losses as companies including  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and Finning
International Inc. reported earnings that topped analysts’
estimates while fertilizer producers dropped with wheat futures.  BCE,  Canada ’s largest phone company, rose 2.5 percent.
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, dropped 1.5 percent a day
after the U.S. Agriculture Department forecast higher suplies
than most analysts had estimated.  Eastern Platinum Ltd. (ELR) , which
mines in  South Africa , plunged 13 percent after saying striking
workers sabotaged equipment.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index gained 9.65
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,429.39 at 2:06 p.m. in Toronto,
after falling as much as 1.2 percent.  “For a long time, people said high commodity prices are
going to pressure profit margins in the developed world, and
that was a negative,” said Murray Leith, a  money manager  at
Odlum Brown Ltd. in  Vancouver , which manages C$7.5 billion ($7.8
billion). “When commodities start to do the opposite, I think
it’s a positive. Within the market, there are lots of reasonably
priced stocks and companies like BCE that had a great quarter.”  The S&P/TSX dropped 4.9 percent this quarter through
yesterday after surging 62 percent in the prior two years. Gold
has declined from a record and oil from a 31-month high this
month as the  U.S. Dollar  Index has rebounded after five months
of losses. The U.S. currency gained on speculation the  European
Central Bank  will be slower than previously forecast to raise
 interest rates  and that  Greece  may need to restructure its debt.  Beating Estimates  Finning International Inc. (FTT) , BCE and  Crescent Point Energy
Corp. (CPG)  rallied after their earnings beat their average analyst
estimates.  Finning, which says it is the world’s largest Caterpillar
dealer, advanced 8.4 percent to C$28.05, ending a seven-day
streak of losses. BCE, Canada’s biggest phone company, increased
2.5 percent to a 29-month high of C$37.85 after raising its 2011
profit forecast. Crescent Point, a western Canadian oil and gas
producer, climbed 3.2 percent to C$43.43.  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) , Canada’s largest fast-food chain, dropped
5.2 percent, the most since January 2010, to C$45.37 after its
first-quarter profit trailed the average of 12 analyst estimates
by 6.4 percent, excluding certain items.  Fertilizer producers dropped as wheat declined to the
lowest price since March 31. Potash Corp. lost 1.5 percent to
C$49.45.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , Canada’s second-largest fertilizer
producer, fell 1.2 percent to C$77.23.  Regulators Meet  Uranium producers retreated as nuclear regulators met in
 Europe  and the U.S. to discuss power-plant safety.  Cameco Corp. (CCO) ,
the world’s largest producer of the nuclear fuel, decreased 4.5
percent to C$25.47, the lowest price since August.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , a producer controlled by Moscow-based
ARMZ uranium holding, slumped 5.3 percent to C$3.74 after at
least three analysts reduced their 12-month price estimates on
the shares. Yesterday, the Vancouver-based company reported
quarterly earnings that missed the average analyst estimate by
60 percent, excluding certain items.  Base-metals and coal producers rallied as copper rebounded
from a five-month low.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s biggest
company in the industry, rose 1.4 percent from a six-month low
to C$46.12.  Sherritt International Corp. (S)  gained 5.2 percent to
C$7.43 after surging as much as 6.4 percent, the most intraday
since August.  Producers of precious metals advanced as the U.S. dollar
fell from a three-week high against a basket of world
currencies.  Silver Miners  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-largest precious-
metals company, increased 2.8 percent to C$33.56. Yamana Gold
Inc., the country’s fourth-biggest gold producer, climbed 2
percent to C$11.63.  Silver Standard Resources Inc. (SSO) , which mines
in  Latin America , jumped 7.3 percent to C$28.24 after sinking 11
percent yesterday.  Eastern Platinum plunged 13 percent to 90 Canadian cents
after earlier today sliding as much as 28 percent, the most
since October 2008. The company said it has suspended operations
at its Crocodile River Mine after members of the  National Union
of Mineworkers  damaged electrical, pumping and ventilation
systems.  Lesiba Seshoka, a National Union of Mineworkers
spokeswoman, said by phone that the union is unaware of any
property damage at the mine.  Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU) , which mines precious and base metals
in  Africa , rallied 6.1 percent to C$5.25 after Rahul Paul, an
analyst at Canaccord Financial Inc., raised his rating on the
shares to “speculative buy” from “hold.” In a note to
clients, Paul said Nevsun’s first-quarter financial results
“demonstrate a smooth ramp-up” of its Bisha mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  