-- 
Axel Springer First-Quarter Profit Advances on International, Online Sales

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-11T11:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/axel-springer-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-international-online-sales.html
Axel Springer AG (SPR) ,  Europe ’s largest
newspaper publisher, said first-quarter profit before some items
rose 6.5 percent as international and online-business revenue
made up for a weaker German advertising market.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed to 126.9 million euros ($182 million) from
119.2 million euros a year earlier, the Berlin-based company
 said  today. Analysts had predicted 129 million euros in Ebitda,
the average of nine estimates. Sales gained 11 percent to 736.7
million euros, beating estimates.  The publisher of Bild newspaper is relying on increased
income from online classifieds portals such as  France ’s
SeLoger.com, and on consumers paying for entertainment and news
on mobile devices. Axel Springer forecasts a “slight” decline
in revenue at its German print division this year, and that will
be offset by international and digital sales. The company and
rivals including Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  benefited last year from a revival in ad spending.  “Axel Springer has the advantage that they have a very
solid print business, from a competitive point of view, with a
very strong  cash flow , in combination with structural growth
areas like digital businesses and operations abroad,” said
Jochen Reichert, an analyst at MM Warburg Investment Research in
Hamburg with a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  Eastward Expansion  Axel Springer rose as much as 4.30 euros, or 4 percent, to
112.25 euros, the biggest intraday increase since March 16, and
was up 2.3 percent as of 1:24 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. That
pared the stock’s decline this year to 9.5 percent, giving the
company a market value of 3.64 billion euros.  First-quarter net income gained 1.1 percent to 63 million
euros, the company said.  Axel Springer bears the name of the journalist who
established the company in 1946. He called for reunification of
 Germany  and laid the foundation stone for the publishing house,
now the company’s headquarters, adjacent to the Soviet sector in
Berlin in 1959, a stone’s throw from Checkpoint Charlie.  In the 1980s, Axel Springer started its eastward expansion
in Hungary and is now present in 35 countries with more than 240
newspapers and 140 online businesses.  Digital and international sales rose 26 percent and 58
percent, respectively, during the quarter while national
newspaper sales in Germany were down 3.3 percent.  SeLoger.Com’s Know-How  The company is looking to use SeLoger.com’s know-how to
expand its real-estate classifieds businesses organically and
through acquisitions in growth markets, primarily in eastern
Europe as well as in  Asia ,  India  and  South America , Chief
Executive Officer Mathias Doepfner said on a conference call
today.  Axel Springer  is targeting half of its revenue to be made
from digital media channels within seven years. It made 29
percent of sales from those businesses in the first quarter.  “We laid a strong foundation in the first quarter to be
able to achieve our goals for the year as a whole,” Doepfner
said in the statement.  Axel Springer is about 52 percent owned by the Axel
Springer Gesellschaft fuer Publizistik, of which the majority is
owned by Friede Springer. She also has a 7 percent direct
ownership stake in the company, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  