-- 
Axel Springer Says Tablets Are ‘Game Changer’ for Newspapers

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-11T15:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/axel-springer-says-tablets-are-big-game-changer-for-newspapers.html
Axel Springer AG (SPR)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mathias Doepfner  said tablet computers such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad will change the newspaper industry as consumers are
willing to pay for content on these devices.  “At the moment, the tablet market in absolute figures is
very small, with roughly 400,000 tablet PCs in  Germany ,”
Doepfner said on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” with
Andrea Catherwood today. “By the year 2014, forecasts are
saying it will be around 10 million, so there is tremendous
growth potential.”  Axel Springer,  Europe ’s largest publisher of newspapers, is
relying on increased income from online classifieds and
consumers paying for entertainment and news on mobile devices.
The Berlin-based company said today that revenue from national
newspapers, including the  Bild  tabloid, dropped 3.3 percent in
the first quarter, while the share of income from digital media
channels surged to 28.8 percent in the first quarter from 24.4
percent in 2010.  Shares of  Axel Springer  rose as much as 4 percent to 112.25
euros in Frankfurt trading today and were up 2.3 percent as of
5:20 a.m.  “The newspapers and the magazines of the future are the
mobile devices,” Doepfner said. “The beauty is that we don’t
have to change habits, we can count on existing habits that
everything that you do on a smartphone, you’ll pay for.” The
CEO said consumers are already paying for sending  text messages 
or downloading applications on mobile phones.  Online Push  Despite increasing distribution of news online, Doepfner
still predicts newspapers will last “longer than people
think,” and will remain a profitable business for the company.
The newspaper business is “healthy, it’s stable, but of course
circulation is going to decrease,” he said. “The question is:
are we gaining more in the digital world than we are losing in
the print world?”  The company aims to make half of its revenue from digital
operations within seven years.  Axel Springer’s revenue grew by 11 percent in the first
quarter to 736.7 million euros ($1.1 billion), helped by
acquisitions of companies such as French real-estate online
classified business SeLoger.com. Excluding acquisitions, sales
rose 5 percent.  Doepfner said the company will grow, helped by existing
assets and through acquisitions at “conservative prices.” The
aim is to buy “new economy assets at old economy prices,” he
said.  The CEO said Springer paid an average multiple of 12 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
for online assets, based on the year of transaction. That’s
“very conservative” compared with other online transactions
“and we want to keep that discipline,” he said.  “It makes no sense to chase trophy assets, even if it’s a
super-sexy fast growing online business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Catherwood  in London at 
 Acatherwood@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  