-- 
Bank of Ireland May Avoid State Control, Harris Associates Says

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-11T12:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bank-of-ireland-may-avoid-state-control-harris-associates-says.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, ordered by
regulators to raise 5.2 billion euros ($7.5 billion), has a
“good chance” of avoiding state control by offering junior
bondholders an opportunity to convert to equity, according to
Harris Associates LP, its largest institutional investor.  Investors would prefer to see junior bondholders swap debt
for equity to help the Dublin-based lender reach its capital
target than the government increasing its 36 percent stake to a
majority holding, Robert Taylor, director of international
research and portfolio manager with Chicago-based Harris
Associates, said in a telephone interview. Harris, which owns
about 6 percent of the bank, manages more than $65 billion in
assets for clients.  “Right now, even looking at another round of dilution from
share issuance, Bank of Ireland is still attractive,” Taylor
said. “With the flexibility the bank has in converting
subordinated debt investors into equity investors, there’s a
good chance the bank will avoid majority state ownership.”  Ireland’s central bank ordered four lenders on March 31 to
raise a combined 24 billion euros following a third round of
stress tests. Bank of Ireland must raise 4.2 billion euros of
equity and 1 billion euros of contingent capital by the end of
July as regulators seek to shore up confidence in the country’s
financial system. The government has said it is prepared to
invest any money the bank can’t raise privately.  Bank of Ireland said on April 14 it would outline its
capital-raising plans  “in the coming weeks.”  The bank’s
subordinated bondholders may be interested in debt-for-equity
swaps as they are required to share the burden of bailing it
out, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the following day. The
bank had  2.8 billion euros  of junior debt outstanding at the end
of December, according to its annual report.  The lender raised 2.9 billion euros of capital in June,
following regulators’ first set of stress tests.  Bank of Ireland fell 0.8 percent to 23.5 euro cents at 1:26
p.m. in Dublin today, giving the lender of market value of 1.3
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  