-- 
Banks May Sell More Covered Debt to Replace ECB Funds, HUK Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-05-11T08:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/banks-may-sell-more-covered-debt-to-replace-ecb-funds-huk-says.html
Banks will probably sell a broader
range of secured debt as soon as access to funding by the
 European Central Bank  becomes more limited, the chief executive
officer of German mutual insurer HUK-Coburg Holding AG said.  “Once there is enough pressure to end the dependency on
ECB funding, lenders including the German Landesbanken will seek
to broaden up their offering beyond mortgage-covered bonds,”
Wolfgang Weiler said in an interview in Munich.  The ECB is providing banks with unlimited liquidity in its
lending operations for maturities of as much as three months.
The refinancing framework will be “adjusted when appropriate,”
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week, noting that all
non-standard policy measures taken during the financial crisis
are “by construction, temporary in nature.”  HUK-Coburg, Germany’s biggest motor insurer, had 24.3
billion euros ($35 billion) in investments at the end of 2010,
up 6.8 percent from a year earlier. About 60 percent of the
amount was in bank loans and other financial-industry debt. The
insurer doesn’t currently plan a major shift in its asset
allocation, Weiler said.  “Unsecured bank debt has become much more expensive for
issuers under the new world order following the financial
crisis, therefore covered loans will become more attractive,”
he said. The Coburg, Germany-based insurer would be interested
in buying bank debt covered by direct customer loans because of
the “extra security” it offers, according to Weiler.  Following the financial crisis, holders of profit
participation certificates -- securities issued by banks in
countries such as  Germany  and  Austria  -- had to share losses
incurred by issuers including Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and
 Bayerische Landesbank , Germany’s biggest state-owned lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  