-- 
Barcelona Wins Third Straight Title to Extend Supremacy Over Real Madrid

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-11T23:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/barcelona-wins-third-straight-title-to-extend-supremacy-over-real-madrid.html
Barcelona drew 1-1 at Levante to win
Spanish soccer’s La Liga for a third straight season,
reinforcing its recent supremacy over Real  Madrid .  Seydou Keita scored at the Ciutat de Valencia stadium last
night to help Barcelona take an insurmountable six-point lead
over Real with two games left. Barcelona increased its tally of
Spanish championships to 21, 10 fewer than Real’s record mark.  Clinching the league with two games to spare gives
Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola a chance to rest players
including World Player of the Year Lionel Messi before its May
28 Champions League final against  Manchester United  at  London ’s
Wembley Stadium.  “Now is the time to party,” Guardiola told Barcelona’s
website. “That’s what winning this title deserves and we have
time to get ready for the final in London.”  Barcelona has had a sapping finale to the season with a
four-game series against Real last month that caused friction
between Guardiola and counterpart  Jose Mourinho  and opposing
players. Barcelona won 3-1 over two games in the Champions
League semifinal. They drew 1-1 in the league and Real won 1-0
in the Spanish Cup final.  In La Liga, Barca has lost only two of 36 games and allowed
20 goals. Guardiola’s team is the first to win three Spanish
titles in a row since 1993, when Johan Cruijff guided Barca to
the third of four straight championships.  “We have worked hard against a strong rival in Madrid,”
said Messi, who has scored 31 league goals this season.  Real, which last won La Liga in 2008, has 86 points in
second place -- 19 ahead of third-place Valencia. Barca and
Real,  Spain ’s two biggest and most successful clubs, had a 25-
point advantage over the other 18 teams in the first division
last season.  Smaller clubs are seeking a more of Spanish soccer’s
television revenue to try and reduce the imbalance. Barcelona
and Real get about half the $875 million annual broadcast income
by negotiating individually. Last year, the pair agreed to
collective bargaining from 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  