-- 
Barratt Says 2011 Operating Profit to Improve Substantially

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-05-11T07:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/barratt-says-2011-operating-profit-to-improve-substantially.html
Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s
biggest homebuilder by volume, predicted a “substantial
improvement” in second-half and full-year operating profit
because of cheaper land and lower costs.  Barratt is “comfortable” with analysts’ estimates of 130
million pounds ($213 million) for this year, Finance Director
 David Thomas  said on a conference call with reporters today. The
London-based company earned 90 million pounds in 2010.  “The new land that we’ve approved is at full margin, so we
are now starting to see the benefit of that,” Chief Executive
Officer Mark Clare said on the call. “The other key factor is a
continual focus on keeping our costs under control.”  A slow economic recovery and restricted lending have curbed
demand for homes, while a lack of supply is helping to support
values. On May 9, Rightmove Plc said first-time buyers have
become less pessimistic about property values and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) ’s mortgage unit Halifax reported that prices fell the
most in seven months.  The average selling prices of Barratt’s homes has risen by
as much as 4 percent after the company sold more houses than
apartments in the 18 weeks to May 8, Barratt said today in a
statement. Agreed sales were down 2.5 percent to 1.05 billion
pounds.  Clare said that the operating margin won’t return to pre-
recession levels of around 15 percent until at least 2014 as the
company builds more of its homes on less expensive land.  “Until we see a more substantial portion of that new land
coming through, we won’t be able to hit the full margin,” Clare
said.  The company refinanced its debt and has agreed a 1 billion-
pound facility to May 2015 and said its cost of borrowing will
fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  