-- 
Baucus Says Worker Aid Is Prerequisite for Free-Trade Pacts

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-11T19:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/baucus-joins-obama-in-seeking-worker-aid-in-push-for-free-trade.html
Congress must extend lapsed
provisions aiding workers when acting on three pending free-
trade agreements, officials from President Barack Obama’s
administration and Democratic senators said.  The administration wants Congress to approve those extended
benefits, as lawmakers did in 2009, for workers who lose their
job because of overseas competition, Deputy U.S. Trade
Representative Miriam Sapiro said today. The provisions expired
this year for services workers, and demanding a renewal as
lawmakers consider trade agreements may complicate or delay
those pacts.  “It’s clear that we need trade-adjustment assistance to be
enacted along with” the free-trade agreements, Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of  Montana  said today at a hearing
on a pending deal with  Colombia . “The two must go together, one
way or another. We have to find a way so that they both are
passed this year.”  Obama inherited deals with Colombia,  South Korea  and  Panama 
from the administration of President  George W. Bush , and
reworked provisions in each. Administration and congressional
staff members began negotiating the legal texts for those
agreements last week and will soon seek action by Congress.  Republican leaders say they back those free-trade deals,
too, while worrying about the cost of approving further aid to
laid-off workers.  “I don’t think the current funding level is sustainable,”
said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who helped
negotiate the 2009 legislation that extended trade adjustment
assistance.  2007 Agreement  Republicans agreed in May 2007 with a new Democratic House
majority to rework labor and environment provisions in deals
with  Peru , Panama, Colombia and South Korea. Grassley said that
agreement was meant to lead to approval for all four deals,
which hasn’t happened.  Now, with demands on trade-adjustment assistance, “I see
the possibility of more goal-post moving,” Grassley said.  Sapiro said that the administration has the goal of
submitting the three free-trade agreements before Congress takes
a recess in August. In addition to the worker-aid program,
Colombia “still has important work to accomplish” before that
deal can be submitted for a vote, she said.  The  trade-assistance program  augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
competition from overseas competition. As part of the stimulus
bill in 2009, it was expanded to include service workers such as
call-center employees, who accounted for more than half of the
280,000 people aided last year, according to data from the Labor
Department. Those added benefits expired in February.  ‘Done By Now’  The reauthorization of the Trade Adjustment Assistance
program “should have been done by now,” said Senator Benjamin Cardin, a Maryland Democrat.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and business groups joined
Democrats in pushing for the program’s renewal.  “We urge Congress and the administration to find a way
forward to ensure that the  United States  has in place an
effective TAA program to support U.S. global economic
engagement,” the business groups wrote in a letter to the
congressional leadership on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  