-- 
Bedbugs and Store Meat May Carry Deadly Drug-Resistant Bacteria

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-11T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bedbugs-and-store-meat-may-carry-deadly-drug-resistant-bacteria.html
Bedbugs and grocery-store meat may
carry deadly drug-resistant bacteria, according to two studies
published by the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  The staph germ methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus,
known as MRSA, was found in the bugs, Canadian scientists said
in a report. Human handlers may contaminate meat,  Wayne State
University  researchers wrote in a separate study. The CDC
released the findings today and will publish them in its June
issue of  Emerging Infectious Diseases .  Bedbugs, wingless insects that feed on blood of sleeping
animals, invaded stores of  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and
Victoria’s Secret in  New York  City last year as well as hotels,
offices and the Metropolitan Opera House. Invasive MRSA,
typically acquired in hospitals, sickens about 90,000 people a
year in the U.S. and kills about 15,000, according to the CDC.  “Bedbug carriage of MRSA, and the portal of entry provided
through feeding, suggests a plausible potential mechanism for
passive transmission,” according to the study led by  Marc
Romney , a medical microbiologist at Providence Health Care in
 Vancouver .  The Canadian study identified the bacteria in three bedbugs
found on a hospitalized patient in Vancouver. Two other bedbugs,
discovered on two hospitalized patients from the same low-income
Vancouver neighborhood, carried a bacterium known as vancomycin-
resistant enterococcus, or VRE.  While  bedbugs  were almost eradicated in  North America  in
the mid-20th century, increased global travel and greater
resistance to pesticides have contributed to resurgence in
recent years, according to the Atlanta-based CDC. Bedbugs can
hide in upholstery and clothing.  Hidden Reservoir  While there is “no conclusive evidence” that people have
caught MRSA through bedbug bites, the insects “may act as a
hidden environmental reservoir” for the bacteria, the authors
wrote. “Bedbugs carrying MRSA and/or VRE may have the potential
to act as vectors for transmission.”  Meat contaminated with MRSA has potential to infect humans,
according to the Wayne State study, which analyzed 289 raw beef,
chicken and turkey samples collected from 30 grocery stores in
 Detroit  from August 2009 to January 2010.  Drug-resistant staph bacteria was found in 21 percent of
156 beef samples, 25 percent of 76 chicken specimens, and 25
percent of the 57 examined turkey portions, the authors said.  Unlike studies in  Europe  that have found meat products
tainted with a form of MRSA linked to animals, tests on meats in
the U.S. found the most common human strain of the germ. That
suggests “a possible human source of contamination during meat
processing,” the authors wrote.  Abercrombie & Fitch, the teen apparel retailer, in July
temporarily closed its South Street Seaport store in New York to
eliminate bedbugs.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in August said it treated
its offices at Columbus Circle after bedbugs were found “in a
small contained area,” while the Met said in October it found
bugs in non-public areas of the opera house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 