-- 
Beijing Auto Expects Slow Sales Growth Through Second Quarter

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T02:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/beijing-auto-expects-slow-sales-growth-through-second-quarter.html
Auto sales in China may continue to
grow slowly through the second quarter before rebounding in the
second half, said Wang Dazong, president of Beijing Automotive
Industry Holding Co.  “I think it will pick up later this year and end up about
10 percent,” Wang, who leads China’s fifth-biggest vehicle
maker, said in an interview in  New York  yesterday. Beijing Auto
is the Chinese partner of  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   Chinese automakers are seeking to boost sales as
competition rises at home, with foreign carmakers introducing
local models, even after the nation ended tax breaks and
subsidies that helped propel the country past the U.S. as the
world’s largest auto market.  Deliveries of cars including multipurpose and sport-utility
vehicles to dealerships rose 2.8 percent in April from a year
earlier to 1.14 million units, the  China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers  said. Sales may fail to increase by a
previously estimated 10 percent to 15 percent this year, the
industry group said last month.  “There is a limit as to how many vehicles Chinese
consumers can buy in a month, and the 1.8 to 1.9-million level
pretty much hit the ceiling at the current stage,” said George Yin, an analyst with BOC International in Beijing.  Sales Target  China ’s total vehicle sales stood at 1.89 million units in
January and 1.83 million in March, according to the automobile
association.  Beijing Auto sold 1.49 million vehicles last year and aims
to more than double sales to as many as 4 million by 2015. The
company is investing 4.12 billion yuan ($634 million) to build
manufacturing facilities for its own brand of cars in the
Chinese capital, with construction expected to finish by the end
of November, according to its website.  The automaker is using technology from  Saab Automobile , for
which it paid about 1.4 billion kronor ($221 million) in 2009,
in its own-brand cars. Beijing Auto, which isn’t publicly traded,
increased first-quarter profit 54 percent to 3.48 billion yuan,
according to its website. The automaker made a profit of 11
billion yuan last year.  Beijing Auto makes Mercedes Benz E-class and C-class sedans
with Daimler as well as Sonata sedans, Accent compacts and ix35
sport-utility vehicles with Hyundai Motor at their ventures.  Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Beijing Auto’s commercial-vehicle
unit, formed a 6.35 billion yuan truck venture with Daimler last
year. Foton also plans to work with the German automaker to
target overseas sales.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  