-- 
Bekaert Falls Most in Five Months in Brussels on Slow China

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-11T16:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bekaert-falls-most-in-five-months-in-brussels-on-slow-china-1-.html
Bekaert NV, the largest maker of
steel cord used in tires, declined the most in five months in
Brussels trading after saying Chinese demand began to slow and
it will cut prices to defend against rising local competition.  Bekaert tumbled 5.3 percent on Euronext Brussels, the
biggest drop since Dec. 9. Chinese demand weakened toward the
end of the first quarter and it’s getting tougher to pass on
rising raw-material costs, Bekaert said today in a statement.  The company will implement “adequate price adjustments”
in  China  after  Xingda International Holdings Ltd. (1899)  in December
began mass production of sawing wire used to slice silicon
ingots into wafers for solar cells, it said.  “Bekaert confirms that the second half might be more
difficult, with a slowdown in some markets and increasing
competition,” said Bernard Hanssens, an analyst at Banque
Degroof SA in Brussels who has an “accumulate” rating on the
stock. This stops investors being “over-optimistic,” he wrote.  Bekaert, based in Zwevegem,  Belgium , fell 4.39 euros to
79.15 euros by the 5:35 p.m. close in Brussels. The shares have
lost 7.9 percent since the start of the year, compared with a
4.8 percent gain for Xingda in Hong Kong trading.  The company reported first-quarter sales rose 32 percent to
918 million euros ($1.3 billion) as demand increased in every
region and higher wire-rod prices were passed onto customers.  Asia-Pacific sales growth slowed to 46 percent from 67
percent in the previous three months. Bekaert’s higher-margin
products including steel cord for tires and sawing wire
contribute about 80 percent of the company’s Asian sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  