-- 
Bernanke Says Fed to Propose Financial Rules in Coming Months

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-12T15:38:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bernanke-will-propose-rules-for-firms-whose-failure-may-endanger-system.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank plans to propose regulations
within the next few months for firms whose failure may endanger
the financial system.  “We anticipate putting out a package of proposed rules for
comment this summer,” Bernanke said in testimony prepared for a
Senate Banking Committee hearing today on the progress of the
Financial Stability Oversight Council. The rules will cover
areas including “enhanced”  capital requirements  and annual Fed
stress tests, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  Bernanke, whose remarks were published yesterday, is
scheduled to testify along with  Sheila Bair , chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.; Acting Comptroller of the
Currency  John Walsh ;  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission; and Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  The FSOC, created by the Dodd-Frank Act and led by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , is charged with identifying and
monitoring companies whose collapse would threaten the financial
system.  The regulators told the committee they are open to getting
more public input on the FSOC process for designating non-bank
financial companies systemically important. Designated companies
will be subject to heightened scrutiny, including Fed
supervision.  ‘More Details’  “I think more details are necessary,” Bernanke said in
response to a question from Senator Patrick Toomey, a
Pennsylvania Republican. “I favor providing more information to
the public and getting robust input and comment.”  The FSOC plans to provide “additional guidance” on its
approach and will seek public comment, Deputy Treasury Secretary
Neal Wolin said in prepared remarks.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the committee’s ranking
Republican, said in a statement that there is “a great deal of
confusion” about how the oversight council will designate
companies, creating “uncertainty in our markets as firms are
unsure which types of activities will cause them to be subject
to systemic-risk regulation.”  Shelby asked the regulators how they will ensure that
picking a “handful of firms for enhanced regulation will not
increase moral hazard if markets believe that regulators will
never allow a designated firm to fail.”  Equity-Market Appraisal  The SEC is conducting a “broad-based appraisal” of equity
markets to determine whether rules have kept pace with
developments in trading technologies and strategies, according
Schapiro’s prepared remarks. The SEC, which is soliciting
comments on high-frequency trading and opaque markets, also has
proposed requirements for reporting by bigger traders and
recommended building a consolidated data system for market
surveillance.  “These proposals would tremendously enhance regulators’
ability to identify significant market participants, collect
information on their activity, and analyze their trading
behavior,” according to Schapiro’s remarks.  The FSOC should use caution when responding to emerging
risks in the banking system and deliberate “in a manner that
assures” confidentiality, Walsh said in his prepared testimony.  These discussions “could undermine public and investor
confidence and thereby create or exacerbate a potentially
systemic problem,” according to Walsh’s testimony.  Strengthen Capital  Bair, who will leave her post at the FDIC July 8, plans to
urge that banks strengthen capital standards to improve U.S.
lenders’ ability to compete, according to her prepared
testimony.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed to
increase capital requirements to limit failures that would
disrupt the global economy. Bair, who was a member of the Basel
committee, has urged U.S. regulators to strengthen these global
standards, known as Basel III.  “Basel III is not perfect, but it is a great improvement
over what came before,” according to Bair’s testimony.  Dodd-Frank rules requiring that swaps dealers post margin
and that derivatives are settled by a central clearinghouse will
reduce risk to the financial system, Gensler said in his
prepared testimony. A proposal to require daily pricing of
derivatives trades would help prevent another credit crisis,
according to the remarks.  “This daily valuation will help prevent similar scenarios
to 2008 when we were unable to price ‘toxic assets,’” according
to Gensler’s testimony.  The Office of Financial Research, which will collect and
analyze data to help the FSOC, will have more than 60 full-time
employees by the end of September, Wolin said. He said the
oversight council will meet again this month, without specifying
the date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 Lroberts13@bloomberg.net  