-- 
Biggest Oil-Gas Premium May Spur North America LNG Exports: Energy Markets

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-05-11T19:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/biggest-oil-gas-premium-may-spur-north-america-lng-exports-energy-markets.html
Crude’s biggest premium to natural
gas is boosting the allure of shipping gas from  North America  to
international buyers saddled with a 40-year-old system that
links the fuel to the cost of oil.  The ratio of Brent crude to natural gas was about 27-to-1
today, based on oil futures prices on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  and gas on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
It touched a record of more than 31-to-1 on April 8. The average
during the past decade is about 10-to-1.  The growing price difference is encouraging U.S. companies
to build LNG export plants, betting they can find buyers in
nations such as Korea and  Japan , where contracts have been
pegged to crude since the 1970s for lack of an international
benchmark price. Apache Corp. and Cheniere Energy Inc. are among
companies planning to build nine terminals to export LNG from
North America starting in 2015.  “The stage is set for a major struggle,” said  Zach Allen ,
president of Pan Eurasian Enterprises Inc., a Raleigh, North
Carolina-based tracker of LNG shipments. “If the U.S. joined as
an exporter of LNG, that will greatly change the markets,
especially if future contracts were global.”  The Brent-gas ratio widened this year as oil climbed 19
percent amid political turmoil in the Middle East, while U.S.
natural gas prices fell 5.1 percent amid rising production from
 shale deposits . The U.S. has enough gas reserves to last more
than 100 years at current rates of demand, according to the
Energy Department in  Washington .  No Immediate Threat  Brent crude  for June settlement dropped $5.06, or 4.3
percent, to $112.57 a barrel on the ICE. Natural gas for June
delivery declined 6.5 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4.181 per
million British thermal units.  U.S. LNG exports aren’t likely to pose an immediate threat
to the oil-linked pricing system because importers such as Japan
are willing to pay higher prices to lock in long-term supplies,
according to Allen.  While there have been calls from buyers from countries
including Japan and Germany to end the linkage with crude, the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged Japanese nuclear
power plants increased the need to secure gas supplies for
electricity generation, reducing the likelihood of delinking
from oil, Allen said.  “Long-term buyers will feel more urgency to secure supply
in what is now perceived to be an incrementally tighter market
and may be more willing to pay a higher price,” Barclays
Capitals analysts including Michael Zenker said in a report on
April 12.  ‘Cocktail’ Index  Purchases of LNG by Japan and  Korea , the world’s biggest
importers of the fuel, are based on a formula that includes what
is known as the Japan Crude Cocktail, an average of prices the
nation pays for oil imports provided monthly by the Finance
Ministry, according to James Jensen, president of Weston,
Massachusetts-based Jensen Associates.  In January, when the cocktail price averaged $91.83 a
barrel,  LNG Japan Corp. , an energy-trading company, paid an
average of $12.84 per million Btu for cargoes from Qatar.
Natural gas in New York that month averaged $4.498.  At $4 per million Btu, it would cost $9.15 to deliver U.S.
gas cargoes to Japan, when taking liquefaction and
transportation costs into account, according to Barclays.
Delivery to  Europe  would cost $7.15 because of the shorter
voyage, the bank said in the report. European importers
currently pay about $10 per million Btu.  Competing Globally  U.S. gas may average $5.25 per million Btu in 2015 as Brent
oil advances to $135 a barrel, a ratio of about 26-to-1,
according to Barclays. At that price, North American LNG would
be competitive, it said.  “We can compete globally, probably not with Qatar but with
some of the other liquefaction facilities that are coming on
line over the next several years in countries such as
 Australia ,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst in Houston at
Canaccord Genuity.  Houston-based Cheniere has booked eight clients for a
proposed terminal at Sabine Pass in  Louisiana , according to
Chief Executive Officer Charif Souki.  “There is already enormous demand for LNG,” Souki said in
a telephone interview. Cheniere, which aims to start exports in
2015, has signed contracts with clients in  Asia  and Europe for
10 million metric tons a year, he said.  Trade Agreements  The U.S. Energy Department last year approved Sabine Pass
to export LNG to countries  with U.S. free trade agreements .
Application to ship LNG to countries without trade agreements is
pending. Cheniere has support from local and federal
governments, Souki said.  Kitimat LNG, a joint venture of Apache Corp. and EOG
Resources Inc., both based in Houston, and Encana Corp., in
Calgary,  Alberta , plan to build an export terminal in British
Columbia that would start operations in 2015. Macquarie Energy
Markets, a unit of Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , is working
with Freeport LNG to build an export terminal at Freeport,
 Texas , tapping into shale gas reserves.  U.S. shale gas production grew by an average of 48 percent
a year from 2006 to 2010, according to the Energy Department in
Washington. Output will grow almost threefold from 2009 to 2035,
the department predicted in its Annual Energy Outlook release on
April 26.  The U.S. is already re-exporting LNG cargoes. Banks such as
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and companies including  ConocoPhillips (COP)  last year
shipped a record 12 previously imported cargoes to countries
including Japan, South Korea, Spain and the U.K., according to
the Energy Department. Five cargoes were transported in the
first two months of this year, department data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  