-- 
Obama Administration Defends Bin Laden Killing as Son Challenges Legality

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-11T17:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bin-laden-s-son-challenges-legality-of-killing.html
The Obama administration rejected
allegations by the sons of  Osama bin Laden  that the U.S. had
violated legal norms in killing him, saying the justifications
for the operation are clear.  “I’ve addressed the legal foundation” for the raid, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters in Washington
today. “We feel very strongly that the successful mission
against a mass murderer of Americans and people around the world
was entirely justified.”  The White House is seeking to neutralize criticism outlined
by Omar Osama bin Laden in a statement published yesterday by
the New York Times.  The son, who wrote that he disagreed with his father’s
“ways,” said the U.S. military team that raided his father’s
compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , should have arrested bin
Laden, who was unarmed, and sent him to trial. He cited the
example of trials for former Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein  and
Serbian President  Slobodan Milosevic .  “We maintain that arbitrary killing is not a solution to
political problems” and justice must be done, the statement
said. In addition to violating international law, the U.S.
action contradicted the American right to a fair trial, the
younger bin Laden wrote, adding that his father was “summarily
executed.”  The U.S. deemed the terrorist leader a combatant, a U.S.
official said, citing al-Qaeda’s declaration of war on the U.S.
and bin Laden’s pride in killing Americans. Article 51 of the
 United Nations charter  guarantees a nation’s inherent right to
self-defense, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Lengthy Pursuit  President  Barack Obama  and other U.S. officials have
trumpeted the death of bin Laden as a milestone in their goal of
disrupting, dismantling and defeating al-Qaeda. The May 2
operation capped a lengthy pursuit of bin Laden since the U.S.
lost track of him in  Afghanistan  during the invasion that
followed al-Qaeda’s Sept. 11, 2001, attack that caused almost
3,000 deaths at the World Trade Center in New York, at the
Pentagon near Washington, and in a Pennsylvania field.  Vice President  Joe Biden , asked on his way into an
unrelated congressional negotiating session yesterday to respond
to the allegation of illegality, said, “Are you kidding?”  Attorney General  Eric Holder  said last week that the
killing of bin Laden complied with the law.  “The operation against bin Laden was justified,” Holder
told the Senate Judiciary Committee at a May 4 hearing in
Washington. “It’s lawful to target an enemy commander in the
field.”  Bin Laden ‘Targetable’  Holder said bin Laden took no steps to surrender, and the
U.S. actions were “consistent with our values.”  The New York-based nonprofit group  Human Rights First  said
bin Laden’s son didn’t accurately describe international law in
yesterday’s statement.  “Assuming the existence of an armed conflict against al-
Qaeda, Osama bin Laden was targetable unless he was surrendering
or so injured” that he couldn’t have engaged the U.S. troops,
Gabor Rona, the group’s international legal director, said in a
statement on the group’s website.  Omar bin Laden said in his statement that he is the al-
Qaeda leader’s fourth son and that he represented an unspecified
number of brothers. He said he “always disagreed with our
father regarding any violence and always sent messages to our
father that he must change his ways and that no civilians should
be attacked.”  Going to Court  The  New York  Times said it obtained the statement from
American author Jean Sasson, who helped Omar and his mother,
Najwa bin Laden, write “Growing Up bin Laden,” a 2009 memoir.
A shorter, slightly different statement was posted yesterday on
a jihadist website, the newspaper reported.  The son criticized the special operations forces for also
killing another of bin Laden’s sons and a woman during the raid
and shooting another woman in the leg.  Omar bin Laden warned that in the absence of satisfactory
answers, he and his brothers would force the issue in
international courts with a “panel of eminent British and
international lawyers.”  He also called for more evidence that the body the
commandos took from the compound was that of his father. The
U.S. military said it buried bin Laden at sea within the Islamic
tradition’s requirement of 24 hours from the time of death.  Obama administration officials have cited evidence of
identity that include verbal identification by one of bin
Laden’s wives in the compound, facial recognition techniques,
DNA samples that matched those of family members and al-Qaeda’s
own statement last week confirming the death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  