-- 
Osama Bin Laden’s Journal Said to Outline Terror Plots, Political Games

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-12T04:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bin-laden-journal-said-to-have-been-recovered-by-u-s-during-pakistan-raid.html
Osama bin Laden  outlined his thinking
for mounting attacks with mass casualties and playing U.S.
politicians off one another in a handwritten journal, letters
and other documents recovered by the Navy SEALs who killed the
al-Qaeda leader, a U.S. official said.  Bin Laden used the journal, which is between 10 and 20 pages
long, to brainstorm ideas about making attacks more deadly and
choosing specific targets, such as trains, the official said.
The terrorist group’s leader then detailed his thoughts in
correspondence to al-Qaeda affiliates and allies around the
world, the official said.  The official, lacking authorization to discuss the
documents publicly, spoke yesterday on condition of anonymity.
The  Associated Press  earlier reported on the journal.  The portrait emerging from the documents shows that  bin
Laden  was more involved in daily operations than U.S. national
security leaders had suspected.  The journal was among a vast store of documents and
equipment, including computer hard drives and portable thumb
drives, seized by the SEALs during the raid on the compound in
Abbottabad,  Pakistan , in which bin Laden was shot and killed
earlier this month.  In some documents, bin Laden talks about the importance of
an attack resulting in mass casualties and wonders how many
Americans would need to be killed before the U.S. removed troops
from Muslim countries.  U.S. Cities  The journal and documents discuss launching attacks in  New
York ,  Los Angeles ,  Chicago  and Washington, the official said.  In dozens of letters, bin Laden helps with operational
planning, including a plot uncovered in  Europe  last year, the
official said. Bin Laden also shares his thoughts on who should
or shouldn’t be appointed leaders of al-Qaeda affiliates, the
official said.  U.S. intelligence experts and other specialists from 10
government agencies are combing through the material and still
quantifying and cataloging the haul, which may produce more
hand-written accounts, a second U.S. official said.  The U.S. already has shared certain potential threat
information with foreign partners, this official said, declining
to specify which countries or organizations or how many.  In addition, the U.S. has female interrogators on standby
to interview bin Laden’s widows as soon as they get the access
that Pakistan has promised, the official said. The commandos
conducting the raid left behind three wives of bin Laden and
nine children, whom Pakistani authorities took into custody when
they arrived on the scene.  The U.S. last week issued an alert to law enforcement
officials based on an item in bin Laden’s notebook that
described a plot in February 2010 to attack U.S. trains, a third
U.S. official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  