-- 
Blackstone’s Hilton Seeks to Be the Fastest-Growing Luxury Hotel Company

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-05-11T17:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/blackstone-s-hilton-seeks-to-be-fastest-growing-luxury-hotelier.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Hilton
Worldwide chain, owner of the Waldorf Astoria brand, is aiming
to be the world’s fastest-growing luxury hotel company, said the
executive in charge of its high-end properties.  “At the time of the Blackstone acquisition, there were
five Waldorf Astorias,” John Vanderslice, Hilton’s global head
of luxury and lifestyle brands, said in a telephone interview
today. “Three weeks ago, I opened my 23rd Waldorf Astoria, in
 London . If you look at other hotel companies’ growth at the same
time of their evolution, such as the Four Seasons, we’re
outpacing that growth.”  Occupancies at the costliest hotels climbed to 67 percent
in the first quarter, the highest among seven U.S. lodging
categories and up from 63 percent a year earlier, according to
 Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee . McLean,
Virginia-based Hilton, bought by Blackstone in 2007, plans to
have luxury account for at least 6 percent of its room count and
15 percent of its revenue, according to Vanderslice.  “We’re aiming at or above that,” he said. “Valuation of
luxury hotel companies is very high, especially with the return
of the luxury customer. It’s an area of focus for us.”  Vanderslice declined to give a timeline for the revenue
target or disclose what percentage of the company’s sales
currently come from luxury hotels.  “The biggest risk for Hilton is that the Waldorf Astoria
brand is held in such high regard, they better make sure they
hold up to that standard,” said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets Corp. in  New York . “Otherwise they may
dilute the high-quality brand standards as it grows.”  Conrad Hotels  Hilton plans to double the number of its 16 high-end Conrad
hotels, which compete with  Fairmont Hotels & Resorts  and  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H) ’s Park Hyatt brand, and add eight Waldorf Astoria
properties in two and a half years, Vanderslice said. Its newest
luxury hotels are the  Waldorf Astoria Shanghai on the Bund  and
 London Syon Park .  As part of its expansion efforts, Hilton is both
redeveloping existing properties, such as the planned  Waldorf
Astoria Jerusalem , and building from the ground up, as with the
232-room  Waldorf Astoria  it’s developing in western Berlin.  While the company holds stakes in some of its hotels, and
fully owns the Waldorf Astoria in New York, it’s pursuing a so-
called asset-light strategy, focusing on managing properties
rather than owning the real estate, Vanderslice said.  Aside from its namesake and luxury hotels, Hilton also owns
the Doubletree and Embassy Suites brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  