-- 
Bloomberg TV Launches High-Definition Channel, ’Bloomberg HD’

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-11T13:23:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bloomberg-tv-launches-high-definition-channel-bloomberg-hd-.html

Press Release  Bloomberg HD Offers More Business Data and Information than Any
Other Network  New York -- Bloomberg Television, the global 24-hour business
news network that provides continuous coverage of the people,
companies and ideas that move the markets, today announced that
Bloomberg HD will launch on Time Warner Cable on Channel 730 in
 New York City , Channel 708 in  Mount Vernon , Channel 714 in  New
Jersey  and Channel 717 in Hudson Valley.  Other scheduled
Bloomberg HD launches will take place throughout the year in
major U.S. markets.  Bloomberg Television’s high-definition channel provides more
data and information on the screen than the nearest competitor
as well the most relevant information from Bloomberg’s world-
recognized financial news and data services. Bloomberg HD is
also designed to be easy to understand at a glance, with color-
coded market indicator chips.  In addition, the HD screen offers
graphs, company metrics, real-time pricing information for U.S.
and international markets and more headlines and context to
supplement Bloomberg Television’s award-winning reporting on
markets, breaking news and world events.  “With access to Bloomberg’s market-moving data and analytics,
Bloomberg HD allows us to better serve our viewers with unique
and relevant information that’s easy to process at a glance,”
said James Cofer, head of distribution for Bloomberg Television,
Americas.  “We’re excited to launch the HD channel on Time
Warner Cable in  New York , a critical market for business
information and news.”  Along with being available to residential customers, Time Warner
Cable Business Class customers who subscribe to Digital Tier or
Business News Tier in the New York City market can also view
Bloomberg HD starting May 11.  In addition, Bloomberg HD will
become part of Time Warner Cable’s Business Headend solution and
HD Video for Hospitality on May 23.  For more information on
Time Warner Cable Business Class, visit www.twcbc.com/nyc.  Bloomberg Television, currently available in  more than 270
million homes worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most
affluent and influential viewers in terms of  household income ,
asset value and education levels.  With hubs in New York,  London 
and  Hong Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage.
Programming includes “InsideTrack with Erik Schatzker and
Deirdre Bolton” (6-8 AM/ET), “In the Loop with Betty Liu” (8-10
AM/ET),“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” (10AM-12PM/ET) and
“Surveillance Midday” with host  Tom Keene  (12-1 PM/ET).  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in New York,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net   #<728521.6697419.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
-0- May/11/2011 13:23 GMT
 