-- 
Bloomberg Gets Bad Grades From 78% of School Parents, Poll Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-11T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bloomberg-gets-bad-grades-from-78-of-school-parents-poll-says.html
More than three out of four New York
voters with children in public schools disapprove of Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s stewardship of the biggest U.S. education
system, a Quinnipiac University poll reported.  The parents rejected Bloomberg’s education policies and
practices by a margin of 78 percent to 20 percent. When voters
without children were counted, 64 percent found fault with the
mayor’s control of the almost 1,700-school system, compared with
25 percent who approved.  The survey is Quinnipiac’s first to measure Bloomberg’s
approval rating since April 7, when he accepted the resignation
of Chancellor Cathie Black, the former Hearst Magazines chairman
whose three months in office drew a 17 percent job-approval
rating and protests from parents who said she was out of touch.  Bloomberg has made education of the city’s 1.1 million
pupils a signature issue. He won control of the system in 2002
when the Legislature and former Governor George Pataki allowed
him to disband the Board of Education. He increased the schools’
budget by 70 percent to about $19 billion, raising teacher
salaries, test scores and graduation rates.  “Mayor Mike, you said you wanted to be the ‘education
mayor,’ but New Yorkers don’t think you’ve learned how to do
it,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said in a statement.
“Even the removal of a historically unpopular schools
chancellor doesn’t seem to be moving the approval needle.”  Voters said by 57 percent to 23 percent that the mayor’s
takeover of the schools has been more a failure than a success.  Black’s Successor  Black’s replacement, Dennis Walcott, a former deputy mayor
who oversaw administration education policy, received a 31
percent approval rating, with 21 percent finding fault with him
and 48 percent undecided. Half said they expected Walcott to
improve the quality of education in three years.  The survey also found that 40 percent of city voters
approved of Bloomberg’s job performance, compared with 49
percent who rated him unfavorably. The results were consistent
with a March 16 Quinnipiac poll, which reported 39 percent of
voters approved of his performance and 51 percent didn’t.  Fifty percent of New Yorkers agreed when asked whether the
mayor has “lost focus” in his third four-year term, which
began in 2010. Three percent said the mayor’s term has been
better than the first two; 48 percent said it’s about the same,
and 47 percent labeled it worse, the poll reported.  The mayor remains personally popular, the poll found, with
33 percent responding that they like him and his policies, 28
percent saying they like him while disagreeing with his policies
and 26 percent indicating they neither like him or his policies,
the poll reported.  The survey, based upon 962 telephone interviews conducted
May 4 to May 9, contains a margin of error of 3.2 percentage
points, the institute said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  