-- 
BOE’s Bean Sees Risk of ‘Messy Consequence’ From Euro Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-11T12:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/boe-s-bean-sees-risk-of-messy-consequence-from-euro-crisis-1-.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said there is the potential for a “messy
consequence” from the euro-area debt crisis and the U.K.
economy may suffer from the fallout.  “The striking feature has been that although overall
growth in the euro area has been reasonably satisfactory, like
us, it’s been experiencing a muted rebound from the recession,”
Bean told reporters in London today. The central bank’s base
 forecast  “is conditioned on continued moderate growth in the
euro area, but there has to be a risk there is a messy
consequence of the problems in the euro-area periphery.”  Government borrowing costs for Greece, Ireland and Portugal
have soared as investors bet they won’t be able to service
interest costs. After an unscheduled May 6 meeting, euro-region
officials said  Greece  needs “a further adjustment program.”
Bean said a worsening of the region’s crisis may hurt the U.K.
economy through banking-system contagion and weaker business and
consumer confidence.  “It’s very difficult to know how big those effects might
be, but it is one of the factors that lie behind the continued
downside risk” that the Bank of England sees in its growth
forecasts, the deputy governor said.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said that while the
euro area faces “serious problems,” it is difficult for policy
makers to assess the threats from the crisis.  “The assumption we’ve made in the euro economy and the
world economy at large is a continuing modest rate of growth,”
King said at the same press conference as Bean. “There are
obviously risks, but they’re very hard to calibrate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  