-- 
Boehner’s Views on Economy Contradicted by Indicators, Studies

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-11T20:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/boehner-s-views-on-economy-contradicted-by-indicators-studies.html
House Speaker  John Boehner , giving
Wall Street leaders his prescriptions for growing the U.S.
economy and reducing the nation’s debt, built his case on
several assertions that are contradicted by market indicators
and government reports.  Boehner said in his May 9 speech to the  Economic Club of
New York  that government borrowing was crowding out private
investment, the 2009 economic-stimulus package hurt job
creation, and a Republican plan to privatize Medicare will give
future recipients the “same kinds of options” lawmakers have.  With Democrats and Republicans sparring over legislation to
extend the government’s $14.29 trillion debt limit and trim
budget deficits, negotiations are being complicated by disputes
over basic economic facts.  “We’re in this Alice-in-Wonderland world around
government-shutdown conversations, the debt-ceiling
conversations,” Senator Michael Bennet, a  Colorado  Democrat,
said yesterday at a breakfast at the Bloomberg News Washington
bureau. The debate “has not established a shared understanding
of the facts” about the nation’s economic problems, he said.  Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , rejected the premise
that the speaker’s economic analysis was incorrect, saying in an
e-mail that “reality” doesn’t support the criticism.  Boehner’s statement in his Wall Street speech that
 government spending  “is crowding out private investment and
threatening the availability of capital” runs counter to the
behavior of credit markets.  Capital Spending   “Look at  interest rates . Look at capital spending,” said
Nariman Behravesh, chief economist of IHS Inc., a research firm
based in Englewood, Colorado. “It’s very hard to come to a
conclusion that there’s any kind of crowding out.”  The cost of borrowing is low by historical standards.
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes were 3.21 percent and yields on
2-year Treasury notes were 0.59 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York 
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Data. Average spreads on
investment-grade corporate bonds have narrowed from 1.64 a year
ago to 1.39 on May 9, according to  Barclays Capital .  The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, fell 2.2 basis
points since May 9, the biggest drop since April 5. A narrowing
spread means banks are more willing to lend. The 23.87-point
spread is just below the two-year average.  Business investment in equipment and software was up 15.3
percent last year and 11.6 percent at an annual rate in the
first quarter of this year, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department.  Backed by Greenspan  Still, some economists, including former Federal Reserve
Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and Stanford University Professor
John B. Taylor, a Treasury undersecretary in Republican
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, have argued that the
deficits have been crowding out private investment.  Greenspan said the deficit is one reason that corporate
investment as a share of profits is lower than historical
patterns, in an interview on CNBC’s Squawk Box on Dec. 3, 2010.  “Approximately one-third of the decline in capital
investment as a share of  cash flow  is directly attributable to”
the “crowding out by U.S. Treasury borrowing,” Greenspan said
in the  interview .  Boehner, 61, an Ohio Republican, also said the 2009
stimulus program “hampered  job creation  in our country,” a
view at odds with the  Congressional Budget Office ’s findings
last August. The stimulus package increased the number of people
employed by between 1.4 million and 3.3 million and cut
unemployment by between 0.7 percentage point and 1.8 percentage
point, according to CBO.  Medicare Costs  The speaker also repeated an assertion made by House
Republicans that their plan to privatize Medicare will give
future recipients “the same kinds of options that members of
Congress currently have.”  The CBO projected in an April 5 report that under the
Republican plan, by 2030 the government would pay 32 percent of
the health-care costs of a typical 65-year-old. The U.S. Office
of Personnel Management’s benefit  handbook  says the government
pays as much as 75 percent of the health-care costs of federal
workers, including members of Congress.  Taxes are a flashpoint in the budget talks, with
Republicans rejecting increases in the negotiations, which
continued yesterday at the White House between Vice President
Joe Biden and bipartisan congressional leaders.  In his speech, Boehner criticized a 1990 budget deal that
included a tax increase, saying “the result of that so-called
bargain was the recession of the early 1990s.” The speaker
said, “it wasn’t until the economy picked back up toward the
end of that decade that we achieved a balanced budget.”  1993 Tax Increase  The speaker didn’t mention a 1993 tax increase that raised
the top individual marginal rate to 39.6 percent, where it stood
until 2001. In 1998, the government recorded its first budget
surplus in almost 30 years.  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 4.1 percent in
1994, the year after Congress passed the second tax increase of
the decade. The growth rate dropped to 2.5 percent in 1995, and
thereafter rose to 3.7 percent in 1996. The economy grew more
than 4 percent a year from 1997 through 2000.  The 1990s were a period of “stalemate between the
Republican Congress” and President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat,
that paved the way for balanced budgets because there was “no
major giveaway legislation,” said Eugene Steuerle, a former
Treasury Department official who is Institute Chair at the Urban
Institute, a nonpartisan research center in Washington.  Fannie, Freddie  Boehner also repeated familiar Republican political
criticisms that  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the two government
mortgage companies, “triggered the whole meltdown” of the U.S.
financial system.  That differs from the  conclusions  earlier this year of the
Democratic majority on the congressionally appointed Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission. It  reported  that Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac “participated in the expansion of subprime and
other risky mortgages, but they followed rather than led  Wall
Street  and other lenders in the rush for fool’s gold.”  Three of the panel’s four Republicans, while faulting
Fannie and Freddie, didn’t place the blame squarely on the two
mortgage giants.  “They were part of the securitization process that lowered
mortgage credit quality standards,” said a dissenting  report  by
Keith Hennessey,  Douglas Holtz-Eakin  and Bill Thomas, former
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. In a Wall Street
Journal essay, the three said laying primary blame on government
intervention is “misleading” and cited 10 reasons, taken
together, for the crisis.  Only  Peter Wallison , the other Republican commissioner,
offered support for Boehner’s view that Fannie and Freddie
caused the mortgage bubble and subsequent collapse. Wallison’s
 dissent  put most of the blame on government housing policies
that encouraged Fannie and Freddie to buy more subprime
mortgages to promote home ownership among low-income people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning at   mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  