-- 
Boeing Ruling on Whistleblower Firing May Discourage Leaks to News Media

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-11T16:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/boeing-ruling-on-whistleblower-firing-may-discourage-leaks-to-news-media.html
Two  Boeing Co. (BA)  auditors in 2007
thought they found weaknesses in the security of the firm’s
financial reporting data. They complained, setting off a chain
of events that may chill whistleblower leaks to news outlets.  Nicholas Tides and Matthew Neumann say they told Boeing it
might be violating the  Sarbanes-Oxley  investor-protection law by
urging them to say data controls were in place that weren’t.
Ignored and then pressured to look the other way, they said, the
two spoke with a  Seattle  Post-Intelligencer reporter who had
left messages asking about auditing problems.  “Computer security faults put Boeing at risk,” a
 subsequent  headline said. The airplane maker, already suspecting
leaks, investigated and fired the men for unauthorized talking
to the news media. They sued, citing Sarbanes-Oxley’s
whistleblower protection, and lost. An appeals court said last
week that the law doesn’t protect tipping off journalists.  The ruling is now the law in nine western states. It will
make hiding company wrongdoing easier, according to Ken Paulson,
a former editor of  USA Today  who is president of the  First
Amendment Center , which follows free-speech issues.  “Fewer whistleblowers will share information with the news
media,” Paulson said. “There is no faster path to reform or to
disclosure of corporate misdeeds than putting that information
on the front page of a newspaper.”  The Seattle paper covers Chicago-based Boeing, the world’s
largest aerospace company, because its headquarters used to be
in Seattle and it has aircraft factories in the area.  Bill in Congress  The May 3 ruling in the Boeing case comes as whistleblower
protections in the new Dodd-Frank law are under assault in
Congress. A draft  bill  that  opponents say  would discourage
insiders from reporting wrongdoing and give companies a chance 
to cover-up misconduct is up for a hearing today in the House.  The Boeing case was brought under the Sarbanes-Oxley law,
enacted in 2002 in the wake of the Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.
accounting scandals. The court said the law is clear in
protecting corporate whistleblowers only when they tip off
federal authorities, Congress or a supervisor.  “If Congress wanted to protect reports to the media, it
could have listed the media as one of the entities to which
protected reports may be made,” the court ruled.  The decision was made by a unanimous three-judge panel.
Tides and Neumann will ask for a review of the ruling by a
larger panel, said  John J. Tollefsen , their Seattle attorney.  Effect on Investors  The decision “excludes whistleblowers from talking, in a
sense, to investors about fraud,” said  Stephen M. Kohn ,
executive director of the  National Whistleblowers Center  in
Washington, an advocacy group financed by individuals and
foundations that  filed a brief  in the accountants’ behalf.  Paul Hodgson , senior research associate at  Governance-
Metrics International , a research firm in  New York , said
Sarbanes-Oxley is “supposed to cut down on fraud,” which
undermines the value of investments.  “Not just investors but insurance companies are keenly
interested in this being detected as quickly as possible,” he
said.  The statute may not be “strong enough to protect
employees” and a change in the law might be needed, he said.
Employees who go to journalists after reporting to supervisors
and regulators fails shouldn’t be fired, he said.  The auditors’ lawyers contended that talking to the press
can be indirectly protected by a statute that doesn’t mention
journalists, since news reports can be the most effective way to
provide information to regulators and Congress.  Labor Department  That’s the view of the U.S. Labor Department, which
enforces  laws protecting employees  who report company safety,
environmental and health violations.  The Energy Reorganization Act, for example,  says  nuclear
power plant workers can’t be fired for disclosing safety
violations to the government. That law doesn’t mention the
press.  Telling a reporter about safety concerns at a plant can be
protected nonetheless, because news stories may lead to official
action, according to a 2001 department ruling on a fired worker.  The agency viewed Sarbanes-Oxley in the same way, according
to a 2008 letter to a Boeing lawyer from the Labor Department’s
Occupational Health and Safety Administration.  The Boeing appeals court saw it differently.  “We decline to adopt such a boundless interpretation of
the statute,” the panel said. No other federal appeals court
has decided whether whistleblower contacts with the press can be
covered when the law doesn’t specifically say so.  Law Is ‘Clear’  “I can see how an argument could be made that these people
should be protected,” said  Kyle T. Fogt , an employment lawyer
at Faegre & Benson in  Minneapolis  not involved in the case.
“But I don’t think it’s the court’s job to do that. The statute
is pretty clear.”  Sarbanes-Oxley requires public companies to have policies
providing a way for whistleblowers to communicate information to
management without fear of retaliation.  “Congress set up this mechanism so people would work
through those systems,” Fogt said. If that doesn’t work, they
can go to regulators, law enforcers or Congress and get job
protection, he said.  Charles M. Elson, director of the University of  Delaware ’s
 Center for Corporate Governance , said established authorities
are best able to investigate claims of wrongdoing.  Company Attorneys  In-house lawyers welcome the appeals court ruling, said
 Amar D. Sarwal , associate general counsel of the  Association of
Corporate Counsel .  Employees who spot wrongdoing should first report it
internally, and Sarbanes-Oxley encourages them to do that,
Sarwal said. Companies depend on insiders to report what they
see so that problems can be resolved, he said.  The association thinks the awards whistleblowers can
receive under the new  Dodd-Frank  law for reporting potential
wrongdoing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission might
overwhelm the agency with tips, many of them false.  The group urged the SEC to write rules that require
whistleblowers to first report the misdeeds internally.  That requirement is contained in the draft bill to amend 
the Dodd-Frank law, the Security Exchange Act. By instructing 
employees to report the problems internally first, it would 
warn companies to hide misconduct from investors, according to 
the National Whistleblower Center and the National Coordinating 
 Committee  for Multiemployer Plans, which represents pension plans.  Bill’s Effects  Sponsored  by New York Republican Michael G. Grimm, the bill
would also remove some financial incentives for reporting
wrongdoing to the SEC. The House  Capital Markets Subcommittee  is
holding a hearing on the measure today.  Adair Morse , a teacher of finance at the  University of
Chicago , said in an interview that whistleblowers should be
rewarded.  “None of them remain on their jobs,” because they are
fired or quit, said Morse, co-author of  an article  on the
subject. Finding a new job is hard, she said. “You have to pay
whistleblowers to go into retirement.”  Neumann, an engineer, found work at a lesser salary in
2008, and Tides got a job last November in regulatory
compliance, their attorney Tollefsen said.  Boeing looked into the auditors’ allegations and “found
the internal controls to be effective and adequate,” said John Dern, a company spokesman.  The SEC never investigated, even after the newspaper story
and “eight or nine” Boeing auditors contacted the agency, some
of them several times, Tollefsen said.  The agency took no action against Boeing, said John J. Nester, an SEC spokesman.  The appeal case is Tides v. Boeing Co., 10-35238,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ). The
original case is Tides v. Boeing Co., 2:08-cv-01601, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Washington  (Seattle).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta
at   awoolner@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 