-- 
BofA’s Moynihan Says U.S. Lender ‘Still Struggles Mightily’ on Mortgages

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-05-11T18:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bofa-s-moynihan-says-u-s-housing-market-still-faces-enormous-challenges-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told shareholders today the lender is
still straining to curtail bad mortgages in a housing market
that faces “enormous challenges.”  The biggest  U.S. bank  needs to resolve disputes that arose
with borrowers, regulators, investors and insurers after the
2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp., Moynihan told
shareholders at the annual meeting in Charlotte, North Carolina,
where the company is based.  Refunds and legal settlements tied to defective home loans
dragged down first-quarter profit 36 percent to $2.05 billion,
and the mortgage unit “still struggles mightily,” Moynihan
said. Bank of America is the biggest servicer of U.S. mortgages,
and is among firms negotiating with state attorneys general on
potential penalties for faulty foreclosures.  Fourteen of the largest servicers including Bank of America
signed a consent decree in April with the Federal Reserve and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency that compels them to
pay back homeowners for losses on foreclosures that were
mishandled, and to overhaul procedures for seizing homes.  Countrywide Impact  Earnings are suffering from excess risk taken on when the
firm acquired Countrywide, Moynihan told more than 300 people
attending the meeting. While regulators at the time welcomed the
bank’s rescue of Countrywide -- which had been the biggest U.S.
home lender -- “attitudes have changed,” he said.  The bank has worked over the past year to rebuild a
“fortress balance sheet” and capital cushion “to make sure we
can handle anything that comes our way,” Moynihan said. Capital
ratios are the strongest in a decade and the core franchise is
strong, he said.  Moynihan told the audience the company needs to resolve
concern about bad mortgages and lower the perceived volatility
of the firm in the eyes of regulators before trying again to win
approval of its capital plan, which would allow the company to
raise its dividend. The lender will resubmit the plan when
management is sure regulators will accept it, he said.  Bank of America was left behind as competitors including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. passed a Federal
Reserve review of their capital plans and then increased their
payouts. Moynihan told investors in January and March that he
believed the firm could raise its dividend this year. Bank of
America had a 64-cent quarterly payout until 2008; it’s now one
cent a share.  Promises Made  Promising a dividend before knowing you could deliver it
was a “rookie mistake,” said  Tony Plath , a professor of
finance at the University of  North Carolina  in Charlotte who
follows Bank of America. Moynihan became CEO in January 2010.  “You can’t be a rookie CEO when you’re running a
$2 trillion company,” Plath said in an interview before today’s
annual meeting.  Home prices  fell in more than three-fourths of U.S. cities
in the first quarter as foreclosures that sell at cut-rate
prices devalued real estate, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday. That may add to pressure on Bank of
America, which has said it’s expecting a “gradual improvement
over the second half” in home prices.  Underestimating the slump in U.S. real estate led to
$3 billion of expenses in the past two quarters, and Bank of
America has said it may incur $1.5 billion in losses for every
four percentage points that price declines exceed its own
forecast, which it hasn’t disclosed.  Lost Dividend  Bank of America fell 1 cent to $12.27 at 2:38 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares declined
29 percent in the past year through yesterday, the worst
performance in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  Investor Judith Koenick, who said her income was slashed
when the dividend was cut, said Moynihan and other executives
should forgo bonuses until they restore the payout.  “I would like you to explain how you’re entitled to all
this money when you’re still sticking it to shareholders,” said
Koenick of  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland . “You should not be taking
more than a dollar until you get the stock back up to where it
was before you and your predecessors screwed it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  Charlotte  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 