-- 
BofA Merrill’s Tan Guns for Top Three Rank in Southeast Asia

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-05-11T03:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bofa-merrill-s-tan-guns-for-top-three-rank-in-southeast-asia.html
Tan Chong Lee, Singapore-based head
of corporate and  investment banking  in  Southeast Asia  at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit, comments on boosting
business in the region.  Since joining the bank in January 2010, his investment
banking team has more than doubled to 35 people, Tan said.
Before taking his post at Merrill Lynch, Tan served as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-head of investment banking for Southeast
Asia. He spoke in an interview in  Singapore  on May 10.  On plans to grow in Southeast Asia:  “The strategy has been to cover the key clients in
Southeast Asia, and ultimately to be among the top three
investment banks on a consistent basis, year to year, across the
region.  “The question is how to make sure you’re there for the big
deals. For the very big deals, people have been working on them
for two to three years, they don’t come overnight. It’s a
function of time. As long as we have the right pieces in place,
right network, right brand name, right bankers, and focus on the
right clients, you’ll get there.”  On expanding in  Malaysia :  “We have a plan this year to go into Malaysia in a big way
in terms of balance-sheet lending. Malaysia would be the next
market after Singapore where we intend to have more full-fledged
operations onshore.  “Unlike investment banking where it’s a deal-by-deal,
event-driven exercise, once you have a balance sheet out there,
it sort of gives you an opportunity to develop a dialogue. The
client feels that if you’re prepared to lend to them, you’re
prepared to invest in them through balance-sheet activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  