-- 
BofA May Pay as Much as $3.7 Billion to Resolve Mortgage Probe

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-11T19:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bofa-may-pay-as-much-as-3-7-billion-to-end-mortgage-probe-analysts-write.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. mortgage servicer, may pay as much as $3.69 billion or as
little as $890 million to settle a probe of its practices,
Nomura Securities International Inc. analysts estimated.  The upper estimate is based on the 14 biggest servicers
agreeing to a $10 billion penalty in a deal tied to the number
of loans in foreclosure,  Glenn Schorr  and Brian Foran wrote
today in a report. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank may
pay the lesser amount in a $3 billion group settlement based on
the size of servicing portfolios, they wrote.  State and federal officials investigating mortgage
practices had offered revised terms during settlement talks in
Washington, including a proposal for banks to fund principal
writedowns for homeowners. The five largest banks proposed
paying $5 billion to settle the probe, two people familiar with
the matter said yesterday.  “An amount in that range would be viewed as a positive for
the banks, given larger numbers have been referenced
previously,” the analysts wrote. Regulators had previously
suggested a $20 billion penalty.  Bank of America would pay the most among the 14 largest
servicers under both settlement scenarios, the analysts wrote.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
told shareholders today the mortgage unit “still struggles
mightily.” Refunds and settlements tied to defective home loans
dragged down first-quarter profit 36 percent to $2.05 billion.
The nation’s housing market faces “enormous challenges,”
Moynihan said at the annual meeting in Charlotte.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may pay as much as $2.52 billion and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  $1.64 billion if the funds are tied to
portfolio size, according to the report. If the amount is tied
to foreclosed homes, JPMorgan may pay as much as $2.64 billion
with Wells Fargo handing over $1.65 billion, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 