-- 
Bonnafe Goes Via Rome and Brussels to Land BNP Paribas’s Top Job

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-05-11T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bonnafe-goes-via-rome-and-brussels-to-land-bnp-paribas-s-top-job.html
Jean-Laurent Bonnafe’s route to the
top job at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA led through  Rome  and Brussels, where
he spent much of the last five years overseeing takeovers that
turned the Paris-based lender into  Europe ’s largest bank.  Bonnafe, 49, will replace Baudouin Prot as chief executive
officer, Chairman Michel Pebereau told the company’s
shareholders at the annual general meeting in Paris yesterday.
Prot, 59, will become chairman as Pebereau, who turns 70 in
January, steps down. The changes are planned for Dec. 1.  Bonnafe won praise from investors for his handling of the
purchase of Fortis units, which turned BNP Paribas into the
biggest bank in the euro region by deposits and the largest in
Europe by assets. BNP Paribas bought Fortis’s banking operations
in Belgium and Luxembourg in 2009, after sidestepping the worst
of the financial crisis.  He “executed purchases perfectly, and the best example is
Fortis,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage about $570
million at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris and owns shares in BNP
Paribas. “Now he will need a strategic vision. He will have
Prot at his side and he inherits a healthy company, but it’s a
challenge.”  His record of making acquisitions work dates back more than
a decade. In 1999 and 2000, Bonnafe helped Prot and Pebereau as
BNP, a formerly state-owned consumer bank, absorbed the
investment bank Paribas SA after wresting it away from  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, its preferred partner, in a takeover battle. In
2006, Bonnafe was dispatched to Rome to head the acquisition of
 Italy ’s Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA.  ‘Internal Legitimacy’  During the Fortis purchase, Bonnafe took part in the final
all-night negotiations with Belgian officials in March 2009,
teaming with Prot to hammer out the terms of the transaction in
Prime Minister Yves Leterme’s office.  Bonnafe also headed BNP Paribas’s French retail-banking
unit from 2002 to 2008 and became co-chief operating officer
three years ago, in charge of all consumer-banking operations.  “No one enjoys as much internal legitimacy as Bonnafe
does,” said  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Paris who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “He has
been in charge of retail banking, developing the networks as
both Pebereau and Prot have done. There is continuity.”  Bonnafe, a French-born engineer who graduated from Paris’s
elite Ecole Polytechnique and Ecole des Mines, started his
career at the Industry Ministry in 1986 and served as an adviser
to Foreign Trade Minister Bruno Durieux in 1992 and 1993.  18 Years at BNP  He joined BNP in 1993, the same year as Pebereau and a
decade after Prot. Unlike them, Bonnafe didn’t attend the Ecole
Nationale D’Administration, whose graduates include former
French Presidents  Jacques Chirac  and Valery Giscard d’Estaing.  An avid rugby fan, Bonnafe is married with two children. He
is fluent in English and Italian, and also speaks some Romanian,
Russian and Dutch.  Prot, who turns 60 later this month, graduated from French
business school HEC in 1972 and from the Ecole Nationale
d’Administration in 1976. He worked as an auditor at the  Finance
Ministry  from 1976 to 1980 and held positions within the
Industry Ministry from 1980 to 1983 before joining BNP that
year.  Prot won a seven-month battle to acquire the Fortis assets
in Belgium and Luxembourg in 2009. Under his tenure, BNP Paribas
posted just one quarterly loss during the financial crisis.  Pebereau Successors  “Pebereau is putting in his successors little by little
and is going to hand the bank over to those who helped him build
it,” said Anis Bouayad, founder of Paris-based advisory firm
Strategie.Alliance. “Things are going well in terms of
profitability, management and governance. This is a company that
is setting the standard.”  BNP Paribas last week reported a 15 percent increase in
first-quarter profit to 2.62 billion euros, beating analysts’
estimates. Societe Generale,  France ’s second-largest bank, said
on May 5 that net income fell 14 percent in the period, hurt by
a charge tied to its own debt and provisions resulting from
political turmoil in  Egypt .  BNP Paribas shares have risen 15 percent in 2011, outpacing
the 1.9 percent increase of the 48-company Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index. The stock has outperformed
that of Paris-based Societe Generale every year since 2007.  Pebereau, who became head of Banque Nationale de Paris SA
in 1993 as the lender was sold to the public, shook up the
French banking industry with a $38 billion unsolicited bid for
Paribas and Societe Generale in 1999 to block a friendly merger
between them. BNP won Paribas while Societe Generale, led at the
time by  Daniel Bouton , evaded Pebereau’s grasp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  