-- 
Boston Scientific Wins $19 Million Damages From Cordis in Stents Lawsuit

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-11T20:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/boston-scientific-wins-19-million-stent-patent-damages-from-j-j-s-cordis.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , which makes
coronary stents to prop open clogged arteries, won more than
$19 million in patent-infringement damages from Johnson &
Johnson’s Cordis Corp. after a  jury trial .  The jury of four men and four women deliberated about two
hours after a four-day trial in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, before reaching a verdict on lost profits and
royalties for Cordis’s sale of the small-vessel Cypher stent.  “They knew they didn’t have permission” to use the
protected inventions, “but they went ahead anyway,” Paul A. Bondor, a lawyer for Boston Scientific, told jurors during the
trial.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , sued
Cordis in 2009 in  Minnesota  and the case was transferred to
Delaware the following year. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson
said that another jury in 2005 ruled Cordis infringed the
patent.  “We are pleased to see the jury recognized the value of
our intellectual property,” Hank Kucheman, Cardiology Group
President for Boston Scientific, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is an important outcome in protecting our market
position.”  Gregory Diskant, representing Cordis, told the jury the
company “didn’t have a license” to sell the infringing-design
stent and that Boston Scientific was overreaching in its damage
claim.  $34 Million Sought  Boston Scientific had sought $34 million in damages, or
more than half of the  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit’s $60 million in
sales of the stent, Diskant said.  “Cordis is considering what, if any, next steps it may
take in the legal process,” Sandy Pound, a Cordis spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed message.  “Is this the last stent trial?” the judge asked lawyers
after the verdict. “I feel I should be breaking out the
champagne.”  She’s presided over a series of such trials in recent
decades, going back at least as early as 1998 when Medtronic
sued Guidant over “multilink” stents, which are about the size
of a spring in a ballpoint pen.  Other varieties of stents -- some of which have been seen
by juries “dancing” in an animated chorus line over the years
-- are solid-metal stampings, balloon-expandable devices of
various flexibilities, and stents coated with assorted
medications to help discourage re-clogging.  Texas  Ruling  In March, Johnson & Johnson lost a bid to overturn a
$482 million jury verdict for infringing a  New Jersey  doctor’s
patent on a stent designed to hold open heart arteries. U.S.
District Judge John T. Ward in Marshall, Texas, added
$114.4 million in interest to the award to Dr. Bruce Saffran.  Boston Scientific was unchanged at $7.02 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after rising as much
as 2.6 percent following the verdict. Johnson & Johnson, based
in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, rose 81 cents to $66.57 on the
same exchange.  The case is Boston Scientific Corp. v. Cordis Corp.,
10CV315, U.S. District Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 5,922,021.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  