-- 
Real Weakens on Plunge in Commodities, International Gains for U.S. Dollar

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-05-11T21:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/brazil-real-weakens-on-plunge-in-commodities-global-gains-for-u-s-dollar.html
Brazil ’s reall fell the most in a
week as commodity prices declined and the dollar gained against
currencies from countries that export raw materials.  The real weakened 1.1 percent to 1.6218 per dollar at 5
p.m. in  New York , from 1.6037 yesterday. The currency declined
1.9 percent on May 4.  Each of the six most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg fell and the  U.S. Dollar  Index, a measure
of the greenback’s international value, headed to its first gain
this week. Commodities prices, as measured by the UBS Bloomberg
index of raw materials, declined as much as 3.1 percent. The
real is weakening as investors reduce bets for long-term gains
in commodity prices, said  Mike Moran , senior currency strategist
at Standard Chartered Bank in New York.  “That’s really the core underlying driver behind a lot of
the price action across asset classes including commodity
currencies like the Brazilian real,” Moran said in a telephone
interview. “It’s been a very crowded market. We’re seeing first
signs of a wobble in the commitment to the bullish commodity
story.”  Oil fell below $100 a barrel in New York and gasoline
tumbled the most in more than two years after an Energy
Department report showed that U.S. supplies surged and fuel
demand slipped. Raw sugar declined as much as 4.9 percent on the
ICE Futures U.S. exchange in New York. Brazil is the world’s
biggest producer of the sweetener.  A majority of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg fell against the dollar. The euro dropped against
most major counterparts as speculation European leaders are
slowing the drive to grant  Greece  additional aid fueled concern
the nation may be forced to restructure its debt.  Commodities Declining  The central bank said it twice purchased dollars today in
the  spot market , first at 1.6174 reais and then at 1.6197 each.
Buying the U.S. currency is part of a regular effort by policy
makers to stem the real’s two-year, 27 percent rally, the most
in emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg over the period.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.28
percent. The yield on the contract due in January 2017 fell six
basis points to 12.35 percent. The contract due in January 2021
declined eight basis points to 12.24 percent.  “Usually the long-end of the curve is really related to
the external environment,”  Zeina Latif , an economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Sao Paulo , said by phone. “My take is that
this has to do with the commodity prices’ behavior.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  