-- 
Bronfman Tells Jury Lime Wire Infringement ’Devastating’ to Warner Music

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-11T18:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/bronfman-tells-jury-lime-wire-devastating-to-warner-music-1-.html
Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  Chief
Executive Officer Edgar Bronfman told a federal jury weighing
damages caused by Lime Wire LLC’s copyright infringement that
the effect on Warner’s business was “devastating.”  Bronfman, 54, testified that the drop in revenue caused by
peer-to-peer music sharing services such as Lime Wire forced
Warner to fire employees and release fewer recordings. He said
he had hoped the services would shut down voluntarily after the
Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that Grokster, another music-sharing
program, could be held liable for infringement  “When Lime Wire kept operating it frustrated me greatly,”
Bronfman told jurors today in a Manhattan courtroom. “It was
devastating, frankly.”  Music labels owned by  Warner Music ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars
from Lime Wire and its founder,  Mark Gorton , after U.S. District
Judge  Kimba Wood  ruled last May that Lime Wire induced the
infringement of copyrights on thousands of songs through its
peer-to-peer file-sharing software on the Internet. The court
ordered New York-based Lime Wire to shut its music service last
year.  Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer representing 13 labels, told a
jury of eight women and one man in his opening statement on May
3 that the harm caused by Lime Wire was “truly staggering.”
Gorton used other people’s property to make money for himself,
he said, claiming the record industry’s revenue fell 52 percent
from 2000, the year  Lime Wire  was founded, to 2010.  Other Factors  Gorton’s lawyers are trying to convince the jury that other
factors were responsible for the decline in industry revenue
besides peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-sharing.  “The  record companies  know and have known that their
problems started well before Lime Wire,” Joseph Baio, a lawyer
representing Lime Wire and Gorton, said in his opening statement
to the jury.  Baio cited the record companies’ own past comments about
counterfeit and copied CDs, the economic recession, bankruptcies
of music wholesalers and retailers, the maturation of the CD
market, competition from other forms of entertainment such as
video games, and the industry’s own inability to exploit the new
technologies.  Statutory Damages  The record labels  will try to get statutory damages under
federal copyright law for 9,561 recordings released since 1972,
according to court papers. Maximum statutory damages of $150,000
for each recording would result in a $1.4 billion award. Other
damages on pre-1972 recordings will also be sought, the
companies said in court filings.  Baio said Gorton made only about $6 million from the songs
the record companies have listed as infringed. Lime Wire, which
provided free software for file sharing, made money by selling a
faster, premium version of the program.  The companies have also accused Gorton of making a
fraudulent transfer of assets into family limited partnerships
to shield the funds from liability. Pomerantz told the jurors
Gorton transferred the money three days after the  Supreme
Court ’s Grokster ruling.  Besides the assets in the family partnerships, Gorton has
$100 million in Individual Retirement Accounts, Pomerantz told
the jurors.  Estate Planning  Gorton’s lawyers have said that his transfer of assets was
part of estate planning and that the closing date was set before
the high court’s decision.  The 13 labels are owned by the world’s four largest
recording companies -- Warner Music, Sony Music Entertainment,
Vivendi SA’s Universal Music Group and Citigroup’s EMI Group.  Warner has agreed to sell itself to Len Blavatnik’s Access
Industries Holdings LLC for about $1.3 billion in cash, or $8.25
a share, plus the assumption of about $2 billion in debt.  Warner Music fell 3 cents to $8.17 at 1:57 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  