-- 
Burned-Out Cairo Church Shows Egypt Risks Sectarian Schism

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-12T15:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/burned-out-cairo-church-shows-new-egypt-risks-sectarian-schism.html
Outside St. Mina’s Church in Cairo,
cordoned off by soldiers, Ahmed Khaled recalled the street
fighting two nights earlier. Groups of Christians and Muslims
shot at each other and hurled glass and stones, and “it was as
if we were enemies at war,” he said.  The May 7 clashes left at least 12 dead, hundreds injured,
St. Mina’s closed off and the nearby Virgin Mary Church gutted
by fire. Khaled, a 32-year-old painter and a Muslim, said his
nephew suffered a gunshot wound. There are other signs of
religious tensions. In Qena in the south, a Christian accused of
relations with a Muslim woman had his ear cut off, and the
appointment of a Christian governor sparked protests.  Muslims and Christians joined forces against  Hosni Mubarak ,
an alliance now under strain during a democratic transition
that’s a test case for Arab popular movements seeking to oust
dictators. Salafis, followers of an austere brand of Islam, are
increasingly visible: Hundreds protested in Cairo after Osama bin Laden’s killing. With crime rising and the economy hurt by
strikes, sectarian violence adds to the challenge of restoring
order as Egypt’s interim military rulers prepare to cede power.  “Egypt now has to confront longstanding grievances and
social ills that decades of authoritarian rule have either
failed to address, or actively contributed to creating,” said
Hossam Bahgat, director of the Cairo-based Egyptian Initiative
for Personal Rights. “One of these is sectarianism.”  Two Elections  Egypt  is due to elect a parliament in September, with the
Muslim Brotherhood, the main opposition under Mubarak, viewed as
a frontrunner. A presidential vote will follow, probably later
this year. The country has been under army rule since Mubarak
was forced out Feb. 11, and the government is seeking to
convince investors and tourists that instability is over.
Arrivals dropped an annual 60 percent in March and tourist
spending slumped by almost two-thirds, the official statistics
agency said today.  The task is complicated by the sectarian clashes and near-
daily strikes and demonstrations. Growth may slow to 1 percent,
the lowest for almost two decades, the  International Monetary
Fund  warns. Ten-year bonds are trading to yield about 6.3
percent, up from 4.6 percent six months ago.  The country’s ruling military council said the sectarian
issue was “a red line” and that it will “strike with an iron
fist” anyone promoting sedition, the state-run Middle East  News
Agency  reported today. Authorities say they have made more than
200 arrests in relation to the violence.  Egypt’s Copts, about 10 percent of the 80 million
population, are the Middle East’s largest Christian community.
Prominent members include Naguib Sawiris, the billionaire
chairman of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE. (ORTE)   ‘Huge Disaster’  Church spires are interspersed with minarets in Qena, 300
miles (480 kilometers) south of Cairo. There, a group of Muslims
gathered every day outside the administrative headquarters after
Emad Mikhail, a Christian, was nominated as governor.  “What do you want him to be?” a bearded, white-robed
speaker would ask the crowd, eliciting the chant: “We want him
to be Muslim!” After 10 days of demonstrations, including a
blockade of the main north-south railway line that cost the
government 1 million Egyptian pounds ($170,000) a day, Mikhail’s
appointment was suspended by the government on April 25.  “It’s the first time the appointment of a governor has
been objected to largely on religious grounds,” said Hafez
Abuseada, chairman of the Egyptian Organization for Human
Rights. “Mixing religion with politics will be a huge
disaster.”  Sawiris flagged the political implications on his Twitter
account: “To those who said I should run for president: If we
can’t even have a Copt as Qena governor, what about Egypt?”  Salafis Blamed  The Muslim Brotherhood, which has opposed a Christian or
female president, won’t include that objection in the platform
for the party it’s setting up, said Mohamed el-Beltagy, a
leading member. “The Brotherhood wouldn’t field a woman or
Copt,” he said, “but it’s not our right to be custodians of
who can run.”  Even those concerned by the Brotherhood’s political ascent,
mostly don’t blame it for the sectarian tensions. Christians and
secular-leaning Muslims point to Salafis, who advocate a return
to the practices of Islam’s earliest years.  Ayman Mitry, the Qena man whose ear was cut off, blamed
Salafis. The attackers called him a “kafir,” or infidel, and
tried to spit on the cross tattooed on his wrist, Mitry said in
an interview. Abu Essam, a 57-year-old Christian living near St.
Mina’s Church, said of the Cairo fighting: “The Salafis are
moving against us.”  ‘We Were Oppressed’  Islamists, including Salafis, were among Mubarak’s main
victims and deserve to benefit from “the new atmosphere of
freedoms,” said Ahmed Abdel Hamid, an official at Salafi group
Al Daawa al-Salafiya. Many are engaging in party politics for
the first time, he said.  In Qena, Khaled Ahmed, a 45-year-old accountant protesting
the governor-designate, said he also resented the appointment of
a Christian governor under Mubarak, without being able to do
anything. “We were oppressed then,” he said. “Now, thank God,
we are able to speak up.” Other residents, including some
Christians, objected to Mikhail’s background in the police.  Salafis and the Brotherhood supported amendments to the
constitution approved in a March 19 referendum to pave the way
for elections. Secular activists campaigned against them,
arguing that rushing into elections would benefit established
parties such as the Brotherhood.  Outside St. Mina’s, amid the piled garbage and potholed
streets of Cairo’s Imbaba neighborhood, Abu Essam recalls the
inter-faith solidarity of the uprising against Mubarak.  “Our neighbors here are good Muslims,” he said. “During
the revolution, they were protecting the church with us. Things
were good at the beginning. I don’t know why it’s different
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 