-- 
Buy Apple Options Before Developers Conference, Goldman Says

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-11T20:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/buy-apple-volatility-before-developers-conference-goldman-says.html
Investors should buy  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
options to bet on volatility in the shares before the company’s
June 6 developers conference, which moves the stock more than
earnings reports, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a note today.  The conference sends Apple shares down an average of 5.4
percent in five trading days, and Apple volatility is currently
“inexpensive,” wrote Katherine Fogertey and  John Marshall ,
equity-derivatives strategists at the New York-based bank. They
recommended buying a June $350 call and a June $350 put in a
strategy known as a straddle, which is a bet that a security’s
volatility will rise. Earnings reports have moved Apple an
average of 3 percent in the past eight quarters, they said.  “We view implied volatility in June options as
attractive,” the strategists said. “We see the average move of
minus 5 percent around the developers conference, combined with
our analyst’s strong upside view on shares, as a key catalyst to
buy volatility.”  Bill Shope, the Goldman Sachs analyst covering Apple, rates
the shares a “buy,” and raised his 12-month price estimate to
$470 on April 21. Shares of the Cupertino, California-based
company, which has the second-biggest market value in the world
behind Exxon Mobil Corp., fell 0.6 percent to $347.23 as of 4
p.m. in  New York . Apple is rated the equivalent of “buy” by 48
analysts, with five “holds” and no “sell” recommendations.  Showcasing Technology  The Apple Worldwide Developers Conference is an annual
event where Apple showcases its latest technology. Shope expects
Apple to focus on “upcoming cloud services” at the conference,
“which should further propel the company’s iOS platform ahead
of the leading tablet and smartphone competition,” the note
said.  Shope believes supply-chain disruptions “generally offer
the best opportunities for Apple’s stock,” and it’s “no
different” now, after iPad 2 sales were below estimates last
quarter and shipment of a new iPhone was pushed back to
September, Fogertey and Marshall wrote.  Buyers of the June $350 straddles profit if shares close up
5.7 percent to $369.40 or down 5.4 percent to $330.60 on June
expiration, they said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t respond to a
voicemail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  