-- 
Calderon Says Inflation ‘Under Control’ as Commodities Sink: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-05-11T21:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/calderon-says-inflation-under-control-as-commodities-sink-mexico-credit.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
said the two-year rally in commodities prices is probably over,
helping curb inflation even as the economy grows faster than the
government forecast.  “I think we have under control that variable,” Calderon
said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in
 New York . “You can combine economic growth and low inflation
and you are under the best scenario.”  Mexican peso bonds are rallying the most in seven months
and the peso is leading gains in Latin American currencies this
year as the economy expands at the fastest pace in a decade
while inflation holds near a five-year low. The central bank has
kept its benchmark rate at a record low 4.5 percent since July
2009, in contrast to emerging economies such as Brazil, India
and  China  that are raising borrowing costs to subdue inflation.  “I’d like to see lower interest rates in Mexico, but I
think it’s not easy to see that, in particular because of the
price of commodities right now,” he said. “I cannot see higher
prices in terms of commodities. My perception is that very soon
we are going to see some kind of peak on that.”  Commodities slid the most since 2008 last week and have
declined 8.1 percent in the past month, paring the advance in
the past two years to 46 percent, according to the UBS Bloomberg
CMCI index. Calderon said  Mexico  closely monitors the price of
corn, which has declined 13 percent in the past month on the
Chicago Board of Trade, because it’s a staple food used to make
tortillas.  Bond Yields  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due in 2024
fell 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, in the past
month, the most in a 30-day period since October, to 7.41
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield gap between fixed-rate debt due in 2014 and
similar-maturity inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations of annual price increases in the next three years,
shrank to 3.75 percent from 4.65 percent on March 7, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 5.9 percent rally in the currency this year is a
“natural phenomenon” as near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S.
drive investors into countries with higher rates, Calderon said.
The peso dropped 0.9 percent to 11.6479 per U.S. dollar at 5
p.m. New York time.  “If you analyze the beginning of the crisis until now
Mexico’s peso is probably the currency that has appreciated the
least,” Calderon said. “I feel very comfortable.”  Jim Craige, who helps manage about $20 billion at Stone
Harbor Partners in New York, said the peso is set to rally for
the next 12 to 18 months because it hasn’t yet reached the level
it was at before the global financial crisis began in 2008. The
currency rose to 9.85 pesos per  U.S. dollar  on Aug. 4, 2008.  ‘Playing Catch Up’  “They suffered more than the rest and they are very
closely linked to the U.S. in terms of growth,” he said.
“Mexico right now is playing catch up.”  Craige is overweight on Mexico’s dollar and peso bonds.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 98 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day interbank rate
due in October fell one basis point to 5.03 percent.  Even as growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
accelerates, annual inflation in April was 3.36 percent, about
half the 6.51 percent rate in  Brazil  and near the central bank’s
3 percent target.  Economic Growth  Calderon said that Mexican economic growth quickened to
more than 5 percent in the first quarter from 4.6 percent in the
fourth. The country benefits from growth in the U.S., which buys
80 percent of Mexican goods sent abroad, he said.  “The demand in the  United States  looks to me like it’s
starting to recover -- not enough, and my perception is that the
American economy will suffer,” said Calderon. “However, even
with a very small growth in the demand sector, it will be very
positive for us.”  Mexico’s economy will grow 4.3 percent this year, more than
a previous government estimate of 3.9 percent, Calderon said.
The  International Monetary Fund  and private economists expect
gross domestic product to expand by as much as 5 percent in
2011, he said. Mexico’s GDP grew 5.5 percent in 2010, the most
in 10 years.  “I would like to see even better growth, but it’s not
bad,” Calderon said. “Under the circumstances it’s a very good
performance.”  Inflation Target  Central bank minutes showed Governor Agustin Carstens is
confident that price increases will stay within the target range
of 2 percent to 4 percent, giving him room to leave borrowing
costs unchanged. Brazil raised borrowing costs 125 basis points
this year to 12 percent to cool growth that has driven inflation
beyond the upper end of its 6.5 percent target.  India  raised its benchmark repurchase rate 100 basis points
this year to 7.25 percent. China increased its benchmark lending
rate 50 basis points to 6.31 percent.  Commodities prices are volatile and could contribute
further to inflation if consumer-goods companies pass on higher
costs, said Jaime Valdivia, who helps manage about $1.4 billion
of emerging market assets at Bluecrest Capital Management in New
York. Faster-than-forecast growth could also spur demand and
lead to higher prices, he said.  ‘Volatile’ Market  “Inflation can always give us a lot of surprises,
especially when we are talking about a market that is as
volatile and difficult as commodities,” Valdivia said. “You
can’t lower your guard.”  Calderon said he’s fighting monopolies and seeking to open
the oil industry to more private investment to improve
competitiveness. Antitrust legislation he signed May 9 aims to
end “monopolistic behavior” by big companies including ones in
the telecommunications industry owned by billionaire  Carlos Slim , the Mexican president said.  U.S. growth “will not be enough to translate to a
significant uptick in inflation in Mexico,” said Stone Harbor
Partners’ Craige. “We don’t think they are overheating at
all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in New York at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  