-- 
Canada March International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-11T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/canada-march-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international merchandise trade report for March
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada's merchandise exports and imports both rose in
March, as most sectors recorded gains. Exports increased
3.5% and imports grew 2.8%. As a result, Canada's trade
surplus increased from $356 million in February to $627
million in March.  Exports rose to $37.4 billion in March, as volumes, up
2.5%, increased in all sectors except agricultural and
fishing products. At the same time, prices advanced 0.9%.
Broad-based gains in the value of exports were led by
energy products and industrial goods and materials.  Exports have generally been trending upwards since May
2009. Higher volumes have accounted for almost two-thirds
of the growth during that period.  Imports increased to $36.7 billion, as volumes rose
3.2% while prices decreased 0.4%. Imports of automotive
products, which largely accounted for the decline in
February, were the main contributor to the gain in March.
Increases were also recorded in imports of industrial
goods and materials as well as machinery and equipment.  Overall, imports have been trending upwards since June
2009, as a result of higher volumes. Prices declined
during that period.  Imports from the  United States  rose 3.2%, mostly a
result of increases in imports of automotive products,
while exports grew 1.9%, led by higher exports of crude
petroleum. Consequently, Canada's trade surplus with the
United States narrowed to $4.8 billion in March from $5.0
billion in February.  Exports to countries other than the United States rose
7.8% in March, largely reflecting higher exports to the
European Union. During the same period, imports grew 2.1%.
As a result, Canada's trade deficit with countries other
than the United States declined from $4.7 billion in
February to $4.2 billion in March.  Energy products lead the growth in exports  Exports of energy products rose 5.0% to $9.4 billion,
as prices increased 2.9% and volumes grew 2.1%. This
represented the fifth increase in volumes in six months.
Exports of crude petroleum rose 5.7% and led the gain in
the sector. Exports of petroleum and coal products, namely
diesel fuel and light oils and preparations, also grew in
March.  Exports of industrial goods and materials, trending
upwards since May 2009, increased 3.7% to $9.6 billion in
March. Higher exports of metal ores, such as nickel ores
and iron ores, were the main factor behind the gain in the
sector. Exports of chemicals, plastics and fertilizers
also rose, mostly reflecting the growth in exports of
organic chemicals. Exports of metals and alloys, in
particular copper and nickel, recorded declines for a
second consecutive month.  Following two months of decline, exports of machinery
and equipment increased 4.8% to $6.5 billion in March.
Exports of aircraft, other equipment and tools and
industrial machinery largely accounted for the increase in
this sector.  Forestry product exports rose 10.7% to $2.0 billion, as
volumes increased 9.6%. Gains throughout the sector were
led by higher exports of woodpulp and other wood products
to  China . Exports of newsprint paper also rose in March.  Exports of agricultural and fishing products fell 5.7%
to $3.0 billion, thereby moderating the gain in overall
exports. Exports of canola, after reaching a record high
in February, fell 39.6% and were the main contributor to
the decline in March.  Volumes of automotive products account for most of the
gain in imports  Following a decline of 11.5%, imports of automotive
products rose 6.5% to $6.1 billion in March, as volumes
increased 7.1%. Imports of trucks, up 17.0%, accounted for
over half the growth in this sector, reflecting the demand
for full size pick ups. Imports of passenger autos and
motor vehicle parts increased during the month.  Imports of industrial goods and materials, on an upward
trend since August 2009, increased 2.9% to $7.8 billion.
Metals and metal ores reached a record high in March, led
by a 30.4% increase in imports of precious metals. Metals
in ores, namely nickel ores, also rose during the month
while imports of organic chemicals fell for a second
consecutive month.  Imports of machinery and equipment increased 1.5% to
$10.0 billion, led by a 16.5% gain in imports of aircraft,
engines and parts. Growth was also recorded in imports of
other industrial machinery, which includes items such as
construction and maintenance machinery, hoisting machinery
as well as compressors.  Energy products imports increased 3.7% to $4.0 billion,
a sixth consecutive month of increase. The gain resulted
from a 7.0% increase in prices. Imports of crude petroleum
rose 10.0% to $2.4 billion, the highest level since
October 2008.  Imports of agricultural and fishing products increased
3.4% to a record high of $2.7 billion, as volumes rose
5.6%. Imports of sugar and sugar preparations grew to
unprecedented levels and largely accounted for the gain in
this sector.  Imports of other  consumer goods  fell 2.8% to $4.6
billion, a fifth consecutive monthly decline. Widespread
declines were led by lower imports of apparel and
footwear.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments, which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as
well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a balance of payments and a customs
basis for the United States,  Japan  and the  United Kingdom .
Trade data for all other individual countries are
available on a customs basis only. Balance of payments
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments
for characteristics such as valuation, coverage, timing
and residency. These adjustments are made to conform to
the concepts and definitions of the Canadian System of
National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a balance of payments
basis, seasonally adjusted in current dollars. Constant
dollars are calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current
year revisions are reflected in both the customs and
balance of payments based data. Revisions to customs based
data for the previous year are released on a quarterly
basis. Revisions to balance of payments based data for the
three previous years are released annually in June.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the
energy sector with actual figures, changes in
classification of merchandise based on more current
information, and changes to seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM
tables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  