-- 
Canada as Energy ‘Superpower’ Requires More Pipelines, Expansion Into Asia

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/canada-as-energy-superpower-needs-pipelines-asian-markets.html
Canada’s role as a global energy
“superpower” requires the U.S.’s largest trading partner to
spend on pipelines and develop new markets in  Asia  while halting
environmental damage, said Randy Eresman,  Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s chief
executive officer.  The nation’s natural gas is locked within the North
American market, and growing supplies mean natural-gas prices
will be “constrained” around $6 per thousand cubic feet, said
Eresman. Oil needs an outlet other than just the U.S. to help
producers get better prices, said Lars Christian Bacher, who
heads  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s Canadian operations.  “To become a global superpower, we need to be able to
export it to more than just our neighboring country,” Eresman
said during a Bloomberg Summit yesterday in Toronto.  Canada holds the world’s third-largest crude reserves,
behind  Saudi Arabia  and Venezuela, according to the  Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers , and has “over 100 years”
worth of natural gas, Eresman said. The size of the fossil-fuel
resources in  Canada  helps the industry to play a “dominant”
role in the world’s tenth-largest economy and offers the
potential for an even more significant role abroad, said  John
Stephenson , a senior portfolio manager at First Asset Investment
Inc. in Toronto.  “Canada’s economy is driven by oil,” said Stephenson, who
helps manage C$2.5 billion ($2.6 billion) at First Asset. “What
we lack is export capacity in a meaningful way, and we should be
courting Asian markets.”  Stability Touted  Since coming to power in 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper has promoted Canada as an “energy superpower,” pointing
to its political stability and proximity to the U.S. as
advantages. The nation of 34.8 million has a system of
parliamentary democracy, and almost a third of its economy
derives from exports, the largest of which are commodities.  Canada’s energy industry will attract as much as C$20
billion annually in the coming years,  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  Chief
Executive Officer Rick George has said. More than 99 percent of
Canada’s crude exports flow to the U.S.  While the size of Canada’s resources offer great potential,
the North American nation will likely never influence energy
markets in the same way a country like Saudi Arabia does, said
Pietro Nivola, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in
 Washington , D.C. Instead, the U.S. will always remain the most
important customer for Canada, he said.  “Energy superpowers in general strengthen a country’s
geopolitical position,” he said. “And for Canada, these
resources mean that American politicians can’t rock the boat and
have to be respectful.”  Markets Boost Margins  A “structural oversupply situation in the U.S.
midcontinent” has led to record gaps between Brent and West
Texas Intermediate, the grade of crude sold in the U.S., Societe
Generale SA said in November.  West Texas Intermediate for June delivery rose $1.33 to
$103.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 4.  Brent crude  for June settlement
rose $1.73, or 1.5 percent, to end the session at $117.63 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “This is an example of what can happen to pricing if you
don’t have access to markets,” said Statoil’s Bacher. “The
more markets you can play in means higher margins.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s largest pipeline owner, has applied
to build a 1,172-kilometer (730-mile) pipeline that would
terminate at the Pacific port of Kitimat and enable tankers to
take up to 525,000 barrels of bitumen per day from Alberta to
 China ,  Japan  and  South Korea . Opening those markets is worth an
extra $2 to $3 a barrel, said Enbridge’s John Carruthers, who is
spearheading efforts to build the company’s proposed Northern
Gateway pipeline, on April 4.  Northern Gateway  The project is expected to add C$270 billion to Canada’s
economy over 30 years and generate C$81 billion in  tax revenue 
for federal and provincial governments, Carruthers said at the
time.  Northern Gateway would be the second pipeline to transport
crude across the  Rocky Mountains  to the Pacific. Kinder Morgan
Inc. already has the capacity to pump 300,000 barrels per day of
a variety of products including  jet fuel  and bitumen through its
Trans Mountain pipeline to  Vancouver .  Even with the additional capacity to send crude and natural
gas over the Rockies and onto Asia-bound tankers, the volumes
wouldn’t be big enough to have an influence on global markets
for at least another decade, said Gerry Angevine, senior
economist at the Fraser Institute in Calgary.  More Pipelines Sought  “The potential is certainly there, but we need more
pipelines and liquefied natural gas facilities,” Angevine said.
Being an energy superpower means being able to influence prices
for crude and natural gas as well as adjust production to
accommodate changes in demand, he said.  Damage to the environment from production of natural gas
and oil is also a limiting factor to Canada’s influence, Nivola
said. Extracting oil and gas in quantities that would provide
Canada with a greater influence in energy markets would have
“major environmental implications,” he said.  Environment groups including Greenpeace and the Pembina
Institute have called for a halt to oil-sands development citing
damage to local ecosystems, emissions of carbon dioxide and
potential for leaks from pipelines. In the U.S., which imports
more than 1 million barrels of oil a day from its northern
neighbor, an extension of a pipeline to the  Gulf Coast  has
stumbled over opposition from locals in the Midwest who fear
leaking pipes may damage their drinking water.  “In light of the environmental concerns and climate change
it’s hard to imagine that Canada would become a dominant
geopolitical force because of its energy resources,” said
Nivola.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Toronto via 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  