-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls as Nuclear Plant Starts Ease Demand

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-11T17:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/canadian-natural-gas-falls-as-nuclear-plant-starts-ease-demand.html
Canadian natural gas fell as nuclear
power plants came back into service in the U.S. following
seasonal maintenance, cutting demand for power generation from
other fuels.  U.S. stockpiles probably rose 71 billion cubic feet to
1.828 billion in the week ended May 6, according to the median
of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average
gain for the week is 90 billion. U.S. nuclear power output fell
to a 12-year low last week on reactor shutdowns, according to
Nuclear Regulatory Commission data.  “The nukes are starting to come back on line,” said
 Martin King , senior commodities analyst with FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary. The increase in output is likely to boost
additions to gas storage in the next few weeks, he said.  Alberta  gas for June delivery fell 2.5 cents to C$3.43 per
gigajoule ($3.38 per million British thermal units) as of 12:15
p.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to users in  Canada  and
the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 9.2 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $4.154 per million
Btu.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16 billion cubic
feet as of 11 a.m. in  New York , 70 million below its target
level.  Pipeline Flows  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.62 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.92 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.34 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.56 billion cubic feet today, about 54
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.8
billion cubic feet at 11:05 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 