-- 
Carlsberg Operating Profit Jumps 38%

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-11T09:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/carlsberg-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-rising-costs.html
Carlsberg A/S, the world’s fourth-
largest brewer, reported a 38 percent increase in first-quarter
operating profit, helped by a rebound in  Russia ’s beer market.  Earnings before interest, taxes and some one-time items
rose to 1 billion kroner ($194 million), exceeding the 993
million-kroner average estimate of 16 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The operating margin widened by 1.4 percentage points
to 8 percent, the Copenhagen-based company said today.  Carlsberg shares rose the most in four months. The brewer
gets about 45 percent of profit from eastern Europe, where
first-quarter volume increased 28 percent compared with a period
of last year when Russian sales were depressed after the
government tripled alcohol taxes.  “This is a good start to the year,” Andy Smith, an
analyst at MF Global in London, said in a note to clients. The
Russian recovery “is gathering pace.”  Carlsberg shares gained as much as 24.5 kroner, or 4.1
percent, to 617 kroner, the steepest intraday gain since Jan.
18. They were up 21 kroner, or 3.5 percent, at 613.5 kroner as
of 11:07 a.m. in Copenhagen trading.  The brewer reiterated its February forecast of “high
single-digit” percentage growth in 2011 operating profit and
adjusted net income growth of more than 20 percent.  “We are particularly pleased that the important Russian
market has returned to growth,” Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said in the statement.  Raw Materials Costs  Margin growth was “light of consensus,” as higher input
costs and advertising expenses weighed on results, Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London, wrote in a note today.  Raw materials costs rose in eastern  Europe  after record
droughts led to poor grain harvests last year, Carlsberg said.  Beer sales, excluding acquisitions, slid 2 percent in
northern and western Europe in the quarter as “consumer
dynamics remain challenging,” the company said.  Total organic volume rose 10 percent, inflated by a low
comparative due to last year’s Russian tax increase. Excluding
the effect of the destocking in the first quarter of 2010,
volume grew 2 percent, according to Carlsberg estimates.  First-quarter net income totaled 173 million kroner, the
company said. That missed the 280 million-kroner median estimate
of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net income “was negatively impacted by an increase in
special items related to restructuring and in other net
financial items due to currency movements,” MF’s Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 