-- 
Celtic Manager Neil Lennon Struck by Fan in Scottish Premier League Match

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-12T13:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/celtic-manager-lennon-attacked-by-fan-at-scottish-soccer-match-bbc-says.html
A man was arrested after an attack on
Celtic manager Neil Lennon during the second half of his team’s
Scottish Premier League soccer victory over Hearts. Police said
a suspicious package was also sent to the club today.  The assault occurred after Celtic went 2-0 up at Tynecastle
in Edinburgh last night. The fan jumped the advertising
hoardings, ran along the touchline and threw himself at Lennon
before being tackled. Lothian and Borders Police said a man had
been reported to the procurator fiscal and would appear in court
in connection with the incident.  Lennon, a former Northern Ireland midfielder, has been the
subject of threats this season. Today, police said they’re
investigating a package sent to Celtic in Glasgow after the
alarm was raised at about 10:30 a.m. local time. Officers are
still at the scene and inquiries are ongoing, Lisa Arnott, a
spokeswoman for Strathclyde Police, said by telephone. She
declined to comment further.  In January, a package addressed to Lennon containing
bullets was intercepted at a sorting office. Police said last
month that two parcel bombs designed to cause “real harm” were
posted to Lennon, 39, in March. Strathclyde Police today said
two men, who weren’t identified, have been detained over the
parcel bombs.  Disgrace  “It’s a disgrace,” Johan Mjallby, Celtic’s assistant
manager, said in news conference comments posted on the club’s
website after last night’s match. “Neil was shocked, and
obviously, he’s had death threats and he’s shaken right now. We
have to look into this because when you work in management you
should be secure in a football ground.”  Following last night’s attack on Lennon, trouble broke out
between fans and police in the Celtic section of the stadium.
Police said they will investigate all of the incidents at the
match, including some “violent disorder.”  “We will give our full support to the stewards and the
police authorities in the ensuing investigation,” Hearts said
in a statement on its  website . “These sorts of actions have no
place in the game of football.”  Strathclyde Police ordered a “summit” on March 8 after a
game between Glasgow clubs Celtic and Rangers in which the
referee expelled three players with red cards. There were also
several confrontations between coaching staff and 34 arrests
inside the Celtic Park stadium.  Celtic’s 3-0 win last night ensured the Scottish title race
will go the final day of the season on May 15. Rangers have a
one-point lead over Celtic atop the standings and visit
Kilmarnock in their final game, while Celtic hosts Motherwell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  