-- 
Exxon Mobil May Suffer in U.S. Tax Plan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/chevron-may-suffer-foreign-rivals-benefit-from-u-s-tax-plan.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
could gain a competitive advantage in more than a dozen
countries from a U.S. tax proposal targeted at major oil and gas
companies.  Future investments by Shell, based in The Hague, and
London-based BP wouldn’t be affected by one of the proposals
being advanced by Democrats in the  U.S. Senate . The bill would
change the way that U.S.-based companies such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , ConocoPhillips and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  would receive tax
credits for payments to other governments.  “If these rules were changed and the foreign income for
select U.S. oil and gas companies like Exxon Mobil were to be
double taxed, our foreign-based competitors and the full range
of foreign-government-owned oil companies would gain a
significant competitive advantage,” Exxon Mobil Chief Executive
Officer Rex Tillerson will tell the Senate Finance Committee
today, according to prepared testimony.  The change in the so-called dual-capacity taxpayer rules,
estimated to collect $6.5 billion over a decade, is the second-
largest revenue generator in a tax proposal advocated by Senate
Democrats. The bill is being written to apply only to the five
major oil and gas companies -- Shell, BP, Exxon Mobil,
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Chevron. The most significant provision in
the bill would affect the U.S. operations of all five companies.  Senate Hearing  Tillerson and executives from the other four companies are
scheduled to appear before the Senate Finance Committee in
Washington. The full Senate may vote next week on legislation
that would increase oil and gas taxes by $21 billion over 10
years and dedicate the money to reducing the  U.S. budget
deficit . Democrats say this would end unjustified subsidies for
profitable companies, while Republicans and company officials
say the legislation would impose higher taxes that could lead to
higher gasoline prices for consumers.  The provision in the bill that would affect only the U.S.-
based  oil companies  focuses on how the U.S. taxes income earned
around the world. Typically, U.S.-based companies are required
to pay taxes on all income they earn globally. Companies then
receive U.S. tax credits for payments to other governments so
they aren’t taxed twice on the same income.  The dual-capacity rules, as currently written, create a
distinction between income taxes levied on profits and royalties
that companies pay when they extract government-owned oil and
gas. Royalties can be taken as  tax deductions , not as more
valuable tax credits. “Dual capacity” refers to the fact that
companies pay taxes to other governments for multiple purposes.  Different Tax Rates  The Democrats’ proposal, a version of which was in
President Barack Obama’s budget plan, would allow companies to
claim tax credits only for the portion of income taxes that they
would pay if they weren’t oil companies. Democrats say this
would be an appropriate approach to tax systems that require
different tax rates for oil and gas companies.  “U.S. oil and gas companies have smart lawyers and
accountants, and they have figured out that if you can convince
foreign governments such as  Nigeria  to charge your taxes -- to
charge you taxes instead of royalties on your exploration, then
they can get a big break on U.S. taxes,” Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, said May 10 at a news
conference in  Washington . “This amounts to the U.S. government
subsidizing foreign oil production.”  ‘Double Taxation’  The proposal would lead to “double taxation” of foreign
income, ConocoPhillips Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets told
reporters in Houston yesterday.  The result of reduced U.S. competitiveness could mean fewer
supplies globally, higher prices and fewer jobs in the U.S., he
said. Sheets said ConocoPhillips has about 3,000 U.S. jobs
supported by international operations.  Company spokeswoman Nancy Turner said in an e-mailed
statement that she couldn’t estimate the anticipated effect of
the proposal. She said the legislation could change the
company’s geographic composition.  “The dual-capacity provision would simply render U.S.
companies unable to compete for many projects against other non-
U.S. competitors who don’t face the same type of tax burden
imposed by their home countries,” she said.  The change could affect investment in more than a dozen
countries that have special taxes or different rates for oil
companies. A  study by the American Petroleum Institute  in 2010
found that changes to the dual-capacity rules could affect
exploration projects in countries including  Australia ,  Bahrain ,
 Iraq ,  Malaysia , Norway, Qatar, the U.K. and Venezuela.  “It absolutely changes how they’ve done the economics, how
they’ve approached that investment, sometimes a decade ago with
the understanding that these taxes that they in fact pay would
be creditable under our system,” said Stephen Comstock, manager
of  tax policy  at API.  Higher Rates  Some countries charge much higher tax rates for oil and gas
companies than they do for other companies. Bahrain, for
example, imposes no corporate income tax and has a 46 percent
tax on petroleum-related income, according to the API report.
Qatar’s basic income tax rate is 10 percent; oil companies there
pay 35 percent.  Exxon Mobil invested $16 billion in a liquefied natural gas
project in Qatar when all companies paid a 35 percent tax rate.
If Congress changes the tax law so that much of the 35 percent
income tax on oil companies is considered a royalty, the company
would face an effective tax rate of 53 percent, said Karl
Schmalz, the company’s assistant general tax counsel.  Incentive to Sell  “There’s no way that we can make up that differential in
treatment, so we’re not going to be able to bid effectively for
new resources,” he said.  Schmalz said if the proposed tax law is enacted, Exxon
Mobil would have an incentive to sell its project to a company
that could take advantage of the more generous tax treatment and
split the benefits with Exxon Mobil.  The $6.5 billion effect on the companies over the next
decade would be relatively small compared with the size of the
oil and gas industry. Exxon Mobil, based in Irving,  Texas ,
earned $10.7 billion in net income in the first quarter of 2011.  Shell and BP could be affected to the extent that they have
overseas operations within their U.S. subsidiaries, Comstock
said. They would be able to structure future investments under
their parent companies, which aren’t subject to U.S. taxation.  Smaller U.S.-based companies also could benefit, because
the bill applies only to the major companies. Houston-based
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) , based in El Dorado,
 Arkansas , have lobbied Congress on the dual-capacity issue.  Chevron, BP, Shell, Marathon and Murphy didn’t respond to
requests for comment on the dual capacity issue yesterday.  Comstock said the IRS already has the authority to
challenge taxpayers’ claims concerning the difference between
royalties and taxes, and the IRS can rewrite its regulations if
it finds abuses.  “This whole effort just seems to be misguided,” he said.
“It seems to be pointed at an issue that’s just not there and
can’t be there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  