-- 
Chilean Peso Slides as China Inflation Dims Export Prospects

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-05-11T19:44:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/chilean-peso-slides-as-china-inflation-dims-export-prospects.html
Chile ’s peso sank after  China ’s
consumer prices rose faster than the government’s target,
boosting speculation of monetary tightening and lowering the
price of copper, Chile’s biggest export.  The peso sank 0.7 percent to 468.2 per  U.S. dollar  from
464.83 at yesterday’s close. The currency strengthened in the
three previous days.  China’s consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April, the
statistics bureau said today in Beijing. The government aims for
full-year inflation of 4 percent. Chinese imports of copper,
 iron ore  and crude oil declined from March, after  interest rates 
were increased four times since October. Copper, which made up
52 percent of Chile’s exports last month, fell as much as 3.6
percent to $3.898 a pound for July delivery.  “Commodities are dropping, not just copper, but oil and
even gold,” said  Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in  Sao Paulo . “The peso is trading extremely correlated to the
copper price and the data out of China isn’t supportive.”  China is the biggest customer for Chilean copper.  The peso has fallen 1.7 percent this month, less than the
Australian dollar and South African rand, currencies that also
track commodities prices.  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had a
$2.4 billion bet against the peso as of May 9, according to
central bank data.  Interest-rate swap rates fell before tomorrow’s central
bank rate decision. The bank may slow the pace of rate rises to
a quarter percentage point after two straight half-point
increases, according to the median forecast of 18 economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  The two-year swap rate fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 5.62 percent. The five-year rate fell nine
basis points, the most since January, to 5.8 percent.  Swap rates are falling as plunging commodity prices have
led to lower inflation expectations.  Six-month breakeven inflation fell for a fourth day,
declining 10 basis points to 4.52 percent. Three-month breakeven
inflation dipped 21 basis points to 3.59 percent, the lowest
since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  