-- 
China Inflation Over 5% Signals Officials May Boost Yuan, Interest Rates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T03:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-inflation-over-5-signals-officials-may-boost-yuan-interest-rates.html
China ’s inflation held above 5
percent in April and lending exceeded analysts’ estimates,
signaling that further monetary tightening may be needed to cool
the fastest-growing major economy.  Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier and
banks extended 740 billion yuan ($114 billion) of local-currency
loans, according to reports from the statistics bureau and
central bank. Weaker industrial-output growth, also reported
today, may diminish price pressures in coming months.  Today’s data showed that inflation has exceeded Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s 4 percent target each month this year. The figures
may buttress the case made by U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  in annual bilateral talks in Washington this
week that China needs a stronger yuan to contain prices and spur
domestic demand.  “Inflation is too high and will keep the policy bias in
favor of more action over the next few months -- we expect
another two rate hikes and further yuan appreciation against the
dollar,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging markets strategist at
Royal Bank of  Canada .  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local time break in trading. Non-deliverable yuan
forwards indicated the currency may gain about 2.4 percent
against the dollar in the next 12 months from a rate of 6.4926.  Investment Surges  Inflation compared with the 5.2 percent median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 30 economists and an almost three-
year high of 5.4 percent in March. Output growth slowed to 13.4
percent, the least since November, and a 17.1 percent expansion
in retail sales was below economists’ median 17.6 percent
estimate.  Today’s report showed a 25.4 percent increase in fixed-
asset investment in the first four months of the year. That
figure, combined with a report yesterday showing record export
shipments in April, indicates the world’s second-biggest economy
has made limited progress in shifting to a growth model more
driven by domestic demand.  “The data looks bad,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The economy is
slowing more sharply than expected but inflation is not.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch called the numbers “mixed,”
saying that power shortages and, to a lesser extent, disruptions
from  Japan ’s earthquake may have limited industrial output. Hong
Kong-based economist Lu Ting said policy makers can control
inflation without causing an economic “hard landing.”  Producer Prices  In an encouraging sign for Chinese officials, producer
prices increased 6.8 percent, less than economists’ median
forecast and also below the 7.3 percent rate in March. In
addition, growth in M2 money supply slowed to 15.3 percent.  Economists’ median forecast is for one more interest-rate
increase this year, adding to four since mid-October, as a dip
in commodity costs and more favorable bases for comparison help
to limit price gains in the second half.  Officials have raised banks’ reserve requirements, reined
in credit growth from the record levels of 2009 and 2010,
restricted home purchases, and said this month that consumer
goods company Unilever will be fined 2 million yuan ($300,000)
for telling the media that it planned to raise prices.  Inflation is “the most pressing problem” facing China,
Vice Premier Wang Qishan said at the  Washington  talks.  Commodity Rout  Commodities had their biggest weekly decline since December
2008 last week, aiding the campaign to tame inflation by
trimming the nation’s import bill.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts
is for the benchmark one-year lending rate to rise by a quarter
percentage point to 6.56 percent by the end of the year. The
People’s Bank of China let the yuan gain 0.9 percent against the
dollar in April, the fastest pace of appreciation this year.  “With economic growth stabilizing, policy makers signaling
they are willing to tolerate faster currency appreciation, and
global food prices stalling, inflation appears on course to
decline over the second half of the year,” Wang Qinwei, a
London-based economist with  Capital Economics , said before
today’s data.  Deutsche Bank AG estimates the yuan may appreciate at an
annualized pace of 7 percent to 10 percent against the dollar
over the next two months to reduce import costs before gains
slow in the second half as inflation drops “sharply.”  -- Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in  Singapore ,
Victoria Ruan in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  