-- 
China Inflation Slows to 5.3% From Year Earlier

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-inflation-slows-to-5-3-from-year-earlier.html
China ’s consumer prices rose 5.3
percent in April from a year earlier, exceeding the government’s
full-year target for a fourth straight month.  The gain was more than the 5.2 percent median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 30 economists and compared with a 5.4
percent increase in March. Producer prices increased 6.8 percent,
the  statistics bureau  said today in Beijing.  Inflation is “the most pressing problem” facing China,
Vice Premier Wang Qishan said at talks in  Washington  this week
where the U.S. pressed for faster gains in the yuan. Economists’
median forecast is for one more interest-rate increase this year,
adding to four since mid-October, as a dip in commodity costs
and more favorable bases for comparison slow price gains in the
second half.  “Another slight uptick in inflation is possible by mid-
year, but it seems that for inflation, the worst is nearly over
for China,”  Alaistair Chan, a Sydney-based economist at
Moody’s Analytics said before today’s announcement.  Fixed-asset investment grew 25.4 percent in the first four
months of 2011 from a year earlier, today’s report showed.
Retail sales rose 17.1 percent in April and industrial
production gained 13.4 percent.  The government aims for full-year inflation of 4 percent as
Premier Wen Jiabao eyes the risk that rising prices for basic
goods and housing will fan social discontent. Commodities had
their biggest weekly decline since December 2008 last week,
aiding his campaign by trimming the nation’s import bill.  Tighter Credit  Officials have raised banks’ reserve requirements, reined
in credit growth from the record levels of 2009 and 2010,
restricted home purchases, and this month fined consumer goods
company Unilever 2 million yuan ($300,000) for telling the media
that it planned to raise prices.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts
is for the benchmark one-year lending rate to rise by a quarter
percentage point to 6.56 percent by the end of the year. The
People’s Bank of China let the yuan gain 0.9 percent in April,
the fastest pace of appreciation this year.  “With economic growth stabilizing, policy makers signaling
they are willing to tolerate faster currency appreciation, and
global food prices stalling, inflation appears on course to
decline over the second half of the year,” Wang Qinwei, a
London-based economist with  Capital Economics , said before
today’s data were released.  Deutsche Bank AG estimates the yuan may appreciate at an
annualized pace of 7 percent to 10 percent against the dollar
over the next two months to reduce import costs before gains
slow in the second half of the year as inflation drops
“sharply.”  -- Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in  Singapore ,
Victoria Ruan in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  