-- 
China Pledges Steps to Open Markets Without Budging on Yuan

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-11T02:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-pledges-steps-to-open-markets.html
China  pledged to open more of its
markets to U.S. companies after a two-day gathering of top
officials that underscored the gap between the two nations over
how fast the Chinese currency should rise.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  continued his push
for a stronger yuan, which lawmakers say would boost American
competiveness and job growth. Chinese officials agreed on the
upward direction of the currency, while splitting on the pace.
“We have differences on the degree of appreciation,” Deputy
Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said yesterday in Washington.  With distance on the yuan remaining at this year’s
Strategic and Economic Dialogue, the world’s two biggest
economies instead settled on incremental steps to improve
business ties. China pledged to strengthen intellectual property
rights and phase out domestic purchasing preferences by the
government, while offering foreign financial firms a larger role.  “The two countries are becoming increasingly evenly
matched in terms of economic clout and have little direct
leverage over each other’s policies,” said  Eswar Prasad , a
senior fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution .
“The quid-pro-quo approach may be the only productive avenue.”  U.S. officials pledged increased opportunities for Chinese
firms, with Geithner saying at a news conference after the
meeting that “you’re going to see Chinese investment in the
 United States  continue to expand very, very rapidly,” a step
that will be “good for the United States, good for China.”  Limited Gains  The Treasury chief, who co-led the talks with Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , also played up a stronger yuan as a
benefit to China in helping contain inflation. Government
reports today showed China’s consumer prices rose a more-than-
estimated 5.3 percent in April from a year before, with lending
also exceeding projections at 739.6 billion yuan ($114 billion).  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has let the currency
advance about 5 percent in the past year versus the dollar,
about half the pace of  Singapore ’s dollar. The yuan was little
changed today at 6.4910 per dollar as of 10:50 a.m. Shanghai
time. The currency touched 6.4892 on April 29, the strongest
level since 1993.  Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan, State Councilor Dai Bingguo and other officials were pressed by their U.S.
counterparts on widening opportunities for American businesses.
Meantime, Clinton reiterated “vigorous” concern over human
rights, including reported arrests of artists and journalists.  Procurement Policy  Geithner said China agreed to end procurement preferences
for “indigenous innovation products” at any level of
government.  China said it will allow U.S. and other foreign banks
incorporated in its country to sell mutual funds and act as
custodians for the funds, according to a Treasury Department
statement.  Engage China, a group of U.S. financial trade associations
whose member companies include Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America Co., said this week’s steps will need to
be followed with further action before “truly meaningful”
progress can be achieved.  “Reform and modernization of China’s financial system --
including greater foreign participation -- must remain a key
area of focus if genuine progress is to be made on reducing the
trade imbalance and achieving a more market-determined yuan,”
the group said in a statement.  Selling Insurance  The  Treasury Department  said foreign insurers, including
those from the U.S., will be able to sell car insurance in China,
the world’s largest automobile market, under an agreement
reached this week.  China promised to gradually increase the amount foreign
banks can invest in its stock and bond markets, under a program
called Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors. The quota for
that program has risen 25 percent in the past year to $21
billion, according to the  U.S. Treasury .  China also pledged to strengthen its government inspection
mechanism to make sure that agencies are using legitimate
software. The U.S. wants China to curtail the use of pirated
software by the government and by state-owned enterprises, which
hurts sales by companies such as Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft Corp.  The micro nature of the agreements shows the limits of the
talks, said Derek Scissors, a research fellow at the  Heritage
Foundation  in  Washington . The two nations haven’t tackled the
broader issues of how the U.S. will reduce its  budget deficit 
and China will wean its economy off of dependence on exports.  Fundamentals Unaddressed  “The S&ED delivered some results on particular market-
access problems,” Scissors said. “On fundamental bilateral
issues, I’m not sure the S&ED is making any progress.”  China this week reported an $11.4 billion  trade surplus  for
April that was more than three times larger than forecast.
Exports climbed 30 percent to a record $156 billion, while
import growth slowed to 22 percent, the customs bureau said.  The rebound in China’s surplus to its highest this year may
add pressure on the world’s biggest exporter and holder of
currency reserves to address imbalances and reduce inflation
through steeper yuan gains. The Group of 20 nations, which
includes the U.S. and China, has called on its members to rein
in trade and budget imbalances to strengthen the world economy.  China said it faces challenges from rising consumer prices
and will maintain a “prudent”  monetary policy , according to a
statement released after the talks.  Monetary Policy  “China will guide its monetary policy to return to
normality from an anti-crisis status,” according to the Chinese
statement. It will “try to meet reasonable demand for capital
needed for economic growth, while focusing on removing
inflationary monetary elements,” the statement said.  Geithner said yesterday he hopes China “moves to allow the
 exchange rate  to appreciate more rapidly and more broadly
against the currencies of all its trading partners.”  Wang said that the U.S. had promised it would give fair
treatment to China regarding reform of export-control mechanisms
and relax some of the limits on technology exports. China also
said the U.S. promised to keep close tabs on  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored enterprises that have been
in conservatorship since 2008.  The U.S. will make sure that Fannie and Freddie have
adequate ability to repay their current and future debts and
guarantees, according to a statement distributed by the Chinese
delegation after the talks. The U.S. also promised it would keep
investors informed of developments. Chinese investors are among
those that hold Fannie and Freddie securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  