-- 
China’s Economic Colonization Starts Down Under: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-11T19:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-s-economic-colonization-goes-down-under-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
All in.  That’s essentially the message Treasurer  Wayne Swan  is
sending about Australia’s odds-defying bet on Chinese growth.
The government’s latest budget pledges to deliver the quickest
improvement in the nation’s  finances  on record -- without
specifics about how that will happen.  The absence of such detail is telling and can be boiled
down to one thing: an even bigger gamble on China’s 10 percent
growth and its voracious appetite for Australia’s resources.
It’s risky to so fully hitch the hopes of 23 million people to a
single nation that’s still developing.  Hypocrisy was in the room last month when Australia
rejected a Singaporean offer for its stock exchange. Swan called
slapping down  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8.8 billion bid for ASX
Ltd. a “no brainer.” The whole shareholders-come-first vibe
that pervaded before the global crisis lost its oomph among
voters.  The debate distracted attention from a far bigger takeover
happening by stealth:  China ’s designs on all things down under.
Down under the ground, that is.  The stock market deal would’ve been just a corporate
merger, not exactly an affront to Australia’s national identity.
Australia is a massive nation with vast natural resources, while
 Singapore ’s land mass is dwarfed by the Great Barrier Reef.
Singapore Exchange’s ownership of ASX wouldn’t be a financial
colonization by any stretch of the imagination.  Resource Boom  Of course, if a critical mass of Australians has
reservations about something, lawmakers must listen. And listen,
they did. Yet arguments for quashing the takeover -- deterring
investment into Australia, for example -- were tenuous. Everyone
knows Australia’s resource sectors are booming and those who
want a piece of it won’t care who runs ASX.  The real colonization is arguably taking place on the
ground -- or, more to the point, beneath it -- in Western
Australia. China’s voracious appetite for raw materials to fuel
its rise is at record levels and set to continue rising. It’s
leading to bubbles in the 13th biggest economy.  There’s even a role for  Ben Bernanke . Press reports are
full of tales of 24-year-old miners with no college degree
making more than the Federal Reserve chairman’s annual $199,700
salary. And Bernanke gets less compensation than  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens, which many economists around
the globe would see as a kind of monetary justice.  In a world wracked by crisis and uncertainty, Stevens has
been a steady presence. Australia was that rare developed
economy that avoided recession amid the 2008 global crisis.
Banks there weren’t devastated by the toxic debt that undid many
of Wall Street’s biggest names.  Two-Speed Economy  Stevens, though, faces a tantalizingly difficult challenge:
combating rising wages that could prove inflationary, while not
killing growth. The China effect is a key element of this
struggle. A wage-price spiral would only exacerbate  Australia ’s
“two-speed economy” problem.  China is feeding a growing disparity between Australia’s
resource-rich western states and Queensland and the rest of the
country. Does Chinese demand mean Australia has too much of a
good thing on its hands? What if China suddenly slowed? With
Chinese inflation holding at more than 5 percent in April while
lending exceeded analysts’ estimates, overheating risks are
rising.  Australia is flirting with “Dutch disease,” whereby
financial benefits of a resource boom lead to a hollowing out of
other sectors. The worry is that Australia becomes all too happy
to be a mining site for China and takes its focus off a more
diverse economic future.  17th-Century Model  Certainly, the savvy financial-services and technology
professionals busily working in Sydney and  Melbourne  demonstrate
the economic modernity that drives growth. Australia is surely
on a tear, sending the local currency toward record highs. Yet
too much focus is on the 17th-century model of digging things
out of the ground and loading them on ships.  Chinese demand is becoming an addiction, and it will force
politicians and voters to adapt. Immigration is a case in point.
Australia plans to import about 16,000 workers to plug holes in
the labor market. Trade is a two-way street. You can’t expect to
ship mountains of coal and iron ore overseas and also limit
importing labor and foreign takeovers. It’s not working for
 Japan  and it won’t work for Australia.  Gillard’s Shift  As the 21st century unfolds, the consensus is that it
belongs to  Asia , particularly China. Australia’s latest budget
shows that Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is turning further away
from the U.S. and  Europe  toward this region. That makes perfect
sense given its economic potential.  What doesn’t is failing to harness the ingenuity of
Australians. Their future in an ever-globalizing economy is
about ideas, innovation, education and upgraded infrastructure.
Australia’s budget punts all these challenges forward. Why make
tough decisions when you can double down on China?  We tend to focus on how China’s growing role as benefactor
is reshaping, for better or worse, nations in  Africa , Asia and
 Latin America . Little is said about the consequences of highly-
developed nations casting their lot with an economy that could
be hit by anything from asset bubbles to social instability.  Talk about a roll of the dice.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@blomberg.net  