-- 
China Trade Gap With U.S. in Services Widens on Travel and Education

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-trade-gap-with-u-s-in-services-grows-on-travel-education.html
China , which has a record trade
surplus with the U.S., has a growing deficit in trade in
services as it sends more students and travelers abroad,
according to a report from the Commerce Department.  “The U.S. services surplus with China has accelerated
rapidly since 2007, from $2.4 billion to $10.4 billion in
2010,” according to a report by Commerce Department economists
David Payne and Fenwick Yu that is being released today in
Washington.  American companies export about $500 billion a year
worldwide in services, which includes insurance, banking,
education, shipping through ports and royalties, about one-third
of overall exports. Travelers and students coming to the nation
from abroad count as U.S. exports too.  Services exports from the U.S. to all nations grew an
average of 9.2 percent annually since 2003, while imports have
grown an average of 7.4 percent, the study found.  The results were released the day after officials from
China and the U.S. met in  Washington  to discuss improving
commercial relations between the two nations. China is the
second-largest U.S. trading partner after  Canada .  China pledged to strengthen intellectual property rights
and allow U.S. and other foreign banks incorporated in its
country to sell mutual funds and act as custodians for the
funds, according to a Treasury Department statement.  According to the Commerce Department study, U.S. exports of
services to China have continued to surge, while imports of
services fell in 2009 before recovering some of those losses
last year. China has a surplus in port and computer services.
The top U.S. services exports are in travel, finance and
education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  