-- 
China’s April Home Sales Value Declines on Government Measures

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T04:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-s-april-home-sales-value-declines-on-government-measures.html
China ’s home sales transaction value
fell 21 percent in April from the previous month after the
government expanded measures to tackle risks of asset bubbles.  The value of homes sold dropped to 324.9 billion yuan ($50
billion) from 413.6 billion yuan in March, based on the
difference between the Statistics Bureau’s data for the first
four months and the first quarter. The cumulative data, which
doesn’t break down individual months, was reported separately
from average prices after the government in January changed the
way it provides the information.  “The government’s measures have started to take effect,”
said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Research Pte in a phone interview. “This is in line
with  market sentiment , even though  home prices  remain high.”  China started tightening its  property market  a year ago and
has progressively added new curbs, including raising the minimum
down payments for second homes and introducing residential
property taxes in Shanghai and Chongqing this year. Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said May 1 that the nation is “determined” to bring
down housing prices in some cities to a “reasonable” level.  Home sales values climbed 11 percent in the first four
months to 1.2 trillion yuan, while all property transactions
amounted to 1.4 trillion yuan, 13 percent higher than the
previous year, the Statistics Bureau said today. A total of 223
million square meters (2.4 billion square feet) of homes were
sold in the first four months, the Statistics Bureau said.  ‘Preliminary Effects’  “The property measures have achieved preliminary
effects,”  Sheng Laiyun , a Statistics Bureau spokesman, said at
a press conference in Beijing today.  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 1.3 percent at the 11:30 a.m. break, the
most among the five industry groups on the benchmark gauge.  China’s investment in real estate rose 34 percent to 1.3
trillion yuan in the first four months, according to the
government data today. China’s plan to build 10 million
affordable homes helped boost the investment, Hu said.  New  home construction  climbed 21 percent in the first four
months to 440.1 million square meters, according to the
statistics bureau.  March new home prices increased in all but three of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government, while gains slowed
in Shanghai and Beijing. The national statistics bureau is
scheduled to report April’s home price data on May 18.  Nationwide prices rose 0.4 percent in April, the eighth
consecutive month,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said on May 3.  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Zhe Huang. Editors: Linus
Chua, Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  