-- 
China Inflation Spreading Beyond Food Shows Wen to Persist With Tightening

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T06:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/china-inflation-spreading-beyond-food-shows-wen-to-persist-with-tightening.html
China’s inflation is spreading beyond
food, signaling Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s strategy of quarter-point
interest-rate increases every two months has yet to contain
consumer prices.  Clothing costs climbed 1.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since 1997, a statistics bureau report
showed yesterday. Non-food inflation held at 2.7 percent, the
fastest pace in at least six years, while overall consumer
prices rose 5.3 percent.  Higher wages and commodity costs are adding to price
pressures as the government restrains gains in the yuan that
would cut the cost of imports. Deutsche Bank AG sees inflation
peaking at as much as 6 percent in June, with policy makers
raising borrowing costs at least once more as they aim to limit
full-year price gains to 4 percent.  “It is not the time yet for policy makers to ease the
tightening stance as inflation is still elevated and underlying
pressure remains,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who formerly worked
for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central
Bank . “They may not have that kind of luxury until the third
quarter.”  April’s jump in consumer prices and 740 billion yuan of new
local-currency lending ($114 billion), detailed in a separate
central bank report yesterday, exceeded economists’ median
estimates. Food inflation, the biggest single driver of the
consumer-price index, exceeded 11 percent for a third month.  Inflation Peak  Stocks in China fell for a second day as the data raised
investors’ concerns that the government may impose more
tightening measures which may slow growth. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.8 percent as of 2:17 p.m.,
extending yesterday’s 0.3 percent drop.  The yuan was set to decline for the second day and was
trading 0.08 percent lower at 6.4982 per dollar at 2:17 p.m.  Inflation is “the most pressing problem” facing the
world’s second-biggest economy, Vice Premier Wang Qishan said
this week.  Monetary policy  will remain “prudent” and focus on
removing “inflationary monetary elements,” Chinese officials
said in a statement in Washington after talks with the U.S.  Societe Generale SA economist Yao Wei predicts inflation
will peak in May or June at about 6 percent and decline in the
second half due to higher year-earlier comparisons and the
lagging impact of the government’s tightening policies.  Further Tightening  April’s consumer-price data “is a disappointment because
it shows that tightening measures introduced so far have not
managed to prevent economic overheating and bring price
pressures under control,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. The data
indicates “continued spreading of price pressures to the
broader economy, which will require further tightening.”  Royal Bank of Canada says the central bank may raise rates
another two times this year after four increases since mid-
October.  In an encouraging sign for Chinese officials, gains in
producer prices eased in April for the first time in four months,
increasing 6.8 percent from a year earlier, compared with 7.3
percent in March, statistics bureau data showed. Commodities had
their biggest weekly decline since December 2008 last week,
trimming the nation’s import bill.  In addition to raising  interest rates , People’s Bank of
 China  Governor Zhou Xiaochuan has lifted reserve requirement
ratios seven times since mid-November, curbing credit growth by
forcing lenders to park more money at the central bank.  Imported Inflation  The People’s Bank of China let the yuan gain 0.9 percent
against the dollar in April, the fastest pace of appreciation
this year, after policy makers indicated the  exchange rate  could
be used as a tool to limit the impact of higher prices of
imported commodities on the world’s biggest consumer of  iron ore 
and copper.  “As interest-rate and reserve-requirement ratio hikes
start to show diminishing effects, the authorities will have to
rely more on the exchange-rate policy and allow faster yuan
appreciation to help contain imported inflation,” said Liu Li- gang, chief China economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group in Hong Kong, who formerly worked for the  World Bank .  Deutsche Bank sees the yuan strengthening at an annualized
7 percent to 10 percent pace against the dollar over the next
two months to curb import costs while  Capital Economics 
forecasts an annualized 8 percent increase over the next six
months until inflation eases.  Signs of Weakness  Fan Gang and Yu Yongding, former academic advisers to the
central bank, said last week the government should guard against
overtightening in its fight against inflation.  The economy is showing signs of weakness. Industrial
production expanded 13.4 percent last month from a year earlier,
the least since November, the statistics bureau report showed.
Meanwhile, money-supply growth moderated to the slowest since
November 2008 even as lending surged.  Vehicle sales fell 0.25 percent in April from a year
earlier, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, and General Motors Co.’s China sales dropped five
percent.  “ China’s economy  is probably slowing down more than people
realize,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said in  Hong Kong  today. Inflation “won’t be a
problem” in the second half of the year and the government will
stop tightening policies as price gains moderate, he said,
estimating growth may slow to about 8 percent in June through
December.  -- Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  