-- 
Chrysler May Add More Than 3,000 Workers, UAW Official Says

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-05-11T19:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/chrysler-may-hire-more-than-3-000-workers.html
Chrysler Group LLC may hire more than
3,000 workers and add production shifts at plants in  Michigan 
and  Illinois  in coming months to increase sales of some of its
most popular vehicles, a United Auto Workers official said.  The three additional shifts, each accounting for about
1,000 jobs, would be at plants in Detroit and  Sterling Heights ,
Michigan, and Belvidere, Illinois, General Holiefield, the UAW
vice president in charge of Chrysler, said yesterday in an
interview in Detroit.  “There have been indications that they would love to put
on a third shift, but it’s all tied to volume and the demand,”
Holiefield said of the plants.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  boosted
Chrysler’s global sales 18 percent through April and posted a
first-quarter net profit of $116 million, its first since
emerging from bankruptcy in 2009. He’s seeking to refinance U.S.
and Canadian government debt this quarter, allowing  Fiat SpA (F)  to
increase its ownership stake to 46 percent from 30 percent.  Jodi Tinson, a spokeswoman for  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler, declined to comment on the potential hiring and
additional shifts.  The Michigan and Illinois factories each have two shifts
and employ a combined 7,000 hourly workers, according to
Chrysler’s website.  Grand Cherokee  The Detroit plant builds the  Jeep Grand Cherokee , which has
increased U.S. sales 86 percent through April, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  The Sterling Heights plant assembles the Chrysler 200
sedan, which was featured in a  Super Bowl  commercial with rapper
Eminem. The Belvidere plant makes the Dodge Caliber small car
and Jeep Compass and Patriot sport-utility vehicles. U.S. sales
of the refreshed Compass have risen 79 percent this year.  Holiefield said he hopes the shifts would be added
“between now and early summer” because there is potential for
Chrysler to boost sales of the vehicles.  Chrysler may need to boost production of the Grand Cherokee
given its success in the U.S. and its potential overseas, said
 Mike Jackson , head of North American vehicle forecasting at IHS
Automotive in Northville, Michigan.  The automaker also may gain sales because production
disruptions from the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  have made
supplies of some vehicles scarce, he said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Pretty Aggressive’  “Chrysler has been pretty aggressive, and where products
have been updated and where they’re competitive in the
marketplace, there’s going to be additional opportunity,”
Jackson said. “The need for that kind of volume, though, I would
say that tends toward the optimistic side of the spectrum.”  The UAW will negotiate new labor contracts with Chrysler,
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  to replace agreements
expiring in September. Unlike previous negotiations, Chrysler
plants aren’t under threat for closing, Holiefield said.  “Our whole conversations have been about building,” he
said. “My whole theme is jobs, jobs, jobs. That’s so important
to me that we rebuild our facilities.”  As part of its efforts to increase jobs, the UAW wants
Chrysler to make more of its own components, Holiefield said.  “We have made ourselves competitive throughout the
manufacturing landscape where there are supplier industries out
there that don’t do as good a job as we do now,” he said. “It
would be lucrative to bring that work in-house.”  Marchionne Relationship  The UAW’s relationship with Marchionne was strengthened 120
days into Fiat’s control when Holiefield and then-UAW President
Ron Gettelfinger attended a long-range planning meeting at the
automaker’s headquarters.  “We were very impressed with the direction that he wanted
to lead the company, but there was still the skepticism,”
Holiefield said. “He sensed it.”  Marchionne took them to company’s design center, where the
automaker’s future vehicles were covered and parked in a circle.  “He walked over to what would’ve been the Dodge Charger and
yanked the blanket off -- I nearly flipped,” Holiefield said.
“He caught my reaction and said, ‘You thought I was bulls--
tting you for the last 120 days didn’t you?’”  The CEO continued ripping off car covers showing upcoming
models that would eventually help boost sales this year.  “At that point in time, all of my fears were gone and I
knew this was for real,” Holiefield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Detroit , Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  