-- 
Cisco Forecasts May Miss Estimates on Price Pressure

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-05-11T21:45:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/cisco-quarterly-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker
of networking gear, forecast profit and sales that may miss
analysts’ estimates amid price pressure in the markets for
routers and switches, which direct  Internet traffic .  Profit excluding some costs will be 37 cents to 39 cents a
share in the fourth fiscal quarter, while sales will be about
$10.8 billion to $11.1 billion,  San Jose , California-based Cisco
said today on a conference call. Analysts on average had
predicted profit of 41 cents and sales of $11.6 billion. Cisco
slipped in extended trading.  Cisco, which has lost about $50 billion in market value in
the last year, is revamping management and scaling back some
businesses after losing share to rivals such as Hewlett-Packard
Co. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said on the call that
he’ll eliminate jobs while girding for weakness and lower
public-sector spending this quarter. He ditched a longstanding
prediction for annual sales growth of 12 percent to 17 percent.  “I don’t think anyone’s expecting them to set the bar
high,” Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne, Agee and Leach Inc., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. He has a “buy” rating
on the shares.  Cisco fell to as low as $17.12 in late trading after
slipping 1 cent to $17.78 at 4 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Profit excluding certain costs was unchanged at 42 cents a
share in the fiscal third quarter, Cisco said in a statement.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted profit, on average, of
37 cents.  ‘Doing Well’  Sales rose 4.8 percent to $10.87 billion in the period that
ended April 30. Analysts expected sales of $10.86 billion.  Cisco said during the quarter that one of its high-end
routers, the CRS-3, is being adopted faster than the device’s
earlier versions. Gross margin, the percentage of profit left
after subtracting production costs, was 63.9 percent. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated, on average, 61.9 percent.  “There are clearly areas of Cisco that are doing well,”
Tim Savageaux, an analyst at Terrapin Research in  San Francisco ,
said before the results were released.  Investors view Cisco as a bellwether for the technology
industry because it dominates the market for routers and
switches, which direct Internet traffic. Companies buy its
switches for corporate networks, while phone and Web-service
providers typically purchase Cisco’s more-expensive routers.  ‘Off the Table’  Chambers said in August 2007 that revenue would rise 12
percent to 17 percent a year amid rising demand for Cisco’s
products. He said today that the forecast is “off the table.”  Cisco’s shares have declined 32 percent in the past year,
compared with the 16 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. It struggled to maintain historic levels of profitability
amid an expansion into more than 30 side businesses such as
smart grids, home networking and digital music hosting.  The broadened ambitions let rivals such as Hewlett-Packard,
Huawei Technologies Co. and Juniper Networks Inc. encroach on
key markets. In Ethernet switches, Cisco’s share dropped to 67
percent last year from 69 percent in 2006, according to IDC, a
market-research firm in Framingham,  Massachusetts . In routers,
Cisco’s share dropped to 55 percent last year from 66 percent.  “Cisco took advantage of some utopian conditions in the
last decade,” said Mark Fabbi, an analyst at Gartner Inc. Yet
now, “companies are getting smart and forcing Cisco to earn
their businesses again.”  Chambers has promised to sharpen the company’s focus. He
overhauled management May 5 to concentrate on three regions and
rein in Cisco’s council-style management structure, which
investors and former employees said slowed decision making and
fueled market-share losses. Last month, the company said it will
shut the Flip video-camera unit and cut 550 jobs.  AT&T Inc., the No. 2 U.S. wireless carrier, said today that
it will power Cisco’s Cius tablet device the company unveiled a
year ago. The Cius, to go on sale later this year, has a 7-inch
screen and can support high-definition video conferencing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 