-- 
CO2-Trade Risks Remain After Serial Numbers Are Hidden, BlueNext Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-12T11:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/co2-trade-risks-remain-after-serial-numbers-go-bluenext-says.html
The  European Union proposal  to hide
the serial numbers of carbon dioxide permits won’t erase the
risk of buying contested allowances, according to the operator
of the biggest spot exchange for emissions.  “Making serial numbers invisible doesn’t remove the
economic risk that a judge may enforce the owner of the
allowance under question to return it to the person who had the
EU allowances stolen from them,” said Keiron Allen, a spokesman
for BlueNext SA in Paris. “Probably the most important benefit
of having visible serial numbers is that they are now used by
exchanges, financial institutions and corporates as one of the
tools to combat fraud.”  The EU proposed changes on May 5 for its policy on serial
numbers to better protect the bloc’s carbon market from fraud
and abuse. The  proposed regulation  for the EU carbon registry,
which is slated to start operating next year, includes a 24-hour
delay in transactions as well as the plan to make serial numbers
of carbon permits invisible to market participants.  The bloc is responding after computer hackers improperly
transferred about 4 million metric tons of allowances in the
past year valued at 66 million euros ($94 million) at
yesterday’s price on BlueNext of 16.57 euros a ton. Permits have
jumped 19 percent in the year to date.  Markets needs to function even when some allowances in the
system may have been stolen, said Andrei Marcu, head of policy
at Mercuria Energy Group Ltd., the Geneva-based energy trader
that bought carbon trader MGM International Group LLC from
Morgan Stanley last year.  Only for Regulators  “We feel the only people who need to see the serial
numbers are the regulators,” Marcu said by phone on May 9. “If
someone steals cash from my wallet, I don’t reach for the serial
numbers.”  The proposed EU registry will replace about 30 separate
national centers, which currently track ownership of allowances
and credits. Futures make up about 88 percent of the carbon
market, with prompt trading about 12 percent, according to
Prospex Research Ltd., the London company that provides data on
EU energy markets.  Keeping serial numbers confidential will help prevent
further disruption spot trading, the European Commission said. A
steady price signal requires “a functioning and liquid carbon
market,” the Brussels-based regulator of the market said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Given that stolen allowances remain valid compliance
instruments and that in principle most registries don’t even
allow users to select specific serial numbers when making
transfer requests, there is no imperative for the market to see
the serial numbers.”  Fraudulent Transactions  The commission’s proposal also includes a so-called
ownership-transfer rule. It is designed to ‘create certainty’ by
ensuring that allowances can’t be taken away because they may
“at some stage been involved in fraudulent transactions,” the
commission said. That doesn’t remove “the possibility of legal
claims for compensation,” it said.  The commission will face a challenge in making the rule
work between different EU member states, said BlueNext’s Allen.
“The uncertainty is likely to remain.”  Serial numbers are particularly important for United
Nations-overseen emission permits and credits, Allen said.  “It’s the only way for market participants to distinguish
between the different types of Certified Emission Reductions,
which have already different prices according to the technology
or country of origin,” he said.  The commission’s plan may not be enough to restore trust in
the spot market for carbon, said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst in
Bologna,  Italy  for NE Nomisma Energia Srl, which publishes
energy and environmental research. “You won’t have the
possibility to check anymore.”  ‘More Cash Settlement’  The security plan may lead to more cash settlement of
futures contracts, according to Barclays Plc. The proposal to
impose a 24-hour delay in the transfer of carbon permits may
slow the settlement of futures, the biggest part of the market,
 Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital ,
said May 9. That’s because a futures contract can trade many
times during its life, he said by phone.  “There will be chains of transactions that have grown up
around the derivative products,” Sikorski said. “It would be
reckless and unfortunate for the European Commission to distort
the operation of the forward market to try and solve a problem
in the much smaller  spot market ,” he said in a research note.  Hiding serial numbers may make trading riskier because
regulators may force registries to publish who has bought stolen
allowances, Sikorski said in the note. “It means buyers cannot
take steps to identify stolen EU allowances once a theft has
been reported, as there is no way of ensuring what you are
buying is not stolen property.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  