-- 
Coach Follows Prada in Seeking Hong Kong Listing as Chinese Wealth Surges

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-05-11T05:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/coach-plans-hong-kong-dual-listing.html
Coach Inc. (COH) , the biggest U.S. maker of
luxury handbags, said it plans a secondary listing in  Hong Kong 
by selling depositary receipts by the end of the year, as
Chinese spending expands with growing wealth.  A dual listing in Hong Kong “will raise awareness of the
Coach brand among investors and consumers in the  China  market as
well as throughout  Asia ,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lew Frankfort said in a statement yesterday. The New York-based
company said it doesn’t plan to issue additional shares or raise
more money.  Coach follows European  luxury-goods  companies listing in
Hong Kong. Prada SpA filed an application to the stock exchange
for an initial public offering by July, according to two people
familiar with the matter. Beauty products maker  L’Occitane
International SA (973)  publicly sold shares for the first time in the
former British colony last year.  “This is going to help Coach build a profile in Asia,”
said Mariana Kou, a consumer analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets. “L’Occitane is an example of a profile raised that
helped a lot in terms of marketing.”  So far this year, 20 companies have gone public in Hong
Kong, raising HK$37.73 billion ($4.9 billion), compared with 18
companies raising $42.21 billion in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Milan Station IPO  Milan Station Holdings Ltd., a second-hand luxury handbag
retailer, will offer as much as HK$271.4 million of stock in its
initial public offering in Hong Kong, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  The Hong Kong-based retailer will market 162.5 million
shares, comprising new stock and existing shares, at HK$1.17 to
HK$1.67 apiece with the price to be set on May 17, according to
an e-mailed statement by the company. Milan Station sells
previously owned handbags from luxury labels including LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton and  Hermes International (RMS)   Coach rose 1.2 percent to close at $60.66 in New York
trading yesterday. The stock has gained 46 percent during the
past year.  CLSA said in a January research report that China will
account for half of global growth in demand for luxury goods in
the next 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  