-- 
Commonwealth Bank March Quarter Unaudited Cash Earnings of A$1.7 Billion

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-11T06:35:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/commonwealth-bank-march-quarter-unaudited-cash-earnings-of-1-8-billion.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the
country’s largest lender, said March-quarter earnings climbed as
bad debts fell and lending profitability improved.  Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended March 31
were about A$1.7 billion ($1.9 billion), the Sydney-based bank
said in a statement today. That compares with the A$1.5 billion
reported for the same period a year earlier.  Australia ’s largest lenders including Westpac Banking Corp.
and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. last week
reported earnings that missed analysts’ forecasts amid the
weakest annual home lending growth since at least 1977.
Commonwealth Bank Chief Executive Officer Ralph Norris said
today he expects “a gradual improvement in operating
conditions” this year as the economic recovery strengthens and
demand for credit rebounds.  “It’s a strong update, which is what you’d expect from
Commonwealth Bank,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about
$1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “The
quality of their franchise will keep them well ahead of the pack
for some time.”  Shares of Commonwealth Bank rose 0.6 percent to A$52.52 in
Sydney, taking this year’s gain to 3.5 percent. ANZ Bank has
fallen 0.8 percent this year, Westpac added 7.4 percent and
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  jumped 15.2 percent.  ‘Muted’ Growth  “Whilst the Australian economy continues to perform
relatively well, consumer and business confidence remains
fragile, resulting in subdued spending patterns and muted system
credit growth,” Norris said in today’s statement. He also said
demand for business loans “showed signs of improvement across
the quarter.”  Impairment expenses in the quarter were lower at 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, of total average loans, or
about A$300 million in the quarter, the bank said. A year
earlier, Commonwealth Bank reported a charge of about A$500
million for the March quarter.  The bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the bank’s lending business “improved
further,” today’s statement said, without giving figures.  Borrowing for mortgages grew by 6.6 percent in March from
the year-earlier period, the least since the central bank
figures were first reported, data showed April 30. Australian
 house prices  fell in the first quarter by the most since the
third quarter of 2008, according to a May 2 government report.  Consumer Caution  Consumers are cutting back on spending and increasing
savings after central bank Governor Glenn Stevens raised the
benchmark lending rate by 175 basis points to 4.75 percent
between October 2009 and November 2010.  Waning mortgage demand has cut Australian banks’ need to
raise cash in foreign debt markets. Moody’s Investors Service
said in February it may downgrade the four biggest lenders, in
part, because of their reliance on such sales. Savings as a
share of disposable income climbed to 9.7 percent from October
through December, from 8 percent in the year-earlier period,
according to Bureau of Statistics data.  “Asset growth was fully deposit funded, with customer
deposits as a proportion of total group funding further
improving to 61 percent,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  