-- 
Commodities Slump as China Inflation Gain Signals Tighter Credit

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-05-11T21:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/commodities-slump-as-china-inflation-gain-signals-tighter-credit.html
Commodities slumped after inflation
in  China  stayed above the government’s target, signaling further
credit tightening that may curb demand for everything from crude
oil to copper.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 3.9 percent to close at 681 at 3:45 p.m.  New York  time,
led by declines in silver, energy, wheat and sugar. Gasoline
plunged as much as 9 percent amid declining U.S. demand for
motor fuel. Corn dropped the most allowed by the Chicago Board
of Trade on forecasts that U.S. stockpiles will be bigger than
analysts expected. Copper fell to the lowest since December.  Consumer prices in China, the world’s largest consumer of
raw materials including metals, pork, wheat and cotton, rose 5.3
percent in April from a year earlier, exceeding the government’s
full-year target for a fourth straight month. Imports of oil,
copper and iron ore all dropped in April after the central bank
boosted  interest rates  four times since October in a bid to curb
inflation and slow growth.  “Commodity markets are just beginning to respond to the
fact that a global industrial slowdown is poised to begin this
summer,” said James Dailey, who manages about $200 million at
TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .
“China is likely to be at the center of that slowdown, and the
inflation figure certainly feeds into concerns that more
aggressive tightening may occur and compound a slowdown.”  ‘Correction Begun’  On May 6, the GSCI index dropped to an 11-week low as U.S.
service industries and German manufacturing orders slowed. The
same day, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it was “cautious”
about raw materials “in the very near-term.” Last month, the
bank told investors to be “underweight” in commodities, after
a surge in demand from China helped send the GSCI index up 39
percent in the year through April 29.  “That momentum has stalled, and a correction begun,”
Dailey said.  Silver futures for July delivery fell $2.971, or 7.7
percent, to $35.515 an ounce on the Comex in New York. The metal
gained 9.1 percent in the past two days, after shedding 27
percent last week.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $5.67, or 5.5 percent, to
$98.21 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The price
has climbed 29 percent from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  