-- 
Corn, Wheat, Soybean Futures Decline as USDA Supply Outlook Tops Forecast

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-11T19:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/corn-wheat-soybeans-plunge-as-usda-outlook-for-inventory-tops-forecasts.html
Corn plunged the most allowed by the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, and wheat and soybeans fell after the
government said U.S. inventories will be bigger than analysts
expected, easing supply concerns for food and fuel.  Corn  stockpiles  before next year’s harvest may climb to 900
million bushels from a 15-year low of 730 million this year, the
Department of Agriculture said today. The price as much as
doubled in the past year, helping to send world food costs to a
record in February and boosting costs for livestock producers
including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and JBS SA, and makers of ethanol
including Archer Daniels Midland Co.  Exports of corn by the U.S., the largest grower, may drop
to 1.8 billion bushels in the 12 months that begin Sept. 1, the
lowest in nine years, the USDA said. The agency also lowered its
estimate for shipments in 2010, reflecting slowing world demand
as prices rise, said  Jason Britt , the president of Central
States Commodities Inc., a brokerage in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  “At higher prices, you will eventually ration demand, and
the market does its job,” Britt said. “We’re still
historically tight, so you have to put everything in
reference.”  Corn futures for July delivery tumbled by the limit of 30
cents, or 4.2 percent, to settle at $6.7725 a bushel at 1:15
p.m. on the CBOT, the lowest since March 31. The drop was the
biggest in almost two months. The commodity is still up 80
percent in the past year on record use by ethanol producers and
increasing demand from livestock farmers.  ‘Biggest Risk’  Supplies still may tighten as rain in the Midwest delays
planting,  Mark Connelly , a New York-based analyst at Credit
Agricole SA, said in a report. “Poor weather is the biggest
risk and is likely to weigh on future yield projections,” he
said.  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 39.75 cents, or 5
percent, to $7.59 a bushel in Chicago, capping the biggest drop
since March 15. The grain is up 54 percent in the past year
after drought slashed output in  Russia  and floods eroded
supplies from  Canada  and  Australia .  Domestic inventories may total 702 million bushels next
year, more than the 683 million expected by analysts, the USDA
said. That’s still 16 percent less than projected stockpiles in
the year ending May 31.  Production of winter wheat, which will be harvested
starting next month, may drop to 1.424 billion bushels this
year, down 4.1 percent from last year, as drought cuts crops in
the Great Plains, the USDA said.  Government projections still may be “a little bit too
big,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president at the
Linn Group in Chicago. “There will be a lot of abandonment, and
some of this stuff that looks like partial crops now may end up
zeroing out.”  Soybean Market  Soybean futures for July delivery slid 6.25 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $13.3175 a bushel. The price is up 38 percent in the
past year on record Chinese purchases of the oilseed, used to
make livestock feed and cooking oil.  The USDA raised its estimate for domestic inventories to
170 million bushels in the year ending Aug. 31 from the April
projection of 140 million. Analysts anticipated 151 million.
U.S. reserves may drop to 160 million in the year beginning
Sept. 1, the agency said.  “For the old crop numbers, the USDA is reflecting the fact
that soybean-export sales are lagging,” said Mario Balletto, a
market analyst at CitiGroup Global Markets in Chicago. “The new
crop numbers are totally up in the air now. Acreage is very
uncertain, and yields are highly uncertain. It’s very much
dependent on the weather.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  