-- 
CSC Suspended From U.K. Government Contracts, Cameron Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-05-11T21:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/csc-suspended-from-u-k-government-contracts-cameron-says-2-.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , the provider
of computer services to companies and U.S. government agencies,
won’t win any new business with the U.K. government, the
country’s prime minister said today.  The government won’t sign any additional contracts with CSC
until reviews of missed deadlines on the system it’s building
for the  Department of Health  are completed, U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  told lawmakers during his weekly question-and-
answer session.  “We’re absolutely determined to achieve better value for
money,” Cameron said in Parliament in  London . “There are no
plans to sign any new contracts with Computer Sciences Corp.
until the National Audit Office report has been reviewed, and
until the Public Accounts Committee meetings and major project
authorization reviews have taken place.”  CSC is working to revise its contract with the U.K.
Government’s National Health Services, the company said last
week, causing the shares to fall the most in seven months. The
company also said its full-year sales and profit for the year
through March probably missed its forecasts.  “The Prime Minister’s comments today confirmed that the
NHS program reviews must be completed before any NHS agreement
would be finalized,” Chris Grandis, a spokesman for  Falls
Church , Virginia-based CSC, said in an e-mailed statement.
Existing contracts with the government aren’t affected by the
reviews, he said.  Cameron said the government “will examine all the
available options under the current contract, including the
option of terminating some or indeed all of the contract.”  CSC fell 72 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $44.27 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
lost 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  