-- 
Nuclear Fear Snags Loan Push by Fukushima Banks as Clients Flee Radiation

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 
2011-05-12T06:21:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/daito-bank-courts-fukushima-businesses-to-stem-nuclear-exodus.html
Takao Suzuki was chairing a board
meeting on the fourth floor of  Daito Bank Ltd. (8563)  headquarters when
the earthquake struck. As windows shattered and the floor shook,
he dashed for the door, opening it to secure an escape route.  Less than a month later, with radiation continuing to leak
from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant 60 kilometers (38 miles) away,
Suzuki drew on that sense of urgency by dispatching three bank
directors around the region to lend cash as the worst nuclear
accident in 25 years threatened to drive companies away.  Daito and larger rivals in the prefecture,  Toho Bank Ltd. (8346) 
and Fukushima Bank Ltd., are three of the worst five performers
on Japan’s 83-member  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  since the March 11 quake
and tsunami. They are struggling to keep customers and prevent
loans from souring.  “We must avoid an exodus of people and businesses,”
Suzuki, 57, the bank’s president, said in an interview at his
office in Koriyama, where windows cracked by the quake are held
together with tape.  Suzuki has sought to lend as much as 20 billion yen ($248
million) to help companies repair buildings and factories and
stay afloat. One loan recipient,  Toyo System Co. , a maker of
testers for rechargeable batteries, exemplifies Suzuki’s
challenge: It’s using some of the money to build a plant outside
the prefecture because of radiation concerns.  Younger ‘Should Go’  “Men like me in our late 40s can stay here, but my workers
in their 20s, 30s and early 40s should go to the new factory,”
said Hideki Shoji, president of the Iwaki-based firm whose
products are sold to companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Panasonic Corp. and Honda Motor Co. for hybrid cars, cameras and
mobile phones.  Regional bank lending rose 1.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, the most in 17 months, the Bank of Japan said today.
Corporate demand for loans climbed for the first time in two
years after the magnitude-9 earthquake, according to a quarterly
central bank survey released last month.  Suzuki isn’t optimistic that the resurgence will last in a
prefecture that suffered three years of economic contraction
even before the temblor.  “Loan demand will pick up only briefly for reconstruction
needs,” Suzuki said in his office. “It’s hard to draw a
scenario for the years ahead because it’s unclear what sort of
impact radiation will have on our manufacturing and farming.”  Radiation Guarantee  Toyo System secured a 200 million yen credit line from
Daito after meeting Takahiro Ono, one of the bank’s directors,
following the record quake, Shoji said in an interview in Iwaki,
about 50 kilometers south of  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s crippled
nuclear plant. Part of the loan will cover building a factory in
Sagamihara, a city in Kanagawa prefecture about 250 kilometers
from the reactors, said Shoji, 49, who was  Japan   entrepreneur of
the year  in 2009.  Shoji is relocating about 20 staff to the Sagamihara site,
which is scheduled to open in June. As well as worker safety, he
said he had to consider demands from some customers at home and
abroad that products come with certificates showing they are
free of radioactive contamination or made outside the area.  “Radiation in Fukushima is making it so much harder for
businesses and local banks, particularly those near the atomic
power plant, to draw up future management plans,” said Ryoji Yoshizawa, a Tokyo-based director of financial institutions
ratings at  Standard & Poor’s . “That contrasts with businesses
in other northern prefectures of Iwate and Miyagi, which might
have seen lower radiation impacts.”  No-Entry Zone  Some companies are being forced to relocate after the
government set a 20-kilometer no-entry zone around the reactors
and told residents of some villages outside the area to evacuate
by the end of May because radiation reached dangerous levels.  Toto Ltd. (5332) , a maker of plumbing fixtures and specialty
ceramics, suspended operations at two factories inside the
exclusion zone that produce parts used for fiber-optic cables,
spokesman Yukinori Saijo said. For its part, Daito Bank has
mothballed two branches inside the area.  Toho Bank, Fukushima prefecture’s biggest, is providing
cheaper credit to lure borrowers. It unveiled a plan on April 19
to offer loans of as much as 300 million yen to local businesses
at a 0.2 percentage point discount to its usual interest rate.  “Time is of the essence,” President Seishi Kitamura, 64,
said in an interview at Toho’s headquarters in Fukushima city.
“The longer it takes before reconstruction begins, the greater
the risk that businesses will lose their appetite to rebuild.”  Government Spending  Takayuki Oshima, a Fukushima prefectural government
official, said that while some businesses are planning to leave,
it’s too early to determine how many. The local assembly is
considering endorsing a supplementary budget, part of which is
aimed at stemming the exit, Oshima, deputy director of the
company-location division, said in a phone interview.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has said Japan will need multiple
spending programs to recover from damage that his government
estimates at as much as 25 trillion yen. Parliament approved the
first of those, a 4 trillion yen package, on May 2.  Fukushima prefecture incurred 3.1 trillion yen of wreckage
to roads, buildings and factories, according to a study
conducted by the state-run  Development Bank  of Japan Inc. That
figure excludes the potential adverse economic impact from
radioactive contamination.  The catastrophe destroyed more than 83,000 homes in Japan
and left more than 24,000 dead or missing, according to the
 National Police Agency .  Bad Loans  Along with  77 Bank Ltd. (8341)  and Fidea Holdings Co., both from
neighboring Miyagi prefecture, Daito, Toho and Fukushima Bank
fell the most on the Topix Banks Index since the quake. Daito
declined 27 percent since March 11, and was unchanged at 49 yen
at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Toho lost 20
percent, and dropped 0.5 percent to 204 yen today.  It’s too early for banks in northeast Japan to estimate
potential bad loans as the disaster puts businesses and people
out of work, said Yasuhide Yajima, an economist at NLI Research
Institute in Tokyo. Some lenders may need bailing out, he said.  “Without a government rescue, banks in Iwate, Miyagi and
Fukushima will find it tough to go it alone,” Yajima said.  77 Bank, based in Sendai, the closest major city to the
epicenter, said on April 18 it is considering applying for
taxpayers’ money. The bank posted a 30 billion yen loss in the
year ended in March after setting aside 55 billion yen of
provisions for bad loans related to the quake, according to a
preliminary earnings report released last month.  Unexpected Loss  Daito Bank has no plans to ask for public funds, Suzuki
said. The bank posted a net loss of 900 million yen for the year
ended in March, preliminary figures showed on May 10. Before the
earthquake, it forecast net income of 1 billion yen.  The  Bank of Japan  unveiled a 1 trillion yen program on
April 7 for banks to lend to companies in afflicted areas.
Suzuki said Daito’s 20 billion yen loan program is separate from
the central bank’s initiative, which is scheduled to be
implemented from May 17.  Tokyo Electric set out a plan on April 17 to achieve a cold
shutdown of the damaged reactors within six to nine months. For
the region, recovery will take longer.  “This is such a tragedy for the people of Fukushima,
particularly our youth,” said Toyo System’s Shoji, who has two
children. “Radioactive contamination has literally jeopardized
the seeds and soil of our future growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 