-- 
Dane Serves $200 Hay Oil, Chartreuse Gelee at Compose: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/dane-serves-200-hay-oil-chartreuse-gelee-at-compose-review.html
Hay, wood, pine and apple. That’s how
the waiter at Compose announced course nine of the chef’s menu,
a curious choice of ingredients for a high-end restaurant --
unless it’s a high-end restaurant for Trigger, Flicka, National
Velvet, Mr. Ed and Secretariat.  Turns out the dish was an edible potpourri: chartreuse
gelee, hay oil, applewood ice cream, crispy phyllo and pine
meringue. It tasted like autumn, by way of  Ben & Jerry’s .  Course ten was described in three words: Oats, buckwheat
and barley. “Sounds like horse food,” I told my waiter with a
smile. The smile was not returned.  There were enough components to fill a filly’s feedbag.
Whipped maple syrup, blood orange sorbet, brown butter ice
cream, oat pudding, barley tea. When mashed with a fried
buckwheat cake and barley crisp, it emerged as a nice cookie
sundae.  Such are the tasty complications of  Compose,  a Tribeca den
that “seamlessly integrates the individual concepts of
restaurant and bar,” to quote the  philosophy  section (really)
of its website. Translation: Compose is a great place for
creative grub and booze. Most of the time, anyway.  The idiosyncrasies come courtesy of three cool dudes. The
first is  Eamon Rockey , a drinks master so humorously formal he
avoids contractions when speaking -- as one should when
assembling a tasting of six stylistically disparate vermouths.  Danish Modern  Rockey’s partners are chefs  Nick Curtin  (savory) and  Micah
Philips  (sweet), who spent time at  Denmark ’s Noma, the two-
Michelin starred spot famous for peppering avant-garde menus
with arcane greenery and game foraged from the Nordic taiga.  Think reindeer sous-vide with wild herb gel, though no
Rudolph is served at Compose. The kitchen instead hides
medallions of American pork under a delicious canopy of
fiddlehead ferns, miner’s lettuce and fingerling tater skins.  Diners who want a piece of the agrarian action are
encouraged to call well ahead. The $120 menu is served to just
12 people at a time and only at the horseshoe shaped bar.
Turning convention on its head, the limited a la carte menu is
mostly reserved for a few tables in back.  Compose is the latest in a spate of micro-restaurants where
chefs double as servers and supper begins at the same time for
everyone. That time is 7:00 p.m. at Compose, or 9:30 for the
second seating -- one of the few demands a tiny eatery can make
of diners to avoid overwhelming the kitchen.  Late Great Bread  Other idiosyncrasies are unfortunate. The “potato chip”
roll” is among the city’s best breads, chewy, yeasty and
crunchy. Too bad it’s served an hour after dinner begins,
following five carbo-lite courses. That’s why stomachs grumble
after the ocean sphere-amuse, a tasty suspension of oyster and
bonito broth that magically bursts in the mouth.  The  wine list  is iPad-based. Cool. An $80 menu pairing
kicks things off with a flute of Carte Blanche Champagne. What
comes next may be hard to tell because the wine stewards
sometimes forget to announce the grape or vintage; they pour and
move to the next guest.  For something stronger, the cocktail list is “ dialogue-
based .” You tell your waiter what you like; he returns 10
minutes later with a bespoke drink. A companion asked for vodka,
the neutral bane of contemporary mixologists. Rockey answered
with the requested spirit, fortified with blanco tequila, white
vermouth and orange flower water. Genius. I’ll call it a Mexican
Vesper (normally vodka & gin with Lillet). It cost $15.  Spring Garlic  Pair it with Jonah crab and sea urchin. Earthy spring
garlic puree sits at the bottom of a bowl custom made from
enameled copper.  Lobster may arrive grilled to a perfect medium rare with
Old Bay Hollandaise or butter poached with American caviar,
intensifying the crustacean’s sharp maritime tang.  Spanish Iberico pork is where Compose rocks the house.
Curtin imports the acorn-fed swine raw, then sears it medium
rare. The meat’s so intense it’s like dry-aged steak.  The theme from “ Shaft ” plays on the sound system. The
dessert is “Woods.” It contains birch, cinder conk, oak,
shitaki and hemp. It looks like a deconstructed Siberian
Baklava. Ahhh, the sweet crunch of “porcini bark.” Mad respect.
Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $120 tasting, $80 wine pairing.  Sound Level: Moderate, about 65-70 decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Beg for your bread to come earlier.  Special Feature: Killer pork sammy on a la carte menu.  Will I be back: Yes.  Compose is at 77 Worth Street, near Church St. Information:
+1-212-226-1444 or  http://www.composenyc.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 