-- 
TDC Chief Poulsen Says Danish Wireless Price War May Trigger More Mergers

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-22T07:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/tdc-rises-after-313-million-krone-agreement-to-acquire-onfone.html
TDC A/S,  Denmark ’s largest telephone
operator, predicts the country’s mobile-tariff price war may
lead to more mergers and acquisitions, its chief executive
officer said in an interview.  “Very intense price competition over the past nine months
has reduced the total profit pool,” Henrik Poulsen said at the
company’s headquarters in Copenhagen. “There could be a need
for additional consolidation for the Danish market to really
regain its health.”  TDC bought mobile operator Onfone last month for 313
million kroner ($60 million), removing a competitor that drove
down monthly bills on the cheapest contracts by as much as 50
percent. Rivals  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and  Telenor ASA (TEL)  agreed last week
to combine wireless networks in Denmark.  TDC is still controlled by private equity firms after its
10.7 billion-krone share sale last year. Apax Partners LLP,
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co., Permira Advisers LLP and
Providence Equity Partners Inc. sold TDC shares at 51 kroner
each in December, reducing their combined stake to 59 percent
and agreeing to lock up their remaining shares for six months, a
period that expired June 7.  Before today, the stock had declined 7 percent this year in
Copenhagen trading. It lost 0.3 percent to 44.91 kroner at 9:16
a.m., valuing the company at 37.1 billion kroner.  TeliaSonera, Hutchison  Options for consolidation in the industry include
TeliaSonera buying TDC, or TDC merging its network with 3, the
mobile-phone company of Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , said John Strand, owner of Copenhagen-
based Strand Consult, which advises telecommunications carriers.  “TeliaSonera taking over TDC has become less likely since
they made the agreement with Telenor,” Strand said. “If the
network merger isn’t effective, this could be TeliaSonera’s plan
B in Denmark.”  It’s in the hands of TDC’s the private-equity owners “to
decide whether they’re going to continue the exit,” Poulsen
said in the June 20 interview.  TDC doesn’t intend to make large takeovers that could
jeopardize its credit rating or dividend policy, though Poulsen
does see room for “small bolt-on acquisitions” in areas such
as hosting for corporate customers. The company sells
communication over fiber trunk lines and other business services
in  Sweden ,  Finland ,  Norway  as well as Denmark.  Profit Margins  Poulsen says there is room for more widespread adoption of
smartphones in Denmark, as well as TV on demand. The company
offers digital video rental to TV customers and is rolling out a
multiplatform music library and TV apps for news sites that
mirror those on computer screens and iPads.  Those services helped TDC to post a margin for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 41
percent last year and in the first quarter.  TDC will keep Onfone for the time being alongside its other
budget brands. In a few weeks, Onfone’s customers will be
migrated onto TDC’s network. As a so-called virtual mobile
operator, Onfone has been using Telenor’s network.  “I don’t think the price war will ever completely end,”
Poulsen said. “But we’ve been through an extraordinary
situation that is now stabilizing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  