-- 
Disney Declines After Japanese Tsunami, Studio Flops Overshadow TV Gains

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-05-11T20:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/disney-profit-falls-1-2-as-japan-quake-studio-overshadow-tv.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s biggest
theme-park operator, fell the most in two years after second-
quarter profit missed estimates, as a shrinking box-office, a
park shortfall and the Japanese tsunami overshadowed TV gains.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , dropped $2.39, or 5.4
percent, to $41.52 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the biggest decline since March 2009. The
stock has gained 11 percent this year.  Profit at Disney’s theme-park unit, which collects
licensing fees from the Tokyo resort, fell 3.3 percent in the
wake of the March 11 disaster. U.S. parks were hurt by this
year’s later Easter break. The film studio failed to match last
year’s results from “Alice in Wonderland,” with income down 65
percent on box-office letdowns such as “Mars Needs Moms.”  “The noisy elements, the studio and  Japan , clearly were
the problem and they are hard to predict,” said  Matthew Harrigan , a Wunderlich Securities analyst in Denver who
recommends investors buy Disney shares. “The good news is that
the core of this company, ESPN and its TV business, still
performed very well.”  Net income decreased 1.2 percent to $942 million, or 49
cents a share, in the quarter ended April 2, from $953 million,
or 48 cents, a year earlier, Disney said yesterday in a
statement. Earnings missed the 58-cent average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The rise in earnings per share
reflects stock buybacks.  Park Bookings  Advance bookings at Disney parks are down 2.5 percent from
a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said on a
conference call.  Room rates have increased by a double-digit percentage,
reflecting the decision to phase out discounts as the economy
improves, Rasulo said. Excluding the impact of the timing of the
Easter holiday, domestic theme park attendance increased by 2
percent from a year earlier, he said.  The March 11 film release “Mars Needs Moms” cost $150
million to make and generated $20.9 million in U.S. ticket
sales, according to Harrigan. Last year, Disney’s home
entertainment sales benefited from Pixar’s movie “Up.” So far
this year, industry DVD sales are down at least 20 percent,
according to an industry group.  Disney’s total sales rose 5.8 percent to $9.08 billion,
trailing the $9.19 billion average of 20 analysts’ estimates.
Revenue was $8.58 billion a year earlier.  ‘Factors’  “Our revenue was up nicely but we had $170 million of
factors, basically, that had an impact on where we were and
where the Street thought we would be in terms of our earnings,”
Robert Iger, Disney’s president and chief executive officer,
said in an interview on CNBC.  Revenue at Disney’s media networks increased 12 percent to
$4.32 billion, buoyed by advertising and affiliate revenue at
cable networks such as ESPN. Profit rose 17 percent to $1.52
billion, with cable earnings up 15 percent.  ABC broadcasting posted a 4.5 percent increase in revenue
to $1.5 billion on advertising growth and higher affiliate fees.
Profit gained 36 percent to $167 million.  Profit in consumer products increased 6.8 percent to $142
million as sales expanded 5 percent to $626 million.  Disney’s Interactive unit saw its loss more than double to
$115 million on a 2.6 percent gain in revenue. Results included
a $34 million cost linked to how the company accounts for the
purchase of Playdom, Iger said.  The company will continue to take charges for the 2010
acquisition of the social game startup.  “That was unexpected and we’d like to hear more about
that,” said Robin Diedrich, an analyst with St. Louis-based
Edward Jones & Co., who recommends investors buy Disney. “But
it’s a small segment of the company. The main segments --
advertising and its parks -- are doing well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  