-- 
Dodd-Frank Derivatives Debate Reopens on Proposed Delay of Rules

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-11T19:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/dodd-frank-derivatives-debate-reopens-on-proposed-delay-of-rules.html
U.S. House lawmakers are battling
over rules to expand oversight of the $583 trillion swaps market
as Republicans aim to delay the measures required by the Dodd-
Frank Act until the end of next year.  The House Financial Services Committee is scheduled to take
up a proposal to push back deadlines for derivatives rules under
the regulatory overhaul, measures designed to govern a market
dominated by big banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The House Agriculture Committee approved
the measure last week on a party-line vote.  “It’s still hard for me to understand what they are
doing,” Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota , the top
Democrat on the Agriculture Committee, said today at a news
conference in Washington. “They say this bill will give more
time and more certainty, but I think this will actually create
more uncertainty.”  Republicans, who took control of the House in January after
Dodd-Frank was passed by a Democrat-led Congress, say the delay
would give U.S. regulators time to align their rules with
European standards. Democrats say the proposal is a political
maneuver that is part of a broader effort to overturn the law,
which Republicans were nearly unanimous in opposing last year.  U.S. regulators have said they will miss some deadlines for
rulemaking under Dodd-Frank, which calls for most derivatives
measures to be completed by mid-July. Republicans say their bill
will help agencies like the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the Securities and Exchange Commission avoid mistakes.  ‘Restore Order’  “This bill will restore order to the rulemaking process to
implement the Dodd-Frank derivatives title,” Representative
 Spencer Bachus , the chairman of the Financial Services
Committee, said in a statement when the bill was introduced last
month. “There is no need to rush and meet arbitrary deadlines
when the rest of the world is at least 18 months behind the
 United States .”  The 2008 financial crisis and particularly the collapse of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based insured
that had to be bailed out after making losing bets in swap deals
with banks including Goldman Sachs, is cited by Democrats as
they defend Dodd-Frank.  “This bill will put on hold until 2012 any regulation of
the kind of activity we saw between AIG and Goldman Sachs,”
said Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , who co-wrote
the regulatory overhaul, referring to the Republican measure
today. The proposal represents the “re-deregulation of
derivatives,” said Frank, the top Democrat on the Financial
Services panel.  ‘No Penalty’  The delay would effectively prohibit any regulations from
going into place until December 2012, opening the door for
another crisis, Frank said, adding that the current law doesn’t
force regulators to meet the deadlines.  “There is no penalty for missing the deadline,” he said.  Even if the proposal is approved by the House, it would
likely face opposition from the Democrat-controlled Senate and
President  Barack Obama , who initially proposed the overhaul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  