-- 
DSM Finance Chief Says Already Approaching 2013 Earnings Target

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T12:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/dsm-finance-chief-says-already-approaching-2013-earnings-target.html
Royal DSM NV, the world’s largest
maker of vitamins, may come close this year to the lower end of
its 2013 profit-target range following a $1 billion purchase
in the U.S., said Chief Financial Officer Rolf-Dieter Schwalb.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization approaching the bottom of a 1.4 billion-euro ($2.01
billion) to 1.6 billion-euro range is not an “unreasonable
assumption,” said Schwalb in an interview in  Frankfurt  today.
Last year, Ebitda totaled 1.16 billion euros.  DSM, founded in 1902 as a Dutch state mining company, is
emerging from a decade-long transformation away from cyclical
chemicals to technology-based materials derived more from
enzymes than oil. Approaching the 2013 profit target two years
ahead of schedule is unlikely to trigger the setting of new
goals, according to the executive.  “I would hesitate, or maybe hate, to revise targets one
year after making them,” Schwalb said today in an interview in
Frankfurt. “Next year, maybe. After two years you have a basis,
especially if you can revise them upwards.”  The acquisition of nutritional-ingredient maker Martek
Biosciences this year may contribute about 80 million euros of
profit to the Heerlen, Netherlands-based company this year,
Schwalb said.  Reaching the target before 2013 is not definite given the
cyclical nature of the company’s polymer intermediates business,
the CFO said. While DSM has no reason to believe that the unit’s
results will deteriorate, especially as competitors are not
increasing capacity, it is hard to predict demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  