-- 
Qatar Shares Rise to One-Month High on MSCI Upgrade Speculation

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-11T13:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/dubai-shares-rise-on-bank-earnings-gcc-mulls-morocco-jordan-membership.html
Qatar’s shares advanced to the
highest level in a month on speculation index provider MSCI Inc.
will upgrade the Persian Gulf nation to an emerging market in
June.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest
bank by assets, jumped 2.4 percent and  Qatar Electricity & Water
Co. (QEWS) , the state-controlled utility, increased the most in almost
a month. The  QE Index (DSM)  advanced for a fourth day, rising 1.2
percent to 8,765.14, the highest since April 14, at the 1:15
p.m. close in Doha. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of regional
stocks gained 0.1 percent.  “The rumor mill at work” suggests that “there may soon
be an announcement regarding the raising of foreign ownership
limits,” said  Julian Bruce , equity sales head at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai. The assumption is that if the limits are
raised it “would remove any remaining barriers for entry into
 MSCI EM (MXEF) ,” he said.  Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  are seeking to secure an
upgrade from frontier markets status at MSCI. Foreign-ownership
limits on stocks and “efficiency” are some issues that Qatar
and the U.A.E. face, Manuel Rensink, head of Middle East and
North Africa at the index provider, said May 3. Size and
liquidity are “not a major hurdle for the U.A.E. and Qatar,”
he said.  Qatar National Bank rose to 146.9 riyals, the highest since
September 2005. Qatar Electricity gained 3.7 percent, the most
since April 13, to 147 riyals.  GCC Inclusion  In the U.A.E., Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  increased 0.1
percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.2 percent.  Morocco  and Jordan may be admitted to the six-member Gulf
Cooperation Council, Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani
said at a news conference in Riyadh yesterday. Turmoil that
spread through the Middle East and North Africa, ousting leaders
in Egypt and Tunisia, earlier this year have reached Morocco,
Jordan and the Gulf states of Oman,  Saudi Arabia  and Bahrain.  “The GCC willingness to include Jordan and Morocco to the
council is also good news from a security perspective,” said
Nabil Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.1 percent.
Bahrain’s measure was little changed, Kuwait’s SE Price Index
slipped 0.2 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  lost 1.1 percent. In
Morocco, the  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  slipped 0.1 percent at 2:03
p.m. in Casablanca, while in the Levant, Jordan’s  Amman SE
General Index (JOSMGNFF)  increased 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  