-- 
Medtronic Names Omar Ishrak CEO, Replacing Retiring Hawkins

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-11T17:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/medtronic-names-omar-ishrak-ceo-replacing-retiring-hawkins-1-.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  named Omar Ishrak of
GE Healthcare Systems as chairman and chief executive officer,
giving him the job of halting declining sales of the device-
maker’s biggest products.  The appointment of Ishrak, a 55-year-old outsider who was
president and CEO of a $12 billion division of  General Electric
Co. (GE) , is a break from tradition, as Minneapolis-based Medtronic
previously chose chief executives from within. He will replace
William A. Hawkins, who announced his plans to retire in
December, the company said in a statement.  Ishrak will take over the world’s largest device-maker on
June 13 as the weak economy and safety concerns erode demand for
pacemakers and defibrillators. His appointment, a day after
 Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  announced its search for a new leader,
is a step in the right direction, although questions remain
about where the company is headed, said  Michael Weinstein , a
JPMorgan analyst in  New York , in a note to investors today.  “After months of speculation, we view the resolution of
the CEO search as a positive for Medtronic,” Weinstein said.
“The question from here is what is Ishrak’s mandate? Is it same
strategy, better execution? Or are there more aggressive plans
for Medtronic in the months ahead? Our expectation is the former
is much more likely than the latter.”  Medtronic fell 40 cents to $42.25 at 1:18 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained 15
percent this year before today.  GE Tenure  Ishrak spent 16 years at GE Healthcare, the world’s biggest
maker of medical imaging equipment. He ran the largest portion
of the Chalfont St. Giles, England-based business, which
develops X-ray machines and MRI, CT, ultrasound and PET
scanners, with 20,000 employees in 120 countries.  The ultrasound division under Ishrak rose to $1.8 billion
last year from about $400 million a decade ago. Most recently,
he led an effort to bolster efficiency and new products, with 80
slated for 2010 and 2011. Those achievements showed Ishrak’s
leadership in research and development allocation as he
increased profitability, wrote Vertical Research Partners co-
founder Jeffrey Sprague, who follows GE and called the
appointment “a loss for GE, a win for Medtronic.”  Solid Operator  “Ishrak has a reputation as a solid operator with
extensive domain expertise,” Sprague, who is based in Stamford
Connecticut, wrote in a note to clients today. “We have watched
him successfully grow as a business leader within GE Healthcare
for more than a decade.”  He has a Bachelor of Science degree and doctorate in
electrical engineering from the University of London, King’s
College.  GE Healthcare Systems named Tom Gentile president and chief
executive officer, replacing Ishrak. Gentile was vice president
of GE Aviation’s services division, where he led a team that
grew the business into a $7 billion global operation, the
company said in a statement today.  Medtronic is cutting its workforce and selling a
defibrillator unit as revenue from the company’s biggest
products -- pacemakers and defibrillators -- fell 2 percent in
the three months ended Jan. 28. Hawkins was named as CEO in
2007, amid quality-control setbacks.  Reviving Sales  Ishrak’s background and experience with reviving sales
should help him map Medtronic’s strategy, said  Larry Biegelsen ,
a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in New York. He has a solid track
record within GE Healthcare, where sales at the ultrasound
business quadrupled and clinical systems grew 40 percent under
his leadership, Biegelsen said in a note to investors.  He has a reputation as a good manager with strength in
operations and marketing, said Derrick Sung, an analyst with
Bernstein Research in New York, in a note to investors today. He
will need time to transition from a focus on capital equipment
and service to implanted medical devices, Sung said.  “However, we like that Ishrak brings a fresh perspective
to medical implantables while still retaining a broad
understanding of the medical technology space,” he said. “We
believe this combination of operational strength, outside
perspective, and healthcare experience fits the criteria that
many investors have been looking for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 