-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall From High on Brazil, Chinese Inflation Concern

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-11T22:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/emerging-market-stocks-fall-from-high-on-brazil-chinese-inflation-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped from a
four-day high as commodities retreated on concern of rising
 interest rates  following global accelerating inflation.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,165.91 at 4:40 p.m. in  New York , erasing earlier gains of as
much as 0.8 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell for the first time in
four trading sessions and  Russia ’s Micex stock index declined
for a second day.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.3 percent as a
government report showed inflation last month exceeded the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, raising concern that the
central bank will tighten monetary policy. Brazil’s first
preview of the IGP-M inflation report from the Getulio Vargas
Foundation in  Rio de Janeiro  rose 0.7 percent, exceeding the
median forecast for a 0.39 percent increase in a Bloomberg
survey of 15 economists.  “Commodities were off on concern inflation will further
pressure  China  to raise rates,” said Greg Lesko, who helps
manage about $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in New
York. “This isn’t helping the general sentiment in the
market.”  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, fell 3
percent, and state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA retreated 2.7
percent. Oil fell below $100 a barrel in New York and gasoline
tumbled the most in two years after an Energy Department report
showed that U.S. crude supplies surged and fuel demand slipped.
Gold, copper and silver also slid.  MSCI’s emerging-markets index slumped 3.4 percent last
week, the biggest drop in three months, as  India , the
 Philippines  and  Malaysia  increased interest rates to curb rising
prices. Companies in the MSCI gauge are valued at an average
11.4 times estimated profit, compared with 13 times for stocks
in the MSCI World Index of developed nations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s Deficit  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  tumbled 2.4 percent,
falling for a sixth straight day in the longest losing streak
since September 2008. The lira weakened 1.7 percent against the
dollar and benchmark government bond yields increased after the
country’s current-account deficit widened to a record $9.8
billion in March.  The deficit was the biggest since the central bank began
releasing monthly figures in 1984 and rose from $4.3 billion in
the same month of 2010, the central bank in Ankara said on its
website today. It also exceeded the median forecast of $8.2
billion in a Bloomberg survey of six economists.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 280, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index.  Earnings Reports  South Korea ’s Kospi Index advanced 1.3 percent and the won
strengthened 0.8 percent against the dollar. India’s Bombay
Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 0.4 percent.  South Korea’s jobless rate fell to a three-month low of 3.6
percent in April as the global economic expansion spurred hiring
at manufacturers.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , India’s biggest
drugmaker by revenue, jumped 6.1 percent in Mumbai as profit
topped analysts’ forecasts. Taiwan’s Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co. advanced 1.4 percent after posting a 33 percent surge in
April sales.  “Global growth is still on track,  Asia  is still growing,
earnings will continue to be good,” said Lye Thim Loong, who
helps manage about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “The only concern is inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  