-- 
Tencent Profit Rises as Online Games Sales Surge in China

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-11T15:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/tencent-first-quarter-profit-jumps-61-to-442-million-exceeds-estimates.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
biggest Internet company by revenue, said first-quarter profit
jumped 61 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, after offering
new online games to boost sales.  Net income climbed to 2.87 billion yuan ($442 million) from
1.78 billion yuan a year earlier, Tencent said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today. That beat the 2.36 billion-
yuan average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 50 percent to 6.34 billion yuan.  Tencent led Chinese rivals including NetEase.com Inc. and
 Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  in online games sales as new titles such as
“Seven Heroes” helped attract players. Demand from gamers in
the world’s biggest Internet market is helping Chief Executive
Officer Ma Huateng fund expansion in new services such as
electronic commerce and social media.  “Tencent’s game business has multiple growth drivers,”
Wallace Cheung, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Hong
Kong , wrote in a report today. Tencent is speeding up the
introduction of new games by offering titles developed by
partners, according to Cheung.  Profit was boosted by a one-time gain of 459 million yuan
arising from the purchase of control of U.S. online video
company Riot Games Inc. in February, John Lo, Tencent’s deputy
chief financial officer, said in a conference call today.  Tencent paid $231.5 million in cash, in addition to some
 stock options , for 70 percent of Riot Games, increasing its
stake to 92 percent, according to the earnings statement.  Share Price  Tencent closed unchanged at HK$209.80 in Hong Kong trading
today before the earnings announcement. It has gained 24 percent
this year. That compares with the 47 percent gain in the U.S.-
traded shares of Baidu Inc., owner of China’s most-popular
search-engine, and the 75 percent increase in Sina Corp.,
operator of the nation’s most popular microblogging site.  Tencent will “invest heavily” in its microblogging
service, and expand its “Pengyou” social-networking site,
President Martin Lau said on the conference call today. Tencent
has about 160 million users for microblogging and 101 million
for Pengyou, Lau said.  The company increased its share of China’s online games
market to 29.1 percent in 2010, from 21.1 percent a year
earlier, according to research company iResearch. Second-ranked
 NetEase.com (NTES)  boosted its market share to 15.3 percent from 12.5
percent, the Shanghai-based researcher said.  Expansion Abroad  Tencent will increase spending this year on services
including social media, Internet search and e-commerce, Ma said
in March. The company, the leading provider of instant messaging
service in China, will also step up efforts to expand overseas,
according to Ma.  There were 674.3 million active user accounts for Tencent’s
QQ instant-messaging service at the end of March, compared with
647.6 million three months earlier, the company said.  Sales of Internet value-added services, including online
games and QQ-related subscription fees, rose to 5.25 billion
yuan from 3.39 billion yuan, Tencent said. Online advertising
sales increased to 281 million yuan from 204.3 million yuan.  Tencent’s Internet value-added services business will see
“weaker seasonality” this quarter, as online game demand is
affected by school exams, Lau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  