-- 
Enel Green CEO Says New Plants Helped Boost Profit by 13%, Meet Targets

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-05-11T07:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/enel-green-ceo-says-new-plants-helped-boost-profit-by-13-meet-targets.html
Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) , the renewable
energy unit of Italy’s biggest utility, said new plants helped
boost first-quarter profit 13 percent and will allow the company
to meet this year’s earnings targets.  “We had a good quarter and are totally in line with
objectives for the year,” Chief Executive Officer Francesco Starace said in an interview in  Rome , confirming a 2011 target
for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
of 1.4 billion euros ($2 billion). “The capacity we have added
has the profitability we expected.”  Net income rose to 135 million euros in the first quarter
from 120 million euros a year ago, the Rome-based company said
in a stock exchange statement today. Sales rose 27 percent to
611 million euros. Ebitda is scheduled to reach 2 billion euros
by 2013 and 2.4 billion euros by 2015.  Starace, whose company operates wind, solar, thermal and
hydroelectric plants, has diversified production to hedge
against risks. The shares have gained 21 percent since they were
first listed for trading on the Milan exchange last November.  ‘Good Moment’  “Let’s say the wind is blowing their way these days,”
said Alessandro Frigerio a  fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in Milan who
bought shares at the initial public offering and has already
sold them. “It’s a good moment for renewables particularly
after people were scared off nuclear energy by the Japan
accident, and the company is benefiting.”  Enel Green sold shares for 1.6 euros for its market debut
on Nov. 4 and was trading at 1.97 euros at 9:49 a.m. today in
Milan. Rival Iberdrola Renovables gained 26 percent since Nov.
4, while Portugual’s EDP Renovaveis added 19 percent.  Enel Green plans to increase installed capacity to 10.4
gigawatts by 2015 and has earmarked 6.4 billion euros of
investments in the next four years, according to the statement.
That’s 1.2 billion euros more than indicated in the previous
industrial plan.  “The number of new plants that are coming online is
according to schedule, which confirms the year will evolve as
foreseen,” Starace said.  Investments will be focused on hydro, geothermal and solar
power with over a third set aside for  Italy  and the Iberian
peninsula, the company said. Other countries where Enel Green
has been expanding production include  France ,  Greece ,  Turkey  and
 Romania . Starace said he also sees a lot of opportunities in
 Latin America  where “renewables have a long way to go before
saturation.”  ‘Extremely Predictable’  Starace said diversification allows Enel Green’s overall
output to be “extremely predictable, making it difficult to
miss production targets.”  At the end of the first quarter about 41 percent of Enel
Green’s generation came from hydroelectric plants, 44 percent
from wind, 12 percent from geothermal, and the rest from solar
and other sources.  Starace also said the company will spend 2011 evaluating
possible buyouts or sales of companies in which Enel Green is a
minority investor.  “We have a merger and acquisition activity that is fully
concentrated on rationalizing a lot of companies in which we
have minority stakes,” he said.  The sales and buyouts could help add about 50 million euros
to the company’s Ebitda and 250 megawatts of capacity, according
to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 