-- 
EON Trading Posts First-Quarter Loss, Citing Transfer Prices

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-11T12:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/eon-trading-unit-reversed-to-a-223-million-euro-loss-in-quarter.html
EON AG’s trading unit had a loss in
the first three months of March, after a profit a year earlier,
citing increased costs of producing power from non-fossil fuels
and lower achieved prices.  The unit’s loss was 223 million euros ($334 million) before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for the three
months through March, compared with a profit of 350 million
euros a year earlier. Sales jumped 19 percent to 15.3 billion
euros, according to a  company report published today  on the
utility’s website.  The so-called adjusted EBITDA loss for 2011 will be from
200 million euros to 400 million euros, “mainly due to
continued high transfer prices between Trading and the
generation units,” Dusseldorf, Germany-based EON said in the
report. The losses are “enhanced by declining achieved
prices.”  The proprietary trading division had a loss of 31 million
euros in the quarter, compared with a loss of 2 million euros a
year earlier. The division was “adversely affected by market
developments following the German government’s announcement of a
nuclear-power moratorium,” according to the report.  EON integrated its regional trading offices in 2008 into a
new company, EON Energy Trading SE, led by Chief Executive
Officer Tony Cocker. It bought and sold more power and gas in
the first quarter while its emissions trading volume declined
compared with the year-earlier period. Electricity trading
volume rose 48 percent to 531 terawatt-hours, while natural-gas
trading more than doubled to 630 terawatt-hours. Trading in
emission allowances fell 15 percent to 162 million metric tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  