-- 
EON Says Earnings Fall 34% on Gas Slump, Cuts 2011 Outlook

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-11T16:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/eon-says-first-quarter-earnings-decline-34-amid-gas-slump.html
EON AG, Germany’s largest utility,
said first-quarter profit fell 34 percent on lower income at its
natural-gas business. The company reduced its outlook for
earnings this year after selling  power lines  in the U.K.  Adjusted net income, which the utility uses to calculate
its dividend, fell to 1.32 billion euros ($1.9 billion) from 2
billion euros a year earlier, Dusseldorf, Germany-based EON said
today in a statement. That compares with the 1.34 billion-euro
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The utility forecast full-year adjusted profit of 3 billion
euros to 3.7 billion euros, down from earlier expectations of
3.3 billion euros to 4 billion euros. That target depends on
Germany allowing EON to restart two halted nuclear plants. In
2010, the company had adjusted net income, which excludes
writedowns and book gains, of 4.9 billion euros.  Germany’s four biggest utilities are selling assets as
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  starts to tax nuclear plants to help
plug the  budget deficit . EON is also grappling with losses from
gas sales after a decline in spot market prices in 2009 widened
the gap with what the company pays under multiyear supply
contracts linked to oil.  Decreasing Guidance  “We wouldn’t exclude a further decrease of the guidance,”
Marc Nettelbeck, a DZ Bank AG analyst who recommends investors
buy the stock, wrote in a note today. “Even the new guidance
assumes the restart of the currently stopped nuclear power
plants Isar 1 and Unterweser. We do not expect a significant
positive share price performance in the mid-term.”  EON has fallen 6.5 percent this year while the benchmark
German  DAX Index (DAX) , of which it is a member, has gained 8.4
percent. The stock rose 0.7 percent to close at 21.45 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  The company said its global gas unit’s adjusted earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization declined 83
percent to 138 million euros in the first quarter and cited
“considerable margin pressure” in its wholesale business.  EON reached “first successes” in talks with gas producers
on adjusting its multiyear contracts in April, Marcus Schenck,
the utility’s chief financial officer, said on a conference call
with reporters today.  The company agreed to price reductions for some 25 percent,
or about 120 terawatt-hours, of supplies via the oil-indexed gas
contracts, he said. The agreement, effective October of last
year, should buoy earnings by about 100 million euros for each
of the last two quarters, he said.  That will be reflected in the utility’s second-quarter
results and won’t “neutralize” losses, according to the CFO.
“The recovery is no longer an assumption, it has been
secured,” he said.  Gazprom Talks  The utility is still in talks with Russian gas exporter OAO
Gazprom and agreed at the end of 2009 to pause negotiations with
 Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL) , Schenck said, without specifying which of
EON’s suppliers agreed to reduce rates.  There’s still a risk the company’s gas supply and sales
unit may post a loss of about 1 billion euros this year, Schenck
said. That depends on what progress the utility makes in talks
with providers on reflecting the decline in spot prices in
multiyear contracts, Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen
has said.  The gas business should “improve over the course of the
year as better terms in their supply contracts take effect,”
Peter Wirtz, an analyst with WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, said
before the earnings were released.  Unbearable Burden  Merkel wants to raise an annual 2.3 billion euros in the
six years through 2016 from EON and  Germany ’s next three biggest
nuclear power plant operators. That would cost EON 800 million
euros a year, the CEO wrote in a letter to shareholders today
published on the company’s website.  If Merkel backtracks on extending the lives of reactors,
EON “would simply be unable to shoulder the financial burden of
the nuclear fuel tax,” Teyssen wrote. “If there’s no change in
this policy, we would have to take legal action to protect our
company’s interests.”  The chancellor has also ordered the seven oldest reactors
to halt for safety checks after a disaster at a Japanese nuclear
station. State environment ministers and federal lawmakers have
indicated the plants may not restart. EON is Germany’s biggest
nuclear power company and operates two of the halted facilities.  “I hope EON comes out and says where the German nuclear
energy journey is going, but that may not be positive as the
permanent shutdown of their plants won’t be good for earnings,”
said Wirtz at WestLB. The brokerage expects EON’s earnings to
rise next year and recommends investors add the stock.  EON announced a plan in November to sell 15 billion euros
of assets through 2013 to reduce debt and fund expansion in two
markets outside of  Europe , the U.S. and  Russia . Teyssen hasn’t
yet named the countries.  The company has since sold more than 9 billion euros of
assets after agreeing to sell the  power grid  in central  England 
for 3.5 billion pounds in cash to PPL Corp. in March and its 3.5
percent stake in Gazprom for 3.4 billion euros in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  