-- 
Draghi Gains Merkel’s Backing for ECB Post as Political Opposition Withers

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-11T13:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/merkel-says-germany-could-back-draghi-for-ecb-president-die-ziet-reports.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
signaled her backing for  Mario Draghi  as the next president of
the  European Central Bank , removing the final obstacle to his
appointment to  Europe ’s top monetary post.  “I know Mario Draghi,” Merkel told Die Zeit newspaper in
an interview published today. “He’s a very interesting and
experienced person. He’s very close to our ideas of a stability
culture and solid economic policy. Germany could support his
candidacy for the office of the ECB president.”  Merkel’s remarks, her first to mention a candidate for the
ECB post by name, were confirmed by the Chancellery and by her
chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert.  Draghi, who is governor of the Bank of  Italy , will inherit
the ECB presidency from  Jean-Claude Trichet  as the central bank
fights a sovereign debt crisis that has forced Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal  to seek international bailouts. Other nations
should emulate Germany to help stamp out the crisis, Draghi told
the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  in February, calling for
tougher sanctions for budget-rule breaches.  Euro area finance ministers tentatively plan to make the
ECB nomination when they meet in Brussels on May 16. That would
pave the way for Draghi’s formal appointment at a June 24
European summit.  ‘Far Enough Advanced’  Merkel backs Draghi if his ECB candidacy becomes official,
government spokesman Christoph Steegmans told reporters in
Berlin today. The chancellor spoke with Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  by phone yesterday, he said, declining to give
any details of the conversation.  “The necessary preliminary talks at the national and
international levels are far enough advanced that we can make
this announcement,” Steegmans said.  The euro failed to react as the news broke. It was down
0.12 percent to $1.4339 as of 2:28 p.m. in Berlin.  Germany  is the last of the four biggest euro-region
countries to endorse Draghi after French President Nicolas Sarkozy told Berlusconi on April 26 that he would back an
Italian. Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado called Draghi an
“excellent candidate” the next day.  Weber Pulls Out  Trichet’s eight-year ECB term ends in October, creating an
opening at the top of the world’s second-most powerful central
bank after the U.S. Federal Reserve. While Germany alone cannot
dictate who wins the post, its status as Europe’s largest
economy and biggest guarantor of aid to peripheral euro
countries make it the dominant voice in the appointment.  Draghi became the frontrunner in February when Germany’s
contender, then-Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , pulled out of
the ECB succession race. Jens Weidmann, formerly Merkel’s chief
economic adviser, took over at the helm of the Bundesbank this
month.  Draghi will take over an ECB that is very different to the
one that Trichet inherited in November 2003. As ECB president,
Draghi will have to eventually steer the central bank out of the
debt crisis that forced it to take the unprecedented step of
buying  government bonds , a move some council members said
jeopardizes its independence.  The ECB is also trying to convince politicians that  Greece 
can’t be allowed to restructure their debts, a move that
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi says could see part
of the Greek banking system collapse.  Inflation Mandate  At the same time, Draghi will also have to convince
investors and voters that he can fulfill the ECB’s primary
mandate and get inflation under control. Germany’s biggest-
selling Bild newspaper earlier this year raised questions about
whether an Italian could be trusted to get a grip on prices
given the country’s inflationary history. The newspaper last
month backed Draghi’s campaign, saying that Merkel wanted to
support “the most German of the remaining candidates.”  Inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in April, the fastest
pace in 2 1/2 years and the ECB raised  interest rates  in that
month for the first time in three years.  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the  World Bank  and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  In a sign Draghi understood the need to meet German
skepticism head on, he appealed to the German inflation-fighting
mindset, saying on April 13 that monetary policy is still
“accommodative” even after the ECB raised its benchmark rate
on April 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  