-- 
Merko Chief Sees Baltic Builders Fighting ‘Toughest’ Year as Costs Rise

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-05-11T09:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/merko-chief-sees-baltic-builders-fighting-toughest-year-amid-recession.html
Builders in the Baltic countries of
 Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania will have their toughest year yet
in 2011 because of an “uncontrollable” increase in costs of
raw materials, according to  AS Merko Ehitus (MRK1T) , the region’s
largest listed construction company.  Tallinn, Estonia-based Merko is urging the government to
share the costs of rising raw material prices in public tenders
to avoid further financial problems for cash-strapped builders,
Chief Executive Officer Tiit Roben said in an e-mailed response
to questions yesterday.  Building volumes in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania fell a
combined 16 percent last year, following a 47.5 percent slump in
2009 as demand remained low and competition intensified
following the deepest recession in the European Union, Merko
said in its annual report published last month.  “There are sad examples of builders’ bankruptcies every
month,” Roben said. “2011 will be the toughest yet for
construction companies. This concerns Estonia, as well as Latvia
and Lithuania, despite some peculiarities in every market.”  Merko, which competes with Tallinn-based Nordecon
International AS, and the local units of  Sweden ’s  Skanska AB (SKAB) ,
 NCC AB (NCCB)  and Finland’s  YIT Oyj (YTY1V) , in February reported a widening
fourth-quarter loss, citing a faster-than-expected increase in
construction prices. Still, the company reported a net profit of
1.2 million euros ($1.7 million) for 2010, while Nordecon had a
loss of 11.8 million euros last year.  Harju County Court, located in Tallinn, last month rejected
an application by AS Koger & Partnerid, an Estonian construction
company, to seek  bankruptcy protection , weekly newspaper  Eesti
Ekspress  reported on April 21, citing court documents.  AS Water Ser Louna-Eesti, an infrastructure building
company, filed for bankruptcy on April 20, citing inability to
reach agreements with creditors, according to its website.  Growth in input prices, mainly from oil products and
metals, is the biggest risk for builders in the region, Roben
said.  Brent crude prices in  London  have gained 44 percent in the
past year, while the price of copper has risen 26 percent and
aluminium 23 percent, according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index of 24 commodities.  “We see a need for public institutions commissioning a
project to also bear the risk of input prices along with the
builder,” Roben said. “For an educated contracting authority,
it is clear that this is a process the builders can’t affect.
But if this is just cynically monitored from the sidelines and
all the risks are left to the builder, several important objects
could still remain unfinished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  