-- 
Ethiopian Government May Ban Coffee Exporters Caught Hoarding, Defaulting

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/ethiopia-may-ban-coffee-exporters-caught-hoarding-defaulting-on-contracts.html
Ethiopia,  Africa ’s biggest coffee
grower, has threatened to ban exporters and producers caught
hoarding beans or defaulting on contracts from trading on the
domestic commodity exchange.  Those found holding surplus stocks in the hope of future
price rises and therefore delaying deliveries are “stopping the
country from getting the foreign exchange it could earn, making
foreign buyers lose trust, and spoiling the country’s image,”
Yakob Yala, state minister of trade, said in an April 29 letter
to the Ethiopian Coffee Exporters’ Association. The directive,
which was handed to Bloomberg News by an industry official, was
confirmed by Amakele Yilma, a spokesman for the Trade Ministry.  Hoarding by traders is “harming the wide-ranging efforts of
the government to grow the coffee sector,” Yakob said.  Ethiopia earned $528 million from its most valuable export
in the year to July 7 and the Horn of Africa country plans to
almost double revenue this year. Shipments totaled 3.64 million
60-kilogram (132-pound) bags of coffee between April 2010 and
March 2011, ranking the country as the world’s eighth-largest
exporter, according to the  International Coffee Organization ’s
 website .  Shippers who hold 54 metric tons to 500 tons of beans for
two months without an export contract will be barred from buying
from the state-owned Ethiopia Commodity Exchange for two months,
according to the directive that took effect on April 28. Those
holding more will be suspended for three months, it said.  ‘Not Workable’  The regulation isn’t “workable” because exporters have
legitimate reasons to contravene it, said Fekade Mamo, a board
member of the exchange and chief executive officer of Mochaland
Import and Export Plc, a closely held coffee exporter. The
process of delivering samples to buyers before a contract is
signed may take more than two months and a “good” exporter would
want to hold as much as 1,000 tons in stock ready to deliver, he
said by phone on May 9 from  Addis Ababa , the capital.  “The law has been drafted by someone who does not know
anything about the coffee industry,” he said. “How do you expect
the country to export over 400,000 tons this year without
holding a working stock? It’s not a day-to-day business.”  Exporters who default on delivery contracts for shipments
of more than 36 tons will be prevented from trading for six
months, while for lesser volumes the buying ban will be three
months, the directive said. If a producer with an export
contract doesn’t deliver within one month of the agreed date,
the  National Bank of Ethiopia  won’t process any of their
contracts for two months, it said.  In March 2009, the government suspended the licenses of six
exporters for hoarding coffee and selling export-grade beans on
the domestic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 