-- 
EU Examines China Aviation Plan as Government Contests CO2 Caps

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-11T12:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/eu-examines-china-aviation-plan-as-government-contests-co2-caps.html
The European Union is examining
whether  China , which opposes the expansion of the EU emissions
trading system to cover airlines, could earn an exemption from
the program thanks to its domestic plan.  The EU’s emissions cap-and-trade system, the world’s
largest, will expand next year to cover flights to and from the
EU’s airports. The European legislation offers an option to
exclude incoming flights from a non-EU country if the nation
implements “equivalent” measures to cut pollution from
aviation, said EU climate spokesman Isaac Valero-Ladron.  “We need to analyze the details of the Chinese plan to
curb emissions from airlines,” he said on the phone from
Brussels today. “Regardless of their nationality, all carriers
must be treated equally to avoid distortion of competition. We
have been and will continue to be open to discuss how to best
combine our efforts in addressing the impact of aviation.”  The EU decided in 2008 that external and internal flights
should be added to its emissions trading system, known as the
ETS, after airline discharges in  Europe  doubled over two
decades. The ETS, including more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, requires companies that exceed their carbon-
dioxide emissions quotas to pay a fine or buy spare permits from
businesses that emit less.  Airlines will be the second-largest sector in the system,
after power generators. Under the  legislation , 82 percent of the
emission allowances making up the airline-industry cap will be
allocated for free, and 15 percent will be auctioned. The
remaining 3 percent will be put into a special reserve for later
distribution to fast-growing airlines and new entrants.  “With substantial annual growth expected for decades to
come, aviation will increasingly contribute to climate change
unless we act,” Valero-Ladron said. “As most other sectors are
already subject to measures, it is only reasonable that also
this sector should contribute to fight  climate change .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  