-- 
EU Debates Atomic Safety Checks as Spanish Quake Kills Eight

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-12T10:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/eu-nuclear-checks-should-exclude-terrorism-disasters-threat-foratom-says.html
Planned stress tests on European
nuclear plants should focus on threats from natural disasters
and exclude potential man-made catastrophes such as a terrorist
attack, European atomic industry group Foratom said.  European nuclear officials are to decide today on
parameters for the safety checks on atomic  power plants  in
response to the Japanese nuclear crisis caused by a March 11
earthquake and tsunami. The meeting of the European Commission,
the EU regulator, and 27 national nuclear safety authorities
comes a day after  Spain ’s biggest earthquake in 57 years killed
eight people.  European Union Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said
last week that the stress tests on the region’s atomic plants
should include threats from terrorists.  “We should focus on criteria ensuring that EU nuclear
plants can withstand major natural disasters,” Christian
Taillebois, director for external relations at  Foratom , said
yesterday in an interview in Brussels. “Foratom supports the
idea of stress tests. Still, they should be about safety, not
about national security.”  EU leaders in March called for a “comprehensive and
transparent risk and safety assessment” of the region’s 143
atomic plants following the accident in  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. In Spain, the Cofrentes atomic power plant, the
closest to the epicenter of yesterday’s 5.2-magnitude temblor,
was operating normally at 6:30 a.m. local time, the atomic
safety agency reported.  Stress-Test Parameters  The commission should stick to the mandate given by EU
leaders when deciding about the stress-test parameters, said
Taillebois, whose organization represents 800 companies in the
region’s atomic energy industry.  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including
Electricite de France SA and  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  produce a third of
the electricity in the EU. The safety checks, which could start
in the second half of this year, should test the resistance of
Europe’s nuclear plants to earthquakes, floods and other extreme
natural events, as proposed by the Western European Nuclear
Regulators’ Association last month, Taillebois said.  Atomic stations should also prove that they have back-up
systems in the case of a power supply cut-off and have means to
protect from and deal with “severe accident management
issues,” such as loss of cooling in the core or in the spent
fuel storage pool, he said.  Cyber-Attacks  “Including terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks as stress-
test criteria would mean the checks will take more time and
authorities won’t be able to make the results public,”
Taillebois said. “Our feeling is that citizens in  Europe  are
waiting for the results and we should announce them without
delays. People don’t want to make things political and it’s
important to prove that nuclear plants in Europe are safe.”  The risk of a nuclear meltdown in Japan triggered public
protests in Europe against atomic power and prompted Germany to
order a temporary halt to the country’s seven oldest reactors.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Ethics Commission said a complete
nuclear phase-out is possible by 2021 if not before,  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported yesterday, citing a draft of the
commission’s final report.  It is up to national governments in the EU to decide
whether to use nuclear power, which is produced in 14 member
countries. Safety is a shared responsibility between national
and EU authorities. The European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-
based executive, and the 27-nation bloc’s national nuclear
safety authorities are developing the parameters for the safety
checks, which may be announced today.  Nuclear-Waste Disposal  EU governments in 2009 set their first common standards for
the construction and operation of atomic reactors, saying the
industry’s growth requires steps to ease public anxiety about
the risks. A draft law proposed last year would broaden EU
safety oversight by setting bloc-wide standards for nuclear-
waste disposal.  France , which gets about 80 percent of its electricity from
nuclear plants, has emphasized that national authorities are
responsible for deciding on the lifespan of atomic plants.
French reactors will remain a “fundamental” source of energy
for the country, Industry Minister Eric Besson said on March 21.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has said that France would
close any of its reactors that fail the tests.  “Nuclear energy still has a key role to play in Europe and
there’s always room for improvement of safety standards,”
Taillebois said. “It’s very important to ensure there’s no risk
to human health or to the environment from atomic power. Even if
Germany decides about the phase-out it’s not a major trend in
Europe to turn away from nuclear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  