-- 
EU’s Rehn Warns on Impact of Greek Restructuring

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-11T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/eu-s-rehn-warns-against-devastating-impact-of-a-greek-debt-restructuring.html
The European Union stepped up
warnings against a restructuring of  Greece ’s sovereign debt,
saying such a move would have “devastating implications” for
the country and the euro area as a whole.  “A debt restructuring in Greece would have major
consequences on the soundness of the banking sector in Greece as
well as on any banks having exposure to Greek securities,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
yesterday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France.  “Such a major banking crisis would lead to a massive
credit crunch,” Rehn said. “The contraction of the economy
would be unprecedented in Greece.”  Rehn sharpened his assessment of the risks from a possible
Greek restructuring after European finance chiefs held an
unscheduled meeting in Luxembourg on May 6 and said Greece needs
“a further adjustment program” on top of its existing 110
billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue package. European Central
Bank officials have also intensified their opposition to a
restructuring or default.  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi on May 10
likened default to “political ‘suicide’ which leads many into
poverty.”  Yves Mersch , another council member, said yesterday
that the bank had made its opposition to restructuring “very
clear” and that there was “unanimity” among policy makers on
the issue.  ‘Big Hit’  The euro dropped against most major counterparts yesterday,
reaching a three-week low versus the dollar, as speculation
European leaders are slowing the drive to grant Greece
additional aid fueled concern of a debt restructuring.  Officials from the EU, ECB and International Monetary Fund
yesterday began their fourth evaluation of Greece’s economy. The
review is required before June when Greece is scheduled to
receive 12 billion euros from the EU-led group. Rehn said the
delegation will need “a few weeks” to determine Greece’s
financing needs and the potential size of any new aid package.  Bondholders would take a “big hit” in the case of
restructuring, Rehn said. “That is households through their
savings instruments like pension savings, as well as
institutional investors like pension funds, insurance companies.
Banks would also bear the cost.”  Greek banks would see their capital “seriously” eroded by
a restructuring, Rehn said. “Even a 30 percent haircut would
mean that a large part of the banking system would end up
undercapitalized, while a 50 percent haircut, which many have
advocated, would imply that a large part of the Greek banking
system would simply become insolvent,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  