-- 
Euro Advances From Three-Week Low on Growth Outlook; Norway's Krone Gains

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-12T07:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/euro-trades-near-three-week-low-on-concern-aid-for-greece-will-be-delayed.html
The euro rose from a three-week low
versus the dollar as optimism that growth in  Europe  is
accelerating overshadowed concern that the region’s debt crisis
will worsen.  The single currency strengthened against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts before a report tomorrow that’s forecast to show
Europe’s economy grew at a faster pace in the first quarter.
Australia’s dollar weakened after a government report showed
employers unexpectedly cut workers last month. The Norwegian
krone advanced on speculation the central bank may raise its
benchmark interest rate for the first time in a year.  “Market participants are aware economic data in the euro-
zone have been strong,” said Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based
market analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. “The underlying
theme is rate differentials, which is a supportive factor for
the euro.”  The euro advanced 0.2 percent to $1.4213 as of 8:23 a.m. in
 London . It yesterday depreciated to $1.4172, the weakest since
April 18. The single currency also rose 0.2 percent to 115.21
yen, after slipping 1.3 percent yesterday. The dollar was little
changed at 81.06 yen from 81.05 yen.  The 17-nation region’s economy expanded at a 2.2 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, up from 2 percent growth in
the previous three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before tomorrow’s report.  The  European Central Bank  will raise its target rate by 91
basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG
index showed. That’s up from 74 basis points of tightening
predicted on May 10. The  Federal Reserve  is forecast to boost
its benchmark by 29 basis points over the same period, a
separate index showed.  Greece  Concerns  Europe’s currency slumped 1.5 percent against the dollar
yesterday on speculation European leaders are slowing the drive
to grant Greece additional aid, fueling concern the nation may
have to restructure debt.  Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s debt rating two levels to B
on May 9, citing the likelihood of debt restructuring. European
finance chiefs held an unscheduled meeting in Luxembourg on May
6 and said Greece needs “a further adjustment program” on top
of its existing 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue package.  “The issue remains the periphery and while there was no
fresh news, apart from some fresh suggestions of possible
Finnish recalcitrance regarding  Portugal ’s bailout, the euro
will be curtailed by uncertainty,”  Daragh Maher , deputy head of
global foreign exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in
London, wrote in a note today.  Portugal Rating  S&P may downgrade its BBB- debt rating for Portugal if the
nation’s banks are unable to meet capital rules or if they
require more funding than currently anticipated, the ratings
company said yesterday. Finland will back a bailout for
Portugal, provided it agrees to conditions including state asset
sales, said Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen.  The krone appreciated 0.5 percent to 5.4916 per dollar
before the Norges Bank decision at 2 p.m. today in Oslo. The
Norwegian currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 7.8074 per euro.
The bank will raise its overnight deposit rate to 2.25 percent,
according to 15 of the 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
while five expect no change.  Australia ’s dollar dropped for a second day as investors
trimmed bets on central-bank rate increases after employment
dropped by the most since 2009.  The number of people employed in Australia declined by
22,100, following a 43,300 gain in March, the statistics bureau
said. The jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise its benchmark by
33 basis points over the next 12 months, down from 38 basis
points of increases predicted yesterday, another Credit Suisse
index showed.  “With high fuel prices, a strong currency and concerns
about taxation, you get the sense that this mixture of negatives
is beginning to weigh on the manufacturing states,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking
Corp. “Today’s data takes a bit of the shine and mystery off
the Aussie dollar.”  Australia’s currency dropped 0.7 percent to $1.0628, and
slid 0.6 percent to 86.19 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net 
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  