-- 
European Property Firms Seek Immunity From Derivatives Crackdown

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-05-12T15:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/european-real-estate-companies-seek-immunity-from-crackdown-on-derivatives.html
European real-estate companies are
seeking exemption from a law that could force them to set aside
billions of euros by treating them like derivatives speculators.  Two groups representing about 520 property firms asked
members of the  European Parliament  to exempt them from proposed
derivative trading regulations that would require cash
collateral to cover bets on interest-rate movements, according
to a letter seen by Bloomberg. The companies argue that they
don’t engage in the kind of speculation the law seeks to
control.  “The tightened requirements, which are intended for the
financial sector, are not justified here and are very likely to
be counterproductive,” the companies said in the letter
addressed to members of the European Parliament’s economic and
monetary affairs committee.  Real-estate investors use interest-rate swaps to ensure a
fixed rate when taking out a floating-rate loan to buy a
building. It helps guarantee that a property’s rental income
will cover loan repayments if rates rise unexpectedly. Under the
proposals, a payment could be demanded if rates move in the
opposite way than the swap anticipates. The figure may reach 65
billion euros ($93 billion) in  Europe , adviser Chatham Financial
Europe Ltd. said in a report in November.  ‘Less Stable’  “We are adamantly against it,” said David Peters, group
treasurer of Grosvenor Group Ltd., the property company owned by
the Duke of Westminster’s family trusts. “Setting aside cash
would make a stable and predictable industry in terms of  cash
flow  hugely unstable.”  Peters said the legislation would hurt funds more than
property companies because they don’t have access to as much
bank debt.  Europe should follow the example of the U.S.’s Dodd-Frank
financial reform act, which is likely to exempt real estate
derivatives, the groups said in the letter.  The committee is scheduled to vote May 24 on whether to
include property companies in the legislation.  The British Property Federation and German group  Zentraler
Immobilien Ausschuss  signed the letter, citing the support of
three Europe-wide property organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in  London  at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 