-- 
European Stocks Advance for Second Day; Maersk, Hermes Gain After Earnings

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-11T16:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/european-stock-index-futures-climb-k-s-bulgari-arcelormittal-may-move.html
European stocks climbed for a second
day as better-than-estimated results from A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S to  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA boosted confidence in the
economic recovery.  Maersk jumped the most in eight months as the owner of the
world’s largest container line said net income surged 85
percent. Hermes gained 3.3 percent after sales increased as
consumers purchased more luxury watches and fragrances.  ITV Plc (ITV) 
slid 5.3 percent as the U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster
forecast slowing advertising revenue growth.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.3 percent
to 283.73 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has
rallied 8.2 percent from this year’s low on March 16 as
companies including PSA Peugeot Citroen and Ericsson AB reported
results that topped analysts’ estimates and the U.S. Federal
Reserve maintained its pledge to keep  interest rates  low for an
extended period.  “Outlook statements from companies are more positive than
expected, showing companies are really confident,” said
Matthias Joerss, Frankfurt-based head of European strategy at
Macquarie Group Ltd. “However, going forward, the earnings
season will become less important and the sovereign debt crisis
is still a main issue. We will also see slowing macroeconomic
leading indicators.”  Company Earnings  Of the 256 companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings since April 11, 148 have beaten analyst forecasts for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 72 percent of U.S. companies in the period.  Company earnings offset reports from  China ’s statistics
bureau and central bank showing inflation in the country held
above 5 percent in April and lending exceeded analysts’
estimates, signaling that further monetary tightening may be
needed to cool the fastest-growing major economy. Consumer
prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier and banks extended
740 billion yuan ($114 billion) of local-currency loans.  Another release today showed German consumer prices
accelerated more than initially estimated in April after energy
costs surged.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said that
inflation remains “uncomfortably high,” and officials signaled
they may need to raise interest rates later this year even as
the economy struggles to build momentum.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 13 of the 18 western
European markets today.  France ’s CAC 40 Index advanced 0.1
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.7 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX slid 0.1 percent.  Maersk, Hermes  Maersk jumped 4.4 percent to 51,500 kroner, the largest
advance since September. The company posted first-quarter net
income before minority interests of 6.35 billion kroner ($1.2
billion), compared with an average estimate of 4.89 billion
kroner in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  Hermes rallied 3.3 percent to 167.05 euros, the highest
price since October. The French maker of Birkin handbags and
silk scarves reported first-quarter sales that increased 26
percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  Bourbon SA (GBB)  rose 5.2 percent to 34.28 euros in Paris
trading, the largest gain in almost a year. The owner of the
second-biggest fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil
industry reported a 24 percent increase in first-quarter revenue
and said demand is being boosted by the price of crude and
investments by  oil companies .  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  jumped 2.6 percent to 110.80 euros after
Europe’s largest newspaper publisher said first-quarter profit
before some items rose 6.5 percent as international and online
business revenue made up for a weaker German advertising market.  ITV, Kloeckner  ITV slid 5.3 percent to 71.9 pence as the broadcaster
forecast first-half advertising revenue growth will slow and it
may underperform the market as clients cut spending budgets.  Kloeckner & Co. SE sank 7.7 percent to 23.60 euros after
the German steel trader operating in 15 countries in  Europe  and
 North America  said it plans a capital increase of as much as 50
percent in “the summer” to finance growth.  Bekaert NV dropped 5.3 percent to 79.15 euros, the biggest
decline this year. The largest maker of steel cord used in tires
said Chinese demand slowed and it will cut prices to defend
against increased local competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  