-- 
European Economic Confidence Rose in Second Quarter, Ifo Says

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-11T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/european-economic-confidence-rose-in-second-quarter-ifo-says.html
Economic confidence in the euro area
rose in the second quarter, led by an “excellent” performance
by  Germany ’s economy, the  Ifo research institute  said, citing a
survey.  An index measuring the economic climate in the 17-nation
euro region increased to 118.9 from 116.8 in the first quarter,
the Munich-based institute said in an e-mailed statement today.
A gauge of current conditions jumped to 159.4 in the second
quarter from 142.7, while an indicator measuring business
expectations slipped to 95.1 from 101.6.  “The most recent results suggest that the economic
recovery in the euro area continues, but with considerable
divergences among individual member states,” Ifo President
Hans-Werner Sinn said in the statement. “Current economic
conditions were considered excellent in Germany and good in
Austria and Finland” while the situation in  Greece , Ireland,
Spain and Portugal remains “very weak.”  While Germany’s economic recovery is broadening as
companies boost investment and hiring to meet booming export
demand from emerging Asia, peripheral economies remain mired in
a fiscal crisis. Greece, recipient of the first euro-area
bailout, may receive more aid from European nations as it
struggles to reduce a debt load that some investors say will
lead to a restructuring.  Euro-area inflation will average 2.5 percent this year, the
286 economic analysts surveyed said. The number of participants
expecting the  European Central Bank  to raise  interest rates  in
the next six months rose “significantly,” the report showed.  Ifo will publish its World Economic Survey on May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  