-- 
Euro Tumbles Amid Concern on Aid for Greece; Commodity Currencies Weaken

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-11T21:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/euro-weakens-amid-uncertainty-about-greek-portuguese-financial-aid-plans.html
The euro dropped against most major
counterparts, reaching a three-week low versus the dollar, as
speculation European leaders are slowing the drive to grant
 Greece  additional aid fueled concern the nation may have to
restructure debt.  Currencies of commodity exporters weakened and the dollar
gained as raw-materials prices and stocks slid. The pound rose
against most of its major counterparts as the  Bank of England 
said U.K. inflation may reach 5 percent this year. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday Greece needs to continue
with budget cuts to deserve an extension of its rescue package.  “The euro hasn’t shown much bounce in this corrective
move; people might be cautious that there could be a further
move to the downside in the euro,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on Societe Generale SA’s corporate currency sales desk
in  New York . “It seems there is a bit of a risk-off type of
move. We’re seeing a little bit of a firmer dollar today.”  The euro tumbled 1.5 percent to $1.4192 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.4409 yesterday. It touched $1.4172, the lowest
level since April 18. The European currency fell 1.3 percent
against the yen to 115.04 and reached 114.57 yen, the weakest
since March 28. The dollar rose 0.2 percent to 81.05 yen after
appreciating 0.6 percent earlier to 81.33 yen.  Commodity currencies dropped as the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials fell for the first
time in three days, tumbling 3 percent. Crude oil for June
delivery fell as much as 6.1 percent to $97.50 a barrel in New
York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1.1 percent.  Worst Performer  South Africa ’s rand fell 2.1 percent to 6.8843 per dollar
in the worst performance among major currencies. The Norwegian
krone depreciated 1.7 percent to 5.5177 per dollar, while the
Canadian dollar dropped 0.5 percent to 96.19 U.S. cents.  Europe ’s shared currency has dropped 2.6 percent in a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies since May 4, the day
before European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled policy makers may wait until after June to raise
borrowing costs again, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. They raised the main refinancing rate
to 1.25 percent in April.  The Greek two-year note yield rose to a record above 26
percent as unions held their second general walkout this year,
grounding flights and shutting hospitals and schools in protest
against deficit reductions.  Proof Needed  “We can offer solidarity only if Greece’s stability and
eagerness to reform is proven,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin. “We can get out of this difficult situation only if we
properly rebuild that foundation, not just help without Greece
doing anything.”  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said markets are
focusing too closely on restructuring and that it “wouldn’t be
a solution to the problems that Greece needs to overcome.” He
spoke at an event in  London  today.  “Eventually there has to be additional funding from the
euro area to Greece for the simple reason that Greece cannot
access the markets to do a redemption next year at a reasonable
price,” Gabriel De Kock, head of foreign-exchange strategy in
New York at Morgan Stanley, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “The markets of course are spooked by that
possibility, but over time the typical European muddling-through
will relieve the expectations and concerns.”  The euro has gained 2.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
lost 4.3 percent, and the dollar is down 4.4 percent.  Won Top Performer  South Korea ’s won was the best performer versus the dollar,
surging 0.8 percent to 1,074.95 as the nation’s jobless rate
fell to a three-month low of 3.6 percent in April, from 4
percent in March, according to Statistics Korea.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index rose for the
first time in three days, gaining 1 percent to 75.328. It
touched 75.419, the highest since April 19. The gauge, which
tracks the greenback against the currencies of six major trading
partners, is weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  The dollar gained against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts even after the Commerce Department reported that
the  U.S. trade deficit  widened in March more than forecast. The
highest  oil prices  in more than two years boosted imports,
eclipsing record exports.  The  trade gap  rose 6 percent to $48.2 billion, from $45.4
billion in February, the data showed. The median forecast of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected it would widen
to $47 billion. Sales abroad climbed by the most in 17 years.  U.S. Exports  U.S. exports increased to $172.7 billion. The Dollar
Index’s 7 percent drop over the year to March 31 has made
American-made goods cheaper abroad and foreign-made goods more
expensive in the U.S.  Sterling strengthened to a six-week high versus the euro
after the Bank of England said the outlook for growth has
deteriorated in the past three months and that it sees inflation
“markedly higher” in the near term.  The pound surged as much as 1.4 percent to 86.79 pence per
euro, the strongest level since March 24, before trading at
86.83 pence. The British currency slipped 0.1 percent $1.6345
after rising earlier to $1.6517.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  