-- 
European Naphtha Advances Amid U.S. Gasoline Production Concern

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-05-11T10:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/european-naphtha-advances-amid-u-s-gasoline-production-concern.html
European naphtha, used to produce
gasoline, was close to the highest in four months relative to
 Brent crude  as flooding on the Mississippi River raised concern
that U.S. motor fuel production may be reduced.  European naphtha’s discount to Brent crude, or crack
spread, was at $1.94 a barrel today, according to PVM Oil
Associates Ltd. data on Bloomberg. The discount narrowed to
$1.57 yesterday, the lowest discount since January 21.  “Gasoline is pulling naphtha higher,” said Filip Petersson, a commodity strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm.  Naphtha is mostly used as a raw material for plastics used
in products from toys to car parts. It can also be processed in
an isomerizer or reformer to make higher octane components that
are added to gasoline, according to RPS Energy, an England-based
consulting company.  Rising water levels on the  Mississippi River  are
threatening refineries and shipping. A total of 11 plants,
accounting for 13 percent of U.S. fuel output, are located
between  New Orleans  and  Baton Rouge  in the affected area,
according to Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  The restart of petrochemicals plants in  Japan  after the
earthquake in March is also a boost to naphtha. “Japanese
crackers are restarting after the tsunami and demand more
naphtha,” Petersson said.  Japan’s earthquake halted about 25 percent of its ethylene
production capacity. About 88 percent of the country’s plants
are now operating, Kyohei Takahashi, chairman of the Japan
Petrochemical Industry Association, said April 20.  European gasoline’s premium to Brent rose to $15.15 a
barrel yesterday, the most since September 2008. U.S. futures of
the fuel posted the biggest one-day gain in more than two months
at the start of this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  