-- 
Teva’s U.S. Generic-Drug Sales Tumble on Factory Problems

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-05-11T20:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/teva-first-quarter-profit-rises-as-european-sales-growth-offsets-u-s-drop.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
said generic-drug sales in the U.S., its biggest market, fell
for a second straight quarter, hurt by manufacturing problems
and a dearth of new products.  Sales of U.S. generics tumbled 32 percent, the  Petah Tikva ,
Israel-based company said today in a statement. The world’s
biggest maker of copycat medicines reported revenue of $4.1
billion, missing the average analyst estimate of $4.29 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai said growth will
probably perk up in the second half and the drop in the U.S.
should not be viewed as a trend. Teva agreed last week to buy
 Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  for $6.2 billion in a deal aimed at reducing
reliance on the top-selling Copaxone multiple-sclerosis
treatment, which accounted for 22 percent of sales last quarter.  “The results are a bit disappointing, especially when you
look at the  North America  sales,” said Natali Gotlieb, an
analyst for Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . She
recommends investors buy the stock. “The big story is going to
be in North America.”  Teva’s earnings excluding some costs climbed to $936
million, or $1.04 a share, from $830 million, or 91 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Profit matched the average
estimate of $1.04 a share from 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
in the past month.  ‘Shift in Fortunes’  Teva’s American depositary receipts rose $1.51, or 3.2
percent, to $48.65 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market to give Teva a market value of about $45.7 billion.  Teva’s ADRs have shed 17 percent in the past year as
investors fretted that competition would erode sales of its
biggest innovative drug. The stock sold for 8.8 times estimated
profit before today, making it the second-cheapest of 10 global
drugmakers of similar size. Only  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  is cheaper.  “The perception of Teva changed massively over the past
year, from a company which can do no wrong to one that fumbles
its way,” Ronny Gal, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in
New York, wrote in a report on May 9. Instead, the company is
“a victim of a shift in industry fortunes.” Gal raised his
rating on Teva shares to “outperform” from “market perform”
in the report.  The company today repeated its forecast of sales between
$18.5 billion and $19 billion this year, with earnings excluding
some costs in the range of $4.90 to $5.20 per share.  Copaxone Competition  Revenue in  Europe  jumped 66 percent to $1.34 billion,
boosted by the inclusion of sales from Ratiopharm GmbH, which
Teva bought in August. North American sales slid 11 percent to
$2.06 billion after the company shut a plant in  Irvine ,
 California , because of quality-control issues and reduced output
at a Jerusalem factory after U.S. regulators issued a warning
letter. Teva started producing injectable drugs again in Irvine
in April, a year after it halted production.  “We continue to expect the second half of 2011 to be
significantly stronger than the first half,” Yanai said in a
conference call with analysts.  Teva said it didn’t introduce any significant, exclusive
new products in the quarter, unlike a year earlier. The company
has profited in the past from being first to launch new
generics.  Copaxone sales rose 14 percent to $907 million. Teva raised
the drug’s price by 15 percent in January, the third increase in
13 months. The injected medicine has had to compete since
September against the first pill approved in the U.S. for
multiple sclerosis,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya.  “The core business is either declining, or under great
risk,” Gilad Alper, an analyst for Meitav Investment House Ltd.
in Tel Aviv, said in a telephone interview today. Alper rates
Teva’s shares “market perform.”  The drugmaker’s reported profit doesn’t meet generally
accepted accounting principles because it excludes costs linked
to acquisitions. Net income under GAAP standards rose to $761
million in the quarter from $713 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  