-- 
Levin, McCain Call for Rethinking U.S. Military Basing in Asia

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-11T20:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/levin-mccain-call-for-rethinking-u-s-military-basing-in-asia.html
Leaders of the  Senate Armed Services
Committee  called on the Pentagon today to re-examine U.S.
military basing plans in East Asia, saying billions of dollars
may be saved in  South Korea ,  Japan  and Guam.  Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, joined
Senators John McCain of  Arizona , the panel’s senior Republican,
and Jim Webb, a Virginia Democrat and the chairman of the
personnel subcommittee, in urging changes to a basing agreement
with Japan that was signed in 2006.  They called for:  -- Examining the feasibility of moving Marine Corps Air
Station Futenma on Okinawa to Kadena Air Base, Okinawa, instead
of building a replacement facility.  -- Reducing the Marine Corps presence on Guam by rotating
in combat units that are based elsewhere.  -- Putting on hold realignment of U.S. forces in South
Korea pending further review.  “The significant estimated cost growth associated with
some projects is simply unaffordable in today’s increasingly
constrained fiscal environment,” Levin said in a news release.
“Political realities in Okinawa and  Guam , as well as the
enormous financial burden imposed on Japan by the devastation
resulting from the disastrous March, 2011, earthquake and
tsunami, also must be considered.”  McCain said, “The Asia-Pacific region’s growing role in
the global distribution of power requires us to consistently
review and update plans for the U.S. military’s role.”  The senators, in their statement, said their proposal would
reduce the American footprint in Okinawa, where residents have
periodically protested the presence of U.S. troops.  Committed to Plan  A Pentagon spokesman, Marine Col. Dave Lapan, said the
Defense Department is committed to its base realignment plans.  “These agreements are good for the people of Okinawa,
Japan as a whole, and the U.S.-Japan alliance,” Lapan said by
e-mail.  The Marine Corps’ Futenma relocation will return land to
the Okinawan people and move thousands of U.S. troops and their
dependents out of the most densely populated southern part of
the air station, he said.  “After the relocation is completed, the average citizen of
Okinawa will see and hear far fewer U.S. troops and aircraft
than they do today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 