-- 
Ex-Credit Agricole Banker Has Race-Discrimination Award Reduced

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-11T15:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/ex-credit-agricole-banker-has-race-discrimination-award-reduced.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
biggest lender, won a U.K. court bid to cut the 375,000 pounds
($617,250) in compensation awarded to a London banker who was
refused promotion because of his British nationality.  An employment tribunal overestimated the financial loss
suffered by Michael Wardle, who worked at the bank’s Calyon unit
before taking a job at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority
that paid less than the one he was denied, three judges at the
Court of Appeal ruled today.  The former Global Head of Exotic Interest Rate Derivatives
Risk Management was awarded the compensation in 2010 after he
was fired for complaining that a French national was promoted
over him. Wardle, then on a salary of 104,000 pounds, was turned
down for a promotion that was set to start in January 2008,
according to the ruling. He was dismissed in July 2008 after he
alleged racial discrimination. The Employment Tribunal in  London 
found in his favor.  “In my view, it is reasonable to conclude that the
claimant would probably have been able to leave the FSA and
obtain an equivalent job by the end of June 2011,” Patrick Elias, one of the judges, said in his part of the ruling.  After leaving Calyon, now known as Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank, Wardle found a job at the
 FSA  for 105,000 pounds. The sum was less than what he would have
been paid if he had been promoted at Calyon, and had a bonus of
20 percent of salary, rather than 70 percent, according to court
documents.  Elias didn’t specify how much Wardle should be awarded. He
asked for written arguments from counsel to fix the sum.  Wardle’s law firm, Pritchard Englefield, and  Credit
Agricole  didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 