-- 
Karunatilaka Pleads Guilty in Expert-Networking Insider Case

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/ex-taiwan-semiconductor-manager-pleads-guilty-in-insider-trading-case.html
Manosha Karunatilaka, a former
account manager at  Taiwan  Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
pleaded guilty to his role in an alleged insider-trading scheme
involving expert-networking firm  Primary Global Research LLC .  Primary Global “offered to pay me $200 per conversation”
with it and its clients, Karunatilaka, 37, told U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan yesterday. “I knew that some of
the information I was sharing was nonpublic and confidential to
TSMC.” He said he made a total of $35,000 from Primary Global
and didn’t tell Taiwan Semiconductor about his arrangement.  The guideline range for Karunatilaka’s sentence is 37 to 46
months, according to the plea agreement. The judge set
sentencing for Sept. 15.  “I’m here to take full responsibility for my actions,”
Karunatilaka, of Marlborough,  Massachusetts , told Rakoff.  The biggest U.S. insider-trading probe became public in
2009 with the arrest of Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam, who was found guilty yesterday day by a jury in
the same courthouse where Karunatilaka entered his plea.  Karunatilaka, a U.S. citizen born in  Sri Lanka , was
arrested Dec. 16. He pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy
to commit wire and securities fraud.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , who is directing the
nationwide probe, said his office has charged 47 people with
insider-trading crimes during the past 18 months. About three
dozen have been convicted, including three who pleaded guilty in
late April.  Taiwan Semiconductor, based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, is the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips.  ‘Hardly Worth It’  Karunatilaka “thought he could moonlight for an expert
networking firm and sell out his employer in the process,”
Bharara said in a statement yesterday. “It should now be
abundantly clear that his short-term financial gain was hardly
worth it.”  Also charged in the case are James Fleishman, an executive
for  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global Research;
Mark Anthony Longoria, who worked at  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) ; and Walter Shimoon, who worked at  Flextronics
International Ltd. (FLEX)   Expert-networking companies such as Primary Global match
investors with specialists who provide insight into specific
markets.  No Trial  “My client is eager to put this behind him,”
Karunatilaka’s lawyer Brad Bailey said after the hearing. “He
came in with a willingness to admit his guilt and spare the
government the cost and expense of having a trial.” Bailey
declined to say whether or not Karunatilaka is cooperating with
prosecutors.  Fleishman, Longoria and Shimoon were released on bail Jan.
4. Fleishman entered a not guilty plea at his arraignment on
Feb. 7. Longoria’s lawyer, Jonathan Marks, said in a phone
interview on Feb. 28 that his client is in talks with
prosecutors about a possible plea deal.  A fifth man, Daniel DeVore, formerly a supply manager at
 Dell Inc. (DELL) , was arrested in the same probe and pleaded guilty
Dec. 10 to  wire fraud  and conspiracy to commit securities and
wire fraud, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York federal court at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 