-- 
Texas Taxpayers Finance Formula One Auto Races as Schools Dismiss Teachers

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-05-11T16:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/texas-taxpayers-finance-formula-one-auto-races-as-schools-dismiss-teachers.html
Texas , which may balance its budget
by firing thousands of teachers, plans to commit $25 million in
state funds to Formula One auto racing each year for a decade.  Four years after motorsports’ most popular series left the
U.S., Texas investors including Clear Channel Communications
Inc. co-founder B.J. “Red” McCombs are building a 3.4-mile
(5.5-kilometer) track to bring the event to Austin. Comptroller
Susan Combs has agreed to pay $25 million for races through
2022, a subsidy questioned by critics and lawmakers as the state
cuts costs to close an estimated $15 billion two-year deficit.  “I don’t understand why 25 people in Austin could not put
up $1 million each if they thought this was a good opportunity
instead of the state making a $25 million commitment,” said
Senator Dan Patrick, a Houston Republican. “The developers
should find the money through private sources.”  As many as 100,000 teachers in Texas may be fired because
of spending cuts to cope with the state’s budget crisis,
according to Moak Casey & Associates, an Austin-based education
consultant. For $25 million a year, the state could pay more
than 500 teachers an average salary of $48,000.  “I have to wonder why the state of Texas is all over
funding for this racetrack and not the school-funding crisis,”
said Ewa Siwak, 44, who teaches German in the Austin Independent
School District and whose job at Bowie High School is being cut.
“Tax dollars for education should be a higher priority.”  No Traction  Formula One  races have failed to gain traction previously
in the U.S. Since the 1970s, the series has been hosted by  Long
Beach ,  California , as well as  Las Vegas , Detroit, Dallas,
Phoenix and, most recently, Indianapolis. The races there ended
in 2007 on declining attendance.  With 20 million Texans within 250 miles of Austin and a
growing Formula One fan base in Mexico, the city’s annual race
will be successful, Steve Sexton, president of track developer
Circuit of the Americas LLC, said in a telephone interview.  By building the  Circuit of the Americas  track, backers aim
to attract automakers such as  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari Group,  Renault
SA (RNO)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes that compete in Catalonia, Shanghai
and Istanbul. Racing-team owners include U.K. billionaire
Richard Branson and Indian liquor magnate Vijay Mallya.  Races 
from  Montreal  to Sao Paulo draw thousands of fans, including
those paying $1,200 apiece for a seat in Monaco’s grandstands.  Each race in Austin is projected to generate enough  tax
revenue  to recoup the $25 million from a state Event Trust Fund
pool, according to Allen Spelce, a spokesman for Combs, a
Republican. He said the plan calls for putting the $25 million
into a revolving account for paying annual event-related costs.  $250 Million Subsidy  If the financing works as projected, the decision will use
$250 million in state tax revenue for the races over 10 years.  “With places struggling, spending that much money on an
essentially one-off event is tough to do,” said Michael Cramer,
a former president of baseball’s  Texas Rangers  and hockey’s
 Dallas  Stars who runs the sports and media program at the
 University of Texas  at Austin. “It’s a very high cost of
entry.”  Texas, like other states cutting budgets for schools,
nursing homes and basic services, uses economic-development
spending to bring in jobs and seed growth. That often involves
giving up tax revenue generated by a project to pay part of the
cost. New Jersey is providing $200 million of tax-increment
financing to help develop the American Dream in the Meadowlands,
which will be the biggest mall in the U.S. when it opens.  “I’m not sure of the wisdom of using tax dollars to fund a
racetrack,” said Siwak, the Austin teacher. “They’re giving so
much tax dollars away I don’t think they could make it up with
the racetrack.”  Economic Outlook  Combs’s office estimates a Formula One race in Austin next
year will spur $300 million of spending, Spelce said in an e-
mailed statement. Construction of the $242 million track, which
has begun, is projected to add 1,300 temporary jobs and pump
$400 million into the economy. The venue will seat 120,000 fans.  The state isn’t investing in the track development, Spelce
said in the e-mail. He said the Legislature authorized the use
of the money from the  Major Events Trust Fund  in 2009.  “The funding generated by the activity offsets the state’s
investment,” Spelce said. “It is important that the state
continue to generate new economic activity to ensure that Texas
continues to grow.”  Formula One racing attracts the wealthy who sponsor teams
and draws fans from around the world, said Zak Brown, chief
executive officer of  Just Marketing Inc. , an agency based in
Zionsville, Indiana. JMI, as it’s known, focuses on motorsports.  Sport for Wealthy  “It’s a lifestyle of the rich and famous,” Brown said in
a telephone interview. “The whole industry has a lot of wealth
around it, a lot of politics.”  The cost of holding races has made it too expensive for
sponsors without a public subsidy, said Mark Cipolloni,
president of  AutoRacing1 Inc.  in Robbinsville,  New Jersey . The
company runs a website that covers motorsports.  “It isn’t cost-effective for an independent race,”
Cipolloni said. “Most races in major cities wouldn’t be held
without public support.”  The state’s $25 million is being paid to London-based
Formula One Management Ltd. to hold the race in Austin, Sexton
said. Formula One, owned by London-based CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., a private-equity firm, is run by  Bernie Ecclestone , the
chief executive officer of the series.  “It’s going to Mr. Ecclestone and Formula One to get them
to bring the event here,” Sexton said.  Outside Intended Use  Paying such a fee goes beyond the intended use of the state
fund, which was set up to support bringing annual events to
Texas by rebating increased taxes they generate to cover costs
including security and traffic control, said Richard Viktorin,
an accountant with Audits in the Public Interest. The Austin-
based group opposes government support for the races.  In the past, the event fund has been used to subsidize
professional football’s  Super Bowl  championship game, college
basketball’s Final Four tournament and business meetings such as
a Chick-fil-A Inc. convention.  “It’s off-balance-sheet financing for a rich man’s
sport,” Viktorin said. Combs is “supposed to be a fiscal
officer for the state. She’s not controlling that fund.”  Formula One participants and sponsors have wanted to return
to the U.S. since 2007, when the last race was run in
Indianapolis, Ecclestone said in a telephone interview.
Indianapolis began hosting the event in 2000. Interest waned
after defective tires led most entrants to withdraw in 2005.  U.S. Venue  “No one wanted to hold it,” Ecclestone said, until the
Austin promoters stepped in. “Carmakers and team sponsors are
also keen to have a race in the U.S. to help leverage their
backing of teams.”  Formula One’s popularity has declined in the U.S., partly
because there haven’t been any races in the country in recent
years and partly from a lack of successful American drivers
since Eddie Cheever and Mario Andretti, JMI’s Brown said.  “It’s moved around,” said Brown, who praised the Austin
track’s design. “There was a 10-year period where there was no
Grand Prix,” or Formula One race, in the U.S, he said.  The Austin event is expected to benefit from its proximity
to  Mexico  and  South America , where the series has grown in
popularity, said Ecclestone. Austin’s city government also may
invest $4 million a year in tax revenue to facilitate the event,
the Austin-American Statesman  reported . The city hasn’t been
asked to provide any incentives, said Matt Curtis, a spokesman
for Mayor Lee Leffingwell.  Tourism ‘Booster’  “It’s going to be a major booster in our convention and
tourism industry,” Curtis said. The “return is very
significant.”  Formula One races won’t be the track’s only use. Developers
have booked international championship  motorcycle  races, called
MotoGP, starting in 2013, Sexton said. He said they’re also
trying to bring in concerts, conferences and other events.  Austin and the state are unlikely to recover their
investment directly, Cipolloni said. However, the race will
expose the city to a wide audience of tourists and executives
that could help recruit companies and create jobs, he said.  “They won’t collect tax money equal to the $25 million”
from the state, Cipolloni said. “It’s just a way to get
exposure for the city.”  Sexton, a former president of  Churchill Downs Inc. (CHDN) ’s horse
track in Louisville, Kentucky, which hosts the  Kentucky Derby ,
agreed that events at the Austin circuit will do more than just
generate new tax revenue.  “It will bring in an affluent audience that has never been
to the city,” Sexton said. “It should have a substantial
economic impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  