-- 
Exxon, Conoco Chiefs to Face U.S. Senators on Oil Industry Taxes

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-11T00:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/exxon-conoco-chiefs-to-face-u-s-senators-on-oil-industry-taxes.html
Rex Tillerson, Exxon Mobil Corp.’s
chairman and chief executive officer, and his counterparts at
ConocoPhillips and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  will be quizzed by U.S.
senators on a Democratic proposal to end industry tax breaks.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, called officials from five  oil companies  to testify
before his panel on May 12. In addition to Tillerson, James Mulva of ConocoPhillips and John Watson of Chevron, the panel
will hear from Marvin Odum, chief of U.S. operations for  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and H. Lamar McKay, who plays a comparable role
for  BP Plc (BP/) , the committee said today in a statement.  Baucus proposed on April 28 ending billions of dollars in
tax breaks for multinational oil and gas companies at a time of
high industry profits and gasoline prices. The same day, Exxon
Mobil, the world’s largest company by market value, reported its
biggest increase in first-quarter profit in eight years.  “Now is not the time to stand idly by while large oil and
gas companies get billions of dollars in tax breaks,” Baucus
said in a statement announcing the plan.  Senate Democrats said they will seek to repeal about $21
billion in tax breaks in the next 10 years for Exxon of Irving,
Texas, Chevron of San Ramon, California,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  of
Houston, BP of London and Shell of The Hague. The Democrats
propose using the revenue for deficit reduction.  Republican lawmakers and oil company spokesmen have said
ending the tax benefits will backfire, producing higher prices
and less supply.  “Discriminatory taxes would put U.S.-based energy
companies at a competitive disadvantage around the world and
discourage development of domestic oil and gas resources,”
Lloyd Avram, a Chevron spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  