-- 
Exxon Leads Defense of Oil Tax Breaks Democrats Want to Repeal

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-12T18:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/exxon-s-tillerson-says-higher-oil-taxes-won-t-help-u-s-budget.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Chief Executive
Officer Rex W. Tillerson and four counterparts defended $21
billion in U.S. tax breaks that Democrats are seeking to
recapture to reduce the federal deficit.  Executives from Exxon,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , ConocoPhillips and  BP Plc (BP/)  said costs may rise and
gasoline prices increase if Democrats succeed in eliminating the
benefits. The plan is “counterproductive,” Tillerson told the
Senate Finance Committee at a hearing today in Washington.  Senate Democrats are proposing to raise oil and gas taxes
by about $2 billion a year for 10 years, arguing that widening
deficits are a threat to the economy and sacrifice is required.
College students are giving up federal help, and so should the
companies, said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat.  “We have to choose priorities and right now we have a huge
 budget deficit ,” Schumer said to  ConocoPhillips (COP)  CEO James Mulva. “Do you think that your subsidy is more important than
the financial aid that we give to students to go to college?”  Mulva said the question was “very difficult” to answer,
and the proposal to cut the incentives will have a “very
adverse impact” on the industry.  The Senate may vote on the measure as early as next week.
To build their case, Democrats have cited rising gasoline prices
and quarterly earnings reports that put the five companies on
pace to generate more than $125 billion in profits this year,
which would be a record.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said he doubts the
Senate will pass the measure. Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana
Democrat, has said she planned to oppose the bill.  Deductions, Royalties  The Democrats’ proposal would raise about $13 billion by
blocking the five largest oil and gas companies from receiving a
domestic-manufacturing deduction for exploration and extraction
in the U.S. Democrats have said extraction shouldn’t be
considered as manufacturing. Most companies can take a 9 percent
deduction for domestic manufacturing, and oil and gas companies
can take a 6 percent deduction.  The Senate Democrats’ proposal would generate $6.5 billion
by curtailing the oil companies’ ability to claim tax credits
for royalty payments made to foreign governments. Other
proposals, limited to the five largest oil companies, would
limit deductions for certain drilling costs.  Oil executives are “out of touch,” Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said at the hearing. The
industry “always prevails” in Congress, he said.  ‘Better Solution’  Tillerson, Mulva and the other executives said ending the
tax breaks may lead to lower oil output while limiting  job
creation  and slowing economic growth.  “A much better solution lies in permitting our industry to
increase energy supplies,” said Tillerson, who also is Exxon’s
chairman. “Access, not taxes, will enable us to meet the goals
of increasing affordable energy supplies for Americans.”  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
committee, said the Democratic proposals wouldn’t increase
energy supplies or reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil.  “The reasoning put forth for repealing these tax
provisions -- rising gas prices and reporting higher first
quarter profit -- would set a bad precedent for future tax
increases,” Hatch said.  Schumer and Senator  Robert Menendez , New Jersey Democrat,
pressed Mulva to apologize for calling their tax-change proposal
“un-American” in a statement yesterday.  Mulva, Menendez  Mulva, asked if the company meant the plan’s supporters,
such as Menendez or President Barack Obama, aren’t patriots,
said today the statement wasn’t directed at any individual.  Exxon, the world’s largest company by market value,
reported a 69 percent increase in first-quarter profit, the
biggest jump in eight years. Net income rose to $10.7 billion
from $6.3 billion a year earlier, Irving, Texas-based Exxon said
on April 28.  Shell, based in The Hague, boosted profit 30 percent in the
first quarter to $6.3 billion as crude prices gained and
refining earnings doubled, the company said on April 28.  After a 29 percent rise in  oil prices  in the past 12
months, the five companies don’t need tax incentives to invest,
Schumer said during a news conference in Washington yesterday.  “You’re going to do anything you can to find oil at these
prices,” Schumer said, speaking of the five companies.  An increase in taxes for the five  oil companies  is unlikely
to raise gas prices, which are closely tied to crude oil prices,
the  Congressional Research Service  said in a report yesterday to
Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  that reviewed the
effects of five provisions proposed by the Democrats.  ‘Hard to Separate’  “Political unrest, expectations effects on financial
markets, macroeconomic growth trends, the value of the dollar
and a host of other factors have contributed to fluctuations in
the price of oil and gasoline,” according to the report. “Any
effect due to changes in the tax treatment of the oil industry
would be hard to separate from the changes due to other
factors.”  In the House, Democrats introduced legislation that would
increase fees on oil companies if they don’t produce in areas
where they hold leases. The bills also would require new safety
standards for drilling and promote natural-gas powered trucks
with tax credits.  House Democrats also are seeking to repeal about $31
billion in tax breaks for the oil industry. Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said the money should go to
the deficit and to pay for clean energy programs.  The Republican-led House yesterday passed legislation that
would require U.S. decisions on drilling permits within 60 days,
as a part of an effort to increase oil production in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Wash Dc at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  