-- 
BofA, JPMorgan, Boeing, Galleon, HealthSouth in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-11T12:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fcpa-verdict-galleon-drilling-healthsouth-tax-shelters-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., along with three other U.S. mortgage servicers,
proposed paying $5 billion to settle a probe of their
foreclosure practices by state and federal officials, two people
familiar with the matter said.  The proposal made by banks yesterday during settlement
talks in Washington came after state attorneys general and
federal officials offered revised settlement terms and a
proposal for banks to fund principal writedowns for homeowners.  The probe by all 50 states was triggered by claims of
faulty foreclosure practices after the housing collapse, which
state officials said may violate their laws. The original
settlement proposal offered by states and federal agencies drew
criticism from banks and Republican attorneys general opposed to
a deal that would reduce principal amounts for borrowers.  In a new proposal, officials called for a fund,
administered by state and federal officials, that would in part
pay for principal writedowns, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman
for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller. Miller, a Democrat, is
leading the negotiations for the states. Attorneys general
haven’t made a proposal for a monetary payment by the banks, he
said.  State and federal officials have been negotiating with the
mortgage servicers, which also include Citigroup Inc.,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial  Inc. Miller has said the five
companies service 59 percent of U.S. home loans.  Rick Simon, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, didn’t return a call seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday. Teri Schrettenbrunner of San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for
New York-based Citigroup, didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally Financial,
and New York-based JPMorgan Chase spokesman Thomas Kelly,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Lindsey Manufacturing Executives Guilty in Bribery Case  Two executives with a California maker of emergency
electricity towers were found guilty yesterday of paying bribes
including a Ferrari to officials at a Mexican state-owned
utility to obtain orders.  The jury returned guilty verdicts on all counts of
conspiracy and violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
against Keith Lindsey, 66, the president of closely held Lindsey
Manufacturing Co., and Steve Lee, 60, the company’s chief
financial officer, said  Thom Mrozek , a spokesman for U.S.
Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles.  Prosecutors argued during the trial that the two men knew
that a 30 percent sales commission they paid Enrique Aguilar, a
Mexican representative, was used to cover more than $5 million
in bribes to the officials at Comision Federal de Electricidad.
Lindsey Manufacturing, based in Azusa, California, retained
Aguilar in 2002 after repeatedly failing to legitimately win
contracts in previous years, prosecutors said.  “Lindsey Manufacturing is the first company to be tried
and convicted on FCPA violations, but it will not be the last,”
Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer said in a statement.
“Foreign corruption undermines the rule of law, stifling
competition and the health of international markets and American
businesses.”  Jan Handzlik, a lawyer representing Lindsey and the
company, which was also a defendant, didn’t immediately return a
call to his office.  Aguilar, 56, a Mexican citizen who was also indicted, is a
fugitive and wasn’t present at the trial.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Boeing Whistleblower Firing Decision May Cut Off News Leaks  Two  Boeing Co. (BA)  auditors in 2007 thought they found
weaknesses in the security of the firm’s financial reporting
data. They complained, setting off a chain of events that may
chill whistleblower leaks to news outlets, Bloomberg News’ Ann
Woolner and Karen Gullo report.  Nicholas Tides and Matthew Neumann say they told Boeing it
might be violating the  Sarbanes-Oxley  investor-protection law by
urging them to say data controls were in place that weren’t.
Ignored and then pressured to look the other way, they said, the
two spoke with a Seattle Post-Intelligencer reporter who had
left messages asking about auditing problems.  “Computer security faults put Boeing at risk,” a
 subsequent  headline said. The airplane maker, already suspecting
leaks, investigated and fired the men for unauthorized talking
to the news media. They sued, citing Sarbanes-Oxley’s
whistleblower protection, and lost. An appeals court said last
week that the law doesn’t protect tipping off journalists.  The ruling is now the law in nine western states. It will
make hiding company wrongdoing easier, according to Ken Paulson,
a former editor of USA Today who is president of the  First
Amendment Center , which follows free-speech issues.  “Fewer whistleblowers will share information with the news
media,” Paulson said. “There is no faster path to reform or to
disclosure of corporate misdeeds than putting that information
on the front page of a newspaper.”  The federal appeals court in San Francisco said in its May
3 ruling that the law is clear. Sarbanes-Oxley, enacted in 2002
in the wake of the Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. accounting
scandals, specifically protects corporate whistleblowers only
when they tip off federal authorities, Congress or a supervisor,
it said.  “If Congress wanted to protect reports to the media, it
could have listed the media as one of the entities to which
protected reports may be made,” the court ruled.  The decision was made by a unanimous three-judge panel.
Tides and Neumann will ask for a review of the ruling by a
larger panel, said John J. Tollefsen, their Seattle attorney.  The appeal case is Tides v. Boeing Co., 10-35238, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The
original case is Tides v. Boeing Co., 2:08-cv-01601, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For more, click here.  Ex-Primary Global Consultant Jiau Loses Bid to Dismiss Case  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, lost a bid to have her
insider-trading case dismissed.  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, argued that prosecutors erred
when they instructed the federal grand jury that indicted Jiau
on charges she passed inside information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to two hedge fund managers. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected Jiau’s argument yesterday in
Manhattan.  “I agree with the government this is quite extended
speculation, really piling inference upon inference,” Rakoff
said in a ruling from the bench. “There are deep prudential
grounds indicating that speculation should not be the engine
that causes a court to move.”  Hendon claimed the indictment was flawed, saying there was
no evidence that any “insider” breached a fiduciary duty not
to disclose material non-public information. She also said
prosecutors failed to prove Jiau engaged in a scheme to defraud
“by trick, deceit, chicane or overreaching.”  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman told Rakoff
the government has evidence Jiau passed inside information
obtained from sources at Nvidia and Marvell to Noah Freeman, a
Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S., and Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital
Management LP in  New York .  Hendon and Weitzman both declined to comment after court.  Jiau faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted of
conspiracy and securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Foreclosures Prompt Cities to Sue Banks Over Mowing, Repairs  Four major U.S. cities that pay for the upkeep of
foreclosed properties are trying to recoup the costs of services
including lawn mowing, repairs and security by suing banks they
claim contributed to their “urban blight.”  A federal judge in Memphis, Tennessee, on May 4 and another
in Baltimore on April 22 denied Wells Fargo & Co.’s request to
dismiss the predatory-lending lawsuits brought against the bank.
A lawsuit by the city of Cleveland against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Ally Financial Inc. is also pending before an Ohio judge.  In one case,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , described by Los Angeles
City Attorney Carmen Trutanich as one of the city’s “major
slumlords,” may be found liable for hundreds of millions of
dollars, including restitution for current and former tenants,
according to a statement by the city.  “We started out looking to sue as many as 16 lenders,”
Webb Brewer, a lawyer who represents Memphis, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a tall order to fight all those
banks at once. We never alleged that Wells Fargo was alone in
employing these practices.”  The cities’ lawsuits invoke various legal theories, and
some have targeted the banks as bundlers of mortgages into
securities rather than as lenders. The cases brought by
Baltimore and Memphis, which will now shift to pre-trial
evidence gathering, are similar. They both accuse San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo of violating the Fair Housing Act by so-called
reverse redlining -- targeting black neighborhoods for predatory
lending.  The cases are People of the State of California and the
City of Los Angeles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co., 11-
460878, Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County (Los
Angeles); Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. Wells Fargo
Bank NA, 08-00062, U.S. District Court for the District of
Maryland (Baltimore); City of Memphis v. Wells Fargo, 09-cv-
02857, Western District of Tennessee (Memphis); U.S. v. Deutsche
Bank AG, 11-02976, U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York (Manhattan); City of Cleveland v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank NA, 08-668608, Ohio Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County
(Cleveland); City of Cleveland v. Ameriquest Mortgage Securities
Inc., 08-00139, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Ohio (Cleveland); City of Birmingham v.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , 09-
00467, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham); and City of Buffalo v. ABN AMRO Mortgage Group
Inc., 08-02200, New York State Supreme Court, Erie County
(Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Ex-Galleon Trader Wants Jury to Hear He Rejected U.S. Plea  Former Galleon Group LLC trader Michael Kimelman said he
wants jurors at his upcoming insider-trading trial to hear that
he rejected a plea deal with the U.S. in order to prove he is
innocent.  Kimelman is scheduled for trial on May 16 with fellow
former traders Zvi Goffer and his brother, Emanuel Goffer, who
are accused of being part of one of three rings that are the
target of a nationwide U.S. probe of insider trading at hedge
funds. All three have pleaded not guilty.  A lawyer for Kimelman, in papers filed May 9 in federal
court in New York, said his client wants jurors to know that he
rejected a plea offer even though accepting it would have meant
he wouldn’t have to serve any time in prison. The government’s
offer to allow him to plead guilty to conspiracy “was still
available last week,” according to the filing.  “Mr. Kimelman rejected this non-jail offer, electing
instead to adhere to his position that he is innocent of any
criminal conduct, despite the possibility that if convicted at
trial, he could be sentenced to a period of imprisonment,” his
lawyer, Michael Sommer, said in the filing.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan , who is presiding over
the case, has yet to rule on Kimelman’s request. Ellen Davis, a
spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, whose
office is prosecuting the case, declined to comment.  Prosecutors filed a superseding indictment in April in
which Goffer, his brother and Kimelman are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said the Goffer
ring of the Galleon-related cases traded on stock tips that came
from lawyers at Ropes & Gray in New York and from Gautham
Shankar, another former trader.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Must Act on Six Drilling Permits, Federal Judge Rules  The U.S. “unlawfully and improperly delayed” permits for
deep-water drilling after the  BP Plc (BP/)  Gulf of Mexico oil spill
last year, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans yesterday
ordered offshore energy regulators to act within 30 days on six
pending permit applications filed by companies that have
contracts with Ensco Offshore Co., the Louisiana drilling
company leading the legal challenge to the government’s offshore
drilling bans.  Federal law “establishes a non-discretionary duty on the
Department of Interior to act, favorably or unfavorably, on
drilling permit applications within a reasonable time,” Feldman
said in a written order. Ensco was harmed by “the government’s
failure to act on pending permit applications contemplating the
use of Ensco’s rigs,” he said.  The Obama administration suspended all drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet last May in response to the worst offshore
oil spill in U.S. history. More than 4.1 million barrels of
crude leaked into the Gulf after the Deepwater Horizon exploded
and sank while drilling a subsea well for BP off the Louisiana
coast in April.  “We’re reviewing the judge’s ruling,”  Wyn Hornbuckle , a
spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment further “at this time.”  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  Safra National Bank of New York Sued by Madoff Trustee  Safra National Bank of New York was sued for at least
$111.7 million by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating  Bernard
Madoff ’s defunct investment firm.  Picard seeks to recover transfers made to Safra from so-
called feeder funds that invested with Madoff, according to a
complaint filed May 9 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Safra “knew or should have known of numerous
irregularities concerning investing” through Madoff given its
background and its own investments with the convicted Ponzi-
scheme operator, Picard said in the complaint.  Picard has filed hundreds of lawsuits to recover money for
victims of Madoff’s fraud. Madoff pleaded guilty to
masterminding the biggest Ponzi scheme in history and is serving
a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. Safra National Bank of New York, 11-
01885, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Goldman Sachs Cuts Estimate of Possible Legal Losses by 21%  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, cut its estimated losses from legal claims by 21 percent
in the first quarter.  The bank’s “reasonably possible” losses from lawsuits
dropped to $2.7 billion as of March 31 from $3.4 billion at the
end of 2010, according to its quarterly filing yesterday with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The estimate, the second of its kind disclosed by the firm,
is at the “upper end” of losses in matters where the risk is
“more than remote but less than likely,” New York-based
Goldman Sachs said in the filing.  Banks started releasing estimates of possible losses after
the SEC told corporate finance chiefs in October that they
should disclose such costs “when there is at least a reasonable
possibility” that they may be incurred, even if the risk is too
low to require reserves. Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S.
lender, has said legal and regulatory matters may cost $150
million to $1.6 billion beyond what it has reserved.  Staff at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission advised
Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing LP, known as GSEC, that they
intend to recommend legal action against the unit related to its
role as clearing broker for a broker-dealer, the company
disclosed in yesterday’s filing.  The CFTC staff alleges that GSEC “knew or should have
known” that the client’s sub-accounts maintained at GSEC were
accounts belonging to customers of the broker-dealer and not the
broker-dealer’s own accounts, according to the filing.  The filing also included a reference to subpoenas that
Goldman Sachs and certain affiliates received from regulators
regarding sales of collateralized debt obligations, including
the firm’s Abacus 2007-AC1 deal. The company’s last quarterly
filing, its annual report on March 1, disclosed that it received
requests for information, omitting mention of the subpoenas.  In July, Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle a
lawsuit filed by the SEC that accused the firm of misleading
investors in the Abacus CDO. A U.S. Senate subcommittee report
on the financial crisis that used Goldman Sachs as a case study
accused the firm of misleading investors about some CDOs. The
report was referred to the Justice Department and the SEC.  For more, click here.  BTA Bank Can Continue $4 Billion Ablyazov Case, Judge Rules  BTA Bank, the bailed-out Kazakh lender seeking to recover
assets for international creditors, can continue its $4 billion
fraud lawsuit against ousted Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov, a U.K.
judge ruled.  Judge Nigel Teare in Bristol, England, yesterday rejected
Ablyazov’s claim that the case is a veiled attempt by Kazakhstan
President Nursultan Nazarbayev to eliminate political rivals.
Nazarbayev was re-elected last month with 95.5 percent of the
vote, adding five more years to his two-decade rule.  “If the consequence of that case succeeding is that the
president of Kazakhstan is assisted in eliminating Mr. Ablyazov
as a political opponent,” then it is a “natural consequence”
of the lawsuit, Teare said in the judgment.  BTA, whose creditors include  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , claims Ablyazov conspired
to siphon money from the bank through a series of fake loans and
share sales before fleeing from Kazakhstan to London. The
Almaty-based lender was nationalized in February 2009 and later
defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  “Ablyazov maintains that the bank was nationalized purely
for political reasons, as the bank was sound at the time,” his
spokesman, Locksley Ryan of London-based  RLF Partnership Ltd. ,
said yesterday in a phone interview.  BTA last year issued 10-year “recovery notes” to
creditors for about $5 billion of bad loans as part of its debt
restructuring. The lender will share with creditors, on a 50-50
basis, recoveries from impaired assets, including damages from
the U.K. lawsuits.  Other creditors that stand to benefit from the case include
Wells Fargo & Co., Bank of America Corp., Standard Chartered
Plc,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which in July 2009
quit as BTA’s restructuring adviser.  BTA in December won a U.K. appeals court ruling forcing
Ablyazov to place his assets, estimated at $5 billion, into
receivership. The bank said Ablyazov didn’t disclose all his
business deals, including ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project.  Ablyazov’s lawyers claim BTA’s takeover was motivated by
their client’s membership in the “democratic opposition” to
Nazarbayev. Similar conspiracy claims were dismissed by Teare in
February.  The case is JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice (London).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Health-Care Plan Constitutional, U.S. Tells Appeals Court  The Obama administration’s health-care overhaul is a
constitutional scheme to regulate the medical and insurance
services market, a U.S. lawyer told the first federal appeals
court to hear arguments challenging the plan.  At the heart of the debate before a three-judge panel in
Richmond, Virginia, yesterday was the question of whether
requiring most Americans to buy health insurance is, as a lower-
court judge ruled, like ordering them to buy broccoli or a
Cadillac. Acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal said no, arguing
Congress has broad power to regulate the health-care market.  “Congress is not asking people to buy something they
otherwise would not buy,” Katyal said, adding that being an
active participant in the health-care market is an “almost
universal feature of our existence.”  So far, trial-court decisions on the health plan have
broken along party lines, with judges appointed by Republican
presidents ruling against it and Democratic-appointed judges
ruling in favor. Two of the randomly assigned judges in the
cases, James Wynn Jr. and Andre Davis, were named by President
Barack Obama. Former President Bill Clinton, also a Democrat,
appointed the third, Diana Gribbon Motz.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058, 4th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Richmond).  For more, click here.  Tax-Shelter Lawyers Acted in Bad Faith, Prosecutor Argues  The former head of the Chicago office of the defunct law
firm Jenkens & Gilchrist and others accused of marketing phony
tax shelters acted in “bad faith” by providing letters saying
the investments would probably survive tax authorities’
challenges, a prosecutor told jurors.  Paul Daugerdas and four co-defendants “cannot possibly
claim that they were acting in good faith” with the letters,
which were a “total farce,” Nanette Davis, a Justice
Department attorney, told jurors yesterday in closing arguments
at their trial in federal court in Manhattan.  Charles Sklarsky, a lawyer for Daugerdas, attacked the
credibility of the government’s cooperating witnesses during his
closing argument by saying they have a “motive to fabricate.”
Sklarsky said his client is a “good man” who is being punished
for using aggressive strategies.  “He’s a lawyer who pushed the law, who took aggressive
positions that the IRS didn’t like,” Sklarsky said, referring
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. “There’s no question
about that. But just because the IRS doesn’t like the positions
you take doesn’t make you a criminal.”  Daugerdas is one of seven people indicted in June 2009 on
charges of conspiracy and tax evasion for selling phony tax
shelters from 1994 to 2004. Prosecutors said the defendants used
the shelters to generate more than $7.32 billion in fraudulent
tax losses for at least 931 wealthy individuals.  Two of the seven people indicted in June 2009, Erwin Mayer
and Robert Greisman, pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
government. Three others connected to the case are cooperating,
including two who pleaded guilty.  Jenkens & Gilchrist avoided prosecution in March 2007 by
admitting it developed and marketed tax shelters that generated
more than $1 billion in phony losses, and agreed to pay $81.6
million to clients who sued over its tax-shelter advice.  Jenkens shut down after reaching the agreement, which
didn’t apply to lawyers at the Dallas-based firm, and blamed its
demise on attorneys in its office in Chicago, which was run by
Daugerdas.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 1:09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-HealthSouth Chief Scrushy Wins Reversal on Two Counts  Richard Scrushy, the former chief executive officer of
 HealthSouth Corp. (HLS) , yesterday won the reversal of two convictions
from his 2006 criminal trial, while the U.S. appeals court
affirmed four other counts.  The three-judge panel upheld the “honest-services”
convictions of Scrushy and former Alabama Governor Don
Siegelman. The U.S. Supreme Court ordered the re-examination
last year after finding, in a separate case involving Enron,
that depriving citizens and shareholders of honest services was
illegal only if bribery or kickbacks were involved.  The appellate court, however, overturned convictions on two
counts relating to the former CEO’s alleged self-dealing with
the ex-governor’s help.  “This was a step in the right direction,” Scrushy’s
lawyer, Bruce Rogow, said in a telephone interview. Rogow said
he will ask the Supreme Court to examine yesterday’s decision
also. “We think there can be a giant step if the Supreme Court
accepts review.”  Scrushy is serving six years and 10 months in a federal
 prison  in Beaumont, Texas, for bribery after a Montgomery,
Alabama, jury convicted him in 2006 of giving Siegelman a
$500,000 campaign contribution in exchange for a seat on a state
hospital regulatory board. He was acquitted in 2005 on criminal
charges of directing an accounting fraud.  Laura Sweeney, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the decision.  The appeals court also sustained Siegelman’s conviction on
four counts.  The case is U.S. v. Siegelman, 07-13163-B, 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta). The lower-court case is U.S.
v. Scrushy, 05-cr-119, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Alabama (Montgomery).  Rajaratnam Jury Dismissed for Day Without Reaching Verdict  Jurors in the insider-trading case of Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam ended their 11th day of deliberations
yesterday without reaching a verdict, sending a note or
indicating which way they are leaning.  The jury began deliberations April 25 and had to restart
the process on May 4, when a juror was replaced for medical
reasons. The panel will return today to Manhattan federal court
to continue weighing evidence. The trial began March 8.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Intel Corp. and Clearwire Corp.  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces
as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.K. Court Rejects Notification Requirements for Reporters  Max Mosley, the former Formula One president, lost a court
bid to force journalists to contact people before publishing
potentially embarrassing details of their private lives. The
case involved a story in a  News Corp. (NWSA)  newspaper that said he had
taken part in a Nazi-themed sex party without contacting him for
comment.  In 2008 Mosley won a 60,000-pound ($98,000) award against
News Corp.’s News of the World for publishing, without
contacting him for comment, a story that said Mosley took part
in a Nazi-themed “orgy,” along with a video. His case
precipitated a surge in requests for so-called super-injunctions
sought by celebrities to block press reports about their sex
lives.  That award -- a record by the High Court in London for a
breach of privacy claim -- was “an adequate remedy” that
averted the “chilling effect” a prior-notification requirement
could have on the media, the  European Court of Human Rights 
ruled yesterday.  The decision is a victory for News of the World, the U.K.’s
largest Sunday newspaper, which is facing lawsuits over tapping
into the voice mails of celebrities and politicians. News Corp.
apologized and offered settlements to some of the more than 20
people suing over the four-year-old scandal.  “Serious investigative journalism always involves
consulting the subject,” Mosley said in a telephone interview
yesterday, disputing the court’s statement that requiring
reporters to contact the subjects of a story would interfere
with investigative reporting.  Mosley has maintained the party had no Nazi overtones and
the U.K. court agreed in its July 2008 decision that there was
no evidence any Nazi theme was intended. He has filed lawsuits
in 21 different countries, mainly in an effort to force websites
to remove the video, he said in January at a hearing in
Strasbourg. Mosley said he is considering an appeal of the U.K.
ruling.  Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.’s
News International unit, declined to comment on the ruling.  Separately, U.K. Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt said
yesterday he plans to expand regulation of all media amid
controversy over the use of the Internet to override super-
injunctions used by prominent people to prevent adverse
publicity.  Celebrities who won court orders blocking British
newspapers from publishing stories about their private lives are
finding their legal protection invalidated after an anonymous
user of Twitter Inc. posted a series of messages May 8 making
allegations detailing the activities they sought to keep out of
the public eye.  Hunt said he plans to start a public consultation next week
on the contents of a new bill on communications regulation with
a view to bringing in the legislation next year. That might
entail bringing Web-based media into line with laws governing
newspapers and broadcasters.  At the same time, Justice Secretary Kenneth Clark is
awaiting the results of an inquiry by a senior judge before
deciding how to proceed with reforming privacy laws.  The European Court of Human Rights case is: Mosley v. the
United Kingdom, no. 48009/08.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  