-- 
FDIC’s Bair Says U.S. Money Funds ‘Highly Unstable in a Crisis’

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fdic-s-bair-says-u-s-money-funds-destabilizing-to-markets-at-sec-forum.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  called money-market mutual funds
“destabilizing” to the financial system and said investors
would be served just as well if share prices floated.  “Money-market funds are maintaining a fiction of a
stable” net-asset value, as shown by the September 2008 failure
of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, Bair said yesterday
at a round-table meeting of fund-company executives and
regulators arranged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in  Washington . “That is skewing investment dollars
into a structure that is highly unstable in a crisis.”  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker called a
floating share price the “simplest” solution to the risk posed
by money funds, which trade at a constant $1 a share.  Their remarks lent support to proposals fund executives
have said may ruin the product’s appeal to investors, and its
role as the biggest collective provider of short-term financing
for U.S. corporations through the commercial-paper market. Calls
to make funds safer began after Reserve Primary’s collapse
helped freeze global credit markets. The SEC, after passing
rules last year that made funds more liquid and more
transparent, is considering whether further changes are needed.  Representatives of  Fidelity Investments ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the three biggest money-fund
providers, defended the business as popular among investors and
crucial to the financing of U.S. companies and municipalities.  Capital Requirements   The industry has said bank-like regulations, including
capital requirements or forcing funds to abandon their stable $1
share price, would destroy their appeal to customers while
failing to prevent runs.  Money funds book their holdings based on their value at
maturity and round to the nearest cent, allowing customers to
buy and sell shares at $1. Returns are distributed monthly in
cash or new shares.  Reserve Primary suffered a loss, initially set at 3 percent
of assets, on debt issued by bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., causing the fund to close on Sept. 16, 2008, and denying
shareholders access to most of their cash for months as it
liquidated.  Investors, fearing that other funds might “break the
buck,” withdrew $230 billion from the industry by Sept. 19 in a
run that threatened to cripple issuers of short-term debt.  Volcker has previously said the stable share price creates
an incentive for investors to flee at the first sign of trouble.  Preventing Panic  The government in 2008 “had to run from one extreme action
and safeguard to another” to prevent additional money-fund
failures amid the panic, Volcker said at yesterday’s meeting.  “What is the public good that makes it worthwhile to run
such a big risk?” he said.  The run on money funds that followed Reserve Primary’s
collapse abated only after the Treasury Department guaranteed
shareholders against losses and the  Federal Reserve  loaned money
to purchase fund holdings at face value.  Robert Brown , head of Boston-based Fidelity’s money-market
fund group, said rules already enacted by the SEC had made the
industry better prepared to handle a run by investors. The
changes forced funds to hold more in securities easily
convertible to cash and to reveal more about their holdings.  “There is a great danger in looking at all sorts of
mechanisms for reinventing the money-market fund business,”
said John D. Hawke, of Washington law firm Arnold & Porter LLC,
who represented Pittsburgh’s Federated. “The danger is that
people who find money-market funds extremely useful will be
denied the usefulness of those funds.”  Government ‘Subsidy’  The regulators at the forum examined two industry proposals
for backing money funds with emergency liquidity. A plan put
forward by the  Investment Company Institute , the mutual-fund
industry’s Washington-based trade group, was criticized for its
provision that in a crisis funds should enjoy access to the
Fed’s discount borrowing window.  “You are in effect asking for some kind of subsidy to be
transferred from the federal government to the corporate sector
and this is a distorting thing,” said  Paul Tucker , deputy
governor of the  Bank of England .  U.S. Treasury Undersecretary Jeffrey A. Goldstein
questioned whether the proposed facility’s size, $24 billion
after 10 years, would be “even close to enough.”  Goldstein was one of six present representing the  Financial
Stability Oversight Council , the regulatory panel charged with
addressing companies and activities that can endanger the  U.S.
economy . The council was created by last year’s Dodd-Frank Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  