-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Says Labor Market Is ‘Long Way’ From Healthy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-11T18:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fed-s-pianalto-says-labor-market-still-long-way-from-healthy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the labor market remains far from
healthy even after employers added a greater-than-expected
244,000 jobs in April, and the central bank’s record monetary
stimulus remains appropriate.  “Nine million jobs were lost in the recession, and we have
added back only 1.8 million of those jobs in the past two years,
which means that we still have a long way to go before labor
markets can be described as healthy,” Pianalto said today in a
speech at  Xavier University  in Cincinnati.  “Overall, my current outlook calls for the economic
recovery to continue at a gradual pace over the next few years,
with annual growth at just above 3 percent a year,” Pianalto
said. “That is a fairly slow pace, considering how much ground
we have to make up. For example, in my outlook, I expect it
could take about five years for the unemployment rate to reach
its longer-run sustainable rate of 5.5 to 6 percent.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are planning to complete their $600 billion bond
purchase program in June and said last month that they will
continue to hold  interest rates  “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period.” They have yet to settle on a plan following
the end of record monetary stimulus.  ‘Appropriate’ Stance  “Given my outlook, I think that the current stance of
monetary policy, with short-term interest rates close to zero,
is appropriate and supports the FOMC’s dual mandate of  price
stability  and maximum employment,” she said. “In fact, my
outlook for the economy that I have been discussing is based on
the Committee keeping the federal funds rate close to zero for
an extended period of time.”  Payrolls expanded by 244,000 last month, the biggest gain
since May 2010, after a revised 221,000 increase the prior
month, the Labor Department said May 6 in  Washington . The
jobless rate climbed to 9 percent in April from 8.8 percent the
month before, the first increase since November, a separate
survey of households showed. The jobless rate has been 9 percent
or above for 22 of the last 24 months.  The number of people who filed for jobless benefits for the
first time rose to 474,000 in the week ended April 30, for the
most new filings since August, according to a separate report.  “These numbers highlight the slow pace of improvement in
the labor markets,” she said. “Labor force participation is at
low levels, which reflects a large number of discouraged workers
who have simply given up on finding a job. I estimate that even
at the end of 2013, the  unemployment rate  will be around 7
percent.”  Productivity Boom  Pianalto said in response to audience questions that the
productivity boom in manufacturing meant that improving fortunes
for manufacturers might not boost jobs. Manufacturing expanded
faster than forecast in April, according to the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index, which fell to 60.4 last month
from 61.2 in March. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion
and the measure has exceeded 60 for four consecutive months, the
best performance since 2004.  “The good news is that manufacturing is still strong in
the  United States  and has been a source of strength in this
recovery,” she said. “The bad news is we’re continuing to
produce more with fewer people so it’s not necessarily going to
be a source of job growth.”  Gasoline Price  The national average price of gasoline has risen 36 percent
in the last year to $3.95 a gallon on May 9. Prices have fallen
3 cents from a week ago. The Labor Department reported yesterday
that import prices rose 11 percent in April from a year earlier.  The Fed said such pressures will have only a “transitory”
effect on overall inflation. The Labor Department said overall
prices rose 2.7 percent in March and prices excluding food and
fuel rose 1.2 percent. The Fed targets inflation of 2 percent or
a bit below.  Pianalto said she agreed with the assessment of her
colleagues that the pickup in inflation would prove
“transitory”.  “The recent run-up in oil and other commodity prices has
boosted inflation to an annualized rate of nearly 6 percent
during the first three months of the year, but, like most of my
colleagues on the FOMC, I do not expect inflation to remain
above 2 percent beyond this year,” she said.  ‘Less accommodative’  The central bank’s monetary policy will “eventually have
to become less accommodative, and we have been developing the
tools that we will use to exit from our current policy stance,”
she said. “I am confident that we will be ready to use them
when the time is right.”  Pianalto, 56, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Cincinnati at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  