-- 
Fed’s Lockhart Sees Weak U.S. Jobs Progress, Slowdown in Pace of Inflation

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T18:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fed-s-lockhart-see-weak-u-s-jobs-progress-slowdown-in-pace-of-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the pickup in jobs this year will
reduce unemployment slowly and higher inflation in recent months
probably won’t persist.  Data from last month show “an encouraging increase in
payrolls,” Lockhart said today in Atlanta. “Employment growth
of the magnitude we have seen so far this year is encouraging
but will still only slowly bring down unemployment.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  last month stood by their commitment to complete a
$600 billion Treasury-securities purchase program aimed at
boosting the recovery. They also released lower forecasts for
economic growth this year and raised estimates for a key gauge
of inflation that excludes volatile food and energy prices.  “The inflationary impact of some supply shocks is likely
to be temporary,” Lockhart said in a speech to the Council for
Quality Growth, a group that promotes economic development. “In
fact, prices of several commodities have either leveled off or
declined recently.”  The Labor Department said last week the economy added
244,000 jobs in April, with non-government employers adding
268,000 jobs, the best month for the private sector of the
economy since 2006. Other job market data remain weak, as the
 unemployment rate  has been stuck near 9 percent or higher for 25
months.  Begin Reversal  Lockhart said to reporters after his speech that while he
wasn’t sure when the Fed would begin a reversal of its
extraordinary stimulus, he didn’t expect a new program of
Treasury purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE, would be
needed after June.  “There’s a very high bar in my opinion” for a new
program, he said.  “A high bar doesn’t mean totally impossible,” he said.
“The way the economy is evolving simply suggests to me that
further stimulus of any large magnitude, along the lines of what
you would imagine a QE3 program would be like, is simply not
going to be necessary.”  Any change of policy, signaled by a change in the Fed’s
commitment to an “extended period” of low rates, would require
a sustained pickup in employment, Lockhart said. “We would be
looking at employment numbers that show several months of
improving  job creation , to suggest the job creation process is
firmly established.”  Inhibit Spending  The Atlanta Fed leader said Congress and the Obama
administration need to reduce the federal deficit and debt to
prevent concern over fiscal policy from inhibiting spending by
consumers and businesses. He said he wasn’t sure when long-term
Treasury yields may rise out of concern for U.S. debt levels.  “I can’t predict when an attack of the bond market
vigilantes would occur,” Lockhart said in reply to an audience
question, referring to a risk bond investors will suddenly sell
U.S. government securities. “We should not assume we have an
indefinite period of time.”  The economy will probably expand at an annual rate this
year and the next couple of years in the range of 3 percent to 4
percent, which is a “relatively modest rate of growth”
following the longest recession since the 1930s, Lockhart said.  Weakness in the housing and commercial real estate industry
has been a drag on the U.S. recovery and is a “key risk” to
the expansion, he said.  “The residential real estate market remains depressed”
and sales have not shown “any clear trend of improvement,” he
said.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007.  Fed presidents  rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  