-- 
Kocherlakota Sees Fed Funds Rate Increase as First Step in Stimulus Exit

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-05-11T20:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-policy-makers-should-raise-rates-in-11.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota said he favors raising the
federal funds rate as the first step in the Fed’s exit from
record monetary easing.  Speaking with reporters in  New York  today, Kocherlakota
said he isn’t wedded to his strategy and “could be persuaded”
to first drop the Fed’s policy of reinvesting proceeds from
maturing assets into Treasury bonds, provided the change had the
same effect as raising the benchmark interest rate by half a
percentage point.  His preferred path differs from strategies outlined by
other policy makers, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who
said last month that stopping reinvesting is “very likely” to
be an early tightening step. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , who has said officials may need to start withdrawing
stimulus this year, wants the Fed to set a pace for asset sales
in conjunction with raising  interest rates .  A reduction in the central bank’s balance sheet would be
formulated “separately” and later, Kocherlakota said after a
speech. It’s “more important” to start the exit than which
tool is used, he said.  Kocherlakota also said he favors a “more expansive”
definition of “extended period” than Bernanke signaled at a
press conference last month.  The pledge to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period” means to Kocherlakota that policy makers aren’t
planning to raise their main interest rate for two to four
meetings, he said. Bernanke said last month that the phrase
means there likely would be no tightening “for a couple of
meetings.”  Removing Phrase  Kocherlakota said he doesn’t want investors thinking “for
sure” that the removal of the phrase from Federal Open Market
Committee statements means the central bank would tighten
monetary policy two meetings later.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said March 30 that a
“logical” order for an exit plan would be for the Fed to sell
assets before raising rates. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher 
said in February that he may prefer selling Treasuries as a
first step.  Bernanke, New York Fed President William C. Dudley and Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  have advocated raising interest on
excess reserves as an early part of a plan to stop inflation
when the central bank decides to tighten credit.  At the same time, Bernanke said April 27 that when the Fed
begins unwinding its record monetary stimulus, “it’s very
likely that an early step would be to stop reinvesting all or
part of the securities which are maturing.”  Raising Rate  In prepared remarks earlier today, Kocherlakota repeated
his view that the FOMC should raise the federal funds rate this
year to combat an increase in inflation.  “Under my baseline forecast, it would be desirable for the
FOMC to raise the fed funds target interest rate by a modest
amount toward the end of 2011,” he said.  He said a 50 basis-point increase would be needed if a
measure of consumer prices, excluding food and energy, rises by
1.5 percent in 2011. “The Fed would then be closer to its  price
stability  mandate -- and so should ease the pressure on the
monetary gas pedal,” Kocherlakota, who votes on policy this
year, he told the Forecasters Club of New York.  The price of goods imported into the U.S. is rising, while
the housing market struggles, according to data released
yesterday. Import prices rose more than forecast in April as a
slumping dollar and growing economies overseas pushed up fuel
and food costs, according to Labor Department figures.  Home
prices  fell in more than three-fourths of cities during the
first quarter, based on a report from the National Association
of Realtors.  ‘Disappointing’ Growth  Kocherlakota repeated his forecast for the  U.S. economy  to
grow at a “disappointing” rate of 3 percent to 3.5 percent
this year as households rebuild their net worth and small banks
contending with poor asset quality limit lending.  The 47-year-old Kocherlakota has led the  Minneapolis Fed 
since October 2009 and is former chairman of the economics
department at the  University of Minnesota . He earned his
bachelor’s degree in mathematics from  Princeton University  and
his doctorate from the  University of Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  