-- 
Fertitta Group Takeover of Green Valley Casino Challenged

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-11T19:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fertitta-group-takeover-of-green-valley-casino-challenged-1-.html
Low-ranking creditors of Green Valley
Ranch Gaming LLC are fighting the sale of the company’s casino
in suburban  Las Vegas  saying the buyer, a group led by the
Fertitta family, was on both sides of the negotiating table in
the $500 million deal.  The committee of unsecured creditors of Green Valley Gaming
asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Gregg Zive to put off a May 25
hearing to approve the sale as part of the company’s pre-
packaged bankruptcy plan.  “As an initial matter, the auction appears to have been
rigged to depress the perceived value of GVR,” the committee’s
law firm, Brown Rudnick LLP, said in court papers dated May 9.  Green Valley Gaming is co-owned by bankrupt Station Casinos
Inc., a Las Vegas gambling company that is controlled by the
Fertitta family. A delay in the hearing may prevent Station
Casinos from leaving bankruptcy this summer as planned.  Under a Fertittas-sponsored plan, Green Valley Ranch would
become a majority-owned part of a restructured Station, should
Zive approve the proposal. Station also needs approval from
 Nevada  gaming regulators before it can exit bankruptcy, Lori Nelson, a spokeswoman for Station, said in an interview.  Nelson declined to respond to the committee’s allegations.  Station Reorganization  The Green Valley sale would allow Station to leave
bankruptcy with most of its properties controlled by the
existing owners. Station Casinos is being reorganized by
Chairman Frank Fertitta; his brother, Vice Chairman Lorenzo Fertitta; and their partners, which include Tom Barrack’s  Colony
Capital LLC  and some lenders.  The committee is made up of three unsecured creditors
appointed by the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the U.S. Justice
Department that monitors corporate bankruptcies. The committee
members represent three investment firms,  MFS Investment
Management , Panton Capital Group and Babson Capital Management
LLC.  Station Casinos filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009 in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Reno, Nevada, after its debt was increased
by a November 2007 leveraged buyout by the Fertittas and Colony
Capital. Green Valley Gaming filed bankruptcy in April and its
case was consolidated with the Station Casino case under Judge
Zive.  The allegations by Green Valley’s creditors are similar to
the claims made by creditors of Station Casinos after it filed
bankruptcy. Station’s creditor’s also accused the Fertittas of
using their control over the company to engineer a sale that
scared off competition and kept them in control.  Objections Overruled  After hearing testimony about the allegations, Zive
overruled the creditors’ objections and approved the Station
sale and reorganization plan.  Green Valley said in court papers that it owes secured
creditors, whose claims are backed by collateral, about $872.3
million. The company said it owes its suppliers and other so-
called trade creditors about $23.5 million.  The company’s court papers don’t disclose how much the
company owes the three members of the unsecured creditor
committee.  The case is In re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  