-- 
Finland Agrees to Back Portugal’s Bailout Provided Repayment Is Guaranteed

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-12T08:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/finland-agrees-to-back-portugal-s-bailout-provided-repayment-is-guaranteed.html
Finland  will back a bailout for
 Portugal  provided the third euro member to require aid in 12
months agrees to conditions including state asset sales.  Portugal, which needs backing from all 17 euro nations to
tap Europe’s stability facility for cash, must also start talks
with private investors to ensure their funds stay in the country
before a bailout can be paid out, Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen told reporters in Helsinki late yesterday. In addition,
Finland wants a guarantee that bailout donors will get their
loans repaid before private investors, he said.  “We have reached a common understanding,” said Katainen,
who leads parliament’s biggest party after April 17 elections.
He made the announcement following talks with the  Social
Democrats , Finland’s second-largest group since the vote.  The accord ends months of uncertainty over whether the
northernmost euro member would try to block rescue measures for
Europe’s latest fiscal casualty. Voters in Finland have rewarded
parties critical of bailouts, with the euro-skeptic True Finns
winning record backing to become parliament’s third-biggest
group. Katainen has struggled to secure Finnish support for
Portugal’s rescue before a May 16 meeting of his European
counterparts and ahead of next week’s coalition talks.  “The crisis is not over and Finland cannot be a country
that would shake the fragile situation by keeping things open or
hinting that we are not involved in all the mechanisms,”
Katainen said after yesterday’s briefing.  True Finns Exit  True Finns leader Timo Soini said today he won’t join
coalition talks, after Katainen made a pro-bailout stance a
condition for negotiations.  “It was a hard decision, we made it ourselves,” Soini
said at a press conference. “We will now do opposition
politics.”  Finland will also require collateral from any countries
seeking assistance from the European Financial Stability
Facility after Portugal, Katainen said in a joint press release
with Social Democrat leader Jutta Urpilainen.  “The collateralization issue makes a lot of sense
politically and for sovereign creditors, but this is shadow
burden-sharing for some bondholders, who will fall further down
the credit food chain,” Sassan Ghahramani, president and chief
executive officer of SGH Macro Advisors in  New York , said by
phone yesterday.  Coalition Strings  Any coalition formed after May 18 talks will be obliged to
back a Portuguese bailout with the conditions presented
yesterday, according to the statement. The next government must
also support the EFSF and the permanent European Stability
Mechanism, due to come into effect in 2013. Finally, Finland’s
next coalition will strive to “change the rules of the game”
in financial markets, with measures including bank taxes,
according to the joint statement.  The Social Democrats, who earlier this week said they would
seek to make burden sharing a condition of any bailout, will
back a rescue if Finland’s conditions are met, Urpilainen said
at the press conference.  Efforts to make burden sharing a condition of future
bailouts “could have an unintended side effect and put a chill
on private sector involvement in Portugal,” Ghahramani said.
“It may not be so relevant now that Portugal is effectively
taken out of the markets, but it could have an impact one or two
years from now when Portugal returns to the market. It will
depend on whether markets get their confidence back in the
meantime.”  Debt Markets  The difference between Portuguese and German two-year
government yields narrowed 30 basis points yesterday to 988.
Five-year spreads shrank by the same amount to 902 basis points.
Finland’s two-year notes yielded 18 basis points less than same-
maturity German debt, the lowest borrowing cost in the euro
area, according to Bloomberg data.  Lawmakers in  Europe ’s AAA rated countries want tougher
terms for bailouts amid speculation that  Greece  may be forced to
restructure its debts just over a year after it agreed its 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue.  Standard & Poor’s  on May 9
lowered Greece’s debt rating by two steps to B, five levels
below investment grade.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said this week Greece needs
to meet strict terms to deserve an extension to its loan.
Lawmakers in Berlin will approve Portugal’s rescue, a document
from the ruling parties prepared for a Budget Committee meeting
and handed to reporters showed yesterday.  Burden Sharing  Burden sharing will be incorporated into Europe’s permanent
stability mechanism. The EFSF doesn’t include provisions for
investor losses.  Portugal will pay between 5.5 percent and 6 percent
interest on the European portion of a 78 billion-euro bailout,
comparable to the rate currently paid by Ireland, European Union
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on May 10.  The package calls for Portugal to implement the austerity
measures that the Lisbon-based government proposed and
parliament rejected in March. Spending reductions for 2012 and
2013, including cuts to pensions, will amount to 3.4 percent of
gross domestic product, while revenue increases will represent
1.7 percent of economic output, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said May 5. The plan also earmarks 12
billion euros for Portugal’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net 
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  