-- 
Flaherty Vows to Use Parliament Majority to Erase Budget Deficit by 2014

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A d a m   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/flaherty-says-majority-to-keep-canada-on-deficit-cutting-track.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said his governing  Conservative Party  will use its
decisive election victory last week to ensure the nation erases
its budget deficit in three years.  Speaking at the  Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit , Flaherty
said the Conservatives will introduce a budget next month that
will forecast a balance by 2014, even as the country moves ahead
with planned corporate income tax cuts to help sustain the
expansion.  “We have a majority government in Canada now,” Flaherty
said late yesterday in Toronto. “Businesses can rest assured we
will stay on track.”  Prime Minister Stephen Harper won a majority of seats in
Parliament for the first time on May 2, giving him a mandate to
bolster the economic recovery with additional tax cuts and erase
the deficit with curbs on  government spending .  The Conservatives’ election victory ended seven years of
minority governments that have fueled government spending, and
put the party in control of the federal agenda for the first
time since the early 1990s.  Harper pledged to balance Canada’s budget with a review of
government spending to find C$4 billion ($4.3 billion) in annual
savings. The  Conservative platform , which commits to reintroduce
measures from the 2011 fiscal plan that wasn’t passed before the
election was called, projects a C$2.8 billion surplus in the
fiscal year that begins April 2014.  Re-introduce Budget  The government will re-introduce the  budget  that was
rejected by opposition parties before the May 2 election, with
some minor adjustments, Flaherty said yesterday.  Flaherty spoke a week after investors knocked $99 billion
off the value of commodities, products that are among  Canada ’s
biggest exports. The Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit featured
11 panels including  Frank Stronach , the founder of Aurora,
Ontario-based  Magna International Inc. (MG) , Peter Munk, chairman of
Toronto based Barrick Gold Corp., and Donald Guloien, CEO of
Toronto-based  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)   Goldcorp Inc. Chairman Ian Telfer said at the summit he
expects commodity prices to rise this year. He said he is
“bullish” on the price of gold, which he said will reach
$2,000 per ounce by the end of 2011. He also predicted copper
averaging $4 to $4.50 per pound and uranium around $65 to $70
per pound over the same period. His Vancouver-based company is
the world’s second-largest producer of gold.  Canada is the only G-7 economy that is a major exporter of
commodities.  Not Draconian  Eliminating the  budget deficit  is a priority and Canada
won’t make “draconian” moves to reduce it, Flaherty said
separately in a Bloomberg Television interview, adding he wanted
to ensure sustainable economic growth that he estimated at about
a 3 percent annual rate this year and next. Other Group of Seven
countries must also deal with their deficits and debt, he said
in the interview.  Flaherty has been  finance minister  since 2006 without the
government holding a majority, meaning he’s had to rely on
support from opposition lawmakers to pass laws. Under Flaherty,
program expenditures have increased by 40 percent to C$245
billion as he sought to placate opposition parties and win favor
with voters.  “One of the realities of minority governments is you have
to run two tracks at the same time,” Flaherty said referring to
the need to formulate policy while ensuring at the same time the
government can retain power.  “It makes planning very difficult,” he said.  Income Splitting  The Conservative government’s most expensive pledge during
the campaign was a measure that would let families with children
under 18 split up to C$50,000 in income for tax purposes. It
would come into effect in 2014 and cost C$4 billion through
March 2016.  The Conservative platform also budgets C$2.2 billion in
compensation to  Quebec  for harmonizing its  sales tax  with the
federal government. There is also new funding for the Canadian
Coast Guard, crime legislation, fishing and agriculture.  The Conservative platform projects a 2011-12 deficit of
C$30.3 billion, C$20.1 billion in 2012-13, and C$7.7 billion in
2013-14. The federal government’s fiscal year begins April 1.  While Flaherty said a strengthening currency is a
reflection of confidence in the Canadian economy, he added the
government wants to avoid “jerky” movements in the Canadian
dollar, and said the government wouldn’t intervene in  currency
markets  without an extreme cause. Flaherty also said he doesn’t
want to see increasing “weakness” in the U.S. currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Johnson  in New York at 
 ajohnson65@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 