-- 
Foreclosure Probe, Private Capital, Apple, Deutsche Post: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-11T11:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/foreclosure-probe-private-capital-apple-deutsche-post-compliance.html
U.S. states probing foreclosure
practices revised a nationwide settlement proposal after banks
and eight Republican attorneys general objected to mortgage loan
principal cuts, two people familiar with the talks said.  The provision of the original 27-page term-sheet submitted
by the states and Justice Department would encourage defaults,
the banks and eight attorneys general said, with four of them
calling the requirement a “moral hazard.” Revisions of the
proposal reflect earlier talks with the banks, one of the people
said, without disclosing terms of the new accord.  The new terms were sent last week to lenders including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Republican attorneys
general were expected to meet yesterday in Atlanta to discuss
the issue, said Adam Temple of the  Republican State Leadership
Committee . A representative of the  American Bankers Association 
will address them, he said.  The seven-month probe by all 50 states was triggered by
claims of faulty foreclosure practices after the housing
collapse, which state officials said may violate their laws.  In addition to Bank of America and JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc. are involved in
talks with the states. The five banks control more than half of
the mortgage-servicing market, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller,
who leads the state probe, has said.  Miller, a Democrat, didn’t return a call seeking comment on
the new proposal. Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of
America, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail. Thomas Kelly,
a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Schapiro Says SEC Reviewing Rules on Stakes in Nonpublic Firms  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is studying
whether growth of closely held companies is being hindered by
limits on the number of shareholders they can have, SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said.  The agency’s staff is reviewing a rule that requires firms
with more than 499 shareholders to disclose financial
information, as well as other restrictions on how private firms
can solicit investors, Schapiro said yesterday in remarks
prepared for a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
hearing on the future of capital formation. The SEC is forming a
committee on small and emerging firms to contribute to the
review, she said.  “Companies seeking access to capital should not be
overburdened by unnecessary or superfluous regulations,”
Schapiro said in her  statement . “At the same time, while we
have an important responsibility to facilitate growing
companies’ access to America’s investment capital, we must
balance that responsibility with our obligation to protect
investors and our markets.”  The SEC sharpened its focus on how unlisted companies raise
money after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  halted a planned offering
of as much as $1.5 billion in Facebook Inc. to U.S. investors
over concerns that “immense media attention” could violate SEC
rules that limit marketing of private securities. That decision
showed the increasing difficulty in raising private capital,
Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who leads
the House panel, said in a statement May 9.  For more, click here.  Lawmakers Press Apple, Google on Smartphone Users’ Privacy  Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  defended their use of customers’
location data gathered from millions of smartphones in
responding to questions from U.S. lawmakers about how the two
companies protect consumer privacy.  Representatives of Apple and Google, makers of software
used in millions of smartphones, appeared in Congress yesterday
as lawmakers consider new online privacy rules that could alter
how they operate. The hearing was called by Senator Al Franken,
a Minnesota Democrat, to review whether use of location-based
data violates consumers’ privacy after an April report that
Apple’s iPhone was logging certain location information.  Lawmakers are trying to determine what rules are needed to
be put in place in the new era of mobile devices that are as
powerful as earlier personal computers. The iPhone was
introduced in 2007 and Google’s Android software is used by
companies including  Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc.  Apple, Google and other companies use location data to
deliver targeted advertising and help customers find nearby
businesses. The U.S. market for location-based services,
including applications and advertising, is expected to increase
to $4.7 billion by 2015 from $1.6 billion in 2010, according to
 ABI Research , an Oyster Bay, New York-based research firm.  For more, click here, and see Interviews section, below.  U.K. Plans Stronger Media Regulation, Reviews Privacy Laws  U.K. Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt said he plans to expand
regulation of all media amid controversy over the use of the
Internet to override super-injunctions used by prominent people
to prevent adverse publicity.  Celebrities who won court orders blocking British
newspapers from publishing stories about their private lives are
finding their legal protection invalidated after an anonymous
user of Twitter Inc. posted a series of messages May 8 making
allegations detailing the activities they sought to keep out of
the public eye.  Hunt said he plans to start a public consultation next week
on the contents of a new bill on communications regulation. It
might entail bringing Web-based media into line with laws
governing newspapers and broadcasters.  At the same time, Justice Secretary Kenneth Clark is
awaiting the results of an inquiry by a senior judge before
deciding how to proceed with reforming privacy laws. That report
by the Master of the Rolls, David Neuberger, is scheduled to be
published this month. Hunt said he and Clark will work together
on the future of the law on privacy.  For more, click here.  Insurance Solvency Rules May Hurt Bonds, Fitch Survey Says  Solvency II rules governing the amount of capital insurers
must hold against investments will hurt corporate bonds,
according to 46 percent of respondents in Fitch Ratings’
quarterly European fixed-income investor survey.  Forty-two percent said there would be “no real impact”
and 12 percent said the regulations would be positive for bonds,
Fitch said in a statement.  Solvency II is a regulatory framework for European insurers
that is expected to come into effect in January 2013, Fitch said
in the statement.  Singapore  to Lure More Hedge Funds on Asia Growth, MAS Says  Singapore is attracting more global hedge funds that are
drawn to Asia’s economic growth as the regulator seeks to
further develop the industry, including building up fund
administration services.  Global managers including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and
Algebris Investments LLP have set up in Singapore as Asia’s
economic growth outpaces the world. The region now has as many
millionaires as  Europe  and they are set to increase allocations
to alternative investments, including hedge funds, to 8 percent
of their portfolios this year, from 5 percent in 2009, according
to a Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co. report.  “We continue to see interest from fund managers as well as
alternative investment managers, including global and indigenous
hedge funds, which add diversity to the broader asset management
industry,” Ng Nam Sin, assistant managing director of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, wrote in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Improved fundamentals in emerging Asian economies and the
search for higher yields, with low  interest rates  in advanced
economies, have fueled capital flows into the region, Ng said.  Singapore has made it easier for hedge funds to set up shop
on the island than in other Asian cities such as  Hong Kong ,
where hedge-fund managers face the same licensing requirements
as mutual-fund managers. While Singapore is introducing new
rules to increase oversight of the industry, small funds can
keep operating without a license. Hong Kong and Singapore are
the two biggest centers for hedge funds in Asia.  Compliance Action  FDIC Seeks Comment on Rule Governing Retail Forex Transactions  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. will seek comment on a
measure that would govern banks’ off-exchange foreign currency
transactions with retail customers, part of the agency’s
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act.  FDIC board members voted 5-0 at a meeting in Washington
yesterday to seek comment on the proposal, which would impose
requirements for foreign currency futures and options that would
be prohibited as of July 16 in the absence of a rule. The FDIC
proposal would cover retail transactions involving individuals
with $10 million or less to invest, the agency said.  The measure wouldn’t apply to foreign currency forwards or
spot transactions that banks engage in with business customers
to hedge foreign exchange risk, according to the FDIC’s notice
of proposed rulemaking.  Yesterday’s vote by the FDIC board approves sending the
measure out for public comment for 30 days after its publication
in the Federal Register.  Deutsche Post Faces Wider EU State-Aid Probe Over Pensions  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest mail carrier, faces an
expanded state-subsidy investigation by European Union
regulators over payments from the German government to cover
workers’ pension costs.  Subsidies and an increase in regulated postage prices to
cover pensions for workers with civil-servant status may harm
rivals that may pay 10 percent to 15 percent more in
contributions, the  European Commission  said in an e-mailed
 statement  yesterday.  Deutsche Post called the EU allegations “baseless” and
said there have been no new facts since a related 2002 decision
was dismissed, Dirk Klasen, a spokesman for the Bonn, Germany-
based company said by phone. Deutsche Post said yesterday that
it contributed 542 million euros ($778 million) to a pension
fund for the company’s civil servants in the first quarter.  The probe broadens the scope of an investigation that
started in 2007 into “all public measures, such as transfers of
public money and tariff income” granted to Deutsche Post and
its predecessor Postdienst since 1989.  Interviews/Speeches  Calderon Says Mexico Must Fix Monopolistic Practices  Mexican President Felipe Calderon said big companies,
including ones in the telecommunications industry owned by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , need to be better regulated for anti-
competitive behavior.  Calderon, who spoke with Julianna Goldman on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan,” also
discussed President Barack Obama’s efforts to revamp U.S.
immigration laws.  For the video, click here.  ECB’s  Bini Smaghi  Says Debt Restructuring Would Be ‘Wrong’  European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini
Smaghi said allowing a euro-area member state to default on or
restructure its debt would create more problems than it solves.  “Default or debt restructuring is a dramatic economic and
social event for the country which experiences it -- I would
call it political ‘suicide’ -- which leads many into poverty, as
experience has shown,” Bini Smaghi said in a speech in Florence
yesterday. While at first sight it might seem reasonable and
fair to ask investors to bear the consequences of their
decisions, “it is wrong not only in theory but also in
practice,” he said.  Bini Smaghi’s comments come after Greece’s credit rating on
May 9 was cut two levels to B from BB- by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which said further reductions are possible as the risk of
default rises. Euro-region officials said after an unscheduled
May 6 meeting in Luxembourg that Greece needs “a further
adjustment program.”  Bini Smaghi said large investors who bought insurance
against sovereign default “stand to benefit greatly from the
default and lobby in favor of it.”  For more, click here.  Sullivan Says Google Disclosed Location Data Gathering  Danny Sullivan, editor-in-chief at  Search Engine Land ,
talked about yesterday’s Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing
into  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.’s handling of mobile-phone user-
location data.  He spoke with Cory Johnson on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg West.”  For the video, click here.  Barnier Says European Union Needs to Examine Bank Pay, Bonuses  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said EU regulators need to examine
“shortcomings” in banks’ policies for pay and bonuses.  “We have to look at pay and bonuses at the moment and the
shortcomings of that,” Barnier said at the  European Parliament 
in Strasbourg, France, yesterday.  EU regulators approved laws to curb incentives for
excessive risk-taking last year, imposing limits on cash payouts
and the size of bankers’ bonuses. The rules allow bankers to
receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in immediate cash
payouts and require the rest to be deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years.  Barnier told the EU Parliament last month that bonuses
required further action.  Comings and Goings  JPMorgan Hires Citigroup Compliance Head for Home Lending  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, hired Citigroup Inc. Chief Compliance Officer Cindy
Armine to step up oversight of its home-lending unit.  Armine is leaving Citigroup after 31 years to become chief
control officer of the mortgage division at New York-based
JPMorgan, according to internal memos from both companies
confirmed by Kristin Lemkau at JPMorgan and Shannon Bell at
Citigroup.  Dow Jones Newswires reported the appointment early in the
day yesterday.  The bank is among the 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers in
negotiations to end regulators’ probes into the use of faulty
documents in foreclosure proceedings. JPMorgan also agreed last
month to pay $56 million and to reduce mortgage rates for all
deployed military personnel to settle claims it overcharged
service families for their home loans.  Armine will oversee a consent agreement the bank reached
with the  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  and  Federal
Reserve  over its foreclosure practices, the JPMorgan memo said.  Merkel ‘Could Back’ Draghi as Trichet’s Successor at ECB  German Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed to back Mario Draghi
as the next president of the European Central Bank, leaving the
Bank of Italy governor unopposed by Europe’s political leaders.  “I know Mario Draghi,” Merkel told the Die Zeit newspaper
in an interview published today. “He’s a very interesting and
experienced person. He’s very close to our ideas of the
stability culture and solid economic policy. Germany could
support his candidacy for the office of the ECB president.”  Merkel’s remarks, her first on the ECB succession, were
confirmed by the Chancellery and her chief spokesman, Steffen
Seibert. “That’s exactly what she said,” Seibert said in a
text message.  Germany is the last of the four biggest euro-region
countries to endorse Draghi after France, Italy and Spain
signaled their support. Draghi became the frontrunner for
Germany’s support when Germany’s contender, then-Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber , pulled out in February.  The eight-year term of the ECB’s current president, Jean-
Claude Trichet, ends in October, creating an opening at the top
of the world’s second-most powerful central bank after the U.S.
Federal Reserve. While Germany alone cannot dictate who wins the
post, its status as Europe’s largest economy and biggest
guarantor of aid to peripheral euro countries make it the
dominant voice in the appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 