-- 
France Soccer Coach Blanc Is Naive, Not Racist, Ex-Teammate Karembeu Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-11T13:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/france-soccer-coach-blanc-is-naive-not-racist-ex-teammate-karembeu-says.html
French national soccer coach  Laurent Blanc  was naive, not racist, to enter into discussions about
limiting players with foreign roots from the country’s youth
programs and he shouldn’t lose his job, said Christian Karembeu,
a teammate from the 1998 World Cup-winning squad.  Sports Minister Chantal Jouanno yesterday cleared Blanc and
members of the French Football Federation of breaking the law
after tapes emerged of them discussing quotas to increase the
number of French natives in the squad. She did though describe
the talks as “at the edge of being racist.”  “He’s not a racist,” Karembeu, 40, who hails from the New
Caledonia islands in the  Pacific Ocean , said in an interview
yesterday. “Somewhere he was naive. We need to prevent people
using these types of words and cliches.”  Karembeu played in midfield for  France  when it won the
 World Cup  on home soil. Blanc was also in the squad, which was
celebrated in France for having players from several ethnic
backgrounds.  The French Football Federation and the sports ministry
opened investigations after Internet site  Mediapart  released a
recording of a Nov. 8 meeting where Blanc and other FFF training
staff discussed quotas. The former Marseille and Manchester
United defender is also heard complaining that the predominance
of black players in France has led to an overly physical style
of play.  Blanc was questioned by both sets of investigators
yesterday, and his future will be decided at a meeting of the
 FFF’s  board tomorrow. Newspapers including Le Figaro and Le
Parisien have said he will keep his job.  Meltdown  Karembeu said keeping Blanc would be the right decision.  “The performances are good so why are we going to change
manager just like that?” he said. Blanc, 45, who also played
for  Inter Milan  and Napoli in  Italy , was appointed head coach
following the national team’s meltdown at last year’s World Cup.
It returned home to massive criticism following a first-round
elimination that followed embarrassing scenes of the players
refusing to train after a dispute with the coaching staff.  France leads its qualification group for the next year’s
European Championship by four points with a record of four wins
and one defeat from five matches.  French soccer officials are frustrated at the number of
players who go through the youth program only to end up playing
for another country. In the 2009-10 season, 24 of 60 players in
France’s youth training program opted to play for other
countries, including  Morocco ,  Poland , and  Algeria , Jouanno said.  Veils Controversy  Race has become a prominent part of France’s national
political debate in recent years. The country last month started
to enforce a ban on full facial veils worn by some Muslim women
and the anti-immigrant National Front has surged in the polls,
with its leader Marine Le Pen holding a lead over President
 Nicolas Sarkozy .  “There’s a political election in the next two years and
we don’t want to be part of that propaganda,” Karembeu said.  Blanc has apologized for causing any offense and denied
accusations of racism or xenophobia. That has stopped former
teammates like Lilian Thuram and  Patrick Vieira  calling for his
resignation. Zinedine Zidane, the most famous player on the 1998
team and whose parents are Algerian, said he was disappointed by
Blanc’s comments, but that he shouldn’t be fired.  Karembeu said he remains close to Blanc and his wife, who
has Algerian heritage. He said the larger issue was France’s
difficulty with integrating its minorities.  “France is too conservative,” he said. “Everything is
rooted in the past. I hope the new generation and old generation
can accept this reality that we are part of France and we are
French together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 