-- 
French Cabinet Approves Wealth Tax Overhaul, End of Tax Ceiling

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-11T12:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/french-cabinet-approves-wealth-tax-overhaul-end-of-tax-ceiling.html
The French Cabinet agreed to cut a
tax on the wealthy and scrap a tax ceiling for individuals,
tackling a politically sensitive fiscal issue a year ahead of
national elections.  “It is both fair and efficient to reduce a tax that
remains an anomaly in  Europe ,” Budget Minister and government
spokesman  Francois Baroin  said after today’s Cabinet meeting in
Paris. “It was the most we could do, given the political
calendar.”  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  last November called for an
overhaul of taxes on assets, seeking to bring the French system
more in line with those of other European countries. He was
under pressure from members of his party, who wanted to abolish
the wealth tax. At the same time, polls showed public backing
for the levy and opposition to the tax ceiling approved under
Sarkozy on total household tax liability. Sarkozy’s popularity
is near record lows as he faces an election next year.  Most details of the change were announced last month. The
first tranche of the  wealth tax , for individuals with assets
between 800,000 euros ($1.15 million) and 1.3 million euros,
will be abolished this year. From next year, assets from 1.3
million euros to 3 million euros will be taxed at 0.25 percent,
and assets of more than 3 million euros will be taxed at 0.5
percent, replacing four bands with a top rate of 1.8 percent.  Raises Tax Revenue  The complete package of measures, which include taxes on
second homes of French citizens living abroad and tighter rules
to govern the passing of cash and assets between generations,
will increase tax receipts by 71 million euros this year, 14
million euros next year and 56 million euros in 2013, Finance
Ministry officials said. The French  budget deficit  was about 140
billion euros in 2010.  The wealth tax, called ISF in French, was introduced by
Socialist President Francois Mitterrand in 1981, a time when 10-
year government bonds earned 10 percent a year, compared with
3.5 percent now. Other European countries have either abolished
a similar levy or never had one. To temper its effect, Sarkozy
introduced tax legislation that limits total tax payments to 50
percent of income.  That so-called tax shield will now be eliminated because
300,000 households out of the 562,000 which paid ISF in 2009,
will no longer owe anything. Most of these households exiting
the wealth tax ended up owing the money only because of rising
property prices, Baroin said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  