-- 
Children Don Masks, Hats in Fukushima as Radiation Looms

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-05-11T09:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/fukushima-students-wear-masks-as-radiation-looms.html
Students at the  Shoyo Junior High
School  in Fukushima are wearing masks, caps and long-sleeved
jerseys to attend classes as their exposure to radiation is on
pace to equal annual limits for nuclear industry workers.  “Students are told not to go out to the school yard and we
keep windows shut,” said Yukihide Sato, the vice principal at
Shoyo Junior High in  Date city , about 60 kilometers (37 miles)
northwest from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station.
“Things are getting worse, but I don’t know what to do.”  Two months after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
created  Japan ’s worst nuclear crisis since World War II, schools
in Fukushima are waiting for stronger measures from the
government to protect its youngest citizens. A parents group is
petitioning Governor Yuhei Sato to evacuate more than 1,600
kindergartens, elementary and junior high schools which would
affect about 300,000 children and teachers.  “The governor should take leadership,” said Seiichi
Nakate, the 50-year-old head of the  Network to Protect Fukushima
Children from Radiation , a group comprising 250 parents.
“Fukushima Prefecture is the only power that can protect our
children from  radiation exposure .”  Thirty-five members of the parents group met with Yuichi
Matsumoto, an official of the prefecture’s disaster task force,
for 90 minutes today, Nakate said. The Fukushima government
accepted the petition and will decide on a response, said
Masafumi Mizuguchi, another official at the task force.  National Decisions  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration has led rescue
and evacuation efforts since the quake decimated towns and left
more than 24,000  dead or missing . Decisions to remove
contaminated materials in Fukushima prefecture have been left to
the central government because local authorities don’t have the
expertise or knowledge, said an official at the prefecture’s
education department, who declined to be named.  Children and teachers at a fifth of the 1,600 schools in
Fukushima are receiving at least 20 millisieverts of radiation
per year, said Nakate, according to readings from the government.
That’s the limit for a nuclear power plant worker, according to
Japan’s nuclear safety commission.  More than three-quarters of the schools receive radiation
readings of 0.6 microsievert per hour, Nakate said. That’s 10
times more than the readings in Shinjuku, central Tokyo last
week. A chest X-ray delivers a radiation dose of about 100
microsieverts, or 0.1 millisievert, according to the  U.S. Food
and Drug Administration . A millisievert is 1,000 microsieverts.  ‘Phone Calls’  “We are waiting for the national government’s advice and
asking them for appropriate ways to deal with the situation,”
Hisashi Katayose, an official at the Fukushima prefecture
government’s disaster  task force , said yesterday. “We’ve
received several phone calls from residents and been asked to
reduce radiation levels at schools.”  Governor Sato on May 2 had asked the national government to
determine appropriate measures to prevent the situation from
getting worse.  Readings at Shoyo Junior High reached 3.3 microsieverts an
hour on May 2, according to Date city’s education board. The
school, which has 245 students and 27 teaching staff, bans
female students from wearing skirts, citing radiation concerns,
said Vice Principal Sato.  Date city’s government in late April removed contaminated
soil from playgrounds at two elementary schools and one day care
facility after requests from local residents, said Hiroshi Ono,
an official at the city’s board of education. Radiation readings
had exceeded 3.8 microsieverts an hour, he said.  The soil was left at the corners of the playgrounds and
covered with plastic sheets as a temporary measure, Ono said in
a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  