-- 
Gasoline Falls on Speculation Prices Rose too High on Flooding

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-05-11T14:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/gasoline-falls-on-speculation-prices-rose-too-high-on-flooding.html
Gasoline fell for the first time in
three days on speculation that prices rose too high without
confirmation that flooding on the  Mississippi  River will cut
fuel supplies.  Futures sank as much as 4.7 percent after gaining 9.4
percent the prior two days on concern that U.S. supplies would
fall further from a 22-month low. The river flooding may swamp 3
million acres as high waters move south from  Memphis  and
threaten  Louisiana .  “Some traders may have said the market was a little ahead
of itself,” said Tom Knight, vice president of trading and
supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . “There was
profit taking on crack spreads, backwardation, cash prices.
Background fundamentals are still the same, there is no gas.”  Gasoline for June delivery fell 12.3 cents, or 3.6 percent,
to $3.2567 a gallon at 9:55 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , after touching $3.2223. June’s premium over July
narrowed 2.44 cents to 10.15 cents a gallon.  The June crack spread, or premium of gasoline over crude
oil, sank $3.02 to $35.05 a barrel, after reaching a record high
yesterday.  On the Mississippi between New Orleans and Baton Rouge,
there are 11 refineries with a combined capacity of 2.5 million
barrels a day, or 13 percent of U.S. output, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  “There are some issues with river terminals shut down
because of high water,” Knight said. “A lot of those river
refineries have a tremendous amount of inbound and outbound
traffic on barges.”  Water Levels  Water levels were forecast to hold below 48 feet (14.6
meters) in Memphis before the floods move south toward Louisiana
and then empty into the  Gulf of Mexico  past  New Orleans  in about
two weeks.  “Gasoline led the market on the way up on fears that the
Mississippi would cause major flooding to refineries,” said
Lipow. “The actual impact is likely to be more limited to the
logistics and distribution system along the waterways.”  To relieve the threat to New Orleans and Baton Rouge,
Louisiana’s capital, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers may open
the  Morganza floodway . Opening it halfway would inundate a swath
of central Louisiana along the Atchafalaya River with 5 feet to
20 feet of water. The decision to open the floodway may come as
soon as May 14, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said at a press
conference in  Baton Rouge  yesterday.  “The majority of products go out the pipeline. You do have
crude oil tankers going up the river and some product tankers
loading before going to the Florida market,” Lipow said.  Weekly Data  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. today in  Washington . The industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that gasoline
stockpiles dropped 1.84 million barrels.  U.S. supplies of the motor fuel probably fell 750,000
barrels last week from the previous week’s 204.5 million,
according to the median estimate of 17 analysts in a survey by
Bloomberg News. Supply disruptions after May 6 would not be
reflected in the department’s report today.  “I don’t think the bullish picture is finished, we just
had a correction today,” said Ray Carbone, president of
Paramount Options Inc. in  New York . “And we’re only a few weeks
from the summer driving season.  The peak gasoline demand period starts after the Memorial
Day holiday in late May and ends on Labor Day in early
September. The holidays fall on May 30 and Sept. 5 this year.  Regular retail gasoline rose 1.1 cents to $3.962 a gallon
yesterday, AAA said on its website.  Stockpiles of distillate fuels, including heating oil and
diesel, were likely unchanged, according to the survey.  Heating oil for June delivery lost 3.21 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $2.9691 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  