-- 
General Motors Retirees Sue Over Cuts in Benefits After 2009 Bankruptcy

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-05-11T14:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/general-motors-retirees-sue-over-benefit-losses-after-bankruptcy.html
Dozens of  General Motors Co. (GM) 
executive retirees sued the company contending they suffered
loss of benefits after the automaker’s bankruptcy.  The pensioners, including former GM Vice President John G. Middlebrook, are asking a judge to rule that the company
violated the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act and
order it to pay past-due benefits with interest, plus legal fees
and expenses.  “In erroneously administering” the retirement plan, GM
“contravenes the plain text” of the contract, lawyers for the
executives said May 9 in a complaint filed in federal court in
Detroit. Denial of benefits “constitutes an abuse of the
discretion provided” in the plan, and is “arbitrary and
capricious,” the lawyers said.  GM, based in  Detroit , filed the third-largest bankruptcy in
history in June 2009. The  U.S. Treasury  provided billions of
dollars in loans that converted into equity.  “Sacrifices were made by every stakeholder, including
former executives, to create a foundation upon which the new GM
can thrive,” James Cain, a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. He said the pension plan administrator
“properly considered and denied” the claims.  In a Nov. 23 letter included in court filings, plaintiffs’
lawyers allege that under a modified retirement plan, only
benefits of more than $100,000 a year are to be reduced by two-
thirds, and not benefits under $100,000.  In response, plan administrator Janice K. Uhlig wrote on
Feb. 8 that GM properly interpreted life-annuity reductions
under the U.S. bankruptcy code and she “has the discretionary
authority to construe, interpret, apply and administer” the
 retirement plan .  GM rose 14 cents to $31.75 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 10:06 a.m. The shares have declined
14 percent this year.  The case is Tate v. General Motors LLC, 2:11-cv-12028, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 