-- 
German 10-Year Government Bonds Decline as Rate of Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-11T15:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/german-10-year-government-bonds-drop-as-inflation-accelerates.html
German bonds declined as a government
report showed inflation surpassed initial estimates and reached
the fastest pace since 2008, supporting the case for the
European Central Bank to increase  interest rates .  The losses pushed the 10-year yield up for a second day,
after it declined earlier this week to the lowest since March
16. German inflation last month jumped to a 2.7 percent annual
rate from 2.3 percent in March, the Federal Statistics Office
said today. Greek bonds were mixed as unions went on strike in
protest at deficit cuts. Spanish and Portuguese notes rose amid
optimism that the two nations won’t suffer contagion from
speculation that Greece will restructure its debt.  “We expect the ECB to increase interest rates again in
July, which is going to affect bond yields,” said Viola Stork,
a fixed-income analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
 Frankfurt . “Now that yields have come down a bit, there’s some
scope for them to rise.”  The yield on the bund,  Europe ’s benchmark government
security, climbed two basis points to 3.15 percent as of 4:28
p.m. in London, after decreasing this week to 3.08 percent. The
3.25 percent security maturing in July 2021 fell 0.195, or 1.95
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,430) face amount, to 100.89.  Bunds climbed last week as the European Central Bank left
the refinancing rate at 1.25 percent and its president, Jean- Claude Trichet, signaled the ECB may not raise rates further
until after June. The ECB’s inflation target for the 17-nation
euro region is 2 percent.  German Sale  German bonds have handed investors a 0.8 percent loss this
year, compared with a 1.5 percent gain for Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost investors 11
percent, while those of  Portugal  have declined 15 percent.  European Central Bank  Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said he is optimistic about economic prospects and that
data indicate that the global recovery is becoming sustainable.
Some European nations still need to do more to control their
public finances, he said in a speech near Florence,  Italy .  Germany ’s inflation release today was an upward revision
from the first estimate of 2.6 percent on April 27, and the
fastest since September 2008. Inflation in the 17-nation euro
region quickened to 2.8 percent last month, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said on April 29.  Bond Sale  Europe’s largest economy sold 5.9 billion euros of two-year
notes today at an average yield of 1.79 percent, attracting bids
equivalent to 1.92 times the amount on offer. The last time
Germany auctioned two-year notes, on April 6, the nation
received bids for 1.85 times the securities sold. In the four
sales this year before today, the bid-to-cover ratio has
averaged 1.9, while the yield has averaged 1.51 percent.  Gains by Portuguese securities pushed 10-year spreads over
bunds below their level at the end of last week, when Germany’s
Spiegel magazine said  Greece  may drop the euro.  Portugal’s 10-year yield was 28 basis points lower at 9.44
percent, while the two-year yield decreased 21 basis points to
11.68 percent.  Spain ’s two-year yield was two percentage points
higher at 3.38 percent, while that on the 10-year security was
two basis points lower at 5.26 percent.  The extra yield investors get for holding Portuguese 10-
year bonds instead of similar bunds narrowed by 30 basis points
to 629 basis points, after climbing to a euro-era record
yesterday. Spanish 10-year bonds yielded 211 basis points more
than similar bunds, down from 215 basis points yesterday.  ‘Calmed Down’  Portugal will pay between 5.5 percent and 6 percent
interest on the European portion of its emergency loans,
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters in Strasbourg,  France  today.  The country’s BBB- sovereign-debt may be downgraded if its
banks are unable to meet capital rules or if they require more
funding than currently anticipated,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
statement today.“It seems to have calmed down a bit,” said
 David Schnautz , a strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “You
can see that in the spreads and also bund yields are pointing in
that direction. We still get the impression from officials that
they will lend a hand and Greece will get more help in one way
or another.”  Spain doesn’t plan additional budget cuts as the deficit is
already narrowing in line with the government’s plans, Finance
Minister Elena Salgado said.  Second Strike  “The deficit is being reduced in line with forecasts,
revenues are in line with forecasts and the reduction in
spending is as we expected, so there will be no additional
measures,” she told lawmakers in Parliament today when asked if
the government is planning new cuts.  The Greek 10-year yield rose 10 basis points to 15.53
percent. The two-year note yield gained as much as 110 basis
points, or 1.1 percentage points, to a record 26.28 percent
before settling five basis points lower at 25.13 percent.  Transport systems will grind to a halt today for a second
time this year as Greek unions rally to oppose the planned sales
of stakes in state-owned companies such as  Public Power Corp SA. (PPC) 
The government is preparing 50 billion euros of asset sales to
help pay down the debt load that sparked a region-wide crisis.  Greece needs to stay the budget-cutting course to win an
increase in the 110 billion-euro lifeline granted a year ago,
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said. “We can offer solidarity
only if Greece’s stability and eagerness to reform is proven,”
Merkel told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  