-- 
Ghana Inflation Slowed for Second Consecutive Month in April

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-05-11T14:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/ghana-inflation-slowed-for-second-consecutive-month-in-april-1-.html
Ghana ’s inflation slowed for the
second consecutive month in April as the impact of a 30 percent
increase in gasoline prices in January eased and the cedi
stabilized.  The inflation rate fell to 9 percent from 9.1 percent in
March,  Grace Bediako , a statistician at the  Ghana  Statistical
Service, told reporters today in the capital, Accra. Prices rose
1.3 percent in the month, she said.  “This is a good reading, especially given the inflationary
pressures are stemming from high  oil prices  and a relatively
weak currency,” Lisa Lewin, head of sub-Saharan Africa analysis
at London-based Business Monitor International, said in an e-
mailed note.  The increase in gasoline prices on Jan. 4 by the National
Petroleum Authority pushed inflation to 9.1 percent in January
from 8.6 percent the month before. Price-growth had slowed in
the previous 18 months from a five-year high of 20.7 percent in
June 2009.  “The ultra low inflation figures are extraordinary and
reflect the significance of stable domestic prices, fiscal
prudence and a somewhat stable cedi,” Sampson Akligoh,
economist at Accra-based  Databank Financial Services Ltd. , said
in an e-mailed note.  Stability  After weakening as much as 5.7 percent against the dollar
in the first five weeks of 2011, the currency has stabilized and
is now down only 1.5 percent in the year, easing pressure on
import costs.  Food inflation declined to 4.2 percent in April from 4.7
percent the month before, while non-food inflation accelerated
to 12.2 percent from 12 percent, Bediako said.  Slowing inflation enabled the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 4.5 percentage points in the 12 months though
July 2010, when it reduced the rate to 13.5 percent. The rate
was maintained for the third consecutive meeting on Feb. 18. The
 Bank of Ghana  will make its next decision come May 13.  “It looks almost certain that rates will be kept on
hold,”Lewin said. “As soon as inflation edges back into the
double digits (probably not until the second half) we can expect
a hiking cycle to commence.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 