-- 
Gold, Silver Futures Slump in New York as Dollar Strengthens Against Euro

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-05-11T18:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/gold-silver-futures-slump-in-new-york-as-dollar-strengthens-against-euro.html
Gold fell in  New York , halting a
three-session rally, as a stronger dollar eroded the appeal of
the precious metal as an alternative asset. Silver also
declined.  The dollar rose against the euro on speculation that
European leaders may not grant  Greece  additional aid, forcing
the nation to restructure its debt. Gold touched a record
$1,577.40 an ounce on May 2 before dropping 4.2 percent last
week as the greenback climbed.  “The correction in the dollar will have more room on the
upside, and that’s going to pressure precious metals,” said
Matt Zeman, a strategist at Kingsview Financial in  Chicago .
“Too many people were short the dollar and long gold. There
will be additional unwinding of that trade.”  Gold futures for June delivery fell $15.50, or 1 percent,
to settle at $1,501.40 at 1:49 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The metal has gained 23 percent in the past year.  The euro has dropped 2.5 percent in a measure of 10
developed-nation currencies since May 4, the day before European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled the bank may
wait until after June to raise borrowing costs again, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The bank
raised the main interest rate 25 basis points to 1.25 percent in
April.  “The falling euro is going to drag gold down with it,”
said Zeman of Kingsview.  Gold Trust Holdings  Holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-
traded fund backed by bullion, were unchanged yesterday at
1,201.95 metric tons, after declining 2 percent last week. The
last gain in holdings was April 15.  “We would’ve expected that they’d have risen a bit in the
last day or two, given the sharp bounce” in  gold prices , said
 Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter. “That suggests to us that the
worst of the liquidation is not yet over.”  Gartman has recommended holding gold in other currencies to
hedge against the relative strength of the dollar.  Silver, which has wider industrial applications than gold,
also fell on speculation that  China  will raise interest rates to
stem inflation. The Asian nation’s consumer prices rose 5.3
percent in April, the statistics bureau said today in Beijing.
The country’s target inflation rate is 4 percent for this year.  “There’s chatter about China raising rates to curb growth,
and that’s made copper and silver vulnerable,” said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in
Chicago.  Silver futures for July delivery fell $2.971, or 7.7
percent, to $35.515 an ounce on the Comex. The metal gained 9.1
percent in the previous two days after shedding 27 percent last
week.  Palladium futures for June delivery declined $17.25, or 2.4
percent, to $715.40 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Platinum futures for July delivery dropped $23.10, or
1.3 percent, to $1,777.80 an ounce on the Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 