-- 
Gome to Take ‘Appropriate Steps’ After Interview

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T05:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/gome-to-take-appropriate-steps-after-interview.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. fell the most in a week in  Hong Kong  trading after a
newspaper reported its former chairman as saying the company’s
targets are unachievable and the stock has no prospects.  Gome said it will take “appropriate steps” after the 21st
Century Business Herald reported  Chen Xiao  as saying the company
is overcharging home appliance suppliers for admission fees and
its plan for new store openings is impossible to reach. The
stock has “no prospect” and many institutional investors have
pulled out, Chen was quoted as saying.  Shares of the Beijing-based electronics retailer fell as
much as 3.2 percent, and traded 1.8 percent lower at HK$2.76 as
of 1:35 p.m. in Hong Kong, headed for the biggest decline since
May 4. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.4 percent.  “The company would not tolerate Mr. Chen’s behavior as
expressed in the article and any other false or misleading news
reporting about the company,” Zhang Dazhong, Gome’s current
chairman, said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today. Gome “would take appropriate steps to protect the
company’s interests,” the statement said, without specifying
what it might do.  Chen stepped down as chairman in March after a boardroom
battle. Jailed billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu  had fought for
control with Gome shareholders including Bain Capital LLC,
saying he disagreed with the slower rate of store openings under
Chen, whom the private-equity fund had supported.  Growth Strategy  Gome “does not agree” with Chen’s views, which don’t
represent the position of the company, it said in the exchange
statement. Chen didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone or
respond to an e-mail listed on his microblog.  The electronics retailer posted the fastest profit growth
in four years in 2010, as net income rose 39 percent to 1.96
billion yuan ($299 million). The company said in March it will
concentrate on opening stores in key regions, particularly
megastores and flagship outlets, and speed up expansion in so-
called second-tier markets.  Same-store sales, which show how stores are faring without
taking into account the impact of newly opened outlets, rose 22
percent last year, according to the company. Gome closed 39
underperforming stores, opened 139 new stores and remodeled
existing stores in the period, it said in March.  Gome’s shares have risen 18 percent in the past year,
trailing the 29 percent gain by rival Suning Appliance Co.,
which trades in Shenzhen.  Chen owns a 1.2 percent stake in Gome, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, holds
31 percent and privately owns the Gome brand and about 400
stores. He is currently serving 14 years in prison for bribery,
 insider trading  and illegally buying foreign currency.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  