-- 
Greek General Strike Halts Flights, Shuts Schools Over Austerity Program

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-11T16:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/greek-general-strike-halts-flights-shuts-schools.html
Greek unions kept ferries docked at
ports, grounded flights and shut hospitals and schools today in
renewed protests against Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
plans to sell state assets and usher in more spending cuts.  ADEDY , the largest public-sector union, and the General Confederation of Labor, or GSEE,  Greece ’s largest private-sector
union, are protesting against 76 billion euros ($109 billion) of
planned expenditure reductions and asset sales. The general
strike, the second this year, was held as officials from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  begin a review of
the country that will allow a fifth installment of loans to be
paid under an international bailout.  “A year ago, the government announced and took some
measures against the civil servants, against the workers,
against the wages,” Vassilis Xenakis, a public-sector union
leader involved in organizing a demonstration today, said in an
interview on BBC Radio 4. “The result was the people became
poorer, the markets have been frozen, there is no growth, there
is no productivity and nobody invests.”  “Today the government comes again asking for more
measures, so who can accept once again all these measures
without results?” Xenakis said.  Police estimated that attendance at marches in Athens and
Piraeus, the biggest port, was at least 18,000. In the capital,
marchers shouted “Take your memorandum and go”. Police used
tear gas to break up minor scuffles with protesters.  Injuries  Twenty-four protesters were detained and two police
officers injured, a police spokesman, who wouldn’t be named,
said by telephone. A representative of the director of the
Nikeas General State Hospital said one protester was admitted to
the hospital and underwent surgery for unspecified injuries. The
32-year-old man was in a stable condition after being treated
for a head injury, a spokesman for the Health Ministry in Athens
said by phone, declining to be named.  Unions rallied today to oppose the planned sales of stakes
in state-owned companies such as  Public Power Corp SA. (PPC)  The GENOP
union, which represents workers there, has said it may hold
rolling strikes until the government backs down. Worker boycotts
caused blackouts across the country in 2008.  Athens International Airport , the country’s biggest and one
of the assets the government plans to reduce its holding in,
shut from midday to 4 p.m. as air traffic controllers walked
out. Journalists also joined the strike call, leading to a media
blackout.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  