-- 
Greenland Bets on Oil, Metals, Cows as Ticket to Independence

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-12T06:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/greenland-bets-on-oil-metals-cows-as-ticket-to-independence.html
Greenland  is betting a two-year
commodity-price boom will bring it closer to ending almost three
centuries of Danish colonial rule.  The Arctic island is becoming a hotspot for drillers as
easier-to-access resources dwindle, crude prices tripled since
2008 and tighter legislation in the  Gulf of Mexico  attracts
companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Exxon Mobil Corp.
Waters off Greenland may hold 48 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, the  U.S. Geological Survey  estimates, almost double
2009 U.S. oil reserves. The island has also become a target for
companies seeking minerals such as iron and diamonds.  “There’s a stronger belief that we can free ourselves from
Denmark’s economic and political domination,” Prime Minister
Kuupik Kleist, 53, said in an interview in the capital Nuuk.  Greenland got a record 17 applications from 12 companies in
last year’s oil licensing round to explore its  Baffin Bay  after
two wells drilled by  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  in 2010 indicated
hydrocarbons. The Scottish producer is drilling as many as four
wells this year in a campaign that will top $1 billion.  Cairn’s exploration “has resulted in more interest from
the international oil industry, higher  tax revenue , higher
employment in certain areas and greater political focus on the
opportunities for mineral exploitation,” Kleist said.  Greenland, which gets about half its exports from shrimp,
is also trying to carve out a niche in  food production  and
targets cattle and sheep farming in its warmer southern parts,
Kleist said. The push comes as global food prices have surged
amid weather shocks, including drought.  Cattle Breeding  Cattle breeding “we had 100 years ago, and then it
disappeared -- now it’s coming back,” Kleist said. “We import
large quantities of food products, while at the same time we
have a lot of potential to produce food ourselves, so we’re
investing a lot on replacing imports with production.”  The island had 49 cows in 2008, up from 5 in 2000,
according to a 2010 fact book from  Greenland’s statistics
agency . It had more than 20,000 sheep in 2008.  While the island was granted home rule in 1979 and broader
domestic governance in 2009, it still relies on an annual
subsidy from  Denmark  of about $674 million, or 30 percent of the
economy and equivalent to almost $12,000 per person.  Viking Chief  The ties between the two countries date back to Viking
chief Erik the Red, who moved to Greenland in 982 after being
banished from Iceland for murder. Legend has it that the
island’s name was crafted to attract settlers. Denmark colonized
Greenland in the 18th century.  Oil production “could start in five years time at the very
earliest -- we’ll see this summer what indications we get” from
Cairn, Kleist said.  Greenland and Denmark have an agreement to split petroleum
revenue in excess of 75 million kroner ($14 million), Kleist
said. “That mechanism continues until we reach 6.4 billion
kroner. When we reach that point, we’ll say ‘OK, we want a new
deal,’ but what that will consist of we haven’t decided yet as
it’s so far into the future.”  The island is also benefiting from soaring prices in the
metals industry as producers and miners race to secure access to
minerals such as  iron ore .  London Mining Plc (LOND) , which says it
wants to become one of the world’s 10 biggest producers of iron
ore, is investing $2 billion in the Isua project north of Nuuk.  Mineral Licenses  The country granted 40 mineral licenses last year, bringing
the total up to 120, and hopes to employ more than 1,000 people
in the industry over the next five to 10 years, according to the
 Bureau of Minerals and Petroleum . Natural resources include a
number of basic metals, as well as gold, platinum and uranium.  “We’ve five-folded the number of exploration licenses in
the last four years and we hope to five-fold it again in the
next four to five years,” said Joern Skov Nielsen, head of the
bureau, in an interview in Nuuk yesterday. “Greenland could
become a world leader in mining for zinc.”  The island has several mineral projects nearing development
stage, including a zinc mine and recently re-opened a gold mine,
he said. Several rare-earth metal projects are also at a “quite
advanced stage,” he said.  Rare-earth metals are expensive to extract and are often
laced with radioactive elements. China has come to dominate the
market because it has been able to produce the metals more
cheaply and with fewer environmental restrictions than its
competitors.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities has
doubled since the end of 2008, and is up 12 percent even after
slumping 11 percent last week. Investors retreated after funds
had made near-record bets on gains and the index reached the
highest since August 2008.  Warming Help  Global warming is helping Greenland’s economic prospects,
as thawing ice eases access to its shores. The island may also
be able to generate more revenue from shipping as the thaw
creates routes once impassable, Kleist said.  The annual temperature increase in the Arctic since 1980
has been twice as high as in the rest of the world, meaning the
 Arctic Ocean  may during the summer months be largely ice-free by
2050, according to a  May report  by the Arctic Monitoring and
Assessment Program.  Greenland, where 9.2 percent of the population lives below
the poverty line, is trying to reduce an unemployment measure of
about 7.7 percent, on average, last year. Average  life
expectancy  is 71 years, according to the CIA Factbook, nine
years below the average for industrialized countries.  “Greenland’s economy is extremely sensitive,” said
Kleist, who leads Greenland’s socialist Inuit Ataqatigiit party
and in been in power with the Demokraatit and Kattusseqatigiit
parties since June 2009. “The main focus of my government is on
improving  living standards .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  