-- 
Greeks Blaming Speculators Is Sure Sign of Panic: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-05-11T23:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/greeks-blaming-speculators-a-sure-sign-of-panic-jonathan-weil.html
There’s a point in almost every
financial crisis when pretty much anything anybody says about it
can take on a ring of truth, because the leaders responsible for
dealing with the disaster have squandered their credibility.  That’s where the Greek financial crisis stands now. What’s
remarkable is how clearly this comes across simply from reading
the government’s  press releases , including one last week from
Greece’s Ministry of Finance  disputing  an online article by the
German magazine  Der Spiegel .  The May 6  article , which said Greece had threatened to drop
the euro, was “not only completely untrue but also written with
incomprehensible flippancy,” the ministry said. “Such articles
are not only provocative but also highly irresponsible as they
undermine Greece’s efforts and those of the Eurozone and serve
only the interests of speculators.”  Red flags don’t get more glaring than this. Whenever you
see an issuer of securities -- be it a sovereign nation or a
Wall Street bank -- blame speculators, journalists or rumor-
mongerers for its troubles, you know the bosses there are
panicking.  The other dead giveaway that the Spiegel story might have
been on the mark, at least partly, was that the press release
didn’t point to anything specific in the article as inaccurate.  For instance, the first paragraph of the article said euro-
area finance ministers and European Commission officials had
scheduled a secret meeting for that night in Luxembourg. That
same day, a spokesman for Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who is chairman of the euro area’s council of finance
ministers, told  reporters  for several news outlets that there
was no meeting and that this part of the Spiegel story was
wrong. Actually such a meeting did occur on May 6. The
spokesman, Guy Schuller, later conceded he had lied.  ‘Certain Necessities’  Asked to explain why, Schuller told the Wall Street Journal
that “I was told to say there was no meeting,” and that “we
had certain necessities to consider.” The euro was falling on
the Spiegel report and “there was a very good reason to deny
that the meeting was taking place,” he  said , namely “self-
preservation.” Besides, he said, when Juncker says something to
the markets, “nobody seems to believe it.”  So, maybe the purpose of the meeting had been to discuss
such a threat by  Greece . Spiegel said it got its information
from unnamed German government sources. The article quoted at
length from what it said was an internal German finance ministry
report arguing why it would be a terrible idea for Greece to
stop using the euro. Spiegel said German officials planned to
bring the paper to the May 6 meeting in Luxembourg.  Best Guess  By the time the confab was held, though, the fact it was
being convened was no longer a secret, meaning the parties would
have had plenty of time to change their minds about what to talk
about. If indeed Greece had made such a threat, that doesn’t
seem to have been discussed there. But who knows? Your best
guess is no less credible than any of the participants’ most
strenuous public denials.  (The website EUobserver, by the way, has a video you can
see  here  of Juncker at a conference last month, where he said
it’s necessary sometimes for public officials to lie about
financial and economic matters, and that he’s done it before.)  Europeans aren’t special when it comes to telling untruths
or creating bogeymen. During the 2008 financial crisis, U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Hank Paulson  and Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Christopher Cox blamed short sellers, taking
a page from Dick Fuld at  Lehman Brothers  and  John Mack  at Morgan
Stanley. American International Group’s executives blamed mark-
to-market accounting rules.  No Outrage  Just last month President  Barack Obama  and Attorney General
 Eric Holder  promised to  investigate  oil speculators, as if such
things as the  Federal Reserve ’s easy-money policies or Middle
East unrest didn’t adequately explain the recent rise in  oil
prices . Naturally they showed no outrage over speculators who
made a killing this month when oil prices plunged.  As for Greece, where the yield on 10-year  government bonds 
has topped 15 percent, investors are right to believe a debt
restructuring is inevitable. This week the word from the finance
ministry’s P.R. shop was that it was “not justified” for
 Standard & Poor’s  to cut Greece’s credit rating to B from BB-,
when if anything S&P was late with its call, as usual. S&P’s
decision, the ministry said, was “based simply on rumors.”  Perhaps someday the world’s leaders will learn it is far
more destabilizing for them to make up facts and blame straw men
for their own governments’ failings than it is for them to speak
candidly and transparently in their communications with the
public. We can only hope.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  