-- 
Gulf Troops to Stay in Bahrain to Protect Against ‘Iran Threat’

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-11T14:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/gulf-troops-to-stay-in-bahrain-to-protect-against-iran-threat-.html
Troops from Persian Gulf nations will
remain in  Bahrain  to protect the Sunni-monarchy against an
Iranian threat and “saboteurs and thugs,” the  Bahrain News
Agency  said, citing the commander of the Bahrain Defense Force.  The Saudi-led Gulf forces will stay in “anticipation of
any foreign threat,” the  official news service  said, citing
Commander-in-Chief Marshal Sheikh Khalifa bin Ahmed Al Khalifa.
Bahrain’s army will return to its barracks and “always be on
alert to fend off any threats,” the news service said.  Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa issued a royal
decree on May 8 declaring an end to the nationwide state of
emergency on June 1. The government declared martial law in
March as it sought to quell mainly Shiite demonstrations calling
for more democracy and civil rights after popular uprisings
ousted rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  earlier this year.  Shiites make up about 70 percent of the Bahraini population
of less than 1 million and many retain cultural and family ties
with  Iran  as well as with Muslims of the same sect in  Saudi
Arabia . During the protests, Shiites also called for an end to
discrimination over jobs and housing.  Crude  oil prices  have climbed 21 percent since unrest
started in Bahrain on Feb. 14. Crude for June delivery declined
as much as $1.62, or 1.6 percent, to $102.26 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $102.27 at 1:22 p.m. London
time.  Detentions, Torture  Since the introduction of the emergency law, security
forces have arrested activists and doctors, demolished mosques
and closed an opposition newspaper.  Al-Wefaq , the main Shiite
opposition group, has accused the government of bulldozing 30
mosques, according to an e-mailed statement on April 24.  Human Rights Watch  said it documented “the routine use of
torture” by Bahraini security officials during interrogations
in political and security-related cases, according to a
 statement yesterday  on its website. “Some detainees have been
tortured or otherwise ill-treated following arrest and at least
four people have died in suspicious circumstances,”  Amnesty
International  said on May 4.  Physicians for Human Rights  said on April 22 that there was
“hard evidence of systematic and coordinated attacks against
medical personnel because of their efforts to provide unbiased
care for wounded protesters.” Bahrain military prosecutors said
May 3 that they had charged 47 medical staff with trying to
overthrow the regime.  Manama Cleared  Bahrain forces “successfully cleared Manama of saboteurs
and thugs,” Marshal Sheikh Khalifa was cited saying by the news
service today. Young people “were given pills, which affected
their minds and made them do unusual things,” he said.  More than 800 people have been detained and more than 25
are missing, according to the  Bahrain Youth Society for Human
Rights . Bahrain’s Lower National Safety Court sentenced four
demonstrators to death for the murder of two police officers,
the state-run Bahrain News Agency reported April 28.  “To those who did not get the message, if you return we
will come back,” Marshal Sheikh Khalifa said. There will be no
royal pardon issued for “criminal acts” committed during the
demonstrations, the news service said.  The government started a trial of 21 opposition leaders and
political activists who participated in the protests. It has
accused them of “terrorist attempts to topple the regime
forcibly,” the state-owned news service said on May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 