-- 
Midwest Gasoline Premium Rises to 7-Month High on CVR Outage

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-11T18:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/midwest-gasoline-premium-rises-to-7-month-high-on-cvr-outage.html
Gasoline in the Midwest rose to its
highest premium over futures in seven months after  CVR Energy
Inc. (CVI)  had a fire at a reformer, shutting the unit and adding to
disruptions from rising  Mississippi  River water levels.  The fire at the 120,000-barrel-a-day Coffeyville, Kansas,
refinery will “probably trim rates for the next several days,”
CVR Chief Executive John Lipinski said on a conference call
yesterday. One employee received minor injuries in a fall during
the incident.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Midwest, or Group 3 market rose 0.75 cent to 6.5 cents a gallon
versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
12:53 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt
delivery slipped 26.37 cents to $3.1735 a gallon.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  was forced to reduce operations at its
refinery in  Memphis , Tennessee, to between 80 percent and 85
percent of capacity because of Mississippi River flooding,
according to people familiar with refinery operations.  Flooding limited movement of products in and out of the
plant by barge, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak for the refinery.  The same fuel in the Gulf Coast rose 2.1 cents to 4.5 cents
a gallon over futures.  Because of high water conditions, Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners has suspended dock operations “at a number of our
facilities along the Mississippi, but our landside operations
continue to operate normally,” said Joe Hollier, a company
spokesman. “We expect to make up some of the lost volumes when
the waters recede” and don’t expect a material impact, he said.  LBC Tank Terminal has suspended some dock operations in the
region due to the higher river levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 