-- 
Indiana Planned Parenthood Defunding Withstands Court Test

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-11T21:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/indiana-planned-parenthood-defunding-survives-first-test-in-federal-court.html
Indiana ’s defunding of Planned
Parenthood withstood its first legal test when a federal judge
refused to issue a temporary order blocking the new law.  U.S. District Judge Tanya Walton Pratt today denied Planned
Parenthood’s request for relief in a lawsuit filed at the U.S.
court in Indianapolis after Republican Governor Mitch Daniels
signed the measure into law yesterday.  It bars state agencies from entering into contracts with or
making grants to any entity that performs abortions or maintains
a facility where they’re performed.  “While the underlying issues of this case will be argued
at a later date, today’s ruling allows the statute the Indiana
Legislature passed to remain in effect,” state Attorney General
 Greg Zoeller  said.  “The legislation has generated strong emotions on all
sides, and my office will provide a vigorous legal defense for
the statute,” he said. It is the attorney general’s duty to
defend in court the constitutionality of any Indiana statute,
Zoeller said.  In a four-page order denying the bid for a temporary order,
Walton Pratt said she wasn’t persuaded that the new law “will
have a concrete and immediate effect that would warrant the
extraordinary remedy” of enjoining it before the state has a
chance to fully contest the issues raised by Planned Parenthood
and the ACLU.  The  American Civil Liberties Union , representing  Planned
Parenthood , argues that the law violates the constitutional
rights of health-care providers and endangers patients.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  “We are deeply disappointed that the judge decided not to
stop this unconscionable law from impacting Hoosiers seeking
preventive, reproductive health care,” said Indiana Planned
Parenthood Chief Executive Officer Betty Cockrum said in a press
statement, identifying Indiana’s citizens by their state-
sanctioned moniker.  “The ruling means that Hoosiers who rely on federal
funding have lost access to their crucial and lifesaving
preventive health care at Planned Parenthood of Indiana,”
Cockrum said.  Planned Parenthood is the largest entity affected by the
legislation, the ACLU told the court yesterday in a brief filed
in support of the temporary injunction denied today.  Contracts Canceled  The legislation forced the cancellation of contracts under
which the organization received funding through the joint state-
federal Medicaid program to provide basic  health services  and
family planning guidance, according to the brief.  “None of these services has anything to do with
abortions,” according to the ACLU’s brief.  Ken Falk, legal director for the  ACLU of Indiana , didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The parties are scheduled to return to court on June 6 for
oral argument on the ACLU’s motion for a preliminary injunction
blocking enforcement of the law.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Indiana Inc. v.
Commissioner of the Indiana State Department of Health, 1:11-
cv-630, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  