-- 
Intel Boosts Payout a Second Time in Six Months as Spending Lifts Earnings

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-11T14:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/intel-boosts-qtr-dividend-to-21c-shr.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, raised its dividend for the second time in six months
as increasing corporate spending on technology boosts earnings.  The quarterly payout rises 16 percent to 21 cents a share,
 Santa Clara , California-based Intel said today in a statement.
On Nov. 12, it raised the dividend to about 18 cents.  “It’s a great sign,” said Ambrish Srivastava, an analyst
with BMO Capital Markets in  San Francisco  who rates the stock
“outperform.” “It shows their confidence in their business
model and their ability to generate cash. It’s also a very
investor-friendly move.”  Last month, Intel forecast second-quarter sales that may
top analysts’ estimates as it benefits from booming demand for
machines that deliver computing over the Internet. Even as
personal computers come under pressure from tablets and mobile
devices, Intel’s 80 percent share of the microprocessor market
boosts sales when companies upgrade their server and PC fleets.  “Intel’s current and projected growth is generating strong
 cash flow , allowing us to further increase our dividend,” Chief
Executive Officer Paul Otellini said in today’s statement.  The shares added 57 cents to $23.60 at 10:35 a.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock had gained 9.5
percent this year as of yesterday.  Share Buybacks  The company had $12 billion in cash, near-cash items and
short-term investments as of April 2, according to its quarterly
filing. Intel reported a 29 percent increase in first-quarter
net income last month, after profit more than doubled in 2010.  Last quarter, Intel used $4 billion to repurchase 189
million shares and had $10.2 billion remaining in its stock
repurchase plan.  Intel last month joined providers of technology to
businesses including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
 VMware Inc. (VMW)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  in giving forecasts that
met or topped analysts’ estimates.  The results suggested that after the recession ended in
2009, a rebound in demand may be gathering steam. Companies are
outfitting data centers capable of delivering storage, software
and other computing tasks over the Internet. The global market
for such cloud-related services may more than double to $148.8
billion in 2014 from $58.6 billion in 2009, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. in Stamford,  Connecticut .  On April 26, IBM, the largest computer-services provider,
boosted its dividend by 15 percent and set aside more money for
share buybacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  