-- 
Tiny New Fungus Hints at Nature’s Hidden Mysteries, British Scientists Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-11T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/tiny-new-fungus-hints-at-nature-s-hidden-mysteries-british-scientists-say.html
A new class of  fungi  discovered in a
British pond demonstrates just how little we know about the
microbes around us, scientists say.  David Hawksworth, a British researcher,  suggested  in 1990
that only about 5 percent of fungi species had been discovered.
The newly found family was named cryptomycota, or “hidden
fungi,” by investigators who have tracked it in soil,
freshwater and aquatic sediments. Scientists first spotted the
new microbes in water from the grounds of the University of
Exeter’s  Streatham campus .  The new fungus, reported today in the journal  Nature ,
doesn’t conform to the standard physical makeup of other groups.
It lacks a tough outer wall made of  chitin , a polymer that also
forms the hard outer coating in insects, the study found. The
lack of such a wall in this group suggests it may be the first
branch in the fungi evolutionary tree, the investigators said.  “There’s a huge pool of uninvestigated microbial forms,”
said  Thomas Richards , a biologist at the University of Exeter
and a study author. “We found a hugely diverse branch, which
may even double the diversity of fungi.”  The class exists in samples taken from all over the world,
according to the paper. This group was found by testing the DNA
in a fungus from the university pond. An unusual DNA sequence
led researchers to the cryptomycota, Richards said in a
telephone interview.  The method for finding the organism suggests there are many
biological life forms that can’t be discovered through lab
cultures, Richards said.  “It’s clear we only know about 1 to 10 percent of the
microbial diversity out there,” Richards said. The newly
discovered fungi family “grow and develop in a different way.
That’s consistent with them being an intermediate form.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 