-- 
Iran Hasn’t Contacted EU to Restart Talks on Nuclear Program

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-11T12:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/iran-hasn-t-contacted-eu-to-restart-talks-on-nuclear-program.html
Iran  hasn’t contacted the European
Union to resume talks on its nuclear program, an EU spokeswoman
said, refuting media reports that the Middle East country had
accepted an invitation for further negotiations.  “We are surprised to hear the Iranians talking about
meetings,” European Commission spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic told
reporters in Brussels today. “They have not been in touch with
us about any proposals.”  The EU received a letter from Iran’s top nuclear
negotiator, Saeed Jalili, though it contained nothing new and
didn’t justify further meetings, Kocijancic said.  The Associated Press reported yesterday, citing Iranian
state television, that Iran had accepted an EU proposal for more
talks on its nuclear program. The AP said Jalili’s letter to EU
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  proposed reopening
negotiations.  Talks in Istanbul between Iran and the so-called P5+1
group, composed of  China ,  France ,  Germany , Russia, the U.K. and
U.S., broke down in January. Tensions rose after the Jan. 22
meeting, when Iranian negotiators refused to discuss their
country’s nuclear work. The U.S. accuses Iran of having a secret
atomic weapons program. Iran says it only wants to generate
nuclear power.  The Persian Gulf state came under a fourth set of United
Nations sanctions in mid-2010 over its nuclear program. The
sanctions, supported by Russia and China, were accompanied by
tougher U.S. and European Union measures.  The first reactor at Iran’s Bushehr nuclear power plant was
started on May 8, Rosatom Corp.,  Russia ’s nuclear holding, said
on its  website  yesterday. ZAO Atomstroyexport, a Rosatom
subsidiary, is building the facility, Iran’s first.  The fission process, or criticality, which allows the atoms
to split by themselves in a reaction without interference from
operators, was initiated in the reactor, Rosatom said. The
Russian company plans to further test the reactor to ensure its
safety, including educating personnel to operate the power unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  