-- 
Iran Fails to Bring Spy Case Americans to Court, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-05-11T18:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/iran-fails-to-bring-spy-case-americans-to-court-lawyer-says-1-.html
The trial of three U.S. citizens held
in  Iran  on spying charges was postponed after officials failed
to bring two of them to the court in Tehran, their lawyer said.  No reason was given for the absence of  Josh Fattal  and
 Shane Bauer  from today’s session, Masoud Shafiei said in a phone
interview. They were arrested almost two years ago, along with
 Sarah Shourd , who returned to the U.S. in September 2010 after
being released on bail of $500,000. Shourd didn’t travel to Iran
to attend the trial because of illness, Shafiei said.  “The court was set and we waited for two hours,” the
lawyer said. He said Iran’s judiciary is “at fault” because it
is responsible for ensuring the presence in court of those
detained. He said he is awaiting instructions from the court on
the next step in the case. All three have pleaded innocent.  The continued detention of the two men is an additional
topic of conflict between Iran and the U.S., which along with
its allies accuses the Persian Gulf country of seeking to build
atomic weapons under the cover of its nuclear power program.
Iran rejects the claim and says it needs the technology to
secure energy for its growing population.  U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the U.S. is
trying to get more information about the two Americans through
 Switzerland , which represents U.S. interests in Iran. The Swiss
“have not been granted regular consular access to Josh and
Shane,” Toner said today.  Health Concerns  Swiss diplomats last saw the two on Oct, 26, 2010, Toner
said. “We are concerned about their health, given their
prolonged detention, which is another reason we think they
should be released,” Toner said.  The judiciary’s information office said by phone that no
one was immediately available to comment on why the trial was
postponed.  Shourd was arrested with Fattal and Bauer in July 2009 for
illegally crossing into Iran from  Iraqi Kurdistan . The U.S.
government has said the three mistakenly wandered across the
border during a hiking trip and has called for Bauer and
Fattal’s release.  ‘Political Jab’  “The endless prosecution of the two hikers appears to be
little more than a political jab at the  United States ,” said
Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at New York-based Human
Rights Watch, in a  report  today. “This case highlights the
cruel and arbitrary nature of the Iranian justice system.”  Shafiei had expressed concerns on May 4 that Shourd’s
absence “may be used as a pretext for the session to be
postponed.” Prosecutor-General Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejei
confirmed yesterday that the trial would be held as scheduled,
according to the state-run  Fars  news agency.  Shourd “sent me an attestation to present to the court
certifying that she is ill and her doctor has prevented her from
participating in the trial,” Shafiei said. The time spent in
detention in Iran has affected Shourd psychologically and a
return to the country would be traumatic for her, he said.  Shourd was summoned to return for the trial’s first hearing
on Feb. 6. She entered her not-guilty plea in absentia, Shafiei
said at the time.  In February 2010, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Iran
may be ready to exchange the detainees with Iranians held in the
U.S., an overture that was dismissed by the State Department.  Shourd had lived with Bauer in the Syrian capital,
Damascus, where she learned Arabic and taught English, according
to  freethehikers.org , a website set up to help gain the
Americans’ freedom. Bauer is a freelance journalist and
photographer, while Fattal is an environmentalist who was
visiting Damascus before they headed to  Iraq , according to the
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  