-- 
Ironman Targets Wall Street Endurance Athletes With NYC Event

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   J o s h   F i n e m a n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/ironman-targets-wall-street-endurance-athletes-with-proposed-nyc-event.html
World Triathlon Corporation is close
to bringing an  Ironman  race to  New York City  as it seeks to
capitalize on the growth of endurance sports among financial
professionals.  The group is in negotiations with city officials about
staging its marquee event in  Manhattan , said Steve Meckfessel,
chief operating officer of World Triathlon, which owns and
operates Ironman events.  “There are a lot of entities and moving parts and permits
that need to be completed,” Meckfessel said in a telephone
interview. “This is permitting on steroids when it comes to New
York.”  The first 140.6-mile (226.2-kilometer) Ironman race in New
York would be the 24th held annually  around the world  by World
Triathlon. The Ironman was created in  Hawaii  in 1978 and
consists of a 2.4-mile swim, 112-mile bike ride and 26.2-mile
run.  Contract talks to bring an event to  New York  are in “the
final stages,” Ironman spokeswoman Jessica Weidensall said, and
an accord may be signed very soon.  “Nothing is finalized,” Weidensall said in a telephone
interview. “We do not have a signed contract.”  Andrew Cole, a spokesman for  Providence Equity Partners
Inc. , the Providence, Rhode Island-based buyout firm that
purchased World Triathlon in 2008, declined to comment.  Korff Partnership  The event would be staged in partnership with  Korff
Enterprises , which operates the Olympic-distance  Nautica NYC
Triathlon , Meckfessel said.  “We’re close, but I thought we were close about three
years ago,” Korff Enterprises owner John Korff said in a
telephone interview. “It’s like being at 26 miles in the
marathon.”  World Triathlon recently partnered with Korff, who has been
working on bringing an Ironman to New York for seven years, and
the NYC Triathlon to promote the event as part of Ironman’s 5150
Triathlon Series.  The 11-year-old NYC Triathlon, which is scheduled for Aug.
7, consists of a .9-mile swim, 25-mile bike ride and 6.2-mile
run.  The 2010 NYC Triathlon sold out in six minutes, according
to Korff. Entrance for this year’s event was conducted via
lottery in November.  Popularity Soars  In the decade after triathlon first appeared in the
Olympics in 2000, membership of  USA Triathlon  soared to 135,000
from 20,000, according to the sport’s governing body in the U.S.  Ironman competitors have an average annual income of
$161,000, according to World Triathlon.  “Our athletes come from a very high demographic profile,
with high incomes and a high status within their professional
pursuits,” Meckfessel said.  The swim would take place in the  Hudson River , Korff said.
Meckfessel said the run would likely be two loops of a 13.1-mile
circuit rather than the New York City Marathon course, which
begins in  Staten Island  and ends in Central Park.  Competitors have 17 hours to finish an Ironman, making it
difficult to close large sections of the city, Meckfessel said.  The earliest an Ironman could be held in New York would be
2012, though 2013 may be more realistic, Korff said.  Ironman world champion  Chris McCormack  of  Australia  will
speak at a June 7 event at the  Harvard Club of New York City  to
discuss “New York City’s Newest Triathlon,” according to a
listing on the Active.com website. Robin Hood Endurance, which
is affiliated with a charity that helps fund poverty programs
and groups in New York, is organizing the event.  World Triathlon gets its revenue from races -- including
the Ironman World Championship in Kailua-Kona, Hawaii --
licensing deals with companies such as athletic shoemaker K-
Swiss Inc. and watchmaker Timex, and sponsorships with companies
including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Mills Inc. (GIS)   Ironman’s brands also include Irongirl, Ironman 70.3 and
Ironkids.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  