-- 
Italian Jeweler Pomellato Plans Initial Public Offering, CEO Morante Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-11T16:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/italian-jeweler-pomellato-seeks-to-list-shares-in-ipo-chief-morante-says.html
Pomellato SpA , the Italian jeweler
whose trinkets have been worn by  Sofia Coppola , plans to sell
shares in an initial public offering, Chief Executive Officer
Andrea Morante said.  “Our objective is to take Pomellato public,” Morante said
today by phone, amid reports that shareholder  Damiani SpA (DMN)  was
seeking to divest its stake. The company isn’t currently working
on an IPO, which “is more of a 2013 project.” There are no
current talks to sell the company, he said.  The Milan-based jeweler, known for its M’ama non m’ama
stacking rings, would follow other Italian luxury companies
including Prada SpA and  Denmark ’s Pandora A/S in seeking a
listing. Speculation about takeovers of jewelry makers has
increased since  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  bought
Italy’s Bulgari SpA this year.  Pomellato had sales of 122 million euros ($175 million) in
2010 and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 18.6 million euros. Pandora is currently trading
at a ratio of enterprise value to trailing Ebitda of 12.57,
according to Bloomberg data.  Damiani Stake  The family owners of Damiani, who bought 18 percent of
Pomellato in 2002, will weigh bids for the stake in its rival
after having been approached to sell, Chairman and CEO Guido Damiani said in an interview in today’s Corriere Della Sera.
That was confirmed by a Damiani official.  The Damiani owners are considering selling their stake to
Gucci owner PPR SA, Corriere Della Sera reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  is
advising the family, according to two people familiar with the
plans who asked not to be named as the matter is private.  The Damiani family’s stake in Pomellato doesn’t hold any
rights in terms of governance, Morante said.  PPR has met with Pomellato, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the talks. Neither party is interested in a
transaction at the moment, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the meeting was private.  Paris-based PPR is seeking to add to its jewelry portfolio
as the company reorganizes around  luxury goods  and sports and
lifestyle brands, Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault
said in February. The Paris-based company has had contact with
numerous brands, he said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  