-- 
Draghi May Reach for Bundesbank Manual When Taking Helm at ECB

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/italy-s-draghi-may-reach-for-german-bundesbank-manual-when-he-leads-ecb.html
Italy ’s Mario Draghi may reach for
the German policy manual when he takes the helm of the  European
Central Bank .  Draghi, 63, will on Nov. 1 inherit an ECB that’s almost
unrecognizable from the one Jean-Claude Trichet took charge of
eight years ago. The bank’s balance sheet has more than doubled
to 1.9 trillion euros ($2.7 trillion), mostly as a result of the
extraordinary measures it used to battle the global financial
crisis and now Europe’s sovereign debt woes.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s endorsement of Draghi
yesterday means it will fall to an Italian to steer the ECB out
of a crisis triggered by southern European fiscal profligacy.
Merkel made clear she’s backing the  Bank of Italy  governor in
the expectation he will subscribe to the tight-money tradition
of the Bundesbank, which provided the blueprint for the ECB when
it was created 1998.  “Draghi will have to make a huge effort to assert his
hawkish credentials,” said  James Nixon , an economist at  Societe
Generale  in London and a former ECB forecaster. “He may have to
contend with the very real threat of a sovereign restructuring.
Persuading the Germans that an Italian is the best man for that
particular task is going to be difficult.”  Under Trichet, the ECB flooded markets with cheap cash and
bought  government bonds  to prop up banks from Greece to Ireland
and prevent a sovereign default. Draghi must eventually withdraw
those measures to assuage fears of inflation, even as Greece
struggles to repair its finances.  ‘I Know Mario’  “I know  Mario Draghi ,” Merkel told Die Zeit newspaper in
an interview published yesterday. “He’s very close to our ideas
of the stability culture and solid economic policy.”  That may mean further interest-rate increases to tame
inflation, which at 2.8 percent is above the ECB’s 2 percent
limit. The ECB raised its benchmark rate by a quarter point to
1.25 percent in April, the first move in almost three years.
Economists forecast it to tighten policy every three months.  “If, as the markets expect, Trichet raises rates in
October, Draghi may find himself in the position that he’s
expected to raise rates in January,” said  Julian Callow , an
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London . At the same time,
economic growth may slow later this year, “so Draghi may be
faced with questions about why unemployment is increasing,”
Callow said. The euro area’s jobless rate stayed at 9.9 percent
in March, compared with 9 percent in the U.S. last month.  ‘Double-Act’  Economic pain is already acute in Greece, prompting strikes
and protests against the government’s austerity drive. Ireland
and Portugal -- home to ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  --
are also struggling to grow.  By contrast,  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s largest, is
booming and unemployment is at a two-decade low, threatening to
fuel wage and price pressures.  “If there has been some unease at a southern European
double-act running the ECB, then the first priority for Draghi
is to signal that he’s committed to delivering the ECB’s
mandate,” said  Ken Wattret , an economist at BNP Paribas in
London.  Draghi’s candidacy has attracted criticism in Germany, and
in that context, Bild, the nation’s biggest-selling newspaper,
wrote on Feb. 11 that “inflation is as much a part of Italian
life as tomato sauce and pasta.”  Sensibilities  Recent comments suggest Draghi is willing to placate German
sensibilities. He said April 13 that monetary policy is still
“accommodative” even after the ECB raised its benchmark rate
that month. In February, he told Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
that Germany is an example for other nations, calling for
tougher sanctions for budget-rule breaches and vowing to ensure
 price stability .  Determining withdrawal of crisis measures will test
Draghi’s resolve. While the bank refrained from buying bonds for
the past six weeks, its purchase program remains in place. It
extended unlimited liquidity provision through the second
quarter and conceded that some banks are addicted to funds. The
risk for Draghi is that the longer the ECB leaves the cash tap
on, the greater the threat of inflation.  Greece  may be an obstacle to an exit. ECB officials have
publicly opposed debt restructuring as the nation struggles to
pay its creditors. Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi
warned as early as October last year that it would mean a
“total collapse” of the Greek economy, while his colleague
Juergen Stark told the Financial Times yesterday that a
restructuring “will not resolve the Greek problems.”  Restructuring  Restructuring is “very likely” said David Owen, Managing
Director of Jefferies International in London. “That
restructuring event would happen on Draghi’s watch.”  Germany lost its ECB presidency candidate when Axel Weber,
one of the central bank’s toughest hawks, unexpectedly announced
in February he would resign as Bundesbank president. German
memories of hyperinflation after World War I forged the
Bundesbank’s resolve for stable prices and made it a role model
for central banks across  Europe , including the ECB.  Draghi “will be an orthodox, single-minded inflation
fighter,” said Nick Kounis, an economist at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam. “He will be in the Bundesbank mould as ECB
president. It’s the heart and soul of the institution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  