-- 
Little Guys Are Everywhere in Rajaratnam’s Insider-Trading World

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-05-11T23:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/little-guys-are-everywhere-in-the-new-rajaratnam-world-of-insider-trading.html
The Wall Street trader had engaged in
the most widespread instance of “systemic corruption” the
government had investigated.  The comment, made by the office of U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani in 1987, came in the sentencing of  Ivan Boesky , at the
time the highest-profile defendant in what was the biggest
insider-trading case the  Justice Department  had pursued.
Prosecutors echoed those words in describing hedge-fund
billionaire  Raj Rajaratnam , who was convicted yesterday on all
14 counts of conspiracy and securities fraud after a seven-week
trial and 11 days of jury deliberation.  With Boesky, then one of the industry’s best-known traders,
the government cracked an elite Wall Street clique that included
junk-bond king  Michael Milken . In contrast, Rajaratnam exploited
a sprawling web of mostly lower-ranking underlings at hedge
funds and technology companies in the U.S. and Asia. His
conviction, while a victory for prosecutors, highlights the
challenge they face in staying ahead of the growing ranks of
people -- fund analysts, product managers, finance employees --
who are spread around the world and have access to inside
information and the inclination to sell it.  “It’s not just in the hands of CEOs and CFOs anymore,”
said Adam J. Wasserman, an attorney at  Dechert LLP  in  New York 
who handles white-collar criminal and securities cases. “The
government’s recent  insider-trading  prosecutions have shined a
light on both the recent democratization and globalization of
what is allegedly inside information.”  Roomy Khan   More than 40 people face criminal charges, civil lawsuits
or have pleaded guilty in the government probe whose roots go
back to 1998 when the FBI began investigating Roomy Khan, a
former Intel Corp. product-marketing engineer. Khan, 52, sent
Intel semiconductor-pricing and sales data to Rajaratnam’s
Galleon Group LLC, according to a criminal complaint. She later
worked at the New York-based hedge fund.  Among those charged are Zvi Goffer, a 34-year-old day
trader who made $378,608 after getting a tip that 3Com Corp., a
computer-networking firm based in Marlborough, Massachusetts,
would get acquired, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said in its  complaint  against him. Goffer, known as
“Octopussy” for his multiple sources of information, has
pleaded not guilty and awaits trial in May.  Beyond U.S. Reach  Manosha Karunatilaka, 37, a former U.S. account manager at
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
was arrested in December for selling  hedge funds  production
reports on the chipmaker’s 10 largest customers. He was paid
$200 a call by Primary Global Research LLC, an expert-network
firm that provided access to company insiders for investors,
according to a government complaint. He pleaded guilty today.  Deep Shah, a former junior analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service Inc., was charged in November 2009 with leaking
information about Blackstone Group LP’s takeover of Hilton
Hotels Corp. Shah had fled to  India  and remains a fugitive.  “For any analyst or portfolio manager, information is more
readily available now that the supply chain is predominantly
global in nature,” said Peter Rup, chief investment officer of
Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC in New York, which allocates money
to hedge funds for clients. “The dissemination of material
information is beyond the reach and control of U.S.
regulators.”  Safer in  Asia   Taiwan, in particular, has emerged in the government
investigation as a place where confidential information was
routinely leaked from the nation’s chipmakers, including
spreadsheets containing production and order data that found
their way to analysts at securities firms such as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. That data could provide
clues to sales and earnings at technology giants such as Apple
Inc. and Dell Inc.  Don Ching Trang Chu, a Primary Global employee arrested in
November, had a cadre of Asia-based employees of North American
technology companies signed up to feed information to clients,
prosecutors said in the criminal complaint against him.  Chu said he liked arranging investor meetings in Asia
because regulators weren’t too aggressive.  The SEC is “too strong,” Chu told Richard Choo-Beng Lee
in a conversation recorded by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in August 2009, according to a government
complaint. “In Asia, there, nobody cares.”  Chu entered a not guilty plea to a new criminal information
unsealed April 27 and is negotiating a plea, according to
prosecutors. Lee, who began cooperating with the U.S. in April
2009, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities-fraud  charges
in October 2009.  Investigations Continue  The breadth of the Rajaratnam’s  contact network  and two
related rings -- which the government penetrated using mobile-
phone taps and cooperating witnesses who wore concealed
recorders -- raises the question of whether trafficking in
material, nonpublic information is so prevalent that the Justice
Department and the SEC have exposed only the tip of the iceberg.  “We will continue to pursue and prosecute those who
believe they are both above the law and too smart to get
caught,”  Preet Bharara , the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, said
today in a  statement . Rajaratnam faces 15 1/2 years to 19 1/2
years in prison at his July 29 sentencing.  In Boesky’s day,  Wall Street  was a smaller, more insular
world, and inside information flowed among a tighter circle of
people. The insider-trading rings of the day were made up mostly
of investment bankers who worked on takeover deals and
arbitragers like Boesky who endeavored to make money buying and
selling the stocks of merging companies.  Giuliani’s investigation ended with prison sentences for
some of the biggest names in finance.  Milken, Levine  At the top of the heap was Milken, the Drexel Burnham
Lambert banker who turned high-yield bonds into a $1 trillion
market and took home $1 billion over four years. He spent two
years in prison after pleading guilty to six counts of
securities-law violations and paid $1.1 billion in civil and
criminal fines. Milken now raises money for medical research and
is chairman of the  Milken Institute , an economic think tank in
Santa Monica, California.  Boesky, then the most powerful takeover-stock trader on
Wall Street -- and famous for telling graduate students in a
commencement speech at University of California at Berkeley’s
business school that “greed is healthy” -- served two years in
jail and paid $100 million to the government.  The number of participants was relatively small. The
government’s first arrest in the Boesky case was in 1986, when
it nabbed Dennis Levine, an investment banker at Drexel who said
he started trading on nonpublic information as a 25-year-old
trainee at Citibank.  Hedge-Fund Hegemony  Prosecutors said he made $12.6 million in illegal profits,
($25.7 million in today’s dollars). Levine, who pleaded guilty,
pointed to Boesky, who in turn gave up Martin Siegel, a well-
known investment banker at Kidder, Peabody & Co. who later
joined Drexel. Boesky also wore a wire against Milken.  By the time the government’s latest case came to light with
Rajaratnam’s arrest in October 2009, insider trading had moved
well beyond the world of merger deals and investment bankers.
The cast of characters is diverse -- lower-level employees, both
male and female -- and hails from countries including the U.S.,
Taiwan and India. Rajaratnam, 53, is a U.S. citizen born in Sri
Lanka.  Hedge funds, a fledgling industry in the mid-1980s, have
taken center stage as the big money makers of the finance world.
Some managers, including Rajaratnam, made their fortunes betting
on short-term moves, often in technology and health-care stocks,
triggered by catalysts such as a surprise in quarterly earnings,
a surge in customer orders or the announcement of a new product.  Pressure to Produce  There were about 2,600 hedge-fund firms managing $1.7
trillion in assets at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with about 70 firms with
$39 billion in 1990, the earliest year for which the data are
available.  “There are a lot more tradable events today than before --
it’s not just mergers,” said Dan Celeghin, a partner at Casey,
Quirk & Associates LLC, a financial-consulting firm in Darien,
Connecticut. “There’s so much more valuable information out
there and the odds of inside information leaking have risen
exponentially.”  As the number of hedge-fund firms jumped, so did the
pressure to produce top returns, which drove some analysts and
portfolio managers to seek out illegal means of getting data.  “Hedge-fund managers live and die by their returns,”
Celeghin said. “It’s a more cutthroat business and hard to
coast by with mediocre returns.”  Expert Networks  That’s especially true for analysts trying to keep their
jobs at larger firms and smaller hedge-fund managers hoping to
make a name. At least 22 portfolio managers and analysts have
been caught up in the government probe, and most worked for
firms managing millions of dollars rather than the billions that
Rajaratnam oversaw at Galleon’s peak.  The demand for information helped create a new breed of
middlemen: expert-network firms, which connect investors with
corporate insiders who for a price provide color on orders,
sales and corporate strategy. Such data complement research done
in-house or provided by Wall Street firms. Using the experts is
legal as long as they don’t disclose material, nonpublic
information.  Eight employees or outside consultants at Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global crossed the line by providing
confidential information, according to government complaints.  Jiau, DeVore  Primary Global’s network included low- and mid-level
managers at U.S. and overseas technology companies who sold
secrets about companies such as Apple, Dell and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., sometimes for relatively small amounts of money,
the government said.  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant for Primary Global, was
arrested in December for allegedly passing tips on firms
including Marvell Technology Group Ltd. to hedge-fund manager
Samir Barai. Jiau, 43, who has pleaded not guilty, was paid as
much as $10,000 a month, prosecutors allege.  Daniel DeVore, a former global supply manager at Round
Rock, Texas-based Dell, pleaded guilty in December to leaking
information about the company’s products, pricing, inventory and
market share to clients of Primary Global. He was paid about
$145,000.  Early Suspicions  Rajaratnam thrived in the new global world where
information could be gleaned from hundreds of sources,
legitimate and illegitimate. It was widely suspected that he
sought out and profited from nonpublic information for most of
his career, say former employees and hedge-fund investors who
met with him.  A former colleague at Needham & Co., an investment bank
where Rajaratnam was president before co-founding Galleon,
remembers him walking into the trading room before Intel
reported quarterly earnings and telling the assembled crowd what
the exact numbers would be.  Rajaratnam told potential clients that if his analysts
needed to take someone’s secretary out to get information on a
company, he’d gladly foot the bill for the date, said people who
met with him.  Throughout the trial, Rajaratnam’s lawyers denied any
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research including
analyst reports, news accounts and stock trading trends.  Greed, Corruption  While Milken, Boesky and Siegel generated hundreds of
millions from their illegal activities, and emerged from prison
with much of their wealth intact, insider trading today at less-
rarified heights has proven to be a lot less lucrative.
Rajaratnam, the biggest money maker among the government’s
current batch of criminals, made $63.8 million in profits and
losses he avoided, according to prosecutors.  “Rajaratnam was among the best and the brightest -- one of
the most educated, successful and privileged professionals in
the country,” Bharara, the U.S. Attorney, said today in a
statement. “Yet, like so many others recently, he let greed and
corruption cause his undoing.”  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s attorney, said he will appeal the
verdict to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
Manhattan.  Arrested on the same day as Rajaratnam was  Danielle Chiesi ,
45, an equity portfolio manager and analyst at New Castle Funds
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that has since closed. Her
presence in his network of conspirators contrasts with the
Boesky era, when women were virtually nonexistent in the ranks
of traders.  ‘Intimate Relationship’  “There was an absence of women the last time,” said
Thomas Donaldson, professor of legal studies and business ethics
at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, where
Rajaratnam got his master’s in business administration.  Robert Moffat , a former International Business Machines
Corp. executive who is married with four children, said he had
an “intimate relationship” with Chiesi and gave her
confidential tips about IBM and other technology companies that
she passed on to Rajaratnam and others traders. Moffat, who had
been named as a possible successor to IBM Chief Executive
Officer  Sam Palmisano  when he retires, didn’t make money from
any of their transactions, according to court documents. Moffat,
54, pleaded guilty and was sentenced in September to six months
in prison.  ‘A Chick’  On a wiretapped conversation between Rajaratnam and Chiesi,
she alluded to an intimate relationship with  Hector Ruiz , a
former CEO of Advanced Micro. A trial witness had also testified
that she had such a relationship. Ruiz, 65, who hasn’t been
formally accused of any wrongdoing, has denied having a
relationship with Chiesi.  In conversations with Rajaratnam that were taped by the
government and played in court, she was sometimes boastful of
her ability to get information from sources. In July 2008, she
bragged that she played one technology executive “like a finely
tuned piano.”  At other times, she was scared about getting caught.  “There are people who hate me,” she told Rajaratnam in a
tape made in August 2008. “I am a chick in this business.”  Chiesi pleaded guilty to three counts of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud in January and has yet to be sentenced.  One throwback to the Boesky days of high-level conspirators
in the Rajaratnam case was  Rajat Gupta , the former Goldman Sachs
and Procter & Gamble Co. board member who the prosecution has
called an unindicted co-conspirator.  Goldman Tip  The SEC said in a civil proceeding that Gupta leaked
confidential information about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5
billion investment in Goldman Sachs in 2008, as well as
quarterly earnings for the New York-based bank and for Procter &
Gamble.  The tips generated more than $18 million in profits for
Rajaratnam, the SEC said. Gupta, 62, hasn’t been criminally
charged, and his lawyer said he was never paid for information.  With the Rajaratnam conviction under its belt, the
government has no plans to slow down in its pursuit of insider
trading at all levels.  “A government win gives them more confidence to bring
bigger cases going forward,” said Joan McKown, former chief
counsel of the SEC’s enforcement division and now a partner at
law firm Jones Day in  Washington .  After the arrests of Boesky, Siegel and Milken,
commentators marked the moment as the end of the era of greed
that had led to the savings-and-loan debacle and the leveraged-
buyout boom and bust that dominated the 1980s. Though the
Rajaratnam conviction will mean more cases are coming,
commentators are less naïve today.  “These are powerful instinctive human drives,” said Bruce Baird, 63, a partner at Covington & Burling LLP in Washington,
who worked on the Boesky-era insider-trading cases as a young
assistant U.S. Attorney in Manhattan. “Insider trading can’t be
stopped by a case or two. The most you can do is make them think
twice for a while.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  