-- 
Japan Has Biggest Property Loan Defaults in April, Moody’s Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-05-11T05:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/japan-has-biggest-property-loan-defaults-in-april-moody-s-says.html
Defaults on debt backed by Japanese
office buildings, shopping centers and warehouses rose to a
record in April due to a single loan of more than 100 billion
yen ($1.24 billion), according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Bad loans rated by Moody’s last month rose to 147 billion
yen from 26.9 billion yen a year earlier, said Koji Kumamaru,
managing director, and Takahiro Okubo, a senior analyst, at
Moody’s in  Tokyo . The monthly default balance was the biggest
since the rating company started assessing commercial mortgage
backed securities in 1999, they said.  Prices for Tokyo office buildings have fallen as much as 50
percent from their 2007 peak, according to an estimate by CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc.’s  Japan  unit. The March 11 earthquake,
Japan’s strongest, may delay a recovery in the nation’s real
estate investments by six months, according to Kumamaru.  “The risks are more imminent for investors after the
earthquake because of uncertainties,” he said in an interview.  Japan is one of four countries that have the largest gap
between capital available and debt of commercial properties that
needs to be repaid, reflecting rising loan outstanding,
according a report by  DTZ Holdings Plc . The other three nations
are the U.K.,  Spain  and Ireland.  Total outstanding loans rated by Moody’s rose by a quarter
to 568 billion yen in April from March, the rating agency’s data
showed. The increase was the biggest in five months.  Loans of more than 10 billion yen have a more difficult
time in getting refinanced because they tap a smaller pool of
buyers and lenders, Moody’s said in a report today.  The default rate by balance for commercial loans in Japan
was 31.8 percent as of March 31 from 31.5 percent as of Dec. 31,
Fitch Ratings Japan Ltd. said in a separate report on May 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  