-- 
Japanese Goverment to Oversee Tepco as Condition for State Financial Help

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a k u   K a t o
-- 
2011-05-11T09:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/japan-to-oversee-tepco-as-condition-for-state-financial-help.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. will be
monitored by the government as a condition for state financial
aid to ensure full compensation will be paid to those affected
by the world’s worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  Tokyo Electric accepts conditions set by the government
including unlimited liability on payments to those affected by
the accident at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, according
to a statement today. Japan outlined the monitoring plan
yesterday after Tokyo Electric Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata  and
President Masataka Shimizu met government officials to seek
financial help.  The plan for state support comes after Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said the government isn’t considering
nationalizing the utility. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
estimates Tepco may face claims of 11 trillion yen ($136
billion) from the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  “It seemed plain in March that if and when Tepco ran out
of money, that it would then be supported by the government,”
Ben Wedmore, a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities
Ltd., said by phone today. “It is essential that they do so. My
guess is the current plans have the debt and bondholders first
and foremost in the government’s mind after the taxpayer.”  Trade Minister Kaieda said today  Japan ’s Cabinet will
decide this week on the plan to support the compensation
payments from Tepco, as the company is called.  Government Panel  The utility’s shares rose 8.5 percent to 525 yen in Tokyo.
The stock has fallen about 77 percent since the March 11
earthquake and tsunami left more than 24,000 people dead or
missing and knocked out power and cooling systems at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station.  Tepco has to work with a government-created panel that will
“investigate the state of the utility’s finances, so that a
fair assessment can be made of the value of its assets, and a
thorough review of its spending can be carried out,” Kaieda
wrote in yesterday’s letter.  The government will conduct due diligence through an
institution that it will establish to monitor payments from
Tepco to meet damage claims, said a Japanese government
official, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
aren’t public.  If Tepco runs short of funds, options for financing include
the new entity buying preferred shares from Tepco and issuing
the company with so-called delivery bonds, which can be
converted to cash at any time, the government official said.  Seeking Cooperation  The government can also seek cooperation from other
electric companies in case of a fund shortage at Tepco, the
government official said. The payouts may take several
decades and the government doesn’t know how much money Tepco
will need as the nuclear crisis hasn’t been resolved, the
official said.  Tepco will probably report a loss of more than 1 trillion
yen for the fiscal year that ended on March 31, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today. The company earlier forecast profit
for the period would be 110 billion yen.  It delayed releasing an earnings statement after the
disaster struck. Tepco hasn’t decided when it will release its
earnings, Naoyuki Matsumoto, a spokesman at the utility, said by
phone today.  The company will write down 480 billion in deferred tax
assets and book a charge of 600 billion yen to decommission the
damaged reactors at the Fukushima plant, the Nikkei said. Tepco
is also planning 500 billion yen of asset sales, according the
Nikkei report.  Government Conditions  The other conditions stipulated in Kaieda’s letter include
requiring Tepco to stabilize the situation at Fukushima where
radiation is still spewing into the air and the company is using
fire hoses, pumps and water cannons to cool reactors and spent
fuel ponds. It must also improve the  living conditions  and
safety measures for engineers working on the crippled plant.  Tepco also must maintain stable supplies of electricity and
ensure its power stations are safe, the letter said. Another
condition requires Tepco to “rationalize” its management and
cut spending.  Katsumata and Shimizu will take no salaries, extending pay
cuts announced last month, they told reporters yesterday.  The utility on April 26 started making initial payments of
1 million yen per household affected by the disaster on April
26, spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said yesterday. It’s making these
payments to about 50,000 families forced to evacuate the area
around the plant.  Policy Reconsideration  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday he will reconsider
Japan’s plan to increase its dependence on nuclear energy. The
government will review a plan unveiled in June that called for
building nine atomic  power plants  by 2020 and more than 14 by
2030, increasing the share of nuclear energy to 50 percent from
the current 30 percent.  Under the plan, Tepco was to build two more reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “We should start from scratch,” Kan said at a press
conference in Tokyo. “We will need to make nuclear energy safer
and more strongly promote renewable energy.”  Kan also said he will give up his salary as prime minister
from June until the nuclear crisis is contained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/11/ :23 GMT 