-- 
Jim Grant’s Bio Lauds Funny, Forgotten House Speaker: Interview

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/jim-grant-s-bio-lauds-funny-forgotten-house-speaker-interview.html
Unlike the Brylcreem ad currently
warming the power chair, Thomas B. Reed, Republican Speaker of
the U.S. House of Representatives in the 1890s, had little hair
and a great sense of humor.  It is doubtful he ever dissolved into tears.  James Grant , the founder of  Grant’s Interest Rate Observer ,
offers a lively account of the Speaker and his era in “ Mr.
Speaker! The Life and Times of Thomas B. Reed, the Man Who Broke
the Filibuster .”  We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Hoelterhoff: I never heard of this guy. How did you decide
to write about him?  Grant: Barbara Tuchman included him in her  wonderful book 
about the turn of the 20th century.  And somewhere in my reading I came across the following.
 John Singer Sargent , the great American portraitist, was
commissioned by Reed’s friends to paint his likeness.  Reed has a very Delphic face, utterly un-pictorial. Sargent
went through one draft, tried another. It was hopeless. At the
 unveiling  there was a shocked, dignified silence until Reed said
to break it: “Well, I hope my enemies are satisfied.”  And with that I was hooked and read more.  Reed was an unfailing delight, as, indeed, Sargent found
him to be as well -- except for his face.  Hoelterhoff: He did have a lot of body.  Grant: He said no gentleman ever weighs more than 200
pounds, as a matter of principle, but he himself pushed 300. He
was certainly one of the great politicians of his age and, I
dare say, the funniest American statesman. He was certainly
among the most imaginative.  Fat, Funny  Hoelterhoff: Humor seems in short supply in  Washington . I
guess he didn’t dissolve into tears like  John Boehner ?  Grant: He frequently dissolved into laughter, and he caused
the House to do it, too.  Reed was known for his imperturbability. He was a sphinx on
the Speaker’s chair, especially when he was besieged by the
screaming masses -- which he was periodically -- and especially
during his great triumph when he singlehandedly broke what was
not quite a filibuster, but an organized campaign of
noncompliance by the minority.  Hoelterhoff: What does that mean?  Grant: The Constitution requires that for the Congress to
do any business it must have a quorum. The Constitution,
however, is silent on whether people so assembled are actually
present if they refuse to acknowledge their presence.  Mouths Shut  So let’s say that you, the Speaker, are sitting at the head
of a hall full of people. Obviously, it’s a quorum -- there are
hundreds of people there -- but half of them refuse to open
their mouths when the roll call is sounded. They are present
corporeally, but are they present politically?  For decades the House decided, no, they were not present.
All you had to do if you were a willful minority was to be mum
during the roll call, and the only business the House could do
was adjourn.  And so for week after week, bills would languish, speeches
would not be made, and the House would sit still. The country
would look on it and say, What are we paying these people for?  The Democrats, then the party of Jefferson and small
government, reveled in this unproductivity. They thought it was
a great thing for the House to do nothing.  Do Nothings  Hoelterhoff: Because they weren’t spending any money?  Grant: They weren’t spending any money. They weren’t
interfering in anything. They weren’t meddling.  Republicans were the party of Hamilton and intervention.
They wanted to improve harbors. They wanted to build the  Library
of Congress . They had great designs in foreign policy. And the
Republicans wanted action. They wanted progress.  Reed himself was all for the cause of modernity. He would
have dinner with Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Edison and he
sat in open-mouthed awe at the wonders of the age -- at
electricity, at the illumination of the cities, at the prospect
of international direct-dial telephony.  He saw all this coming and he compared what he saw and
imagined with how he lived: in the dark ages. No progress, no
modernity. So he resolved personally to impose it on the House.
He wanted the House to do business, and hence the drama and
importance of his actions in the early 1890s.  Hoelterhoff: How did he change things?  Grant: One day he was sitting at the head of the House and
sounded the roll call. And he marked as present those Democrats
who had refused to acknowledge their presence.  There erupted a great, great tumult because this was
revolutionary. It was an infringement on the hallowed rights of
the minority.  Oh Irony  Hoelterhoff: And the Democrats adopted his reforms a couple
years later.  Grant: The irony and the disappointment of his life was
that by bringing the House into the modern age he also brought
the American state into the supersized age.  The Democrats had warned everyone who would listen that
once you get an activist government, once it gets muscular and
interventionist it will go off and do things you wish it hadn’t
done.  And sure enough, Reed’s end in politics came with the
Spanish-American War, which he opposed.  Hoelterhoff: Why?  Grant: He felt that America should bring civilization to
places like  Kentucky  before it presumed to do so for the rest of
the world.  Hoelterhoff: Great idea.  Grant: Yes. Teddy Roosevelt rode this trend toward the
muscular American state into the history books, whereas Reed
retired on principle from the House and went to  Wall Street  to
practice law.  “Mr. Speaker!” is published by  Simon & Schuster  (426
pages, $28). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .
Grant’s other books include “ Bernard Baruch: The Adventures of
a Wall Street Legend .”  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and leisure section. All opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net  