-- 
Jim Rogers Says Dollar Is Long-Term ‘Total Disaster’

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-12T15:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/jim-rogers-says-dollar-is-total-disaster-in-the-long-term-1-.html
(Corrects seventh paragraph of story published on May 11 to
show Rogers hasn’t been buying bonds.)  The  U.S. dollar  is going to be a
“total disaster” in the long term because of the country’s
position as the world’s largest debtor and the policies being
pursued by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according
to investor  Jim Rogers .  The Chinese yuan is likely to be a “safe” currency,
although it is difficult for investors to buy, Rogers, the
chairman of Rogers Holdings, told a conference in Edinburgh.  “The situation is getting worse and I expect to see severe
problems in the U.S.,” Rogers said today. “Dr Bernanke doesn’t
understand economics, he doesn’t understand finance, he only
understands printing money and we can’t quadruple the amount of
money in the next slowdown.”  U.S. government debt  is currently 93 percent of gross
domestic product compared with 60 percent before the financial
crisis and is set to rise further in the next few years. The
dollar has fallen over the past year against every currency in a
basket of 16 major currencies. The euro has gained about 7
percent against the dollar this year. It traded at $1.4311 as of
3:20 p.m. in  London .  “I expect to see more currency turmoil maybe this fall,
and more turmoil by 2013,” said Rogers, who favors currencies
and commodities. Rogers said he is currently “long” the dollar
because the market consensus is for the currency to fall.  Rogers said he is “short” emerging markets, except for
 China , and U.S. technology stocks as a hedge against his other
positions.  “Bonds in the U.S. have been in a bull market for 30
years,” said Rogers. “In my view that’s coming to an end.”
“I am not shorting bonds right now” because 95 percent of the
market expects them to decline, he said.  Rogers said he couldn’t forecast when the  bull market  in
commodities will end. “I know the signs to look for,” he said.
“I hope I am smart enough to recognize them.”  “Great fortunes” will be made in agriculture and
alternative energies, such as solar power and wind, over the
coming years, Rogers said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 