-- 
K+S Profit Jumps 70% as Nitrogen-Fertilizer Earnings Triple

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-11T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/k-s-profit-jumps-70-as-nitrogen-fertilizer-earnings-triple.html
K+S AG,  Europe ’s biggest potash
producer, said first-quarter profit surged 70 percent as prices
for the crop nutrient rose and the nitrogen-fertilizer
division’s earnings more than tripled.  Net income jumped to 293.6 million euros ($421 million)
from 172.3 million euros, Kassel, Germany-based K+S said today
in a statement. The nitrogen unit’s earnings before interest,
taxes and hedging transactions increased to 49.6 million euros
from 14.5 million euros, and its sales rose 26 percent.  Growth at the unit, which posted its biggest quarterly
revenue and profit since the company revised divisional
reporting in early 2009, comes as K+S considers giving up the
business. Supplier  BASF SE (BAS)  is looking at disposing of plants
that provide K+S with nitrogen, raising doubts about what
happens when purchase contracts expire.  Operating profit at K+S’s salt business rose 29 percent in
the quarter as snowy weather on the U.S. East Coast and in
Europe helped demand. K+S became the world’s largest salt
producer after buying  Morton Salt  from  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  in 2009.  The potash unit’s earnings advanced 34 percent as the
company lifted prices in March for the fifth time since early
2010. K+S plans a new mine in 2015 in  Canada  to make up for
declining capacity at existing potash sites.  After “strong demand” in the first quarter, the company
is “looking toward the coming quarters with confidence,” Chief
Executive Officer Norbert Steiner said in the statement. Revenue
should “rise significantly” this year with operating earnings
expected to “increase strongly,” the company today reiterated.
K+S said on May 2 that first-quarter sales rose 16 percent and
operating profit jumped 44 percent.  K+S is holding its annual shareholders meeting in Kassel
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  