-- 
Kaka Poised to Join Chelsea in ‘Massive’ Overhaul: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-11T10:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/kaka-poised-to-join-chelsea-in-massive-overhaul-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Kaka Set for Blues  Kaka looks set to join Chelsea in a “multimillion-pound
summer overhaul,” the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  is committed to a
“massive” rebuilding operation, regardless of who replaces
Carlo Ancelotti as coach, the Mirror said. Kaka’s transfer value
could be 30 million pounds ($49 million), the Mirror said.  Kaka’s mother said on social networking site Twitter that
the family is moving to London, the newspaper reported. Kaka’s
spokesman Diogo Kotscho told Bloomberg News that she will travel
to London by herself in August only for an event organized by
her church.  Fabregas for City?  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini wants to sign
Arsenal midfielder Cesc Fabregas as the Abu Dhabi-backed club
plans a push for the league title next season,  the Sun  reported.  City clinched a Champions League place last night with a 1-
0 win over Tottenham as Peter Crouch scored an own goal.  Liverpool Targets Young  Liverpool has moved ahead of  Manchester United  in the race
to sign Aston Villa winger  Ashley Young ,  the Guardian  reported.  Young will enter the final year of his Villa contract this
summer and turned down an improved deal at the start of this
season, the newspaper said.  Hughes May Leave  Fulham has less than three weeks to sign coach  Mark Hughes 
to a new contract or risk losing him,  the Sun  reported.  Hughes has a “get-out” clause in his current deal which
makes him a free agent from June 1, the Sun added.  Dortmund Wants Taarabt  German champion Borussia Dortmund is interested in signing
QPR forward Adel Taarabt, the  Mirror  reported.  Dortmund hopes the offer of Champions League competition
will persuade the 21-year-old to move to  Germany  after he helped
QPR get promoted to the Premier League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 