-- 
Kazakh Central Bank Says Lending Conditions to Ease This Quarter

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-05-11T14:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/kazakh-central-bank-says-lending-conditions-to-ease-this-quarter.html
Kazakhstan ’s central bank expects
lending conditions to ease in the second quarter as competition
for “quality borrowers” reduces the cost of money.  Seventy-one percent of banks will maintain current rates on
standard loans to companies and 94 percent will do the same for
riskier credits, the National Bank of Kazakhstan in Almaty said
in a  quarterly survey  published on its website today. About a
quarter of the respondents expect profit margins for standard
loans to fall “insignificantly” this quarter.  “Growing competition for quality borrowers among banks in
the second quarter of 2011 will force them to lower  interest
rates , improving the terms of lending,” the regulator said.  Kazakhstan’s 39 banks posted a combined loss of 364 million
tenge ($2.5 million) in the first quarter, according to the
central bank’s financial oversight committee. The government
took control of three Kazakh lenders including BTA Bank, the
nation’s largest bank at the time, in 2009 after credit markets
froze and a property bubble burst.  Thirty-six of the nation’s banks responded to the survey,
with 61 percent saying they expect the quality of their loan
holdings to remain unchanged in the second quarter and 28
percent forecasting an insignificant improvement.  About 63 percent of respondents said the pace of corporate
foreclosures will stay the same, while 31 percent expect an
insignificant increase. Sixty percent of the banks said the pace
of foreclosures on loans to individuals will stay the same, and
27 percent predict an insignificant increase.  The lenders surveyed by the central bank were asked to
choose among five possible answers: significant increase,
insignificant increase, no change, insignificant decrease and
significant decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  