-- 
Kesa Electricals Sales Growth Slows as Comet Chain Slumps

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-11T08:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/kesa-electricals-sales-growth-slows-on-slump-at-comet-chain.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) ,  Europe ’s third-
largest electronics retailer, said a revenue decline accelerated
at the Comet chain in the U.K. as shoppers cut back on spending.  Sales at Comet stores open at least a year dropped 15
percent in the three months ended April 30, the London-based
retailer said today. That was worse than the previous quarter’s
7.3 percent drop and the average estimate of four analysts
compiled by Bloomberg News of an 11 percent decline. Sales also
worsened in  Spain , the company said.  Comet’s same-store sales will continue to fall in the year
to come, Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin said
on a conference call today. The 248-outlet chain is struggling
to arrest the decline in revenue as U.K. consumers defer
spending on major purchases. Kesa also owns the Darty chain in
 France , its largest unit, where revenue rose 7.6 percent in the
quarter.  “U.K. trading deteriorated significantly since early
January,” and Spain showed a similar decline, Matthew
McEachran, an analyst at Singer Capital in London, said in a
report to clients.  Kesa rose as much as 1.9 percent to 139.9 pence and was up
1.5 percent as of 9:32 a.m. in London trading, reversing a drop
of as much as 3.1 percent earlier in the day.  Kesa, which Sky News reported on May 9 may receive takeover
bids from leveraged buyout firms including PAI Partners, said
the U.K. market is becoming more price competitive, with
customers shifting toward online purchasing.  Refit Program  Comet is accelerating a store refit program, adding more
small, domestic appliances and expanding its Web offering to
compensate for the slowdown. The chain lost its U.K. managing
director a week ago when Hugh Harvey resigned.  “We know the first quarter is going to be tough,” CEO
Falque-Pierrotin said on the call. “Turning around a retail
company takes time. You can’t do it overnight.”  Kesa said adjusted pretax profit for the year will be “in
line” with average analyst estimates. The retailer said in
January that earnings would be at the lower end of estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  