-- 
Koons `Panther,’ Warhol `Jackies’ Disappoint in Sotheby’s Sale

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-05-11T02:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/koons-pink-panther-sculpture-fetches-16-9-million-at-sotheby-s-auction.html
A racy Jeff Koons sculpture and
an assemblage of Jackie Kennedy portraits by  Andy Warhol 
drew tepid bidding last night as Sotheby’s New York saw its
lowest tally for an evening contemporary-art auction in two
years.  The $128.1 million total was just over the low presale
estimate of $120 million. As in last week’s Impressionist
and modern-art sales, buyers balked at what they perceived
as aggressive estimates and lackluster quality.  “There’s nothing really outstanding here,”
billionaire collector Eli Broad said as he left the
Manhattan salesroom with his wife, Edythe. “There’s no
excitement.”  The top lot was Warhol’s “Sixteen Jackies,”
assembled by the seller from 16 individual canvases of the
former First Lady on the day of her husband’s
assassination. It fetched $20.2 million, or $1.3 million
per painting, compared with presale expectations of $20
million to $30 million. Painted with blue, white and gold,
some images show Jackie Kennedy smiling, others grief-
stricken.  Individual “Jackie” silkscreen paintings sell
privately for between $800,000 and $1.2 million, dealers
said.  “It’s the perfect example of people willing to pay
the market price but no more,” said  Todd Levin , director
of New York-based  Levin Art Group .  “The sale felt overestimated by about 10 to 15
percent,” he said. “If you are going to have aggressive
estimates, you’ve got to have masterpieces.”  ‘Pink Panther’  A Jeff Koons sculpture depicting a topless blonde
hugging the Pink Panther fetched $16.9 million, falling
short of the presale estimate of $20 million to $30 million
and of the artist’s auction record. The porcelain piece
went to a telephone client of Patti Wong, chairman of
Sotheby’s  Asia .  Described as one of the most important works by Koons,
“Pink Panther” (1988) was consigned by publisher Benedikt Taschen, who had been guaranteed an undisclosed amount
through a third-party irrevocable bid.  The auction record for a Koons sculpture is $25.8
million paid for “Balloon Flower” at Christie’s in  London 
in 2008.  Sotheby’s (BID)  priciest Koons was a giant magenta-and-
gold “Hanging Heart” that fetched $23.6 million in
November 2007.  ‘Eroica I’  A large canvas by  Jean-Michel Basquiat  titled “Eroica
I” went for $5.9 million, topping the $4.5 million
forecast. Two small Primitivist canvases by Jean Dubuffet
from the estate of San Francisco art patron Dodie Rosekrans
also beat estimates, each fetching $1.1 million.  An Anselm Kiefer canvas attracted six bidders and sold
for $1.6 million on the telephone, about double the presale
forecast.  “Ten years ago, a lot of the material would have been
in a day sale,” said London-based dealer Ivor Braka.
“Under the circumstances, the sale did well.”  On Monday, Sotheby’s had success with one of the few
estates of the season. Classic postwar works from the
collection of the late  art dealer  Allan Stone brought in
$54.8 million, with 93 percent of the lots finding buyers.  In a filing on Monday, Sotheby’s said “competitive
pressures” forced it to accept lower commissions from
sellers to win consignments. The shares yesterday were down
as much as 10 percent, before closing down 6 percent on a
day major indexes rallied. The shares have lost a fifth of
their value since May 5, closing at $43.71 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  Sotheby’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer
price up to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1
million, plus 12 percent above $1 million.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 