-- 
Kraft to Expand Europe Tassimo Sales While Raising Coffee Prices

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-11T21:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/kraft-to-expand-europe-tassimo-sales-while-raising-coffee-prices.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the world’s second-
biggest food company, will double the number of countries where
its Tassimo beverage machines are sold to 20, said Hubert Weber,
the company’s European coffee president.  Kraft will bring Tassimo to Denmark, Norway, Poland, the
 Czech Republic , Hungary, Romania, Russia and other countries,
Weber said in an interview today in New York. Kraft, based in
Northfield, Illinois, has begun another round of price increases
for its coffee brands in  Europe , which include Jacobs, Kenco,
and Carte Noire, he said.  Coffee prices have almost doubled in the past 12 months,
which has led Kraft to raise prices on many of its products in
order to maintain its profit margins. In Europe, single-serve
coffee should make up as much as 80 percent of coffee sales in
10 to 15 years, as consumers seek convenience and the ability to
make espresso-based drinks at home, Weber said.  “Roast and ground coffee is now commoditized,” he said.  Revenue from Tassimo beverages in Europe rose by about 30
percent last year, Weber said.  Last year,  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  and  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) 
began selling coffee capsules that work with the Nespresso
system sold by  Nestle SA (NESN) , based in Vevey, Switzerland. Nestle
has sued Sara Lee, Casino and Ethical Coffee, the producer of
the capsules that Casino is selling, in France for alleged
patent infringement.  Kraft, which makes pods compatible with Sara Lee’s Senseo
system, doesn’t make Nespresso-compatible capsules. Weber said
the company had no plans to do so, as “the patent is so strong
there’s no legal way to sell it.”  Kraft generates about $5 billion in coffee sales worldwide,
and is the world’s second-biggest buyer of coffee after Nestle.  Organic sales of Nespresso coffee capsules rose about 20
percent in the first quarter, Nestle said last month.  Kraft rose 5 cents to $34.27 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 8.8 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 