-- 
Namibia Holds Talks on Role in Extract’s Husab Uranium Project

-- B y   C h a m w e   K a i r a
-- 
2011-05-11T13:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/namibia-state-miner-holds-talks-on-role-in-extract-s-husab-uranium-project.html
Namibia ’s state-owned miner, Epangelo
Mining Co., is in talks with Swakop Uranium, a unit of  Extract
Resources Ltd. (EXT) , about taking a role in the development of the
company’s Husab project, the world’s third-largest uranium mine,
Mines and Energy Minister Isak Katali said.  “I know Epangelo has ongoing talks with Swakop Uranium but
I don’t think they’re anywhere near concluding them,” he told
reporters in Windhoek yesterday. He didn’t say what form
Epangelo’s involvement in the project might take.  The talks started before the government’s decision last
month to declare uranium, gold, copper, coal, diamonds and rare
earth metals as strategic minerals, Katali said.  Namibia’s government is altering its mining laws to ensure
its citizens receive more benefit from the country’s mineral
wealth. The southern African nation is the world’s biggest miner
of offshore diamonds, the fourth-largest uranium producer and
also has deposits of gold, coal and copper.  Extract’s Husab project is about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles)
from Rio Tinto Group’s  Rossing  mine and about 30 kilometers from
 Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) ’s Langer Heinrich project.  Husab has been targeted by China Guangdong Nuclear Power
Group Co., which yesterday withdrew a 712 million-pound ($1.16
billion) bid for  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  after the U.K. Takeover
Panel barred it from reducing its offer. Kalahari owns about 43
percent of Extract.  Shares of uranium explorers and producers tumbled after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  amid worries that the
crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station would
prompt countries to suspend plans to build more reactors.  Extract has “engaged with Epangelo” as part of its
partnership process, said a spokesperson for the Australian
company, who declined to be named in line with company policy.
“Those discussions remain confidential.”  Epangelo’s General Manager Eliphas Hawala said he wasn’t in
a position to comment when contacted by phone in Windhoek today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chamwe Kaira in Windhoek at 
 ckaira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  