-- 
New Zealand Manufacturing Expanded at Faster Pace in April

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-11T23:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/new-zealand-manufacturing-expanded-at-faster-pace-in-april-1-.html
New Zealand ’s manufacturing industry
expanded at a faster pace in April as the economy rebounds from
the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years that disrupted
business in the southern city of Christchurch.  The Performance of Manufacturing Index rose to 51.5 from
50.2 in March, Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business New
Zealand, a Wellington-based employer group, said on the group’s
website today. A reading higher than 50 indicates that
manufacturing is expanding.  Growth in manufacturing adds to signs of a recovery this
year after the magnitude-6.3 quake struck the nation’s second-
largest city Feb. 22. Companies outside Christchurch are more
optimistic about opportunities to supply goods and services as
rebuilding gets under way.  “While major disruption and dislocation continues in parts
of Christchurch, the initial net impact on the wider economy has
been more muted,” Doug Steel, an economist at  Bank of New
Zealand  in Wellington, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Manufacturing is likely to accelerate through 2011 and 2012.”  Manufacturers remain downbeat on the current state of
construction, and the implications for demand for a range of
products from building materials to furniture, Steel said.  Still, there are positive signals appearing including data
on housing, he said. House sales fell 4.2 percent in April from
a year earlier, a smaller annual decline than in March, the Real
Estate Institute said yesterday.  After adjusting for seasonal trends, sales rose for a
second month, Steel said. Increases in house sales are usually
followed by a rise in building approvals and construction, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  