-- 
NMDC Said to Cut Iron Ore Fines Price as India Supply Rises

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-05-11T11:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/nmdc-said-to-cut-iron-ore-fines-price-as-india-supply-rises-1-.html
NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,  India ’s biggest  iron-ore 
producer, will cut domestic prices of fines ore by 15 percent
after export taxes rose and supply deals with  Japan  and  South
Korea  ended, according to two people familiar with the contracts.  Steelmakers will pay 2,870 rupees ($64) a metric ton
backdated to April 1, said the people, who declined to be
identified before an announcement. NMDC, based in the southern
city of Hyderabad, had to halt exports on March 31 because the
government hasn’t approved new contracts, the people said.  NMDC Finance Director Swaminathan Thiagarajan declined to
comment on the price cut.  Iron ore supply in India, the world’s third-largest
exporter, has risen after the government raised export taxes on
fines ore to 20 percent from 5 percent in the Feb. 28 budget
after pressure from steelmakers. The lower prices will benefit
companies including  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  and Essar Steel Ltd. that buy
most of their raw materials.  NMDC is waiting for the government to renew its five-year
supply contracts with Japanese and South Korean mills, the
people said. The agreement allowed NMDC to export as much as 4.5
million tons of iron ore, about 17 percent of its output.  NMDC shares fell 0.7 percent to 265.20 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange gained 0.4 percent.  The company raised prices of iron ore lumps by 10 percent
on April 1, while provisionally keeping the prices of fines
unchanged, Thiagarajan said that day. Prices were raised in
three of the four quarters last year after global prices climbed.  Iron ore fines are less than 1 centimeter (0.4 inches) in
size and have to be processed before use in a blast furnace.
Lumps, which are bigger in size, can be directly used in the
furnace.  NMDC , which mainly produces iron ore fines, sold 26.3
million tons of ore in the last fiscal year, including about 2.5
million tons overseas as part of the long-term agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  