-- 
Noble First-Quarter Net Gains 80% on Higher Prices

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-05-12T04:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/noble-first-quarter-profit-gains-80-on-higher-metal-prices-1-.html
(Corrects Wilmar’s name in eighth paragraph in story that
ran yesterday.)  Noble Group Ltd (NOBL) , the Hong Kong-based
supplier of energy, food and mining commodities, said profit
gained 80 percent in the first quarter because of higher prices
for its products.  Net income rose to $203 million in the three months ended
March 31, the Singapore-listed company said in a statement today.
That beat the $152.3 million average of three analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales jumped 76 percent to a record $20
billion, boosted by a 17 percent gain in volumes.  Commodity prices, as tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index, rose 12 percent in the first three months,
the second-fastest in the last seven quarters. In the period,
investors raised their funds invested in commodities to a record
$412 billion, almost 50 percent more than a year earlier,
according to estimates by  Barclays Capital .  A boom in commodities has helped Noble Group, founded by
billionaire Richard Elman, gain 13 percent in the last year and
attract  South Korea ’s sovereign wealth fund as a shareholder.
The stock’s gain beat those of Japanese rivals led by Itochu
Corp.’s 11 percent, while trailing the 17 percent advance of
Singapore-listed  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , which trades only in
food.  “Our business performed well despite significant global
unforeseen events, such as geopolitical disruptions and the
Japanese earthquake,” Noble Group Chief Executive Officer
Ricardo Leiman said in the statement.  Taxes, Costs  Noble’s profit margin remained at 1.01 percent as the
record sales and higher commodity prices were tempered by an 86
percent jump in taxation, and a 92 percent surge in financial
costs as the company increased its working  capital requirements 
and made more long-term borrowings.  Prices for metals and energy commodities may gain at a
slower rate, Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s biggest trading company,
said this week. It’s forecasting a fall in profit for the fiscal
year ending March 31, 2012, partly because one-time gains won’t
be repeated.  China, the biggest commodity importer, has failed to rein
in inflation in line with Premier Wen Jiabao’s 4 percent target
in each month of this year. Hurt by a global rise in food prices,
China has sought to control inflation by asking producers
including the largest palm-oil refiner Wilmar International Ltd.
to cap retail prices.  Unilever Fine  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker,
will be fined 2 million yuan ($308,000) in  China  for telling the
media about its plans to raise prices, which the government said
on May 6 led to hoarding.  Noble expects the margins on oil crushing in China that
have been “quite depressed” to improve by the end of the
second quarter, Leiman said on a conference call today, without
giving details. The company has hedged its sales with clients
and market-traded futures, as well as cut production volumes in
China to protect against losses, Leiman said.  “Rather than seeking market share, we seek optimization of
profit,” Leiman said. “We run a hedged book on our crushing,
and because we hedged, our performance on that was ordinary. The
environment there continues to be challenging.”  Food commodity suppliers, including Noble Group, Olam and
Bunge Ltd., have been increasing sales to  South America  to
counter China’s limits. Italy, Turkey and buyers in the Middle
East also helped to drive up grain and oilseed sales, Noble said.  Agriculture, Energy  Revenue from Noble’s agriculture unit rose 31 percent to
$3.2 billion in the quarter and the operating income margin for
the businesses rose to 4.02 percent, compared with 3.85 percent
a year earlier. The margin was about 2 percentage points wider
than Noble’s energy business, which accounted for the biggest
revenue growth.  The operating income margin of Noble’s metals and minerals
unit dropped to 1.36 percent in the quarter, from 8.26 percent a
year earlier, mainly due to a drop in iron ore prices after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  shuttered mills.  Noble, which counts Elman, also the company chairman, and
China’s sovereign wealth fund among its biggest shareholders,
said energy businesses accounted for 72 percent of revenue in
the first quarter, compared with 65 percent a year earlier.  “We are both very committed and want to continue to grow
both agriculture and energy businesses,” Leiman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  