-- 
Norway’s Central Bank May Start Series of Rate Rises to Stem Credit Risks

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-11T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/norway-s-central-bank-may-start-series-of-rate-rises-to-stem-credit-risks.html
Norway ’s central bank may raise its
benchmark interest rate for the first time in a year as it
embarks on a tightening cycle to stem credit growth in the
world’s second-richest economy per capita.  Norges Bank will raise its overnight deposit rate a quarter
of a percentage point to 2.25 percent, according to 15 of the 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Five expect no change. The
decision will be announced today at 2 p.m. in Oslo.  Governor Oeystein Olsen is trying to steer a consumer-
driven recovery as  Europe ’s lowest jobless rate spurs demand and
credit growth at a 20-month record sends property prices higher.
Policy makers signaled in March they may raise rates in May or
June, citing “future financial imbalances” and a “pick up”
in  house prices .  “The central bank wants to send a clear message to the
public that its forecasts of rising rates are no empty threat,”
said Knut Anton Mork, chief economist in Oslo at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, in a note to clients. “If it doesn’t deliver
on these indications, the general public may become complacent
and take on excessive debt.”  The bank shelved a series of rate increases in May last
year amid concern Europe’s debt crisis would stifle growth in
Norway’s export markets. Since then, a global commodity price
boom has spurred inflation, forcing central banks in  Asia  and
Europe to tighten policy.  United Fight  In the two months since Norges Bank’s last meeting, the
 European Central Bank , Sweden’s Riksbank and central banks in
the  Philippines , Malaysia and  India  have all raised rates. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this week central bankers are
united in fighting inflation.  Though Norway’s underlying inflation, which excludes energy
costs and taxes, has held below the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target since July 2009, the rate last month exceeded Norges
Bank’s estimate. Inflation accelerated to 1.3 percent in April,
versus the bank’s 0.9 percent forecast.  “ Core inflation  was well over Norges Bank’s
expectations,” Kjersti Haugland, a DnB NOR ASA economist, said
in a May 10 note. “It’s yet another figure that suggests that
Norges Bank will choose to raise on Thursday.”  A report earlier this week showed Norwegian credit growth
accelerated to 6.3 percent in March, the highest level since
July 2009, as consumers take advantage of low borrowing costs to
finance spending. A falling jobless rate, with unemployment at a
19-month low, is also fueling consumption. Survey unemployment
dropped to 3.1 percent in February. Registered unemployment was
2.8 percent in April, according to the Labor and Welfare
Organization.  Tightening Cycle  DnB NOR, Norway’s largest lender, expects the bank to also
raise rates in September, December and February, it said in a
report yesterday. The rate will reach 4.75 percent by 2014, the
bank predicted.  Still, policy makers in the world’s seventh-largest oil
exporter need to ensure that more increases don’t trigger
further gains in the krone, said Paer Magnusson, chief Nordic
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The currency’s 15
percent surge against the dollar since the end of November may
delay a rate increase until June, he said.  “The Norwegian krone has been quite strong and also
inflation numbers have been very low,” he said by phone from
 Stockholm . “It just may” prevent a rate rise today, he said.  Krone Surge  The krone hit a 33-month high against the dollar this month
and is up 7.2 percent against the U.S. currency this year,
hurting exporters such as Europe’s third-biggest aluminum
producer Norsk Hydro ASA. The krone in March surged to 7.6902
per euro, the highest level since October 2007. It’s up about 1
percent against Europe’s single currency since Norges Bank’s
March meeting.  Norwegian manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in April,
indicating that industrial output will slow in the second
quarter, according to Oslo-based Fokus Bank.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will expand 3.25 percent this year and 3.75 percent in
2012 as export demand picks up, the central bank said in March.  “The outlook for strong growth in Norway is consistent
with gradually removing monetary policy accommodation even if
inflation today is below target,” said Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen,
senior economist at First Securities ASA in Oslo, in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  