-- 
NRC Asks Nuclear Reactor Owners for Damage-Plan Information

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-11T17:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/nrc-asks-nuclear-reactor-owners-for-damage-plan-information-1-.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission is asking reactor owners for additional information
on their preparations for dealing with disasters, agency
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said.  The NRC wants to know more about how the plants will “deal
with the potential damage of large areas of the plant,” Jaczko
said today at a nuclear-energy conference in  Washington . Such
plans are required by regulations adopted after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks, he said.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are examining the safety of
nation’s 104 nuclear reactors after a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan . The natural disaster destroyed  power lines  and
flooded emergency diesel generators at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The NRC request for information is “part of our overall
review triggered by Fukushima,” Eliot Brenner, an agency
spokesman, told reporters today.  The agency is expanding oversight beyond the strategies
themselves to training, maintenance and availability of
machinery and staff to carry out the plans, according to a
statement.  Fuel rods at the stricken Fukushima plant overheated when
electricity to run cooling systems was disrupted. The fires,
explosions and radiation leaks that followed set off the world’s
worst nuclear incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Equipment and Workers  U.S. plant operators must confirm to the NRC by June 10
that they have equipment and workers in place and available to
carry out their disaster plans, according to the statement. By
July 11, they must explain their testing procedures and how they
re-evaluate their strategies when plant configurations or
conditions change, as well as how they coordinate with local
emergency responders.  In March, the NRC started a 90-day safety review after the
disaster at the Fukushima plant, about 135 miles (217
kilometers) north of  Tokyo .  Jaczko said last month that changes might be needed at U.S.
plants so they’re better prepared for a “station blackout,”
when cooling systems are cut off from the  power grid  and diesel
generators fail.  The industry’s own checks found some plants aren’t fully
prepared for an aircraft hitting their reactors,  Nuclear Energy
Institute  Chief Executive Officer Marvin Fertel said yesterday.  The inspections, which were independent of the NRC’s
review, detected a few instances where equipment was stored in
the wrong location and workers hadn’t received updated training,
Fertel said. The institute is a trade group representing reactor
operators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  