-- 
Obama Plans Middle East Speech in ‘Near Future,’ Carney Says

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-05-11T17:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/obama-plans-middle-east-speech-in-near-future-carney-says-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  plans an
address soon on U.S. policy in the Middle East as anti-
government protests continue in the region, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “It’s a speech to a broader audience than just the Arab
world,” Carney said at a briefing in Washington. He didn’t give
a timetable or location for the address, saying it would be “in
the relatively near future.”  The Obama administration has reacted differently to
uprisings in Arab countries across the Middle East and North
Africa that toppled governments in  Egypt  and Tunisia and sparked
an armed conflict in Libya. While Obama called for longtime U.S.
ally Hosni Mubarak to step down in Egypt and supported a NATO
intervention  Libya , the U.S. hasn’t said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has lost legitimacy or called for regime change in
Yemen.  “Each country in the region that has experienced upheaval
is different,” Carney said.  The administration has cast the anti-government protests in
the region as a rejection of al-Qaeda’s ideology, and Obama’s
address would mark the first time Obama has spoken about the
surge of democracy movements since the killing of the terrorist
group’s leader, Osama bin Laden.  Tanks Deployed  In Syria today, the government deployed tanks as part of a
crackdown on anti-government protests that have engulfed the
country for almost two months and resulted in the death of 757
demonstrators, according to a Syrian human rights group.  The U.S. has called for a “strong international response”
to  Syria ’s crackdown on demonstrators and condemned the violence
and frozen the assets of Syrian officials and agencies, while
not calling for an end to Assad’s 11-year rule.  “We continue to deplore the violence in Syria,” Carney
said today.  Obama is scheduled to meet separately next week with
Jordan’s King Abdullah and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss developments in the Middle East and the
peace process between  Israel  and the Palestinians.  In 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University in
which he called for “a new beginning” between the U.S. and the
Muslim world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  