-- 
Obama Nominates Senate Aide Wetjen as CFTC Commissioner

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-05-11T22:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/obama-nominates-senate-aide-wetjen-as-cftc-commissioner-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
nominate Mark P. Wetjen, senior policy adviser to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  since 2004, to become a member of the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Wetjen, whose nomination is subject to Senate confirmation,
would replace Michael V. Dunn, a Democrat whose term expires
June 19. The CFTC, which is writing derivatives regulations
under the Dodd-Frank Act, currently has three Democrats
including Chairman  Gary Gensler  and two Republican members.  “He is a true phenomenon whose profound understanding of
the complexities of how the market affects consumers, taxpayers
and homeowners will benefit our nation tremendously,” Reid said
in a statement. “I look forward to his swift confirmation.”  Wetjen, who worked as a lawyer in private practice in
Nevada and  California  before joining Reid’s office, received a
bachelor’s degree from Creighton University in Omaha,  Nebraska ,
and a law degree from the University of Iowa College of Law in
Iowa City, according to the White House statement.  If confirmed, he will join an agency that is writing rules
for the $583 trillion global over-the-counter swaps market along
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The agencies were
directed to reduce risk and boost transparency after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis that led
to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and bailouts
for firms including American International Group Inc.  Gensler has said the agency will miss the mid-July deadline
for most rules with some slated for adoption later this year.
Republicans in the  House of Representatives  have proposed
legislation to extend the deadlines until the end of 2012.  ‘Crucial Moment’  “This nomination comes at a crucial moment for our economy
and our financial markets,” Senate Agriculture Committee
Chairman Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, said in a
statement. “CFTC Commissioners play an important role in
writing the rules and making certain that those rules strengthen
our markets.”  Dunn has questioned a CFTC proposal to curb speculation in
commodities such as oil, wheat and natural gas that has split
commissioners and prompted more than 12,000 comment letters.  “To date, CFTC staff has been unable to find any reliable
economic analysis to support either the contention that
excessive speculation is affecting the markets we regulate or
that position limits will prevent excessive speculation,” Dunn
said in a statement at a Jan. 13 CFTC meeting where he voted to
propose the curbs to gather more information about the market.  Seventeen senators wrote the CFTC today urging the agency
to implement the position limits.  “Congress gave the CFTC the power to rein in excessive oil
speculation and the CFTC should use it,” Senator  Maria Cantwell ,
a Washington Democrat, said in a statement released with the
letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  