-- 
Moby Plays, Filthy Art, Zoe Wanamaker’s Orchard: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-05-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/moby-celebrates-filthy-gallery-zoe-wanamaker-s-orchard-london-weekend.html
London’s Roundhouse will have a big
electricity bill this weekend as bands such as  Erasure  and the
Residents take to the stage.  Fans of electronic music also will hear from Maps and
Alison Moyet during the Short Circuit Festival hosted by the
record label Mute. Martin Gore and Andy Fletcher of Depeche Mode
act as DJs, as does Moby. Those who appreciate electronica also
can attend a talk by  Gareth ‘Genius’ Jones , who produced some of
the stars’ best records.  Roundhouse, Chalk Farm Road, NW1 8EH. Information:
 http://www.roundhouse.org.uk  or +44-844-482-8008.  Saturday  Hygiene is not a priority at the Wellcome Collection right
now.  The building named after pharmaceutical entrepreneur Henry Solomon Wellcome is hosting “Dirt: The Filthy Reality of
Everyday Life,” an exhibition of the West’s shifting
relationship with cleanliness.  For the 17th-century Dutch, spotlessness was a virtue, as
demonstrated by all the mopping going on in Pieter de Hooch’s
paintings. For 19th-century Londoners, though, it seemed
secondary -- the waters of the Thames were so polluted that
cholera broke out.  The Wellcome Collection is at 183 Euston Road, London NW1
2BE. Information:  http://www.wellcomecollection.org  or
+44-20-7611-2222.  The Gilbert Scott, fine for cocktails or food, is a
leisurely 10-minute walk away. It’s the new British brasserie of
chef  Marcus Wareing , who holds two Michelin stars at the
Berkeley. Dining room and bar are in the beautifully restored
St. Pancras station, so it might be prudent to book early.
Information:  http://bit.ly/f1untr  and +44-20-7278-3888.  Saturday Night  “The Cherry Orchard,” with its dark message of change and
impoverishment, is the suitably weighty opener to the National
Theatre’s 2011 Travelex Season.  Zoe Wanamaker stars as Madame Ranyevskaya, who after years
of spendthrift excess with a lover in Paris is coming to terms
with mounting debt. Her composure breaks as her house is sold
and the orchard faces the axe.  Howard Davies ’s somber staging of
Chekhov’s play, in a version by Andrew Upton, leaves the
audience draw parallels with modern-day families.  Olivier Theatre, South Bank, SE1 9PX. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-207-452-3000.  Just cross the river from the National Theatre to get to
Tom’s Terrace -- in the sprawling  Somerset House . It’s a great
place to start the evening with salads and grills, and cocktails
such as the Black Pepper Martini. Information:
 http://bit.ly/dJiQ4c  and +44-20-7845-4646.  Sunday  Cauliflower and romaine lettuce are growing on a concrete
landmark known for culture, not horticulture.  To celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Festival of
Britain -- the postwar bash that generated the Royal Festival
Hall --nearby Queen Elizabeth Hall has started a roof garden.
There’s a vegetable patch (with potatoes and parsley), dozens of
species of wild flowers, and even a lawn. What did it take?
Eight tons of logs, 70 tons of soil, and five weeks of toil.  Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk  or
+44-20-7960-4200.  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed their
own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/# !/Mark_Beech.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 