-- 
Ocado Shares Fall as Capacity Limits Restrict Growth

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-11T10:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/ocado-shares-fall-as-capacity-limits-restrict-growth.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K.’s biggest
independent online grocer, fell the most in three months in
London trading after reporting slower sales growth in the second
quarter because of capacity constraints and public holidays.  Gross revenue will increase 21 percent in the first half,
less than the first quarter’s 25 percent gain, the Hatfield,
England-based grocer said today in a statement. The shares fell
as much as 9.5 percent.  “We expect today’s news to be seen as a slight blow to the
near-term Ocado story, but the company had always flagged that
trading would be lumpy this year,” JPMorgan Cazenove analysts
including Paul Diamond said in a report. They have an
“overweight” recommendation on the stock.  Ocado, which sold shares in an initial public offering last
year, is building a new warehouse in central  England  to tap
demand for online grocery shopping as its facility in the south
of the country can’t support demand. The grocer said it signed a
lease on a 100,000 square-foot (9,290 square-meter) warehouse
for its non-food unit, which it expects will be running by 2012,
adding items such as baby clothes, toys and a pet range.  Gross sales growth will come back by the third quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Andrew Bracey said in a phone interview.  “Although we’re seeing substantial customer demands for
Ocado, the business continues to be capacity constrained,” he
said. “There was a little bit of disruption from when people
have their routine altered” over the April holiday weekends.  Ocado shares were down 16.6 pence, or 7.1 percent, to 216.4
pence at 10:47 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 