-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near a Three-Day Low in New York; Volatility Increases

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-05-12T12:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/oil-climbs-above-99-a-barrel-in-new-york-trading-one-day-after-plunge.html
Oil declined in  New York  after the
 International Energy Agency  trimmed its 2011 global oil demand
forecast for the first time as this year’s price rally begins to
weigh on consumption.  Crude fell as much as 3 percent after the Paris-based
adviser cut its estimate for worldwide fuel consumption by
190,000 barrels a day, or 0.2 percent. U.S. demand for gasoline
will drop this year as pump prices compel motorists to drive
less during the summer months, the IEA said today in its monthly
market report. U.S. crude inventories rose to a two-year high,
according to Department of Energy data published yesterday.  “The IEA cut reinforces the views around slowing global
economic performance,” said  Paul Harris , head of natural
resources risk management at Bank of Ireland in Dublin. “We are
focusing on U.S. economic prospects after inventory data.”  Oil for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as $2.96 to $95.25 a barrel and was at $96.10 at
1:03 p.m. London time. Brent for June settlement was down $1.63
at $110.94 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. Prices extended their declines after  China  raised banks’
reserve requirements for the fifth time this year to restrain
prices, adding to the likelihood that growth will slow in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  Crude Stockpiles Grow  Futures in New York advanced to as much as $114.83 a barrel
on May 2, their highest level since September 2008, before
sinking as low as $94.63 on May 6. Crude at more than $110 a
barrel is “not sustainable” and will likely curb consumption
and erode global economic growth,  Christophe Barret , a London-
based analyst at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a May 9 report.  Crude inventories in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, rose in the week to May 6 to the highest level in two
years, according to Department of Energy data yesterday.
Stockpiles increased 3.78 million barrels to 370.3 million, the
data showed. Gasoline demand fell for a second week.  CME Group Inc. this week raised margins for crude oil,
gasoline and heating oil futures on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The exchange increased crude oil margins for
speculators to $8,438 per contract from $6,750, effective after
the close of business on May 10.  Gasoline Margins  “They’ve raised the margin requirements more than 20
percent,” said  Roland Stenzel , an oil trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH in Vienna. “That’s not helping the
market. The more you want to trade, the more money you’ll have
to put aside.”  CME also raised trading margins for gasoline contracts to
$11,475 per lot from $9,450, effective after the close of
business today. “Margins being increased again has not helped
speculative longs in the market,” said Andrew Johnston, a
London-based commodities trader at One Financial Markets. “The
current momentum in the market is south for commodities.”  Rising water levels on the  Mississippi River  threaten
refinery production in the U.S. as record amounts of water are
being pushed south to the  Gulf of Mexico , the state governors of
Louisiana and  Mississippi  said.  Historic Volatility  The 11 refineries along the Mississippi between  New Orleans 
and  Baton Rouge  have a combined capacity of 2.5 million barrels
a day, or 13 percent of U.S. output, said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Oil’s historical volatility over the past 10 days, a
measure of price swings, has climbed to 67 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since April 2009.  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in
June, an indicator of expected price swings in futures contracts
and a gauge of options prices, was at 47.1 percent yesterday, up
from 38.7 percent on May 10.  Saudi Arabia ’s governor to the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries refuted forecasts that the world is running
out of oil and said the “sustainable” long-term price is $70
to $80 a barrel.  “Contrary to some oil pessimists, because there has been
talk of oil peaks, the world’s oil resources have actually
increased,” Majid Al-Moneef  said today in Brussels. “That’s
despite cumulative production that was close to 500 billion
barrels. So the message is that the resource base is plentiful.
So the future is still potentially promising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  