-- 
Home Sellers Step Up as Last-Resort Lender to Poor-Credit Buyers

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/home-sellers-become-u-s-lenders-of-last-resort-for-credit-damaged-buyers.html
Sue and Douglas Reed knew no bank
would give them a mortgage -- not with a bankruptcy and two
foreclosures fresh in their credit history.  They turned to Hilarie Walters, whose childhood home on 15
acres (6 hectares) in Marshall,  Michigan , had been on the market
since 2009. The unemployed single mother of twins agreed in
December to sell the property to the Reeds for $105,000. She
also consented to a risky payment plan that in effect makes her
the couple’s mortgage lender.  Financing provided by home sellers, popular in the 1980s
when mortgage rates reached 18 percent, is making a comeback in
markets such as Michigan that have been hit hard by foreclosures
and where tightening lending standards and years of economic
distress have drained the pool of creditworthy buyers. For a
small but growing number of people, it’s the only way to get a
deal done.  “This is the American dream, and we’re going for it no
matter what,” said Sue Reed, 56, who sells snacks from a
trailer at estate auctions and going-out-of-business sales.
“We’ll either make it or it will break us.”  Michigan, where unemployment is 10.3 percent, leads the
nation with about 1,600 home listings advertising seller
financing, according to  Trulia Inc. , a San Francisco-based real
estate information company. It is followed by  Florida , Ohio,
 California ,  Wisconsin , Minnesota and  Texas .  Last year, 52,991 U.S. homes were purchased with various
forms of owner financing, up 56 percent from 2008, said Realtors
Property Resource LLC, a subsidiary of the Chicago-based
National Association of Realtors, citing data collected from
county-record offices. Such deals accounted for 1.5 percent of
all transactions in 2010.  Coping Mechanism  “Anytime the market is in this much trouble, people have
to find ways to get it to function,” said Dennis Capozza, a
professor of finance at the  University of Michigan in Ann Arbor .
Capozza has direct experience with seller financing: He
purchased a friend’s foreclosed home a couple years ago and
allowed him to buy it back in installments.  Home sales, weighed down by a 9 percent national jobless
rate and tight credit, have languished even as 30-year  mortgage
rates  remain below 5 percent. Loans insured by the  Federal
Housing Administration  carried an average FICO score of 703 in
March, compared with 629 two years earlier, highlighting that
lenders are requiring stronger credit histories. FICO scores
range from 300, the least creditworthy, to 850 for the best
borrowers.  “The market is locked up because there’s no financing,”
said Gordon Albrecht, executive vice president of FCI Lender
Services Inc., an Anaheim Hills, California-based firm that
oversees mortgages for private investors. “This is moving
houses.”  Land Contracts  The Reeds are using an increasingly popular form of seller
financing known as a land contract, also called a contract for
deed, in which the buyer takes immediate possession of the house
and the seller holds legal title until the debt is paid. Land
contracts were used in 319 sales in Michigan in the first
quarter, or 2.4 percent of the total, compared with 252 sales,
or 1.2 percent, a year earlier, according to  Realcomp II Ltd. , a
Farmington Hills, Michigan, multiple-listing service operator.
One land contract was recorded in the first quarter of 2005.  Down payments,  interest rates  and other terms of land
contracts are subject to negotiation. There is often a balloon
payment in five or 10 years, at which time the buyer must find a
way to pay back the seller or risk losing the house and the
money already put in.  $565 A Month  The Reeds put down $25,000 and make monthly payments of
$565, reflecting a 7 percent interest rate amortized over 30
years, with the full balance due in five years. Walters, who
lost her job as an automobile engineer in 2008, the same year
she inherited the ranch, hopes the Reeds can pay off the loan
sooner.  “They’re paying me interest every month, but I’d rather
have the money and be done with it,” said Walters, who is using
their payments to cover the mortgage on her  Battle Creek ,
Michigan, residence. “It does make me nervous.”  The Reeds, who earn a combined $20,000 a year, fell behind
on mortgage payments for two homes they had borrowed against
after inheriting them from Douglas’s father, and went into
bankruptcy in 2007. They later spent $10,000 to make their
daughter’s home wheelchair accessible after she was severely
injured in a 2009 car crash, Sue Reed said.  They’re hoping for a settlement from a lawsuit stemming
from the accident to make the balloon payment to Walters, she
said. Their daughter, 33, died last year from her injuries.  “In five years we hope to get everything straightened out
enough to have a good  credit rating  again,” Sue Reed said.  Hope, Opportunity  The risks in such deals are significant for both buyer and
seller, said  Jason P. Hoffman , a Faribault,  Minnesota , real
estate attorney, who calls the participants “hope-ortunists.”  “Each of them is seeking an advantage in an otherwise
difficult situation, and they’re hoping everything will work out
as envisioned,” Hoffman said. “It’s an act of faith.”  The riskiest gambles involve sellers who -- unlike Walters
-- have bank loans on the properties, Hoffman said.  Most mortgages contain a “due on sale clause,” meaning
the lender can call the loan if the home is transferred. While
community banks sometimes grant exceptions, many homeowners take
their chances, hoping lenders won’t ask questions as long as the
payments stream in, he said.  A buyer in this arrangement has little protection if the
seller goes into bankruptcy or loses the property to
foreclosure, Hoffman said. The seller’s risk is that the
borrower won’t qualify for a bank mortgage when the land
contract comes due, he said. And a continuing drop in  home
prices  can imperil the deal for both sides, he said.  Hand Holding  Rafik Moore, an investor in  Minneapolis  who offers seller
financing for his properties, said he seeks to help buyers
rebuild their credit. He counsels them to start making payments
on time and open secured credit-card accounts.  “I hold their hand until they’re able to finance me out,”
Moore said. “The problem is this is someone who lost their
home, never understood credit to begin with and has always been
struggling.”  Not all buyers are broke.  Michael Fazio, broker and owner of American Real Estate
Services in Roseville, Michigan, said he’s helping one couple
with a combined annual income of $100,000. They owe $450,000 on
a four-bedroom house in a Detroit suburb that is now valued at
$250,000. They plan to walk away from the mortgage if they find
a home to buy with a land contract, he said.  Finding a qualified buyer requires careful scrutiny of
credit and job histories, especially if the price of the home is
too low to extract a significant down payment, he said.  “It’s gut-check time,” Fazio said. “Do you really think
these people are good, credible people?”  Amenable Laws  Real estate investors prefer land contracts to private
mortgages in states such as Michigan,  Ohio  and Minnesota, where
the laws allow for forfeiture actions against delinquent
borrowers, said Dale Whitman, a professor of law at  University
of Missouri  in Columbia. Forfeiture is usually faster and less
expensive than foreclosure.  Sellers may provide other forms of financing, such as
leases with the option to purchase or private mortgages, in
states such as Florida, where land contract laws are less
favorable, according to Jeff Riddell, a real estate attorney in
Sarasota, Florida.  “This has been going on for 100 years or more in
Michigan,” said Allan D. Daniels, 46, whose family has been
buying land contracts for three generations beginning with his
grandfather in the 1930s.  Underwater Borrowers  Daniels, president of Dr. Daniels & Son in  Bloomfield
Hills , Michigan, said business picked up in the past two years
after a two-decade lull when low interest rates made traditional
financing attractive. Land contracts aren’t as popular as they
were during the 1980s because many underwater homeowners --those
owing more than their properties are worth -- can’t finance the
transaction, he said.  More than 28 percent of U.S. homeowners with mortgages were
underwater in the first quarter, Zillow Inc., a Seattle real
estate data company, said on May 9.  Daniels often hears from sellers when they’re having second
thoughts about the risks or the paperwork involved in servicing
the loan. The seller must prepare an amortization schedule, send
the borrower interest statements and make certain property taxes
and insurance are being paid, he said.  “For some people, at first it sounded great,” Daniels
said. “Then they realized there was more than they like
doing.”  Market Segment  Mark Cook, 30, a real estate agent in Lake City, Florida,
said he sees an untapped market in the millions of homeowners
who have had their credit ruined by a foreclosure or short sale.
More than 3 million homes have been repossessed since 2006,
according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller.  Cook said he is working with a Canadian investor who bought
and renovated four homes in Florida’s Cape Coral and Fort Myers
areas since September, selling them for a premium to buyers
needing financing. One more is on the market, another is under
renovation and they have contracts to buy another handful of
homes.  They market homes to buyers with foreclosures in their
credit history, along with second-home purchasers and self-
employed borrowers who don’t show enough income on their tax
returns to qualify for traditional financing, he said. Cook
offers an interest rate of 9.95 percent and balloon payment
after seven years to buyers who can put down 20 percent in cash.  “We are advertising in markets that are cheap and we’re
satisfying the consumer’s appetite for a bargain,” Cook said.
“Assuming you’re not creditworthy and have cash, we are your
avenue for buying a home.”  Time Is Right  Rebecca Hill, a 33-year-old high school science teacher,
and her fiancé, Nicholas Lehman, bought an almost 2,000-square-
foot (186-square-meter)  house  in Cape Coral through Cook for
$107,000 on May 4. Her credit was damaged a year ago when her
ex-husband lost a home they they had purchased together to
foreclosure, according to Hill.  While they paid a premium for a seller-financed home, the
monthly mortgage costs are $175 less than the rent they
previously paid for a unit half the size, she said.  “If I wait for my credit to be restored and then purchase,
I’m not going to get a $107,000 four-bedroom home,” Hill said.
“That’s not going to exist anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  