-- 
OMV’s First-Quarter Net Income Declines 9%, Missing Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-05-11T09:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/omv-s-first-quarter-net-income-declines-9-missing-analysts-estimates.html
OMV AG (OMV) , central  Europe ’s biggest oil
company, said first-quarter profit declined 9 percent after
production halts in Libya and  Yemen .  Earnings excluding costs of revaluing inventories fell to
272 million euros ($392 million) from 297 million euros a year
earlier, the Vienna-based company said in a statement today.
That missed an average estimate of 295 million euros, according
to 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  OMV, led by Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss, in
February halted output in Libya, where it got about 10 percent
of its total 2010 production, because of the unrest in the
country. It also stopped producing in Yemen in March after an
attack on an export pipeline from the country. This year’s
output is expected to be below the 2010 level, OMV said.  “The first quarter of 2011 proved to be a very difficult
one where a strong operating performance was overshadowed by
political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, which did
not leave our production unscathed,” Roiss told reporters on a
conference call.  A startup of operations after order is restored in  Libya 
may be an “issue of months,” Roiss said. “It is difficult to
predict because we are not there and we can’t say what amount of
damage we are facing: is it only a few pipelines that are
destroyed or is there any further equipment being destroyed?”  OMV doesn’t expect Libyan production to come back on stream
this year, Chief Financial Officer David Davies said on a
conference call with analysts.  Turkey  Takeover  OMV has “no idea” when it will be able to repair the
pipeline in Yemen, according to Roiss.  In October, the company took over Turkey’s biggest fuel
retailer Petrol Ofisi SA for 1 billion euros. This has pushed
the gearing ratio, a measure of indebtedness, to 47 percent at
the end of March, compared with 29 percent a year earlier. OMV
has a mid-term goal of 30 percent gearing.  Roiss said in March that OMV would make a decision on how
to finance the deal in May or June. Options outlined by OMV in
October -- issuing new stock, convertible bonds or hybrid
capital -- were all possibilities, he said.  OMV is still waiting for  Fitch Ratings  to publish its new
framework on hybrid capital before it makes a decision on the
financing, Davies said today, adding that the rules may be
published this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  