-- 
Indonesia May Spend $250 Billion on Infrastructure

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-11T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/morgan-stanley-sees-250-billion-indonesia-infrastructure-spend.html
Indonesia  will probably spend $250
billion on infrastructure development in the next five years,
investments that will spur the economy and ease bottlenecks that
have crimped growth, according to Morgan Stanley.  Public and private investment in infrastructure may be
equivalent to 5.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2015,
from 3.9 percent in 2009, Morgan Stanley economist Deyi Tan
wrote in a May 10 report. That will boost growth to 7.2 percent
by 2015, she said.  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment grade
rating in more than a decade as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targets growth of as much as 6.6 percent through the
remainder of his term ending in 2014. He plans to double
spending on roads, ports and airports to $140 billion by then
after inadequate infrastructure hampered growth.  “Reforms have been building to a critical mass and
broadening out over the past five years,” Tan said in a phone
interview in Singapore yesterday. “The macro environment now is
also a lot more supportive” compared to a few years ago, she
said.  Standard & Poor’s , which boosted Indonesia’s debt rating to
BB+ last month with a positive outlook, says infrastructure
shortfalls are among key obstacles to achieving higher growth.
Four out of the top five international airports in the world’s
fourth-most populous country are operating above capacity and 15
million households have no access to electricity, Tan said.  Toll Roads  During Yudhoyono’s first five-year term, only 125
kilometers (78 miles) of toll roads were built. In  China , 4,719
kilometers of expressways were added in 2009 alone. Indonesia
aims to build 20,000 kilometers of roads and add 15,000
megawatts of power generation by 2014.  “We think sectors such as electricity and roads are likely
to see more increases in spending than others due to a
relatively more developed pace of reforms and comparatively
greater government focus in those areas,” Tan said.  Banks, toll road operators and cement and steel companies
may benefit from the infrastructure spending, Hozefa Topiwalla,
a Morgan Stanley analyst in  Singapore , said in a separate May 10
report. It has an “overweight” rating on PT Bank Rakyat
Indonesia, the nation’s largest bank by revenue, and PT
Indocement Tunggal Prakarsa, the nation’s second-largest cement
maker.  Investors from Japan and  India  in December and January
signed about $39 billion of accords for projects from mass rapid
transit systems and power plants to steel factories and ports.
 South Korea ’s Lotte Group said it may invest $5 billion in a
petrochemical project.  Indonesia’s improving public finances will enable the
government to take on a “more active” role in providing
infrastructure funding compared with six years ago, according to
Morgan Stanley.  “With the public debt ratio having already fallen to 26.1
percent of GDP in 2010, one of the lowest in Asean, we think
there is scope to take fiscal deficits gradually higher in
support of infrastructure projects without jeopardizing public
balance sheet or liquidity conditions,” Tan said.  The  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or Asean,
refers to a regional group of 10 economies that include
Indonesia,  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  