-- 
Osborne Says U.K. Coalition Is United in Mission to Cut Deficit

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-11T16:38:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/osborne-says-u-k-coalition-is-united-in-mission-to-cut-deficit.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain’s coalition government remains united over
the need to reduce the  budget deficit  after elections last week
exposed divisions between the Conservatives and their Liberal
Democrat partners.  Osborne reiterated that plans to eliminate the bulk of the
deficit by 2015 had won the backing of investors “at a time
when the sovereign-debt crisis was raging in Europe.” That goal
remains unchanged, he said.  “We in this government, Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats, are as united today in our mission to reduce
Britain’s deficit as we have ever been,” Osborne told business
leaders in London today. “We are unwavering in our commitment
to economic stability and recovery last year, this year and for
the four years to come.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats last
week suffered their worst local-election results since the party
was formed in 1988, prompting speculation that they may press
the Conservatives to water down the deficit-reduction plans.  The erosion of support for Clegg one year into the first
coalition administration since World War II was reflected
in a Populus Ltd. poll published in the Times newspaper
yesterday showing that 11 percent would back his party and that
only a third of voters who backed them at last year’s election
saying they would support them again.  Last week, Clegg’s party lost 748 seats in local elections
in  England , while Cameron’s Conservatives gained 86. The main
opposition  Labour Party  added 857 seats. In addition, a
referendum on the voting system, a Liberal Democrat condition of
last year’s coalition agreement, saw voters reject the overhaul
proposed by Clegg by 68 percent to 32 percent.  ‘See It Through’  “You have to set out a plan,” Clegg told BBC television
today. “It’s a plan that is more, rather than less, necessary
as the sovereign-debt crisis becomes worse in other parts of
 Europe  and elsewhere in the world. It is right we should see it
through.”  Addressing the same conference today,  Ed Balls , the Labour
lawmaker in charge of Treasury matters, said the pace of
spending cuts and tax rises had made the task of deficit-
reduction harder by stifling economic growth.  “Osborne’s logic is that if only  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  had made cuts and tax rises on the scale and speed of
his plan, they would not be facing deepening crises,” Balls
said. “The problem for him is that they did.”  Osborne repeated a pledge made in March to scrap the top 50
percent rate of income tax as soon as it’s affordable,
suggesting that it may come before the next general election in
2015.  “High personal taxes can be as damaging to growth as high
corporate taxes, so I am clear that the 50 pence tax rate would
do lasting damage to our economy if it were to become permanent,
as some in politics suggest,” Osborne said. “It should be a
temporary measure.”  Balls said voters have other priorities and his party
would only consider scrapping the 50 percent rate in the next
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  