-- 
Louisiana’s Calls on Mississippi Flood Fight Rely on Benchmarks

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-11T14:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/louisiana-fight-against-rising-mississippi-river-comes-down-to-benchmarks.html
In  Louisiana , the fight against the
rising waters of the Mississippi, the largest U.S. river system,
has come down to benchmarks of height and volume.  When the river’s flow reaches 1.5 million cubic feet of
water per second at Red River Landing, the  U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers  will open the Morganza spillway and send a torrent of
water down the Atchafalaya River that may flood more than 3
million acres, said Governor Bobby Jindal.  That threshold may be reached by the day after tomorrow,
according to the  National Weather Service . Decisions on barge
traffic and riverboat casino operations will be made when water
height benchmarks are hit, Jindal said yesterday.  About 2,500 people inside the floodway may be affected by
the opening of the Morganza for the first time in almost 40
years, Jindal said. Backed-up river tributaries also cause
smaller rivers and bayous to flood, affecting as many as 22,500
others, he said.  “If the Morganza is not opened and the levees are
breached, the downstream destruction would be worse,” Fred
Bryan, a professor emeritus of renewable natural resources at
 Louisiana State University  in  Baton Rouge , said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Once the river, with that cutting
capacity and speed, cuts a hole, you better get after it because
it’s going to erode away the cut very quickly.”  Flood Impact  The floods along the Mississippi and Ohio rivers and other
tributaries in the past month have helped to drive gasoline
futures prices higher, forced thousands to leave their homes,
flooded businesses along the riverbank and wiped out thousands
of acres of farmland.  The torrent has also shut river traffic along large
stretches of the system, interrupting coal, commodities and
chemical shipments. While barges are still plying the river in
Baton Rouge, navigation north of the city will start to shut
down when the  Mississippi  goes higher.  A decision hasn’t been made regarding opening the  Morganza ,
said Rachel Rodi, a spokeswoman for the Corps. If the Morganza
isn’t opened, New Orleans would be threatened by flood waters,
according to the New Orleans Times-Picayune, citing a  Corps map
it obtained .  The Morganza was built in 1954 and has only been opened
during the floods of 1973, according to the Corps.  Gasoline Drops  Gasoline fell today in New York for the first time in three
days on speculation that values rose too high without
confirmation that flooding on the Mississippi will cut supplies.
Gasoline for June delivery fell 12.3 cents, or 3.6 percent, to
$3.2567 a gallon at 9:55 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  The premium of June gasoline over crude on Nymex surged as
much as $4.97 to $40.11 a barrel yesterday, the largest since at
least 1990. It sank $3.02 to $35.05 a barrel today.  “The U.S. flooding issue, should it get worse, has the
potential to throw the market another curve ball and drive
prices higher just when the global economy can least afford
it,”  Edward Meir , a New York-based senior commodity analyst at
MF Global Inc., said in a note today. “On the other hand, if
the floodwaters recede, we could see a violent downside
correction setting in, particularly in gasoline.”  The  river in Memphis  crested at 47.87 feet yesterday, just
below the 1937 record of 48.7 and has lingered above 47 feet
since then, according to the weather service. The bulge of water
caused by the convergence of the swollen Mississippi and Ohio
rivers at Cairo,  Illinois , is moving slowly downstream toward
 New Orleans  and the  Gulf of Mexico , which it will reach in about
two weeks.  Vicksburg Waits  At Vicksburg, Mississippi, due west of Jackson, the river
is expected to crest at 57.5 feet on May 19, about 1.5 above the
record crest of 1927, according to the Corps of Engineers. Two
of the area’s four casinos, which employ about 2,000 people in
all, are shuttered, and about 1,200 of Vicksburg’s 4,000
manufacturing jobs are idled, said Wayne Mansfield, executive
director of the  Warren County Port Commission .  The Corps of Engineers said it will shut down Louisiana’s
Old River Lock when water reaches 63 feet there or 62.5 feet at
Red River Landing, now at 60 feet.  The Old River Lock allows navigation on the Red,
Mississippi and Atchafalaya rivers, Rodi said. It is designed
for commercial and pleasure boats and handles mostly chemicals
and agriculture shipments.  Baton Rouge Casinos  Jindal said riverboat casinos in Baton Rouge will begin to
shut down when the river reaches 45 feet in the state capitol.
At 5 a.m. local time, it was at 42.28 feet, according to the
weather service.  Between New Orleans and Baton Rouge, there are 11
refineries along the river with a combined capacity of 2.5
million barrels a day, or 13 percent of U.S. output, according
to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  was forced to reduce operations at its
refinery in  Memphis  to between 80 percent and 85 percent of
capacity because of the flooding, according to people familiar
with refinery operations.  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ) ’s Krotz Springs refinery in Louisiana
will be affected if the Morganza is opened, Lisa Vidrine,
director of the St. Landry Parish office of emergency
preparedness, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  NuStar Energy LP (NS)  said it will suspend deep draft vessel
operations at its St. James, Louisiana, terminal when the
Mississippi reaches 32 feet at Donaldsonville.  The river is forecast to reach that level May 13, Greg Matula, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday. Barge
operations will stop when the river stage reaches 33 feet, which
is forecast for May 15, according to Matula.  “The current forecast indicates marine activity could be
suspended for one to two weeks,” Matula said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  