-- 
House Passes Bill to Expedite U.S. Drilling Permit Decisions

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-11T21:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/house-passes-bill-to-expedite-u-s-drilling-permit-decisions-1-.html
The Republican-led House passed
legislation that would require U.S. decisions on drilling
permits within 60 days, rejecting Democratic complaints the
measure may weaken safety rules in place since  BP Plc (BP/) ’s spill.  The House voted 263-163 on the bill, among three proposals
Republicans are pushing to increase offshore production as
gasoline prices reach about $4 a gallon. The bill was backed by
28 Democrats. A separate Republican bill to force the Interior
Department to open offshore areas to oil and gas companies may
be voted on as early as tomorrow.  Permits would be automatically approved if the U.S. failed
to act by the deadline. Democrats said the bill passed today
would weaken environmental and safety protections. Republicans
said it would create jobs and cut fuel costs by encouraging
companies to drill.  “For over a year, communities along the Gulf of Mexico
have suffered through a real and then de facto moratorium on
offshore drilling imposed by the Obama administration,” said
Representative Doug Lamborn, a Colorado Republican and chairman
of the House Natural Resources Committee’s energy and mineral
resources subcommittee, as debate began yesterday. Lamborn said
the bill requires drillers to meet safety standards.  The average gasoline price was $3.962 yesterday, up from
$2.901 a year earlier, according to AAA’s daily  fuel report .  Last week, the House passed a bill requiring lease sales in
parts of the  Gulf of Mexico  and off of Virginia’s coastline.  Expand Offshore Leasing  A third bill would open areas along the Atlantic, Southern
California and Alaska coasts to increase offshore production to
3 million barrels a day in 2027 from 1.7 million barrels a day
in 2010. The administration said it opposes all three measures,
without issuing a veto threat.  The legislation must pass the Senate to become law, and the
chamber isn’t considering similar bills.  “This is the wrong response to the largest  oil spill  in
U.S. waters,” said Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey
Democrat.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
told reporters Republicans were pushing “drill-only bills”
that wouldn’t lower gas prices.  Democrats introduced legislation that would increase fees
on  oil companies  if they don’t produce in areas where they hold
leases. The bills also would require new safety standards for
drilling and promote natural-gas powered trucks with tax
credits.  Drilling Moratorium  President  Barack Obama  halted deep-water drilling on May 27
in response to BP’s spill, a moratorium he lifted in October.
The Interior Department has approved 51 permits for shallow-
water drilling and 12 for work in deep waters since the spill,
the administration said in a May 5 statement opposing the permit
bill.  The administration estimated the ban cost as many as 12,000
jobs in the Gulf region.  In the Senate, Democrats are focusing on repealing about
$21 billion in tax breaks in the next 10 years for  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , BP and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , including a $13 billion tax deduction for manufacturing.  A bill supported by Democratic leaders would use the
revenues to reduce the deficit.  “If we’re serious about reducing the deficit, this is an
easy place to start,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, said on the floor yesterday.  Pelosi said some of the revenues should support clean-
energy innovation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 