-- 
Overnight Rates at Next to Nothing Squeeze Treasury Lenders, Investors

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-11T15:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/overnight-rates-at-next-to-nothing-to-squeeze-treasury-lenders-investors.html
Treasuries are in such short supply
in the $4.9 trillion-a-day repurchase agreement market used by
bond dealers to finance their holdings that investors are
lending cash for next to nothing to obtain the securities.  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through 10 a.m.  New York  time with ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker, was 0.02 percent today. The
rate fell to as low as 0.01 percent on May 5 and is down from
0.22 percent on Jan. 3. Rates haven’t been this low since they
fell to 0.001 percent in December 2009 as banks sought to hold
Treasuries on their balance sheets as the year closed.  Overnight rates have been below 0.1 percent since April 15
as the U.S. budget stalemate and  Federal Reserve ’s debt
purchases reduced the amount of Treasuries available. The
federal funds rate has traded at lower end of the central bank’s
target range since the April 1 adjustment to banks’ Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. fees. The drop in rates is also cutting
returns for holders of investments such as  money market funds  at
a time when the Fed keeps borrowing costs at a record low.  “If anything the intensity of competition for money market
assets is going to get greater,” said  Alex Roever , head of
short-term fixed income strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York. “We are looking at zero or close to it for a while. This
becomes an issue in the marketplace and makes it harder for
investors.”  Treasury Bills  Bill supply has slid since February after as the Treasury
eliminated $195 billion in short-term debt it sold on behalf of
the Fed to help avoid exceeding the U.S. debt limit. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last week that the U.S. can
borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the $14.29 trillion limit
because of stronger-than-expected tax receipts and by taking
extraordinary measures such as suspending the sale of bonds to
finance state and local infrastructure projects.  The amount of bills outstanding may drop by $155 billion to
$1.48 trillion by June 30, according to JPMorgan estimates.  Six-month Treasury bill rates dipped to a record low of
0.0305 percent on May 6, and traded at 0.071 percent today. The
rate on three-month bills is 0.02 percent, compared with 0.1197
percent at the start of the year. One-month bill rates were
unchanged at 0.005 percent.  The Treasury sold $27 billion in six-month bills on May 9
at a rate of 0.065 percent, the lowest on record. It also
auctioned $29 billion in three-month bills at a rate of 0.025
percent, the least since December 2008.  Fed Funds Rate  “Money funds, who collectively own $320 billion in short-
duration Treasuries and $450 billion in repo, have been
especially hard hit by the plunge in  interest rates  since the
start of the month,” said  Joseph Abate , money-market strategist
at Barclays Plc in New York. “There has been some modest asset
reallocation away from repos in prime funds toward bigger stakes
in foreign  bank deposits  and commercial paper. But as bill and
repo rates have fallen, commercial paper and deposit rates have
also come down.”  Fed officials haven’t expressed concern about the low
rates. The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as
the fed effective rate, averaged 0.09 percent over the past
month, within the central bank’s target rate for overnight loans
between banks of zero to 0.25 percent.  “There is an acute shortage of Treasuries in the repo
market,” said Scott Skyrm, senior vice president and head of
repo and money markets for NewEdge USA LLC in New York. “The
market is equally awash in cash as it is short of collateral.
Even though the federal funds rate remains within the Fed’s
target range, there is still a major dislocation in the general
collateral repo market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  