-- 
Toyota’s ‘Made-in-Japan’ Mantra May Not Apply in Wake of Quake, Strong Yen

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-05-12T01:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/toyota-profit-plunges-77-missing-estimates-as-record-quake-shuts-plants.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the automaker
that built 45 percent of its cars in Japan last year, may need
to produce more abroad because of the yen’s near-record strength
following the nation’s most powerful earthquake.  “How much longer should we insist on producing in Japan?”
said Chief Financial Officer Satoshi Ozawa, seated next to
President Akio Toyoda at a press conference in Tokyo yesterday.
“I feel strongly that our efforts may have exceeded the limits
of what is possible in dealing with the yen’s impact.”  Even as Toyoda said he wants to protect Japanese jobs, the
company’s profitability is suffering with the yen close to a
post-World War II high and Korean rivals benefiting from a
weaker won and a new U.S.-South Korea free trade agreement. The
yen and parts shortages after the March 11 temblor contributed
to fourth-quarter profit falling 77 percent and may cause Toyota
to lose its crown as the world’s biggest automaker to  General
Motors Co. (GM)  this year.  The stronger yen cut operating profit by 290 billion yen
($3.6 billion) in the year ended March 31, Toyota said. That was
more than the 110 billion-yen cost from the 9-magnitude temblor
and tsunami, which forced Toyota to halt production at Japanese
plants for two weeks and led to a plunge in domestic sales.  China,  Europe   “You’re going to see more investment from them in
southeast  Asia , more in China, though it’s trickier there
because they work with two local partners,” said  Jim Hall ,
principal of 2953 Analytics, a consulting firm in Birmingham,
 Michigan . “They’ll probably expand in Europe as well, with a
focus on eastern Europe.”  Toyota’s ratio of domestic production is higher than Japan-
based competitors. Nissan Motor Co., the nation’s second-largest
carmaker, built 25 percent of its vehicles in  Japan  last fiscal
year. Honda Motor Co., the third-biggest, produced 26 percent of
its cars at home.  “I fully understand that we can’t go on with just a desire
to protect manufacturing in Japan,” Toyoda, 55, said.  Toyota rose 2.5 percent to 3,350 yen as of 9:15 a.m. in
Tokyo. The stock has dropped 8.2 percent since March 10, the day
before the earthquake. Yokohama-based Nissan has fallen 3.8
percent, while Honda Motor Co. has declined 8.8 percent.  Postwar High  Japan’s currency soared to a postwar high of 76.25 per
dollar on March 17. The yen, which traded at 80.96 yesterday,
may approach the record level again as “risk-averse” Japanese
investors refrain from spending on overseas assets following the
earthquake, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The currency is also likely to continue rising because of
weaker demand for the dollar as the U.S., the world’s largest
net-debtor nation, keeps borrowing costs low, said  Junya Tanase ,
chief currency strategist at JPMorgan in  Tokyo .  Toyoda’s comments contrast with his previous pledge to keep
at least 3 million units of annual production in Japan.  Ozawa said he intends to advise his colleagues and Toyoda
on the need to revise the balance of domestic and overseas
output and may question keeping 3 million units in Japan.  “The strong yen has been a problem for a while, and it
barely weakened after intervention” by the Group of Seven
nations on March 18, said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku
Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo. “Toyota and other Japanese
manufacturers need to assume that the yen will gain to between
75 and 80 yen.”  Fourth Quarter  Toyota said fourth-quarter net income fell to the lowest in
1 1/2 years amid parts shortages following the quake. Profit for
the three months ended March 31 fell to 25.4 billion yen from
112.2 billion yen a year earlier, it said.  Quarterly profit missed the 104 billion-yen average of four
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past four weeks.
Sales dropped 12 percent to 4.64 trillion yen.  Output disruptions may cause Toyota to fall behind GM and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in global sales this year. The disaster follows
Toyoda’s first full year as president, which was dominated by
recalls of more than 10 million vehicles for problems related to
unintended acceleration.  The Japanese company sold 8.42 million vehicles globally
last year, compared with GM’s 8.39 million. Volkswagen sold 7.14
million.  Toyota said yesterday it expects domestic and overseas
production to begin recovering in June, at least a month earlier
than previously announced. It maintained a forecast that output
will return to normal levels by November or December.  “Toyota’s production will most certainly fall from last
year’s level, while both GM and Volkswagen will make big gains
in the U.S., Europe and  China ,” said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst
at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. The Japanese carmaker’s
global output may decline to fewer than 6.5 million vehicles
this year from 8.4 million in 2010, he said.  Sales Decline  Toyota’s global vehicle sales dropped 12 percent from a
year earlier to 1.79 million in the three months ended March 31.
The decline was led by a 37 percent decrease in Japan. Sales in
 North America  fell 12 percent to 551,000 while in Asia excluding
Japan, deliveries rose 23 percent to 345,000.  The carmaker may have lost output of 300,000 vehicles in
Japan and 100,000 overseas through the end of April due to
quake-related shutdowns, Executive Vice President Atsushi Niimi
said April 22.  Toyota’s global output in June will be about 70 percent of
capacity, the company said. About 30 parts remain in short
supply following disruption caused by the quake, compared with
150 in April, Toyoda said.  The carmaker resumed output at all Japan plants at half of
normal capacity on April 18. All of the company’s factories were
closed for two weeks following the quake, with hybrid-car
production resuming March 28.  Profit Forecast  Like Honda, Toyota declined to provide an earnings forecast
for the fiscal year that started April 1, citing the effect of
the earthquake on production. Toyota may issue a forecast in
mid-June, Toyoda said.  The carmaker may post 311 billion yen in net income for the
current year, according to the average of 11 analyst estimates.  The recovery may also be hindered by electricity shortages
in Japan after the earthquake cut the nation’s power-generating
capacity by 8 percent.  Chubu Electric Power Co., which supplies electricity to
Toyota’s factories in Aichi prefecture, decided earlier this
week to shut a nuclear plant in Shizuoka prefecture, west of
Tokyo. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  requested the shutdown until the
plant’s tsunami defenses are improved, citing a government study
that showed an 87 percent likelihood of an 8-magnitude quake
striking the area within 30 years.  “We want to do our best in balancing the needs of the
economy and the need to save power,” Toyoda said yesterday.  Honda said April 28 its net income dropped 38 percent to
44.5 billion yen for its fourth quarter, which ended March 31.
Nissan reports earnings today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
堀江政嗣 in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  