-- 
Pentagon’s Lynn Doesn’t Favor ‘Gordon Gekko’ View of Defense Spending

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-05-12T04:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/pentagon-s-lynn-sees-buffett-not-gekko-like-interest-in-defense.html
The Pentagon is taking a long-term,
Warren Buffett-like interest in seeing that U.S. defense
companies are profitable as it prepares to meet President Barack Obama’s goal of cutting $400 billion from military spending over
the next 12 years, according to William Lynn, the U.S. deputy
secretary of defense.  “We’re in this for the long haul and need industrial
partners and financial backers who think and act likewise,”
Lynn told investors yesterday in New York at a meeting organized
by  Royal Bank of Canada. (RY)   “Think  Warren Buffett , not Gordon Gekko,” he said,
referring to the character in the 1987 movie “ Wall Street ,”
whose signature line was “Greed, for the lack of a better word,
is good.”  As the Pentagon looks for ways to scale back defense
spending, it will “make hard decisions early” and not embark
on programs that are unaffordable, Lynn said. He also said that
efficiency measures alone may not yield all the savings required
and that reductions “across force structure, operating and
investment accounts” would be needed.  “We will have to eliminate programs that, while valuable,
are not valuable enough to sustain in this budget environment,”
Lynn said.  Lynn and other defense officials are making regular visits
to  New York  to shore up Wall Street support for the defense
industry, whose profits and sales are under pressure as U.S.
defense spending through 2016 is projected to grow no more than
the rate of inflation. Defense spending, including war costs,
rose 72 percent between 2000 and 2008.  On the Intrepid  In this case, Lynn made his presentation on the hangar deck
of the  USS Intrepid , the Essex-class  aircraft carrier  that
launched bombing missions in World War II and remained in
service into the  Vietnam War . It is now docked as a museum on
New York’s West Side.  As he spoke of the need to maintain a vibrant defense
industrial base, Lynn was flanked by a World War II-era Avenger
torpedo bomber, developed by Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp.
and built by General Motors, and the Korean War-era FJ-3 Fury
jet, made by North American Aviation.  “There is a well-documented tension between companies that
have to report quarterly on their financial health and the
department that has a five-year plan and thinks in terms of
decades,” he said. “You are never going to solve that. That’s
just something that has to be managed.”  Asked to elaborate on his “Buffett-Gekko” remarks, Lynn
said in an interview on the Intrepid that “we need companies
that are in it for the long haul.”  “We need companies that are going to invest in the
technologies and build the kind of management team that you need
to do these complex systems, as opposed to speculators,” he
said.  Previous Reduction  The $400 billion cut in defense spending by 2023 would be
on top of the $78 billion, five-year reduction Gates announced
in January. The effect of the new cuts will take effect in the
fiscal year 2013 budget due to Congress in February 2012.  The Pentagon is assessing its missions and force structure
against projected threats to ensure that budget cuts don’t leave
the military weak, Lynn said.  He said the Pentagon is placing greater priority on
developing a family of long-range strike weapons, including
bombers, for potential Pacific operations, along with unmanned
drones and cyber attack defenses.  Lynn said the review is focusing on developing policy
options to match reduced dollars and will outline questions such
as “What missions are we doing today that we will not do
tomorrow?” and “What capabilities are essential for meeting
national security threats?”  Little Clarity  “They are trying to work out what’s at the bottom of the
list, but there is not a lot of clarity yet,” Robert Stallard,
managing director for aerospace equity research at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in an interview.  Lynn said that the best outcome “would be for contractors
to earn fair profits for superior performance, the department to
get quality products for an affordable price, and the taxpayer
to underwrite our security at an acceptable cost.”  He said the Pentagon wants to adjust the incentive
structure for contracts so that they would realize greater
profit for taking on greater risk in developing a weapons
program, such as sharing more equitably in cost overruns.  “What we need is a bit more targeting of risk and
profit,” he said. “You should get the highest profit when you
are taking the most risk. I’m not sure the system we have
matches those as closely as we’d like to see them. So we are
trying to take steps with things like fixed-price development
contracts, where we are matching those risks with those
profits.”  Matching Profit, Risks  He said that “we are not looking to target an overall
reduction in profit, but we are looking to try and have a better
matching of profit with risks that justify those profits.”  Still, investors and company officials are concerned,
Stallard said.  “Defense CEOs look at shares every day, and if they hear
things like ‘We expect you to be taking on more risk,’ it’s
probably going to result in longer margins” in the short
term,’’ Stallard said.  “The worrying situation investors can see is a top-line”
of defense spending “leveling off and essentially declining and
margins going down as well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  