-- 
Pertamina Says in Talks With Cnooc on Possible Angola Bid

-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-05-11T07:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/pertamina-says-still-in-talks-with-cnooc-on-possible-angola-bid.html
PT Pertamina said it’s in talks with
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  on a possible joint bid for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s stake
in an  Angola  oil concession, in what may be Indonesia’s biggest
overseas acquisition.  “We are continuing talks to jointly develop oil blocks
abroad, including cooperation with Cnooc on a possible bid for
an Angola block,” Mochamad Harun, vice president of corporate
communications at the state-owned  oil company , said by phone. He
declined to specify the size of the Angola stake sought and the
bid the companies may place.  The Financial Times said Pertamina and Cnooc canceled their
plan for a possible $3.5 billion bid for Exxon’s 25 percent
stake in the block, citing people familiar with the matter. An
even split means the value of Pertamina’s stake would eclipse PT
Berlian Laju Tanker’s $850 million purchase of Chembulk Tankers
in 2007, the largest global acquisition by an Indonesian company.  “It’s a good strategy by Pertamina to bring in Cnooc for
the Angola bid,” Kurtubi, founder of the Jakarta-based Center
of Petroleum and Energy Economics, said by phone. “Cnooc has a
strong capital base and is a well-known energy company,” and
the move will help  Indonesia  secure crude supplies for domestic
refineries, said Kurtubi, who goes by one name.  Indonesia, a former OPEC member, is seeking oil resources
to stem a decline in domestic production. Crude output dropped
2.5 percent to 769,068 barrels a day in April from March, the
nation’s oil and gas regulator BPMigas said on May 3. Angola,
which vies with  Nigeria  as  Africa ’s top oil producer, pumped
1.625 million barrels a day last month.  Overseas Acquisitions  Jiang Yongzhi, the Beijing-based spokesman at Cnooc,
declined to comment when asked if the company is in discussions
with Pertamina on a possible joint bid in Angola. The Chinese
oil and gas explorer acquired more than $8 billion in overseas
assets last year to expand reserves.  “We’re also talking with national  oil companies  for joint
development of oil blocks abroad,” Pertamina’s Harun said.  The Indonesian company has allocated $1 billion for
acquiring overseas and domestic oil and gas blocks this year,
former Investment Planning Director Ferederick Siahaan said on
Jan. 25.  The Jakarta-based company hired Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to help it with a proposed
benchmark-sized sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar with the
matter said on May 9. Benchmark typically means at least $500
million.  Pertamina is targeting oil and gas blocks in Africa, the
Middle East and  Caspian Sea , according to Siahaan.  “We’re seeking blocks that are already in production or
development stage,” Siahaan said in January. Acquisitions may
help Pertamina cut crude imports and raise output by the
equivalent of 100,000 barrels of oil a day in 2015, he said.  West Madura Block  Pertamina and Cnooc scrapped their proposal to acquire
Exxon’s stake after a dispute over the terms of renewal of the
West Madura oil and gas block in Indonesia, the FT said, citing
people familiar with the matter.  On May 6, Indonesia’s energy ministry said Cnooc withdrew
from the West Madura block as Pertamina increased its stake in
the project to 80 percent from 50 percent. Pertamina wanted to
expand its share and reduce Cnooc’s holding to 10 percent from
25 percent, the FT said in its report.  Indonesia produced 957,000 barrels of oil a day last year,
missing its target of 965,000 barrels. The government expects
output to reach 952,000 barrels a day this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bambang Djanuarto in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net . 