-- 
Peruvian Sol Falls for First Day in Six as Copper Declines

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-05-11T21:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/peruvian-sol-falls-for-first-day-in-six-as-copper-declines.html
Peru ’s sol fell for the first day in
six following declines in prices of metals including copper, the
Andean country’s biggest export.  The sol declined 0.1 percent to 2.7955 per  U.S. dollar  at
3:39 p.m. New York time, from 2.7915 yesterday.  The Peruvian currency has strengthened 0.9 percent in the
past week, the only gain in that period among six Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after polls showed an increase
in support for Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori as she and former
army officer Ollanta Humala remained locked in a virtual tie
ahead of June 5’s run-off presidential election.  “While we wait for the next polls this weekend the market
is taking a breather and temporarily following movements
abroad,” said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru,
the nation’s third-largest lender. “There is also a correction
following recent market gains. Margins are too close to identify
a clear winner so what we saw was an overreaction.”  Global stocks and commodities prices fell as data showed
inflation in  China  stayed above the government’s target, stoking
concern about further monetary tightening that may curb demand.
Copper fell to the lowest price in five months.  Fujimori had 41 percent support in a survey published May 8
by Ipsos Apoyo, a Lima-based research company, compared with 38
percent a week earlier. Humala, who topped the field in the
first round of elections April 10, had 39 percent in the survey,
unchanged from the previous week.  State Control  Humala, leader of Peru’s Nationalist Party and a one-time
ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , has pledged to
increase state control of Peru’s gas reserves and revise
contracts with foreign investors and trading partners.  Fujimori is the eldest daughter of former President  Alberto Fujimori , who is serving a 25-year prison sentence for directing
a death squad while president from 1990-2000. She backs policies
of current President  Alan Garcia  that favor increased foreign
investment and privatization.  According to a separate poll published May 8 by Datum
Internacional, Humala had 40 percent support compared with 41.5
percent in a poll published April 29. Fujimori had 39.1 percent,
down from 40.3 percent, according to the survey. Datum
interviewed 5,010 people. The poll had a margin of error of plus
or minus 1.4 percentage points.  “We recommend increasing exposure to Peruvian assets,”
 Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a
report today. “If Keiko wins the election with a wide enough
margin to erase doubts about her victory, the market will rally
to pre-election levels. If Humala wins, the market will sell off
initially but will later recover strongly because he will
implement moderate economic policies, at least during the early
part of his term.”  The central bank didn’t buy or sell dollars in the  currency
market  today, it said on its  website .  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 6.9 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The security’s price fell 0.73 centimo to 106.45
centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  