-- 
Poland’s Central Bank Unexpectedly Raises Benchmark Rate as Prices Quicken

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-11T15:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/poland-s-central-bank-unexpectedly-raises-benchmark-rate-as-prices-quicken.html
Poland ’s central bank unexpectedly
raised its benchmark interest rate for the third time this year,
boosting the zloty and prompting investors to bet on further
monetary tightening, after inflation reached a 2 ½-year high.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw increased the seven-day
interest rate to 4.25 percent from 4 percent. Seven of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expected the increase and
the rest predicted the rate would remain unchanged.  “It’s the opinion of the Council majority, and mine as
well, that it’s important other categories were rising along
with food and fuel in what I’d describe as broad-based price
growth,” Governor  Marek Belka  said at a news conference in
Warsaw after the decision.  The central bank and  Finance Ministry  last month agreed to
combat rising prices by selling euros acquired from European
Union funding to strengthen the zloty. The risk of accelerating
inflation leading to further wage and price pressure probably
persuaded policy makers to raise borrowing costs, said Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at Societe Generale SA in Warsaw.  “Price stability requires a reaction from the central
bank,” said Janecki, who expected the rate increase because of
“higher-than-expected headline inflation, negative real
 interest rates  and a growing risk of wage pressure.”  The zloty jumped to the strongest level in more than three
months after the announcement, rallying to 3.9009 against the
euro at 2:23 p.m., 0.7 percent stronger on the day. The Polish
currency traded at 3.9020 to the euro at 5:10 p.m. in Warsaw.
Two-year interest-rate swaps that investors use to fix interest
costs in the future jumped 8 basis points to 5.22 percent.  ‘Surprisingly Hawkish’  Poland’s inflation rate soared to 4.3 percent in March,
above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target for a sixth month.
The rate probably accelerated to 4.5 percent in April, according
to the median estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The statistics office will release the figures May 13.  While today’s decision accelerates the pace of monetary
tightening, it doesn’t change the central bank’s outlook for the
number of rate increases this year, Belka said.  “Even compared to many recent speeches by MPC members this
comes as surprisingly hawkish,” said Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura International Plc. “All that suggests a
June hike is a much higher probability now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  