-- 
Polish Central Bank Strengthens Inflation-Fighter Image With Rate Increase

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-05-12T07:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/polish-central-bank-strengthens-inflation-fighter-image-with-rate-increase.html
The Polish central bank’s unexpected
decision to raise  interest rates  strengthens policy makers’
credibility as accelerating economic growth pushes up wages and
fuels inflation, economists said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised the benchmark seven-day
rate to 4.25 percent from 4 percent yesterday. Seven of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the decision, with
the rest forecasting the bank would leave rates unchanged. The
zloty surged to its strongest against the euro in two months.  Yesterday’s move was the Polish central bank’s third rate
increase this year as policy makers across the globe struggle to
curb inflation. The decision “quickened” the monetary-
tightening schedule without altering the final scale of planned
raises, Governor  Marek Belka  said after the decision.  “It enhances the Monetary Policy Council’s credibility and
shows that they’re not just watching the  exchange rate  and
letting the Finance Ministry do their job,” Marcin Mazurek, an
economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said by phone. “This should
ensure quick success in fighting inflation.”  The zloty traded at 3.9133 per euro at 9:09 a.m. in Warsaw,
0.2 weaker from yesterday, when it rose to as high as 3.893 in
reaction to the rate decision. Poland’s benchmark WIG20 stock
index fell 0.4 percent yesterday to 2857.03, led by PKO Bank
Polski, SA, the country’s largest lender, and KGHM Polska Miedz
SA, the copper producer with the biggest European mine output.  Rate Bets Rise  Investors in the  derivatives market  boosted expectations
for higher rates in Poland, betting on two more increase within
the next three months. Three-month forward-rate agreements
yesterday closed 45 basis points above the three-month Warsaw
interbank offered rate, compared with 29 basis points on May 10.  The Monetary Policy Council adopted an “action scenario”
that “called for two to four rate increases, each by a quarter-
point, through the end of the year,”  Adam Glapinski , a member
of the rate panel, said on April 17.  Rising food and oil prices are spurring inflation around
the world. East European countries including Hungary and  Russia 
have raised interest rates to slow inflation. The Czech central
bank last week said it may raise rates sooner than forecast
after policy makers rejected a motion to increase the benchmark
to 1 percent from a record-low 0.75 percent.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled the bank will wait until after June to raise interest
rates again after increasing them by a quarter-point to 1.25
percent in April. Policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged
at a policy meeting on May 5.  Inflation Surges  The Polish inflation rate surged to 4.3 percent in March,
the highest since September 2008. The majority of monetary
policy makers considered the increase “broad-based,” Belka
told reporters after the decision.  “It was important other categories were rising along with
food and fuel,” he said.  Poland’s economic recovery and employment growth may lead
to increased pressure on wages and prices, Belka added.  “The majority of central bankers believe that the current
pace of price growth poses great inflationary risk in a longer
term and they dropped all dilemmas in trying to keep it from
stabilizing at such an elevated level,” Jakub Borowski, chief
economist at Invest-Bank in Warsaw, said by phone.  NG2 SA (CCC) , Poland’s largest shoe retailer, expects demand to
grow this year, erasing a first-quarter loss, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Piotr Nowjalis told reporters on May 10.  ‘Speak in Favor’  Core inflation , which strips out volatile food and fuel
prices from the  consumer price index , increased to an annual 2
percent in March from 1.7 percent the month before.  “The decision to hike interest rates is not that
surprising,” economists from Bank Zachodni WBK in Warsaw wrote
in an e-mail. “GDP growth above 4 percent, driven to a rising
extent by domestic demand, coupled with high inflation, high
inflation expectations and risk of the second round effects --
all these factors speak in favor of monetary tightening.”  The rate increase may help avert concern over  Europe ’s debt
crisis spreading to  Poland , according to Raffaella Tenconi, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London .  European leaders this week said  Greece  must make good on
pledges to overhaul the economy before it can expect more aid
from other euro-area countries. Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
have all been forced to seek international bailouts.  ‘Ideal Time’  “The rate hike comes at an ideal time to strengthen the
Monetary Policy Council’s credibility,” Tenconi said in a note
to clients.  Still, the decision went against the forecast of most
analysts, who predicted borrowing costs would be held after some
policy makers, including Glapinski and Elzbieta Chojna-Duch,
said interest rates should remain unchanged in May.  An agreement between the government and the central bank to
exchange euros received from the European Union on the market
also strengthened arguments that an increase wouldn’t be needed
this month. The zloty purchases “may ease pressure to increase
interest rates,” Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said April
21.  “This is an obvious case of misleading the market,” said
Borowski of Invest-Bank. “Investors had a right to expect no
hike, also due to the agreement between the central bank and
 Finance Ministry  on converting the EU funds.”  Changes in the zloty’s rate “haven’t so far offset
pressures from commodity prices on inflation,” Belka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  