-- 
Polish Rate Increase Catches Market on Wrong Foot, Mazurek Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-11T13:38:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/polish-rate-increase-catches-market-on-wrong-foot-mazurek-says.html
Poland’s second interest-rate
increase in two months surprised investors and may bring success
in fighting inflation when combined with  Finance Ministry ’s new
policy of selling euros on the market, said Marcin Mazurek, an
economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  The Monetary Policy Council unexpectedly increased today
the benchmark seven-day interest rate by a quarter percentage
point to 4.25.  Mazurek spoke in a phone interview.  “This decision makes a huge amount of sense, because it
enhances the MPC’s credibility and shows that they’re not just
watching the exchange rate and letting the Finance Ministry do
their job. It shows the council can act consistently.  “This should ensure quick success in fighting inflation.
Currency sales plus rate increases is the ideal toolkit to
battle higher prices.  “The way they communicated this rate increase is a
different question. Their communications with the market have
broken down. We’re astounded that the rate increase came now
after the recent series of comments from policy makers. It shows
that you might as well flip a coin when forecasting Polish rate
decisions. There’s no communications strategy here at all.  “True, bad communications allowed the MPC to wrong-foot the
market and move the  exchange rate . That was clever.  “The MPC is clear about the inflation trajectory. There’s
going to be a midsummer hump and a shift in the components
driving price increases, which we’ll probably see in the central
bank’s July projections.  “As for the timing of the next rate increases, policy
makers have bought time by tightening two months in a row and
can now afford to wait until July. There’ll probably be another
two rate increases, not too close together, which may occur even
as headline inflation slows due to the changing composition of
price increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  