-- 
Portuguese Austerity Program May Lead to Greek-Like Recession: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-05-12T08:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/portuguese-austerity-program-may-lead-to-greek-like-recession-euro-credit.html
Portugal  may have followed  Greece 
into recession even before implementing austerity measures
demanded for its European Union bailout that are set to further
choke the economic growth needed to tame the country’s debt.  Data to be released tomorrow may show the economy shrank
0.3 percent in the first quarter, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast, matching the contraction of the previous
three months. The slump may deepen as the government starts
executing the spending cuts and tax increases it agreed to in
return for its 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) aid package.  “With the adjustment measures, the outlook for Portugal in
the next few months isn’t good, particularly in terms of
consumption,” said Francisco Vidal, an economist at Intermoney
Valores SV SA in  Madrid . Portugal, Ireland and Greece will make
up the lagging group of European nations from an economic
standpoint, he said.  As borrowing costs surged to record levels last month,
Portugal became the third euro-area country to seek aid,
following the bailouts of Greece and Ireland in 2010. The steps
the government says will tame the euro region’s fourth-biggest
budget deficit will lead the economy to contract 2 percent this
year, twice the  previous forecast, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said on May 5.  The country’s two-year bonds now yield 11.6 percent, more
than the 9.4 percent for 10-year debt. The spread means there is
more perceived risk in lending to Portugal for two years than
for a decade.  Greek Woes  Portugal is following the example of Greece, which has
suffered from a deepening economic crunch as it implemented
austerity plans. Greece, which received its 110-billion euro
bailout a year ago, probably contracted for a sixth quarter,
tomorrow’s data will show.  Spain , which has the region’s third-biggest deficit, grew
about 0.2 percent in the first quarter, according to a Bank of
Spain forecast. Ireland, which agreed to a 67.5 billion euro
bailout in November, doesn’t report its latest gross domestic
product figures until June.  The economic fallout from efforts by the so-called
peripheral countries to control public finances is widening the
gap with the region’s stronger economies. The German economy may
have expanded as much as 1 percent in the first quarter,
according to the Bundesbank. The government forecasts growth of
2.6 percent in 2011 after a record 3.6 percent expansion in
2010.  Yield Gap  That growing divide is reflected in the premium that
investors demand to hold peripheral bonds over equivalent German
debt. The spread between the yield on Portugal’s 10-year bonds
and German bunds reached a euro-era record of 666 basis points
on May 10 and was at 629 today. For Greece the gap is at 1,253
basis points, while Irish bonds yield 751 basis points more than
 Germany ’s.  Portugal’s borrowing costs rose at a May 4 sale of 1.12
billion euros of three-month bills, its most recent debt
auction. The securities were priced to yield 4.652 percent, up
from 4.046 percent at an April 20 auction. That’s more than
Germany pays to borrow for 10 years.  Under the European portion of the bailout, Portugal will
pay between 5.5 percent and 6 percent interest on loans
averaging three years, EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said May 10. The goal is for Portugal to return to market
for financing before the aid program runs out, Rehn said.  The Greek aid program also saw the country returning to
markets and selling 27 billion euros of bonds next year. EU
leaders are now considering a new aid package as prohibitive
financing costs undermine that goal.  Bailout Rates  After a year of cost reductions and tax increases, Greece’s
10-year bond yields more than 15 percent, twice the rate at the
time of the bailout a year ago.  European finance ministers will discuss further aid to
Greece at a meeting in Brussels starting May 16, when they are
also due to give final approval to Portugal’s bailout. That
would give Portugal the first payment before a 4.9 billion-euro
bond redemption in June. That’s the only maturity that the
nation faces until June 2012.  Portugal had raised taxes and was implementing the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades before it was forced
into the rescue that will require even more aggressive
reductions and revenue measures.  The aid package calls for Portugal to take austerity steps
that the government proposed and parliament rejected in March,
leading to the collapse of Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s
administration. Spending reductions for 2012 and 2013, including
cuts to pensions, will amount to 3.4 percent of GDP and revenue
increases will represent 1.7 percent of economic output.  “The program is ambitious but achievable,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Berlin today about the terms
of Portugal’s aid plan.  June Elections  Elections on June 5 will determine what government is in
place to implement the budget cuts in Portugal.  Portugal’s aid program will allow the economy to start
recovering in 2013, according to Teixeira dos Santos. Still,
Portugal will need to grow faster than its historic rates to be
able to reduce a debt that reached 93 percent of GDP last year.  The country’s economic growth has averaged less than 1
percent a year in the past decade, ranking among  Europe ’s
weakest rates. Unemployment rose to 11.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, the highest since at least 1998, as the economy
contracted for the first time in a year.  “I have good faith that it will be able to deal with the
austerity measures,” Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo
Bank A/S, said in a May 10 interview with Rishaad Salamat on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.” “I have little
faith that it will be able to become productive.”  The three-year aid plan pledges to reduce the  budget
deficit  to 5.9 percent of GDP this year to 4.5 percent in 2012
and 3 percent in 2013. The government in March had targeted a
deficit of 4.6 percent this year, 3 percent in 2012 and 2
percent in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 