-- 
Pound Surges, Gilts Slump After Bank of England Lifts Inflation Outlook

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-11T15:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/pound-approaches-three-week-low-against-dollar-before-boe-inflation-report.html
The pound gained versus the dollar
and the euro after the  Bank of England  said it sees inflation
“markedly higher” in the near term, boosting speculation that
borrowing costs will rise from record low levels. Gilts slumped.  Sterling advanced versus all but one of its 16 major
counterparts, snapping a two-day decline against the shared
European currency. “There is a good chance that inflation will
reach 5 percent later this year and it is more likely than not
to remain above the 2 percent target throughout 2012,” the bank
said in its inflation report today. Risks to economic growth are
“skewed to the downside,” the report added.  “The reaction of the pound is predominantly due to the
admission that inflation is going to hit 5 percent at some point
this year,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-based market
strategist at Swissquote Bank SA. “The BOE doesn’t have the
luxury of waiting for growth to solidify if it wants to maintain
its credibility. They’re going to have to hike by at least the
third quarter and possibly again in the fourth quarter.”  The pound appreciated 1.3 percent to 86.95 pence per euro
as of 4:20 p.m. in  London , after reaching 86.83 pence, its
strongest level versus the common currency since March 24.
Sterling rose 0.6 percent to $1.6457 and gained 0.7 percent to
133.34 yen.  Yields on 10-year gilts climbed seven basis points to 3.45
percent. They reached 3.46 percent earlier, the most since May
4. The two-year note yielded 1.07 percent, five basis points
more than at the previous close. Short-sterling futures fell,
pushing the implied yield on the contract expiring in March up
eight basis points to 1.31 percent, indicating investors added
to bets for higher central bank rates.  ‘Macro-Economic Challenges’  The Bank of England left its main interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent on May 5, three days after King indicated
he favors keeping borrowing costs on hold, even as inflation
accelerates at twice the bank’s 2 percent limit.  “The economic consequences of high-level indebtedness now
would become more severe if rates were to rise,” King said at a
committee of the European Parliament in Brussels on May 2. “I
think these macro-economic challenges will last many years.”  The central bank said it still expects inflation to ease
back toward its 2 percent goal by 2013, based on a chart of
quarterly average projections. The bank’s forecasts for price
growth are based on market expectations of a quarter-point
interest-rate rise by the end of this year and a tripling to 1.5
percent in the third quarter of 2012, the inflation report said.  Interest-Rate Expectations  “People are bringing forward their predictions of when the
BOE will make its first move on rates; that’s making sterling
look like a reasonably sensible buy at these levels,” said
 Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. in London.  Money markets expect a full 25 basis-point increase in the
central bank’s key rate to December, Tullett Prebon Plc sterling
overnight interbank average data show. Before the report,
investors were factoring in a quarter-point rise in January.  A separate report today showed Britain’s trade deficit
widened more than estimated in March as exports to countries
outside the European Union fell. The goods-trade gap rose to
7.66 billion pounds, compared with 6.99 billion pounds in
February, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The shortfall was bigger than the 7.5 billion-pound
median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  