-- 
Prudential Says Its First-Quarter Sales Increased by 10% to $1.46 Billion

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-11T10:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/prudential-plc-posts-10-increase-in-first-quarter-sales-to-1-46-billion.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, said first-quarter sales rose 10
percent, fuelled by demand for retirement products in the U.S.  Revenue climbed to 888 million pounds ($1.5 billion) in the
first three months of the year from 807 million pounds in the
same period in 2010, the London-based company said in a
statement today. That beat the 854 million-pound estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by the company.  “These look to be a good set of figures with better-than-
expected volumes and new business contribution,” said  Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with an
“add” rating on the stock. “They are good because of a much
better-than-expected performance in the U.S.”  Prudential, which last year tried and failed to buy AIA
Group Ltd. for $35.5 billion, is using profits from its U.K.
division to expand in Asia, which is the fastest-growing
insurance market in the world, according to Chief Executive
Officer  Tidjane Thiam . The strategy allowed Prudential to boost
its dividend this year, easing pressure on Thiam and Chairman
Harvey McGrath, whom some investors said should step down after
the collapse of their AIA bid.  Revenue from Jackson National Life, Prudential’s U.S. unit,
rose 26 percent to 322 million pounds in the quarter. In the
U.S., the insurer mostly sells variable annuities, which offer
customers guarantees against falling markets.  Baby Boomer Money  Baby boomers  “have made quite a bit of money because they
control half the wealth of the U.S., but they have also lost a
lot of money” in equity and property investments, Thiam told
reporters today. “People’s willingness and appetite to pay for
protection is much higher than it used to be. It’s been good for
us because our product delivers exactly that.”  Sales at Prudential’s  Asia  unit were 367 million pounds in
the quarter, compared with 359 million pounds in the year-
earlier period. The division was hurt by a 58 percent drop in
revenue from  India , where the regulator tightened rules on life
insurance sales, forcing insurers to pull some products from
sale temporarily.  Profit from new business climbed 17 percent to 498 million
pounds in the first quarter, compared with the analysts’
estimate of 456 million pounds, Prudential said.  The stock rose 5 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 776.5 pence as
of 11:04 a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about 19.8
billion pounds.  The shares have risen 24 percent in the last six months in
London trading, surpassing the 10-member  FTSE ASX Life Insurance (FALIFE) 
Index, which is up 14 percent. The insurer raised its 2010 full-
year dividend 20 percent to 23.9 pence a share in March.  “Following the strong recent performance of the shares and
given the high rating compared to the rest of the sector we are
not surprised to see the shares pause for breath,” Barnard
said.  Prudential Plc has no relation to Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  