-- 
Trade Deficit in U.S. Widened in March on Oil Imports

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-11T12:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/trade-deficit-in-u-s-widens-more-than-estimated-on-surge-in-oil-imports.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  widened more
than forecast in March as the highest  oil prices  in more than two
years boosted imports, eclipsing record exports.  The trade gap rose 6 percent to $48.2 billion, the biggest
since June, from $45.4 billion in February, the Commerce
Department reported today in Washington. The median forecast of
72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected it would widen
to $47 billion. Sales abroad climbed by the most in 17 years.  Crude oil costs that surged above $100 a barrel for the
first time in more than a year and a 9.4 percent drop in the
dollar will probably keep driving up the cost of imports. At the
same time, the weaker currency is making American goods more
competitive to customers in emerging markets from Argentina to
 China , benefiting manufacturers like  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) 
and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   “With higher oil prices we’re likely to see the deficit
widen a bit in the near term” said Gus Faucher, director of
macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , who forecast a $48.3 billion deficit. “We’re going
to see the deficit stay within this range. The weaker dollar will
help support exports and limit import growth somewhat.”  The dollar held earlier gains against the euro after the
report on concern  Greece  will be forced to restructure its debt.
The European currency fell to $1.4343 at 8:47 a.m. in  New York 
from $1.4409 yesterday. The dollar also gained against the yen,
rising to 81.13 from 80.88 late yesterday. .  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from $43 billion to
$49.3 billion. The Commerce Department had previously estimated
the February shortfall at $45.8 billion.  Crude Oil   Imports climbed 4.9 percent to $220.8 billion, the highest
level since August 2008, from $210.4 billion. A jump in fuel
prices and increasing demand for autos and computers led the
gain.  A barrel of crude oil cost an average $93.76 in March, the
most since September 2008, the Commerce Department said.
Excluding petroleum, the trade gap shrank to $16.9 billion from
$20 billion in February.  Exports increased 4.6 percent, the biggest gain since March
1994, to $172.7 billion. Increasing demand overseas for autos,
chemicals and industrial machinery contributed to the advance.
The gain also reflected record sales to customers in South and
Central America, and the highest purchases from countries in the
European Union since June 2008.  The dollar’s 9.4 percent drop from June 7, 2010, to March 31
against a weighted basket of currencies from the country’s
biggest trading partners is making American-made goods cheaper
abroad and foreign-made goods more expensive in the U.S.  Emerging Markets  Combined with growth in emerging economies such as Brazil
and  India , the decrease in the dollar will probably continue to
help lift exports.  United Technologies, maker of Carrier air conditioners, last
month said 2011 sales would be at the high end of its forecast as
pent-up demand stokes growth globally.  “As we look across the globe, we see end markets are
improving,” Chief Financial Officer Gregory Hayes said on an
April 20 conference call. “Emerging markets continue to lead
worldwide economic growth and UTC’s businesses are capitalizing
on this opportunity.”   Caterpillar said it expects global economic growth this
year of about 4 percent, with  developing countries  expanding by
6.5 percent and the U.S. by 3.5 percent. The company plans about
$3 billion in  capital spending  this year, with more than half of
that in the U.S.  Manufacturers Prosper  Caterpillar posted first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast as
sales surged in developing countries. The Peoria, Illinois-based
maker of earthmoving equipment said its outlook would have been
higher had it not been for the March 11 earthquake in  Japan .  “Our facilities in Japan were not damaged by the earthquake
and tsunami, but many of our suppliers in Japan were,” Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on a conference call April
29. “As a result, we are experiencing sporadic production
disruptions at many of our facilities around the world.”  The  trade gap  with China, a source of political tension,
narrowed to $18.1 billion from $18.8 billion in February. Exports
to the Asian nation climbed 13 percent, while U.S. imports
increased 1.2 percent.  Top-ranking officials from the U.S. and China met in
Washington this week amid U.S. pressure for China to allow the
yuan to rise against the dollar.  China-U.S. Relations  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Chinese Vice
Premier Wang Qishan pledged May 9 to tackle currency, financial
services and trade conflicts between the world’s two biggest
economies at the start of the two-day Strategic and Economic
Dialogue.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which renders the
figures used to calculate GDP, the trade deficit widened to $50.1
billion from $49.3 billion. The government may have estimated an
even bigger gain when calculating last quarter’s GDP, signaling
trade was less of a drag on growth. The world’s largest economy
grew at a 1.8 percent annual pace from January though March, down
from a 3.1 percent pace in the prior three months, according to
figures from the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  