-- 
Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Widened in March as Energy Prices Increased

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-widened-in-march-as-energy-prices-increased.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
widened in March as rising commodity prices boosted the value of
imports, economists said before a report today.  The gap grew by 2.6 percent to $47 billion, the biggest in
nine months, from $45.8 billion in February, according to the
median forecast of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Crude oil costs that surged above $100 a barrel for the
first time in more than a year and a 9.4 percent drop in the
dollar will probably keep driving up the cost of imports. At the
same time, the weaker currency is making American goods more
competitive to customers in emerging markets from Argentina to
China, benefiting manufacturers like  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) 
and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   “We should see ongoing strength in U.S. exports because of
the weakness of the dollar,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “Trade should have
a fairly neutral impact on the  U.S. economy ” as both imports
and exports climb.  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates ranged from deficits of $43 billion to
$49.3 billion. The gap has widened from a decade-low of $24.9
billion reached in May 2009 during the recession.  A barrel of crude oil on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
averaged $102.98 in March, up from $89.74 in February. It
reached an intraday high of $114.83 on May 2 and has since
dropped on concern world growth may slow.  Dollar’s Influence  The dollar’s 9.4 percent drop from June 7, 2010, to March
31 against a weighted basket of currencies from the country’s
biggest trading partners is making American-made goods cheaper
abroad and foreign-made goods more expensive in the U.S.  Combined with growth in emerging economies such as Brazil
and  India , the decrease in the dollar will probably continue to
help lift exports.  United Technologies, maker of Carrier air conditioners,
last month said 2011 sales would be at the high end of its
forecast as pent-up demand stokes growth globally.  “As we look across the globe, we see end markets are
improving,” Chief Financial Officer Gregory Hayes said on an
April 20 conference call. “Emerging markets continue to lead
worldwide economic growth and UTC’s businesses are capitalizing
on this opportunity.”  Manufacturing companies have outperformed the broader
market this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index
has gained 11 percent this year, compared with a 7.9 percent
increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  Global Growth   Caterpillar said it expects global economic growth this
year of about 4 percent, with  developing countries  expanding by
6.5 percent and the U.S. by 3.5 percent. The company plans about
$3 billion in  capital spending  this year, with more than half of
that in the U.S.  Caterpillar posted first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast
as sales surged in developing countries. The Peoria, Illinois-
based maker of earthmoving equipment said its outlook would have
been higher had it not been for the March 11 earthquake in
 Japan .  “Our facilities in Japan were not damaged by the
earthquake and tsunami, but many of our suppliers in Japan
were,” Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on a
conference call April 29. “As a result, we are experiencing
sporadic production disruptions at many of our facilities around
the world.”  A growing trade deficit with  China  is prompting U.S.
officials to seek a solution. Top-ranking delegates from the two
countries met in Washington this week amid U.S. pressure for
China to allow the yuan to rise against the dollar.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Chinese
Vice Premier Wang Qishan pledged May 9 to tackle currency,
financial services and trade conflicts between the world’s two
biggest economies at the start of the two-day Strategic and
Economic Dialogue.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  