-- 
Radioactive Containers Likely Left Japan Before Contamination Checks Began

-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-05-11T04:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/radioactive-containers-likely-left-japan-before-contamination-checks-began.html
Five shipping containers detained
in Rotterdam after testing positive for radiation probably
left  Japan  before a screening program started, the Asian
nation’s transport ministry said.  Japanese authorities officially began scanning cargo
boxes for radiation on April 28 because of concerns about
leaks from a nuclear plant crippled by a March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, Koji Takahashi, director of the transport
ministry’s ports and harbors bureau, said today by phone. The
journey time to  Europe  is about 30 days.  Dutch officials said yesterday they quarantined the
containers after screening in Rotterdam, Europe’s busiest
container port, showed contamination beyond permissible
levels. Ports in Japan and overseas have tightened checks on
ships serving the Asian nation since the March disaster
damaged the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant about 220
kilometers (140 miles) north of  Tokyo .  “Japanese cargo owners have been screening containers
before shipping them, so contamination should be rare,” said
Hatsuho Tanaka, general affairs chief at the Japan
Shipowners’ Association. “It’s possible that containers
could get some contamination from the air or rain at sea.”  A total of 19 boxes originating from Japan were
identified as being contaminated, the Dutch Food and Consumer
Product Safety Authority said on its  website . The other 14
were cleared after further inspections, it said.  Checks on containers from Japan will continue “for as
long as is necessary,” said the agency, which is based in
 The Hague .  Goods Released  Scans of the ship’s superstructure didn’t show any
contamination, Marian Bestelink, a spokeswoman for the Dutch
food authority, said yesterday. The goods inside one of the
five containers were released after further tests showed that
they were untainted, she said. Additional checks on the other
four boxes were also due to take place.  The quarantined containers will be washed down and
released to their owners once further scans show that
radiation has fallen to safe levels, the group said.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container
line, yesterday said it’s too early to comment on the
significance of the Dutch discovery. The Copenhagen-based
company had a box quarantined in  Belgium  last week even
though traces of radiation were not harmful, spokesman
Michael Storgaard by telephone.  Japan handled about 4 percent of the world’s containers
prior to the disaster and almost 20 percent of the global
fleet by box capacity was timetabled to call there, Clarkson
Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker, has said.  In the aftermath of the tsunami, five of the six largest
container shipping lines maintained calls to Tokyo Bay, a
decision mirrored by owners of  oil tankers  and bulk
transports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  