-- 
Rajaratnam Guilty in Insider-Trading Case

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-11T21:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/rajaratnam-is-found-guilty-of-all-counts-in-galleon-insider-trading-trial.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund tycoon
and Galleon Group LLC co-founder at the center of a U.S.
insider-trading crackdown, was found guilty of all 14 counts
against him in the largest illegal stock-tipping case in a
generation.  A jury of eight women and four men in Manhattan returned
its verdict today after hearing evidence that Rajaratnam, 53,
engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He gained $63.8 million, prosecutors said.  The trial came as Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
promised to crack down on “rampant” illegal trading on Wall
Street. Rajaratnam was convicted on five counts of conspiracy
and nine counts of  securities fraud . Prosecutors today said he
faces 15 1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in prison at his July 29
sentencing.  “Rajaratnam, once a high-flying billionaire and hedge fund
manager, is now a convicted felon, 14 times over,” Bharara said
in a statement after the verdict. “Rajaratnam was among the
best and the brightest -- one of the most educated, successful
and privileged professionals in the country. Yet, like so many
others recently, he let greed and corruption cause his
undoing.”  Jury Note  The jury, which had filled out a verdict sheet at 10:11
a.m., sent a note to U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell nine
minutes later telling him it had reached a decision, according
to copies of the documents released by the court.  “Please, we do not want to meet with press,” the foreman,
Robert Jirmnson, added in the note.  Five deputy U.S. marshals stood guard at the back of the
courtroom as the verdict was announced. Rajaratnam showed no
reaction as the courtroom deputy read the verdict. The defendant
blinked frequently and kept his arms clasped in front of him.  After the verdict, Holwell thanked jurors for their service
and told them not to discuss their deliberations with others.
“They should remain secret among the 12 of you,” he said.  Jirmnson declined to comment when reached by phone after
the verdict.  “I’m really tired. I’m tired, man,” said Jirmnson, a native
of  Manhattan ’s Lower East Side who worked for two years as a
graphic artist for Apple Inc. and now lives in the Bronx.  The jury originally began deliberating April 25. The panel
restarted deliberations May 4 after a juror was replaced by an
alternate for medical reasons.  Home Detention  Rajaratnam remains under home detention and electronic
monitoring at his Sutton Place residence in Manhattan pending
sentencing.  “We started out with 37 stocks, we’re down to 14,”
defense attorney  John Dowd  said at a press conference outside
the courthouse, standing next to his client. “The score is 23
to 14 for the defense. We’ll see you in the Second Circuit.”
Dowd said earlier that he would appeal the verdict to the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit in Manhattan.  Rajaratnam, wearing a dark suit, gold tie and white shirt,
was mobbed by reporters as he entered a silver sedan after
today’s proceeding.  Galleon was among the 10 largest  hedge funds  in the world
in the early years of the last decade. It managed $7 billion at
its peak in 2008. Rajaratnam’s net worth of $1.3 billion made
him the 559th richest person in the world, Forbes Magazine said
in 2009.  Research Focus  Before his arrest on Oct. 16, 2009, Rajaratnam had claimed
that Galleon analysts had an advantage over rivals because most
were trained as engineers and all focused their energies
exclusively on research. At the trial, his lawyers said his
trades were based on Galleon research.  “They don’t get blindsided by the marketing hype,”
Rajaratnam said of his analysts in “The New Investment
Superstars: 13 Great Investors and Their Strategies for Superior
Returns,” by Lois Peltz.  Adam Smith , a former Galleon trader, testified at the trial
that the New York-based hedge fund gained its advantage through
other means. Rajaratnam emphasized “getting the number” -- or
learning revenue figures before they became public -- from
insiders at  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Intersil Corp. and other publicly
traded companies, he said.  “Research is sort of doing your homework ahead of time,”
Smith testified after pleading guilty to insider trading and
agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors. “Getting the number is
more like cheating on the test.”  Wiretapped Targets  The case was the first one focused exclusively on insider
trading in which prosecutors wiretapped their targets’ telephone
conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime investigations.
Jurors heard more than 40 recordings of Rajaratnam, in some of
which he can be heard gathering secrets from his sources.  “They’re gonna guide down,”  Danielle Chiesi , an analyst
at New Castle Funds LLC, told Rajaratnam on July 24, 2008, after
she got an insider’s leak that Akamai Technologies Inc. would
lower its forecast. “I just got a tip from my guy.”  Dowd said he would appeal the use of wiretaps, telling the
judge the matter was “very substantial.”  Rajaratnam used inside information to trade ahead of public
announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs
involving more than a dozen companies, according to the evidence
at the trial. Among them were  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel, New York-based Goldman Sachs, Google Inc., ATI
Technologies Inc., Akamai and Hilton Hotels Corp.  Goldman Director  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam’s sources included  Rajat Gupta ,
who until last year was a director at Goldman Sachs, and  Kamal Ahmed , a Morgan Stanley investment banker who prosecutors said
passed tips through Smith. Both deny wrongdoing, and neither has
been criminally charged.  Born in Sri Lanka’s capital, Colombo, Rajaratnam was
educated there at St. Thomas’ Preparatory School before leaving
for England, where he studied engineering at the University of
Sussex. He came to the U.S. to get his master’s of business
administration, graduating from the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School in 1983.  Two of his Wharton classmates --  Anil Kumar , who became a
partner at McKinsey & Co., and Rajiv Goel, who was a managing
director at Intel -- testified against him at the trial, telling
jurors how their relationships began at the school and how they
turned to crime. Both have pleaded guilty.  Blankfein Testifies  Also testifying for the prosecution was Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , who said Gupta violated the
company’s confidentiality policies by allegedly telling
Rajaratnam about its earnings and strategic plans. Rajaratnam
didn’t take the stand in his own defense.  Rajaratnam’s first job after graduation was at Chase
Manhattan Bank, where he was a lending officer in the group that
made loans to high-tech companies. In 1985, he joined Needham &
Co., a New York-based investment bank that specialized in
technology and health-care companies.  He started as an analyst covering the electronics industry
and rose through the ranks, becoming head of research in 1987,
chief operating officer in 1989 and president in 1991. A year
later, at 34, Rajaratnam started a fund, Needham Emerging Growth
Partners LP, according to Galleon’s marketing documents.  Forming Galleon  Rajaratnam and Needham colleagues Krishen Sud, Gary Rosenbach and Ari Arjavalingam formed Galleon Group in January
1997. By the end of that year, they were managing $830 million,
much of it from technology company executives Rajaratnam had
gotten to know throughout his career, according to “The New
Investment Superstars.”  Rajaratnam’s case was the most prominent amid a widespread
U.S. crackdown on  insider trading . Bharara, who is directing the
nationwide probe, said his office has charged 47 people with
insider-trading crimes during the past 18 months, and that
Rajaratnam is the 35th person to be convicted.  “We will continue to pursue and prosecute those who
believe they are both above the law and too smart to get
caught,” Bharara said in the statement.  Among others charged are executives affiliated with Primary
Global Research LLC, a  Mountain View , California-based
networking firm that links investors with industry experts who
work for public companies. A related case against former Galleon
trader Zvi Goffer is scheduled for trial next week.  U.K. Probes  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority will focus its
insider-trading investigations on senior  London  financial
workers as part of its deterrence strategy, the finance
watchdog’s acting enforcement chief said hours before the
Rajaratnam jury delivered its verdict.  “We recognize the need to go after bigger fry, not because
they’re wealthy or high profile -- we want to go after the
people we actually think are causing the most damage to the
market,” the FSA’s Tracey McDermott said in an interview in
London.  The FSA was set up in 1997 and prosecuted its first
criminal case of insider trading in 2008. The regulator in
February secured the longest-ever U.K. sentence for insider
trading when former Dresdner Kleinwort banker Christian Littlewood was imprisoned for 40 months after admitting
illegally trading over a 10-year period, along with his wife and
an accomplice.  Bail Dispute  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter argued
unsuccessfully to have Rajaratnam, who is free on $100 million
bond, taken into custody after the verdict.  “He has tremendous incentive to flee at this time,”
Streeter told Holwell, saying that Rajaratnam holds U.S. and Sri
Lankan citizenship. “The defendant has very substantial
overseas ties.”  Streeter said that in the 22 years the U.S. has had an
extradition treaty with Sri Lanka “not one single Sri Lankan
citizen has ever been extradited.”  Rajaratnam has placed $70 million in a U.S. bank account as
security, Dowd argued. He said his client “has been faithful
and obedient” to court orders and “repatriated 95 percent of
his assets” to the U.S.  “He’s not a danger to the community,” Dowd said. “He has
his family here, his children are here, his parents are here.”  Rajaratnam surrendered all his travel documents as a
condition of his bail. He agreed to hand over his U.S. and Sri
Lankan passports to court authorities at the time, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the case who declined to be
identified because the information wasn’t public.  Rajaratnam “joins the pantheon of Ivan Boesky and Gordon
Gekko,” said  Peter Henning , a professor at Wayne State
University Law School in Detroit, citing the real-life stock
trader who was jailed after pleading guilty to conspiracy in
1987 and the fictional “ Wall Street ” film character who came
to symbolize the financial scandals of the 1980s. “It is a
defining case,” Henning, a former federal prosecutor, said
before the verdict was handed down.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 