-- 
Treasuries Gain as Commodities Drop Fuels U.S. 10-Year Note Auction Demand

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-11T21:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/treasuries-gain-to-almost-year-s-high-level-after-10-year-securities-sale.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for the
first time in three days as a drop in commodities prices eased
concern inflation is accelerating and bolstered demand at the
government’s $24 billion 10-year note auction.  U.S. 10-year note yields fell to almost the lowest level
this year as the auction drew a yield of 3.210 percent, compared
with the average forecast of 3.222 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers. The
Fed bought $7.7 billion of  U.S. debt  due from November 2016 to
April 2018 today as part of its efforts to sustain the U.S.
economic recovery.  “The auction was really strong,” said Rohit Garg, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas, which as a
primary deal was obligated to bid at the auction. “Due to the
big selloff in commodities and equities there is a lot of short
covering need. People were skeptical about the auction before
the sale, but the auction showed there is still strong demand
for the long end, especially with the front end trading at such
low yields.”  The yield on the current 10-year note fell five basis
points to 3.16 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.625 percent security
maturing in February 2021 rose 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000 face
amount, to 103 28/32. Thirty-year bond yields fell five basis
points to 4.30 percent.  Note Path  The 10-year note yields fell to 3.13 percent on May 6, the
lowest level since Dec. 8. The yields reached 3.77 percent on
Feb. 9, the highest since April 2010.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
fell 3 percent and crude oil futures declined 5.1 percent to
below $98.58 a barrel in New York.  “It is an oil-led event that is keeping the Treasury market
bid as the reflation trade is fading,” said  Carl Lantz , head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, a
primary dealer.  At today’s auction, the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 3, versus an average of 3.10 at the previous 10
sales and 3.13 at the last offering.  Bidding Results  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 47.2 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 50.5 percent for the past 10 sales. They
bought 42.4 percent at the April auction.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 8.4 percent of
the notes, compared with the 10-auction average of 7.9 percent.  The Fed announced it will buy about $93 billion of
Treasuries from May 12 through June 9. That would bring the Fed
to within about $50 billion of completing its program of $600
billion of purchases of Treasuries in a program, known as
quantitative easing or QE2, said  Ian Lyngen , a government debt
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The purchases, which were intended to lift inflation
expectations and boost employment, began in November and are
scheduled to end in June. The central bank is also reinvesting
the proceeds of its mortgage holdings, bought during its first
round of monetary easing from November 2008 through March 2010,
in order to prevent the removal of stimulus from the market as
the debt matures.  Crowded Market  “Just as the Fed crowded out investors and pushed them
into more risky assets with the QE2 program, many are worried
that as the Fed exits its buying programs those investors who
left the Treasury market to go into more risky assets will now
come back,” said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, a primary dealer.
“Today’s trade is about investors taking risk off, and as
they’re taking risk off they’re going into Treasuries.”  The U.S. yesterday sold $32 billion of three-year notes at
a yield of 1 percent, compared with an average forecast of 1.010
percent in a Bloomberg News survey. The government will auction
$16 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  The government will hit the debt ceiling next week and run
out of options for avoiding default by about Aug. 2, according
to the latest projection by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Lawmakers in both parties said their options were narrowing
for reaching an accord on reducing long-term deficits as
congressional leaders rejected key elements of a possible
bipartisan deal to raise the U.S. debt limit.  Republicans said they wouldn’t agree to any measure that
raised taxes or contemplated automatic tax increases to rein in
future deficits. Democrats continued to insist that Social
Security cuts be omitted from the discussions.  Treasuries returned 1.15 percent last month, the most since
August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Investors
have gained another 0.49 percent in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  