-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Touch Highest This Week Before $24 Billion Auction

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-11T16:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/treasury-30-year-bonds-rise-after-chinese-report-showed-inflation-slowed.html
Treasuries rallied, pushing yields on
10-year notes to almost the lowest level this year, as a slump
in the prices of commodities and U.S. stocks eases concern that
inflation will accelerate.  Yields dropped to as low as 3.17 percent as the U.S.
prepared to sell $24 billion of 10-year notes today and $16
billion in 30-year bonds tomorrow. The premium investors demand
to hold inflation-indexed securities instead of 10-year notes
narrowed five basis points to 2.45 percent, the least since
March.  “It is an oil-led event that is keeping the Treasury market
bid as the reflation trade is fading,” said  Carl Lantz , head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG,
one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed and are
required to bid at the 1 p.m. auction.  Yields on Treasury 10-year notes fell three basis points to
3.18 percent at 12:31 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Yields on 30-year bonds fell three basis
points to 4.32 percent.  Commodities Soft  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
fell 2 percent and crude oil futures declined 4.4 percent to
below $100 a barrel in New York.  “With troubles in the euro zone continuing and U.S.
deficit talks illustrating little progress the market is
slightly bid and very apathetic after the rally of late,” said
Russ Certo, a managing director and co-head of rates trading at
Gleacher & Company in  New York .  Bonds dropped yesterday on concern demand will wane as the
economy grows and the Fed approaches the June end of its $600
billion debt-purchase program.  Ten-year note yields fell to 3.13 percent on May 6, the
lowest level since Dec. 8. Yields on 30-year bonds touched 4.25
percent last week, the lowest level since Dec. 7.  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 3.22
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 3.49 percent at
the previous offering of the securities on April 13.  “Look to approach today’s auction with extreme caution,”
Justin Lederer and Amrut Bharambe, interest-rate strategists at
the primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, wrote in a
research note to clients. “We still sit at what we consider
‘frothy’ levels.”  Auction Bidding  Investors bid for 3.13 times the amount of available debt
last month, compared with the average of 3.1 for the past 10
auctions. Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks,
bought 42.4 percent of the last sale, less than the 50.5 percent
average for the previous 10 auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 5.9 percent of the notes, compares to 7.97
percent for the previous 10 auctions.  “We are backing up to accommodate the refunding, but it
feels like the market wants to move lower in spite of supply,”
said  Martin Mitchell , head government bond trader at the
Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a St. Louis-based
brokerage firm. “Buyers are coming in on lower levels.  The 10-year note yield will rise to 3.91 percent by year-
end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of banks and securities companies, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings. Komiya expects an
increase in the yield to 3.75 percent.  Germany  Inflation  Treasuries outperformed Germany’s bonds after a report
showed the annual inflation rate for  Europe ’s largest economy
increased to 2.7 percent in April from 2.3 percent in the
previous month. The previous estimate was a 2.6 percent pace.
The extra yield investors get for holding U.S. 10-year notes
instead of German narrowed to seven basis points, from nine
basis points yesterday.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said that inflation
remains “uncomfortably high,” and officials signaled they may
need to raise  interest rates  later this year even as the economy
struggles to build momentum.  Inflation “remains uncomfortably high and well above the 2
percent target,” King told reporters in London today. “And
there is a good chance that, if utility prices rise further
later in the year, inflation will reach 5 percent.”  Yields on 10-year gilts climbed eight basis points to 3.46
percent while the two-year note yielded 1.08 percent, six basis
points more than at the previous close.  China  Prices  China’s inflation held above 5 percent in April and lending
exceeded analysts’ estimates, signaling that further monetary
tightening may be needed to cool the fastest-growing major
economy.  Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier and
banks extended 740 billion yuan ($114 billion) of local-currency
loans, according to reports from the statistics bureau and
central bank. Weaker industrial-output growth, also reported
today, may diminish price pressures in coming months.  U.S. retail sales increased 0.6 percent in April after
rising 0.4 percent in the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 77 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Commerce Department’s report tomorrow.  Treasuries returned 1.15 percent last month, the most since
August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. They have
handed investors another 0.49 percent in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  