-- 
Record Dry Spells in France, U.K, Germany Likely to Lower Wheat Production

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-11T14:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/record-dry-spells-in-france-u-k-germany-likely-to-lower-wheat-production.html
France ’s worst dry spell in half a
century and  England ’s hottest April in three centuries are
threatening to cut wheat production in Europe, producer of a
fifth of the world’s crop, eroding stockpiles that are already
expected to fall by the most in four years.  The dry weather has damaged 5 percent of England’s wheat
crop and may do so in France and Germany, said Andrew Dewing,
owner of Dewing Grain, a marketer in Aylsham, England. Wheat in
Paris has almost doubled in the past year as  Russia  banned
exports in August after its worst drought in 50 years and more
bad weather is damaging fields from  North America  to  Asia .  “We are incredibly parched,” Dewing said. “The forecast
this month is predominately sunny. It’s an ongoing issue. And
it’s not just us. There’s been an effect on the crop and that
means we’ve got a minimal exportable surplus.”  France, Germany and the U.K. are the largest producers of
the grain in Europe.  World stockpiles  may drop 7.1 percent to
182.2 million metric tons in the year that ends on May 31, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report yesterday that it
expects “a slightly smaller rebound in global wheat production
than previously” expected because of the dry weather. It raised
its six- and 12-month forecasts to $8.35 from $7.50 a bushel
because of “adverse weather conditions.”  Milling Wheat  Wheat in  Chicago  rose 4.75 cents to $8.035 a bushel by 2:42
p.m. London time. Feed wheat in London trading rose to the
highest price since at least 1989 on April 20. Milling wheat
traded in Paris fell 1.9 percent today after the U.S.
government’s crop report.  “Weather risks are likely to plague the wheat market this
year,” Barclays Capital analyst Sudakshina Unnikrishnan said in
a report yesterday. “While last year’s most significant weather
event for wheat was the drought in the  Black Sea region , this
year has seen dry weather enveloping the U.S. southern Plains,
western Europe and parts of  China .”  Riots in the Middle East and north  Africa  where presidents
in Tunisia and  Egypt  were ousted this year were partly blamed on
food inflation. Rising commodity prices boosted the United
Nations food-price index to a record in February. Food inflation
in China grew 11.5 percent last month, twice the rate of overall
consumer prices, the government said today.  Light Rain  Other than light rain in parts of Europe on May 7 and May 8
in parts of England, little precipitation fell in the rest of
western Europe,  Bryce Anderson , an agriculture meteorologist at
Omaha, Nebraska-based DTN Telvent, said in a May 9 report.  “Any shower activity during this week looks to be
scattered and fairly light,” Anderson wrote. “This increases
stress to winter wheat and rapeseed and to early development of
corn and sugar beets.”  Drought in  Germany  may slow local production of grains and
rapeseed, or canola, group Deutscher Bauernverband said last
week. The “average crop” probably will not improve this year
after recent dry weather hurt plants, according to a May 4
release on the Berlin-based DBV’s website.  Plants in England emerged from winter dormancy and started
growing about three weeks earlier than normal, and the lack of
moisture may cause yield losses, said Dave Norris, an
independent grains broker in Harrogate, England. Producers who
feed animals also may have to pay more for straw as the dry
weather has curtailed production of grasses, he said.  ‘Worse Off’  Weather forecasts  “are probably right that crops in France
and Germany are worse off than they are here,” Norris said.
Because crops are more advanced for this time of year, “we are
that much closer to harvest than normal and therefore rain now
is likely to be of less benefit than in a normal crop
development year.”  Rain may fall in parts of western  Europe  in the next seven
days, according to the Home-Grown Cereals Authority. Prices
still probably won’t decline much until then, said David Eudall,
an analyst at the Kenilworth, England-based HGCA. About 20
percent of average rain fell in the U.K. in April after a dry
March, further reducing soil moisture, the HGCA said last week.  “The forecast for the next week looks like there is still
some rain coming for parts of Europe, maybe some heavy rainfall
in France and Germany next weekend, but until this materializes
the markets will remain firm,” Eudall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  