-- 
Reid, Senate Democrats Renew Push for Young U.S. Immigrants’ Legal Status

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-11T16:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/reid-senate-democrats-renew-push-for-young-u-s-immigrants-legal-status.html
Senate Democrats renewed a push for
legislation allowing some younger illegal immigrants to gain
legal status, appealing to Latino voters with a measure opposed
by Republicans in both houses of Congress.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will bring the
measure to a floor vote, though the timing hasn’t been decided.
He said it will be up to Republicans to decide its fate,
although five Democrats opposed the same legislation when the
Senate rejected it in December.  “The time has come to help these young men and women
become an integral part of our society,” Reid told reporters.  Democrats reintroduced the measure one day after President
Barack Obama sought to restart the broader debate over rewriting
the nation’s immigration laws by stressing the economic benefits
of an expanded workforce.  In his first trip to U.S.- Mexico  border as president, he
also stressed to an audience in El Paso,  Texas , the need to
bring illegal immigrants out of an underground economy, and
underscored his administration’s efforts to bolster border
security.  “Immigration reform is an economic imperative,” Obama
said yesterday at the Chamizal National Memorial, which
commemorates a 1963 treaty with Mexico that settled a century-
long boundary dispute.  Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York , the third-ranking
Democrat, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today, “I
think there’s a chance” of enacting immigration legislation
this year.  ‘Economic Imperative’  “This is becoming an economic imperative,” Schumer said.
“All these brilliant people who come study in our universities
want to stay here and start up businesses.”  “More and more people are realizing that our broken
immigration system is an economic drag on the country,” Schumer
said.  Republicans in both chambers say an immigration overhaul
has virtually no chance of passage this year. The No. 2 Senate
Republican leader,  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, called on Obama to
instead focus entirely on added border security.  With Republicans now in control of the House, the so-called
Dream Act measure reintroduced by Democrats today also has less
chance of advancing now than a year ago. Republicans also gained
seats in the Senate, though Democrats still control 53 of the
100 seats.  The legislation would allow people who were brought to the
U.S. illegally before age 16 and who remain for at least five
years to gain legal residency after going to college or serving
in the military for at least two years.  Form of Amnesty  Republican opponents say it provides a form of amnesty to
many immigrants who have been here for decades. Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican and member of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, has said it would give a safe harbor to
some undocumented immigrants with criminal records.  When Senate Democratic leaders tried to bring the measure
up during a lame-duck session of Congress in December, the vote
was 55-41, five short of the number needed to start debate.  Three Republicans voted then to let the debate go forward.
One of those, Robert Bennett of Utah, left the Senate after he
was defeated in his 2010 Republican party nominating convention
after drawing opposition from Tea Party activists who oppose
measures easing immigration restrictions.  The five Democrats who voted against the measure last year
are still in the Senate. They are: Mark Pryor of  Arkansas , Max Baucus of  Montana , Kay Hagan of  North Carolina , Ben Nelson of
 Nebraska  and Jon Tester of Montana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  