-- 
Lawmakers Propose One-Year Holiday on Repatriating Profits

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-12T03:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/republican-tax-writer-introduces-one-year-repatriation-holiday.html
A senior Republican tax writer on the
 House Ways and Means Committee  is introducing legislation that
would give U.S. companies one year to bring home at a lower  tax
rate  as much as $1 trillion in profits parked overseas.  The bill’s lead author, Texas Republican Representative
Kevin Brady, who introduced the bill with some Democratic
support, describes the proposal as a jobs measure. The proposal,
which repeats a 2004 law, would allow U.S.-based companies, for
one year, to repatriate income earned overseas at a 5.25 percent
rate, instead of the 35 percent statutory corporate rate.  Companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A)  are part of a
 coalition  lobbying for a repatriation holiday.  “This is about creating jobs, expanding U.S. businesses
and strengthening American companies,” Brady said in a
statement today.  The bill includes a penalty for companies that bring home
profits at a lower rate and then reduce their workforce.
Companies would have to add $25,000 to their taxable income each
time they cut their total workforce below the company’s average.  With a 35 percent tax rate, the provision would increase
the company’s tax bill by $8,750 for each job cut.  Facing Obstacles  The bill faces obstacles in Congress. House Majority Leader
Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, supports a repatriation bill
while Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, has said he wants to address the issue only as part
of a comprehensive rewrite of the  tax code . Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  has echoed Camp’s view.  Cantor expressed support today for considering a
repatriation proposal before a tax overhaul.  “While fundamental reform will take time, repatriation is
an interim step that we can take to encourage businesses to
bring investment back to our country,” he said in a statement.  The repatriation issue has received less attention in the
Senate. The Obama administration opposes a repatriation holiday.  Critics maintain that the 2004 repatriation holiday didn’t
lead to enough  job creation  to justify the tax break.  “It was a major failure the first time around, and it’s
going to be worse this time,” said  Chuck Marr , director of
federal  tax policy  at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
a Washington organization that supports policies that help low-
income Americans. “You make it a regular occurrence, you make
it an incentive to shift profits and investments overseas.”  The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that a
repatriation holiday similar to the one Brady introduced would
cost the government $78.7 billion in forgone revenue, according
to an analysis released today by Representative Lloyd Doggett, a
Texas Democrat.  Brady introduced the bill with at least three Democratic
co-sponsors -- Representatives Jim Cooper of Tennessee, Jim Matheson of Utah and Jared Polis of Colorado.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  