-- 
Rhine River Water Level May Drop This Week, Hampering Shipments

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-05-11T12:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/rhine-river-water-level-may-drop-this-week-hampering-shipments.html
Water levels on the Rhine River,
which have dropped to the lowest in 18 months, may fall further
this week, potentially hampering shipments of products from
gasoline to grain, according to a German government agency.  “There’s not a lot of water coming from upstream,” said
Ulrich Nowotsch, an official from the Wasserschutzpolizei, which
patrols German waterways. “Water levels are expected to drop in
the next three or four days in Duisburg, Koblenz, Mainz,” he
said from Duisburg,  Germany .  Falling water levels have cut the amounts that can be
carried on barges by as much as 70 percent, pushing freight
rates to the highest level in 18 months. The cost of shipping
gasoil to Duisburg in Germany from Rotterdam or Amsterdam rose
to 8 euros ($11.50) a ton yesterday, the highest price since
November 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The Rhine links industrial sites including  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Gelsenkirchen refinery and  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Ludwigshafen chemicals site
to  Europe ’s busiest port in Rotterdam. A canal system running
into  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and  Austria  joins the Rhine at
Duisburg, west of the Gelsenkirchen plant.  “We’re down to about 25 or 30 percent of capacity,” said
Joachim Hessler, operations manager at Maintank
Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH, which handles diesel and jet fuel
deliveries. “Barges can still travel.”  The barge clearance level at Mainz dropped to 175
centimeters this week, the lowest level since November 2009,
according to German government data available on Bloomberg. The
clearance level is the depth at which a barge can travel without
the risk of running aground.  The cost of shipping gasoline to Karlsruhe in south Germany
from Rotterdam advanced 9 percent to 30.75 euros, Bloomberg data
show. The Miro refinery, part owned by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , is
in Karlsruhe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  