-- 
Romania, Kazakhstan Are Attractive on Low Debt, RenCap Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-05-11T11:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/romania-kazakhstan-are-attractive-on-low-debt-rencap-says.html
Romania  and Kazakhstan will be the
most-attractive emerging markets for investment in the next four
years as their economies grow amid low debt levels, according to
 Renaissance Capital .  The two former communist countries, which went through
“harsh economic crashes’’ in 2009, have low debt-to-gross
domestic product ratios and may see strong output growth between
2012 and 2015, Renaissance’s Global Chief Economist Charles Robertson said in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Romania’s “combined public and private-sector debt total
of as much as 80 percent of GDP in the next two years will be
less than  Poland , half that of Hungary and dramatically better
than the 240 percent ratios in Spain, Portugal or  Greece ,’’
Robertson said. “With a small current-account deficit as well,
Romania will look like one of the safest credits in  Europe .’’  Romania’s economy is poised to recover from a two-year
recession and grow 1.5 percent this year and as much as 4
percent next year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
Kazakhstan increased its economic growth forecast to 7 percent
this year and 6.9 percent in 2012, Economic Development and
Trade Minister  Kairat Kelimbetov  said yesterday.  The Romanian economy will grow 1.6 percent this year and
5.1 percent next year, Renaissance forecast, while the  budget
deficit  will shrink to 4 percent of GDP in 2012 from 5 percent
this year, exceeding the government’s target of 3 percent.  Oil Prices  Kazakhstan ’s economy may expand 6.2 percent this year and 7
percent in 2012 as the price of oil could rise to $110 per
barrel, according to Renaissance. The Central Asian nation’s
budget will post a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP and the
current-account surplus will probably be 3.5 percent of GDP.  “These numbers are quite different from Romania because
Kazakhstan does so well from oil,’’ Robertson said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. “The similarity
between the two countries is the attitude of the retail sector
to borrowing.”  In both cases, retail borrowing is very low after booming
between 2005 and 2007, and is not showing any signs of a strong
recovery, he said.  The Bucharest-based government has embarked on a budget
austerity program to reassure investors it will maintain fiscal
discipline ahead of general elections in 2012. Romania had the
27-nation bloc’s fourth-lowest ratio of public debt to GDP at
30.8 percent last year, after Estonia, Bulgaria and Luxemburg,
according to the European Statistics Office.  The ratio is expected to rise to 33.5 percent this year and
34.8 percent next year, according to Renaissance. Kazakhstan’s
debt to GDP ratio will probably reach 80 percent this year and
85 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  