-- 
Romney Seeks to Distance Himself From State Health-Care Bill He Signed

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/romney-seeks-to-distance-himself-from-massachusetts-health-law-he-signed.html
Mitt Romney  delivers a speech in
Michigan today aimed at addressing questions about the 2006
health-care bill he signed into law as governor of  Massachusetts 
that is among his biggest political liabilities as he prepares
for a likely run for the Republican presidential nomination.  “If I am elected president, I will issue on my first day
in office an executive order paving the way for waivers from
ObamaCare for all 50 states,” Romney wrote in an opinion column
that previewed the speech and was  published  yesterday on USA
Today’s website. “Subsequently, I will call on Congress to
fully repeal ObamaCare.”  The term “ObamaCare” is a shorthand term Republicans use
for the health-care legislation that President  Barack Obama 
pushed through the then-Democratic-controlled Congress last
year. Aspects of the law are similar to the Massachusetts
measure.  “With the passage of ObamaCare last year, the president
and the Congress took a wrong turn,” Romney wrote. “My plan is
to harness the power of markets to drive positive change in
health insurance and health care.”  The changes he proposes would seek to “return power to the
states, improve access by slowing health-care cost increases,
and make health insurance portable and flexible for today’s
economy,” Romney wrote.  Insurance Requirement  The Massachusetts law, like the federal law, requires
people to purchase health insurance. The state measure looms as
an obstacle to supporting Romney among many Republican
activists, including members of fiscally conservative Tea Party
groups.  “It’s an incredibly big deal,” said Ryan Rhodes, a leader
of the  Iowa  Tea Party, based in the state that holds the first
contest in the nomination process. “How do you run against
ObamaCare when he based that on your plan in Massachusetts?”  In his USA Today column, Romney makes little mention of the
Massachusetts law.  “Some states might pass a plan like the one we did in
Massachusetts, while others will choose an altogether different
route,” he wrote. “We can empower states to expand health-care
access to low-income Americans by block-granting funds for
Medicaid and the uninsured.”  In announcing his speech in Michigan, Romney’s  presidential
campaign exploratory committee  listed what it called his
“principles for health-care reform,” which include giving
states the responsibility and resources to care for the poor,
uninsured and chronically ill; giving a tax deduction to those
who buy their own health insurance; and reducing the influence
of lawsuits on medical care and costs.  Making Distinctions  Romney, who is among the top tier of candidates in polls
about potential Republican candidates, has previously tried to
make distinctions between the Massachusetts law and the plan
passed by Congress.  “One thing I’d never do, by the way, would be to impose a
one-size-fits-all plan like Obamacare on the nation,” Romney
said at a forum in New Hampshire last month. “That’s simply
wrong and unconstitutional, and it won’t work.”  Democrats have praised the Massachusetts law and made a
point of noting Romney’s involvement in its passage.  “I agree with Mitt Romney, who recently said he’s proud of
what he accomplished on health care in Massachusetts and
supports giving states the power to determine their own health-
care solutions,” Obama said Feb. 28 in remarks to the country’s
governors.  Preempting Others  Romney’s speech today at the  University of Michigan’s
Cardiovascular Center  in  Ann Arbor  is designed to explain his
health-care record and offer a detailed plan on the issue before
others in the still-developing Republican field do so.  Anything short of an apology and an admission of error may
not be enough to satisfy some Republican activists.  “He’s going to have to unequivocally say that we need to
roll this back and that we don’t need the government in our
health care,” said Rhodes, the Iowa Tea Party leader. “It
ranks right up there because it’s part of our debt and deficit
issue.”  David Rohde, a political science professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina , said, “The concerns of
conservatives in the party about the health-care issue is a
manifestation of the general concern about Romney, an
uncertainty about whether he’s really one of them.”  Rohde, who previously taught at  Michigan  State University
in East Lansing for 34 years, said that “to whatever degree he
can ameliorate the concern about the health-care issue might
help ameliorate concerns about how conservative he is.”  Michigan Ties  Romney, 64, chose to deliver the speech in Michigan because
he feels comfortable there and the state conducts an early
primary, said Bill Ballenger, editor of the nonpartisan
newsletter  Inside Michigan Politics . Romney was born and raised
in Michigan; his father, George Romney, served as the state’s
governor for three terms, and his brother, G. Scott Romney,
practices law in  Detroit .  Mitt Romney “always seems to come back to Michigan when
he’s going to do something important,” including announcing his
2008 presidential bid, Ballenger said in a telephone interview.
“It’s almost like coming home.” Romney lost the 2008
Republican presidential nomination to Senator John McCain of
 Arizona .  Before his 2003-2007 term as Massachusetts’ governor,
Romney co-founded the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC and helped turn the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt
Lake City,  Utah , into a financial success. He touts those
credentials as the  U.S. economy  struggles to rebound from the
worst downturn since the Great Depression.  Romney has been accelerating his travel schedule to early
primary and caucus states, including Iowa,  New Hampshire , South
Carolina and  Nevada .  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Leslie Hoffecker  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago , at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 