-- 
Rotterdam Port CEO Seeks Funds to Fend Off Hamburg Threat: Freight Markets

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-05-12T17:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/rotterdam-port-seeks-funds-to-fend-off-hamburg-freight-markets.html
Rotterdam,  Europe ’s busiest port,
says its lead over Hamburg and Antwerp may be jeopardized in
coming years without a multibillion-dollar program to free up
crowded access roads as Asian trade swells container volumes.  The Dutch government, which abandoned a pay-as-you-go road
tax last year, should consider charging for tunnels and highways
vital to the port and use proceeds to accelerate infrastructure
work, Chief Executive Officer Hans Smits in an interview.  “Rotterdam’s inaccessibility is its Achilles heel,” Smits
said. “Much needs to be done, but the government budget is
insufficient. This applies all over Europe; governments are
cutting deficits while infrastructure needs extra investment.”  The Port of Rotterdam, at the mouth of the River Rhine, is
also in talks with upstream harbors such as Duisburger Hafen AG
about establishing inland terminals where containers could be
transferred from barges and trains to trucks or smaller ships,
thereby avoiding congested Dutch highways entirely, he said.  Rotterdam boosted container traffic 12 percent last year to
112.3 million tons, stretching its lead over Hamburg, which
posted a 10 percent gain to 78.4 million tons. Growth at the
Dutch port continued at the same level in the first quarter.  Still, its  German competitor  aims to triple volumes over
the next 15 years by building a new terminal in the district of
Steinwerder and deepening the River Elbe as part of a 3 billion-
euro ($4.3 billion) spending program. Antwerp in  Belgium ,
currently Europe’s No. 2 container port with a volume of 102.5
million tons in 2010, said in October it will invest 1.6 billion
euros on expansion over the next 15 years to remain competitive.  ‘Always Lurking’  Smits will outline the threats to Rotterdam’s preeminence
and his strategy for the next 20 years in a plan to be published
later this month.  “The danger of losing market share to Antwerp and Hamburg
is always lurking,” said Rico Luman, a transport economist at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Rotterdam has a very strong
position which was strengthened in the financial crisis as ship
owners kept it on the map at the expense of other ports. Hamburg
lost market share during the crisis and now wants to expand.”  Rotterdam aims to increase its overall cargo volumes from
430 million tons last year to between 650 million and 750
million tons by 2030, Smits said, with containers making up as
much as 40 percent of throughput versus the current 25 percent.  ‘Higher Gear’  The Dutch harbor, which already has nine container
terminals, is adding 20 percent to its acreage by  reclaiming
land  from the  North Sea  at a cost of more than 3 billion euros
to cope with demand, but could still be stymied by under-
investment in highways, said Smits, 61, who favors a public-
private financing package. Even the cost of a single tunnel is
estimated at about 1 billion euros.  “Two or three times as many containers means a huge
increase in transport to the hinterland,” the CEO said. “I
just got back from the  Far East  and those ports are in a higher
gear. It’s not just that they’re building quicker -- there’s a
greater sense of urgency to act quickly and decisively.”  The talks with sites including Duisburg in western  Germany 
are aimed at better exploiting the Rhine and Meuse rivers, which
have “seven times more capacity than is currently used,” Smits
said. The Betuwelijn double-track cargo railroad between
Rotterdam and the German border, built at an over-budget cost of
4.7 billion euros, also has room for growth, he said.  Smits said at his office overlooking the port that he’s
also seeking a hub in southern Germany, where the number of
containers from Rotterdam is “unnaturally low,” in order to
aid penetration of Europe’s largest economy.  Digging Deep  The development of such links will become a key feature of
competition between major port players, ING’s Luman said.  “It will be more important in coming years to control the
inland terminals, not just the seaports but also the whole chain
to their hinterland,” he said. “If you control these, you can
maintain your position.”  Away from Rotterdam, the biggest problem facing most
European ports is often squeezing in ever-bigger ships rather
than coping with the resulting road traffic.  The Scheldt waterway connecting Antwerp with the North Sea
was deepened last year, and Germany’s Wilhelmshaven is also
being prepared to handle the world’s biggest ships by 2012.  At Hamburg, a 385 million-euro plan to deepen the Elbe will
begin at the end of 2011 following a three-year delay because of
environmental concerns that have prevented the biggest container
vessels on Asian routes from entering the port at full capacity.  Rail Advantage  Hamburg is also taking steps to improve its infrastructure,
introducing a new traffic-management system for the Elbe, better
traffic flows for trucks and improving bridges and railway
connections, CEO Jens Meier said Feb. 23.  The harbor is already “the most important railway port in
Europe,” with good connections to  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and
 Austria , and in the future to southern Germany, too, according
to Hamburg Port Authority spokesman Alexander Schwertner.  “Transport infrastructure is very important for the
performance of any port,” Schwertner said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “It was important that the investment in
modernization and extension of terminals and infrastructure
initiated previous to the financial crisis was not stopped.”  ING’s Luman said that Rotterdam’s  Maasvlakte 2  reclamation
project, which includes a new dock with a depth of 20 meters (65
feet), should be sufficient to keep it ahead of the opposition.  Oil Boost  Rotterdam, which has five oil refineries, also expects
growth from the  energy industry  and  carbon capture , said Smits,
a former CEO of Rabobank Groep, the second-biggest Dutch lender.  “In Europe, inland refineries which often stand alone are
being closed and capacity concentrated in areas with other
industry,” he said. “Our position will become stronger, which
means continued investment in modernization of refineries here.”  The Dutch government’s decision last year to cancel  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s carbon dioxide-storage project is a chance for
Rotterdam to play a role in off-shore storage, Smits said.  “We’re in talks to build a common-carrier pipeline in the
port to transport CO2 to depleted gas fields or inject it into
 oil fields ,” he said. “We expect that there’ll be a shipping
terminal for carbon dioxide not only from our complex but maybe
also from Germany, so it can be liquefied and transported.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  