-- 
Rousseff Says Brazilian Government Focused on Slowing Inflation to Target

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-11T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/rousseff-says-government-focused-on-meeting-brazil-cpi-target.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
said the central bank and the  Finance Ministry  are working
together to bring inflation back to the 4.5 percent target as
soon as possible.  Rousseff, speaking at an event in Brasilia yesterday, also
said that  Latin America ’s biggest economy has matured enough to
combine fast economic growth with consumer prices that are under
control.  “We will ensure growth at a fast pace, inflation that is
under control and we will continue to invest to overcome the
limitations that still exist in the productive and social
infrastructure,” Rousseff said. “The Finance Ministry and the
central bank are working to ensure inflation is back to the mid-
point of the target in the shortest time possible.”  Annual inflation accelerated to 6.51 percent in the year
through April, the first time the benchmark IPCA index has
exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit of the inflation target
since 2005. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Policy makers have raised  Brazil ’s benchmark interest rate
at all three meetings in 2011, with half-point increases in
January and March before slowing the pace to a quarter-point
last month to push the Selic up to 12 percent.  Brazil’s economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, expanded 6.98 percent in the year through
February, its fastest pace in six months, the central bank
reported April 13.  “I know there won’t be sustainable development without
monetary stability,” Rousseff said.  Latin America’s largest economy grew 7.5 percent last year,
the fastest growth since the 1980s. Brazil’s economy will expand
4.5 percent this year, according to estimates by the Finance
Ministry.  “Brazil has matured to control inflation and continue to
grow,” the president said.  The real gained 0.6 percent yesterday to close at 1.6037
per dollar from 1.6141 on May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  