-- 
Salgado Says Spanish Budget Deficit Is Shrinking, No New Measures Needed

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-11T09:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/salgado-says-spanish-budget-deficit-is-shrinking-no-new-measures-needed.html
Spain  doesn’t plan additional budget
cuts as the deficit is already narrowing in line with the
government’s plans, Finance Minister Elena Salgado said.  “The deficit is being reduced in line with forecasts,
revenues are in line with forecasts and the reduction in
spending is as we expected, so there will be no additional
measures,” she told lawmakers in Parliament today when asked if
the government is planning new cuts.  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs widened
on May 9 to the most in almost two weeks as increasing
expectations of a Greek debt restructuring fueled contagion
throughout the euro region’s periphery. The Socialist
government, which faces regional elections on May 22, aims to
cut the deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 9.2 percent last year, when the shortfall was the third-
largest in the euro region.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-largest
bank, also said today the government has taken enough measures
for the 6 percent target to be reached if “they are rigorously
implemented,” even as it forecast slower growth than the
government is expecting.  The Spanish economy will grow 0.9 percent this year and 1.6
percent in 2012, the bank said in a quarterly report today. The
government sees growth of 1.3 percent this year, accelerating to
2.3 percent next year.  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year bonds over German
equivalents narrowed today to 210 basis points from 215 basis
points yesterday. That compares with a euro-era high of 298
basis points on Nov. 30, after Ireland became the second country
after  Greece  to seek a European bailout, and an average of 15
basis points in the first decade of monetary union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  