-- 
San Jose Wrestles With Cost of 90% Pensions

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/san-jose-wrestles-with-cost-of-90-pensions.html
A 2007 arbitration ruling letting  San
Jose , California, firefighters retire as early as age 48 with 90
percent of their pay may result in the firing of 370 municipal
workers as the 10th-largest U.S. city tries to close a budget
deficit fueled by higher pension costs.  Firefighters’  pensions were sweetened for the third time
since 1996 after San Jose came under pressure from unions to
keep up with what other municipalities were offering, according
to Alex Gurza, the city’s chief negotiator.  “A lot of the discussions around the bargaining table were
around that issue,” Gurza, who is also the city’s employee
relations director, said in a telephone interview. “The main
argument was that we needed to do it for recruitment and
retention.”  Mayors in San Jose and San Francisco are developing ballot
measures to put before the voters in November to scale back
benefits for city workers to stem growing budget deficits,
maintain services and prevent layoffs. In  New York City , Mayor
Michael Bloomberg has said higher pension costs are a factor in
shrinking the city’s workforce.  Sixty-five percent of San Jose residents support lowering
the maximum pension for all new police officers and
firefighters, and 68 percent think the  retirement age  should
increase above 50, according to a city-sponsored telephone
 survey  of 903 people in January.  Recruitment and Retention  San Jose firefighters, who can be  hired  as young as 18, can
retire at any age with 30 years’ service and receive 90 percent
of their highest annual salary. Such a firefighter retiring
today would get a base pension of about $95,000, with 3 percent
annual increases, Gurza said.  The increase from 85 percent took effect in 2008 following
after contract talks went to  arbitration . The city didn’t have
trouble with  recruitment  or retention, Gurza said. The year the
new benefit took effect, the city got 2,645 firefighter
applications three days after posting a job notice, he said.  Berkeley,  Long Beach ,  Newport Beach  and Oakland are among
other  California  cities that offer similar  benefits  to their
firefighters, according to the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the biggest U.S. public pension.  Cities across the U.S. are scrambling to come up with ways
to roll back benefits and require employees to contribute more.
San Jose’s unfunded liability for its two pension plans is
expected to grow to $2.03 billion in the next five years as
gains and losses are spread over time, according to the city’s
Retirement Services Department.  Overly Optimistic Assumptions  The shortfall arose because of overly optimistic earnings
assumptions, losses from the 2008 financial crisis and
retroactive benefit increases, Gurza said.  “We are so acutely aware now of the importance of using
realistic assumptions when determining the long-term costs of
retirement benefits,” Gurza said.  San Jose voters in November already approved two ballot
measures aimed at containing the costs. One limits binding
 arbitration . The second allows  new employees  to be excluded from
existing retirement plans or benefits.  San Jose is asking workers to agree to a 10 percent cut in
pay and benefits. So far, five unions, including the
firefighters, have agreed, said Tom Manheim, a spokesman for the
San Jose city manager. Five firefighters and 122 police officers
were told they may be among those out of their jobs.  “We’ve seen people who have served our community for
decades escorted to the door,” Sam Liccardo, a Democrat on the
City Council, said in an April 28 telephone interview. “As they
struggle to find jobs, firefighters will be retiring in their
early 50s with six-figure annual pensions. The irony is not lost
on our taxpayers.”  Silicon Valley Giants  San Jose, the third most-populous city in California and
home to Silicon Valley giants including  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , and San Francisco, the home of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Twitter Inc., are among cities nationwide that say
escalating pension costs are the primary cause of their budget
deficits.  Ballot measures to overhaul pensions are likely to be well-
received by voters, said Joe Nation, a public-policy professor
at  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto  and a former California
assemblyman.  “Whether it’s right or wrong, there’s not a lot of
sympathy for public employees right now,” Nation said in a May
2 telephone interview. “People have come to the conclusion that
public-employee pensions are probably too high. With that going
into an election that restricts those benefits, the outcome is
almost certain.”  New-Hire Changes  In  San Francisco , Mayor Edwin Lee and Supervisor Sean Elsbernd, a Democrat, are drafting legislation that would reduce
pension benefits for new employees, increase cost-sharing for
pension contributions and give the city more say in the
oversight of the board that sets health benefits for current
workers and retirees, said Micki Callahan, the human resources
director, in a May 2 telephone interview.  Lee and Elsbernd are negotiating the provisions with the
city’s unions. Lee must submit the initiative by May 24 for
consideration by the Board of Supervisors, Callahan said.  Elsbernd said the 2008 financial crisis is responsible for
the city’s escalating pension costs.  “An actuarial loss of 30 percent that the system had never
seen before, it was never brought up,” Elsbernd said. “If
anything is to blame, it’s the inherent nature of a defined-
benefits system.”  Unfunded Health Liability  The city has an unfunded liability of about $4.4 billion
for its retiree health benefits because improvements were
approved without being funded, Callahan said.  “So we have benefits that are both very rich and almost
entirely unfunded on the health side,” Callahan said.  Nathan Ballard, a Democratic strategist for San Francisco’s
public-employee unions, said labor is negotiating with the city
on a compromise on the ballot measure. He said he expects
current and future employees to pay more into their pensions.  “We’re inching closer to each other’s position,” Ballard
said in a May 2 telephone interview. “We want to do it in a way
that’s fair to city workers, but also accomplishes significant
savings for the city.”  U.S. states expanded the deficits in their employee
retirement systems to $1.26 trillion by the end of the 2009
budget year, a 26 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to a  report  released last month by the Washington-
based Pew Center on the States.  Guaranteed Annual Increase  San Jose should eliminate guaranteed annual increases in
pension benefits, bonus payments to retirees and manipulation of
compensation to avoid so-called spiking to save the city from
“fiscal disaster” and “stop the cancer’s growth,” Mayor
Chuck Reed said in a state-of-the-city  speech  in February.  Sharon Erickson, San Jose’s auditor, said consensus is
growing for reducing benefits for current employees.  “It really is the employer’s responsibility to make sure
this is something we can afford,” Erickson said in an April 27
telephone interview. “It’s very difficult in a down economy to
ask taxpayers to foot the bill for pension benefits that your
average resident isn’t going to see.”  Liccardo, the council member who also has served on San
Jose’s pension board, said he doesn’t blame the unions for
advocating for better benefits.  “I blame public officials who failed to have the long-term
best interest of the city at the forefront of their decision-
making,” Liccardo said. “Every time a decision was made it was
made without the benefit of anyone pointing out that the emperor
isn’t wearing any clothes, that is that we could not possibly
sustain this level of benefits.”  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 