-- 
Sanofi-Aventis, Huawei, Koch, HP: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-11T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/sanofi-aventis-huawei-ashok-leland-coca-cola-hp-intellectual-property.html
The Federal Trade Commission said
Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and Synthon
Holding BV illegally failed to inform the agency about patent
agreements on the insomnia drug Ambien CR.  The FTC let the companies off with a warning as its staff
told them it decided not to recommend penalties because the lack
of a filing didn’t harm rivals or consumers, according to a
statement on the agency’s website. Also, the companies didn’t
appear to be trying to evade reporting requirements, the agency
said.  The FTC said it decided to issue letters to the companies
to guide them on complying with a 2003 health-care law. Future
violations could mean fines of as much as $11,000 a day, the
agency said.  “We will consider enforcement recommendations, including
appropriate penalties” if the companies fail to tell the FTC of
future settlements, said Richard Feinstein, head of the FTC’s
Bureau of Competition, in the statement.  Sanofi-Aventis “acted in good faith, and no party appears
to have benefited from the failure to file,” Jack Cox, a
spokesman for the Paris-based company, said in an e-mail.
“However, the company takes note of the FTC’s position.”  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz has criticized some drug
settlements between brand-name and generic-drug makers as
delaying the introduction of less-expensive medicines. The
number of such deals increased to 31 in 2010 from 19 in the
previous year, according to the agency.  Some of these settlements “are outrageous, and they harm
consumers,” Leibowitz said on May 3 in an interview at the
Bloomberg News office in  New York . “Either the courts or
Congress needs to stop them.”  Sanofi-Aventis  sued Corona, California-based  Watson  and
Nijmegen, Netherlands-based  Synthon  in 2007 for patent
infringement by seeking to make a generic version of Sanofi’s
Ambien CR.  Settlements in patent cases often are called reverse-
payment or pay-for-delay deals because the brand-name company
compensates the generic-drug maker with cash or marketing or
sales deals in return for dropping challenges to patents.  Prices of generic drugs are generally 20 percent to 30
percent below those of brand-name drugs and in some cases as
much as 90 percent cheaper, the FTC has said.  Drug-company lobbyists have defended the patent settlements
as alternatives to long and costly court battles.  Spokespeople for Watson and Synthon didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Huawei Wins Trademark Court Order Against ZTE in Hamburg Court  Huawei Technologies Co., China’s largest phone-network-
equipment maker, won a preliminary injunction against a German
unit of its closest competitor,  ZTE Corp. (763) , over an alleged
trademark infringement.  The order, dated May 2, prohibits ZTE from using a mark on
USB modem sticks or selling USB sticks which have a certain
legally protected design, according to a copy of the court
judgment obtained by Bloomberg News. The ruling was issued in a
fast-track proceeding without hearing arguments from ZTE, which
can seek to have the judgment overturned by filing an objection.  ZTE and Huawei, both based in Shenzen, have expanded beyond
China into Asia and Africa, and are now looking to boost sales
in Europe and the U.S. Huawei is the world’s second-largest
maker of equipment for mobile-phone networks behind Ericsson AB,
according to April estimates from research firm Gartner Inc.  Susanne Baumann, a spokeswoman for ZTE’s German unit,
couldn’t be reached by phone and didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail seeking comment. Huawei’s German company spokeswoman,
Brenda Hao, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Huawei said April 28 that it filed lawsuits in Germany,
France and Hungary over a series of patents and trademarks
related to data-card and high-speed mobile Internet technology.
A day later ZTE said it filed a patent lawsuit over fourth-
generation mobile-network technology against Huawei in  China .  The case is LG Hamburg, 315 O 205/11.  Koch Industries’ Parody-Website Infringement Case Dismissed  Koch Industries Inc., the closely held energy and chemical
company based in Wichita,  Kansas  controlled by billionaire
brothers David and Charles Koch, cannot sue the creators of a
parody website for trademark infringement, a federal court in
 Utah  ruled May 9.  The Wichita, Kansas-based holding company sued 25 unnamed
defendants for trademark infringement in December 2010, claiming
its rights were infringed by a parody website -- www.koch-
inc.com -- that criticized the company’s environmental record.  The unnamed defendants had identified themselves as Youth
for Climate Truth, according to court papers. They also sent out
a faux press release that included a link to their website, Koch
said in its pleadings.  U.S. District Judge Dale A. Kimball said that Koch failed
to make a case for infringement. The company’s legal theories
around trademark infringement “are not factually plausible,”
he said. He also refused Koch’s request that the 25 unnamed
defendants be identified.  Koch was represented by  Michael W. Young  and  Juliette P.
White  of  Salt Lake City ’s  Parsons Behle & Latimer . The
defendants were represented by  Deepak Gupta  of  Washington ’s
 Public Citizen Litigation Group  and  Lester A. Perry  of  Hoole &
King LC  of Salt Lake City.  The case is Koch Industries v. John Does 1-15, 2:10-cv-
01275-DAK-SA, U.S. District Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake
City).  Ashok Leland Wins Appeal Over Rights to ‘Luxura’ Trademark  Ashok Leland Ltd., the Chennai, India-based manufacturer of
buses and trucks, persuaded the Madras  High Court  to bar a
transportation company’s use of the “Luxura” mark,  according
to  The Hindu newspaper.  Blue Hill Logistics Ltd.  of Bengaluru,  India , and Dilip
Chhabria Design Private Ltd. of Mumbai had asked the High Court
to reverse a trial judge’s ruling barring their use of the term,
according to the newspaper.  The two companies claimed that “Luxura” was a variation
of the word “luxury” and not protectable under Indian
trademark law, the newspaper reported.  The court said that because Askok Leland was the registered
owner of the “Luxura” mark, its rights had to be protected,
according to The Hindu.  Coca-Cola Sued in U.K. Over ‘Relentless’ for Energy Drink  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  was targeted in a trademark action brought in
the U.K. by a music company, Music Week  reported .  Media Village Entertainment Ltd. objected to the Atlanta-
based beverage company’s use of “Relentless” for its energy
drink brand, according to Music Week.  Media Village Entertainment’s Relentless Records earlier
engaged in failed mediation with Coca-Cola over the use of the
mark, Music Week reported.  Earlier, Coca-Cola withdrew its application to register
“No Half Measures” as a U.K. trademark following an objection
by No Half Measures Ltd. of Glasgow, according to Music Week.  HP’s Cloud Computing Service May Use ‘Scalene’ as Trademark  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is going to a triangular cloud, if a
recent filing with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office is any
indication.  According to the Patent Office database, HP is seeking to
register the term “scalene” for computer hardware, software
and services related to cloud computing. The term, when used in
geometry, refers to a triangle in which each side is of a
different length.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company filed a parallel
application to register “Scalene” for use with cloud computing
in the nations of the European Union. Both were filed in late
March.  That same month, Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  said
that the company was starting a cloud-computing service that
will let developers create applications for consumers and
businesses using HP tools and run on HP servers.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Quebecor Unit Sued for Infringing Horoscope Column Copyright  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) ’s Sun Media unit was sued for copyright
infringement by a company that produces syndicated material, the
Canadian Press  reported .  Creative Artists Syndicate Inc., in a lawsuit filed in
Canadian Federal Court, accused Sun Media of running horoscope
columns without authorization, CP said.  A Sun Media contract to run the content expired in January
2010 and it continued to publish the content without
compensating the creators, Creative Artists claimed, according
to CP.  Creative Artists is seeking damages from Quebecor, which
declined to comment to CP.  Righthaven Tells Court Its Suits Take Aim at ‘Parasitic’ Model  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based company that filed more
than 200 lawsuits involving copyrights of Stephens Media Group’s
newspapers, told a federal court it was only responding to “a
parasitic business model employed by many website operators.”  Newspapers are struggling for survival in the era of digital
media, Righthaven said in its May 9 filing in the infringement
case it brought against the Democratic Underground, and
criticism it has received from the court presents “a blemished
portrait of Stephens.”  Righthaven referred to an April 14 court order in which it
was accused of working with closely held Stephens Media “to
create a cottage industry of filing copyright claims.”  Instead, Righthaven argued that the frequency of the suits
it filed is “directly attributable to the frequency of
infringing conduct on the Internet.” Rather than creating a
cottage industry, Righthaven said Stephens Media’s hope is that
the suits it is filing “will reduce the amount of infringing
conduct to a level where such litigation becomes altogether
unnecessary.”  On a different front, Righthaven hired New York-based
copyright specialist Dale Cendali -- a partner in  Chicago ’s
Kirkland & Ellis LLP -- to replace its in-house counsel in at
least one infringement case.  The case against the Democratic Underground is Righthaven
LLC v. Democratic Underground LLC, 2:10-cv-01356-RLH-GWF, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  No Copyright on Situation-Room Photo; Apology for Alteration  Di Tzeitung , the Yiddish-language newspaper that airbrushed
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  from a government-issued
photo of the White House situation room, hasn’t violated any
copyright law.  The Brooklyn, New York-based newspaper, which serves a
segment of the Orthodox Jewish community, doesn’t publish any
photos of women. According to a  statement  issued by the
newspaper, “laws of modesty” bar using photos of women and as
“an expression of respect for women.”  The photo,  shot March 1 , shows Clinton, together with the
president, vice president and a number of other government
officials clustered in the situation room, awaiting word that
Osama bin Laden had been captured or killed.  According to the  copyright policy  posted on the White House
website, materials published on the website aren’t copyright-
protected.  In its statement, Di Tzeitung said that its photo editor
didn’t read the “fine print” that accompanied the photo,
forbidding any changes, and went ahead per newspaper policy and
edited Clinton and a second woman out of the photo.  The publication noted that Clinton “won overwhelming
majorities in the orthodox Jewish communities” during her two
campaigns for  U.S. Senate  in 2000 and 2006. It sent the White
House an apology for using the photo outside of its terms of
use.  Scotland  Convicts First Person for Sharing Music on Internet  A 58-year-old woman became the first person in Scotland to
be convicted of illegally sharing music over the Internet,
prosecutors said yesterday.  The defendant pleaded guilty at Ayr Sheriff Court last
month to breaking a 1988 copyright law after distributing 54,000
pounds ($88,000) of music through file-sharing software, the
Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service said in an e-mailed
statement. Sentencing will take place on May 31.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 