-- 
Satelites Mexicanos Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval of Turnaround Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-11T20:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/satelites-mexicanos-wins-court-approval-of-restructuring-plan.html
Satelites Mexicanos SA, the Mexican
satellite company, won court approval of its restructuring plan
allowing it to exit  bankruptcy protection  this month.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  approved the
Mexico City-based company’s pre-negotiated reorganization plan
giving noteholders cash and equity at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware . The noteholders agreed to support the
restructuring before the company sought bankruptcy.  Satmex, as the company is known, listed $441.6 million in
assets and $531.6 million in debt as of March 23 in Chapter 11
documents filed April 6.  “We are very pleased to have a successful restructuring,”
Chief Executive Officer Patricio Northland said in an interview
after the hearing. The plan gives Satmex “a sustainable  capital
structure ” that will allow the company to provide customers with
uninterrupted service and continue investing in future
satellites and, he said.  Satmex issued $325 million in notes bearing 9.5 percent
interest to fund certain payments under its restructuring plan.
The notes will also help fund operations once it exits court
protection, which is planned for May 26, according to a May 2
statement.  Noteholders, Creditors  The satellite operator will pay first-priority noteholders,
owed about $238.2 million, and unsecured creditors in full in
cash, according to the plan. Second-priority noteholders, owed
about $201.9 million, will split 7.15 percent of the reorganized
company’s stock and get the right to participate in the offering
for 85.75 percent of the new equity, which will raise about
$96.25 million.  Satmex has raised about $16.7 million from the rights
offering, Paul J. Keenan, a lawyer for the company, told
Sontchi. The second-priority noteholders that agreed to backstop
the equity offering will buy the remainder. Some of the proceeds
generated from notes and equity offering will be used to
complete a new satellite needed to replace an older one.  The company operates three satellites, providing fixed-
satellite services covering 90 percent of the population of the
Americas. The company previously filed for bankruptcy in August
2006 in  New York . The company exited that December after winning
court approval to repay creditors owed about $743 million with
new debt and equity.  Satmex was forced to seek bankruptcy protection because it
didn’t have enough cash to satisfy its maturing notes, court
papers show. It also needed funds to construct and launch new
satellites to replace older models that had from two years to
two and half years of life left.  The case is In re Satelites Mexicanos SA, 11-11035,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  