-- 
Gulliver Pledges HSBC Cost Reductions in Focus on Faster-Growing Economies

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-05-11T15:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/hsbc-plans-to-reduce-costs-by-2-5-3-5-billion-boosting-return-on-equity.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
bank, will cut jobs and close offices to reduce costs by about a
tenth over the next two years as it expands in faster-growing
economies and prepares for stricter capital rules.  The lender will target cost cuts of $2.5 billion to $3.5
billion by 2013, according to a statement today, compared with
total operating expenses of $37.7 billion last year. HSBC will
cut head office jobs and may sell its U.S. credit card division
as it seeks to exit unprofitable units among subsidiaries in 87
countries, the London-based bank said today. The shares fell.  “Perhaps people were expecting something a little bit more
seismic, but Gulliver has not come in as a particularly new
broom,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage about 15
billion pounds ($25 billion), including HSBC stock, at Rathbone
Brothers Plc in London.  Stuart Gulliver , 52, who became chief executive officer in
January after four years heading the investment bank, said this
week it may take until 2014 to reach the bank’s cost-reduction
targets, the highest among its U.K.-based peers. He spelled out
the changes at a meeting with investors in London today.
Competitors including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are also seeking to exit
operations with low returns as regulators demand they hold more
capital in the wake of the financial crisis.  ‘Not About Shrinking’  “This is not about shrinking the business but about
creating capacity to re-invest in growth markets and to provide
a buffer against regulatory and inflationary headwinds,”
Gulliver said. “We will continue to invest in markets with
strategic relevance and high actual or potential returns and
will either turn around or dispose of other businesses.”  It is “inevitable” that HSBC will employ fewer people by
2013, Gulliver told journalists today.  The bank fell 1.5 percent to 646.1 pence at the close in
London, for a market value of 115 billion pounds. That marked
the second-biggest decline in the 48-member Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks Index.  HSBC said it will focus on commercial banking globally. The
bank will also focus on  wealth management  in 18 of the “most
relevant economies” while scaling back in consumer banking to
markets where it can “achieve profitable scale.” HSBC said it
plans to hire 150 new front office staff annually for its
private wealth division.  The lender said it will focus on retail banking in the
U.K., Hong Kong, high-growth markets such as  Mexico ,  Singapore ,
 Turkey  and  Brazil  and smaller countries where it has a leading
market share. It plans to boost revenue at its retail unit by $4
billion in the near-to-medium term.  Worldwide Employees  “Do not mistake the marketing strapline, ‘The World’s
Local Bank,’ for our strategy,” Gulliver told investors,
referring to HSBC’s consumer bank advertising slogan.  The investment’s in  China ’s Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
and Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. are “core,” while the
bank’s plan to trade its stock in  Shanghai  is a priority,
Gulliver said.  HSBC said it would cut $1.38 billion of costs by 2013
through measures including simplifying “regional structures,”
consolidating data centers, shifting operations to cheaper cost
locations, and reducing paperwork and layers of management. The
bank had 295,061 employees worldwide at the end of 2010 compared
with 315,520 at the end of 2007.  “There is little revolutionary within the announcements,”
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. analysts including  Mark Phin  said
in a note to clients today.  ‘Cost Problem’  Costs rose to 60.9 percent of income in the first quarter
from 49.6 percent, earnings figures showed on May 9. Net income
rose 58 percent to $4.15 billion from $2.63 billion a year
earlier. The bank has a target to increase revenue faster than
costs, HSBC said today.  “We clearly have a cost problem,” Gulliver told investors
today. That would be addressed “with some energy,” he said.  The first-quarter results, with emerging markets
outperforming developed ones, showed that HSBC is “a
developing-market bank trying to escape from the body of a very
different type of ‘conglomerate bank,’” Mediobanca SpA analysts
said in a note yesterday. HSBC is “immensely powerful” and its
results showed structural flaws “that prevent it providing the
kind of shareholder returns the bank should be capable of
providing.”  HSBC said it would encourage greater cooperation between
its investment and commercial banking units to create $1 billion
in additional revenue.  HSBC, whose origins date back to 1865 when it operated as
the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. to finance trade in
opium, silk and tea, focuses on emerging markets. It has 7,500
offices.  Free Capital  The bank could free $25 billion of capital by selling its
U.S. credit-card unit, Rohith Chandra-Rajan, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital , wrote in a note to investors last week.  HSBC acquired the credit-card unit in 2003 with its $15.5
billion purchase of U.S. subprime mortgage lender  Household
International , now known as HSBC Finance. In 2009, HSBC halted
consumer-finance lending at the unit, which has contributed to
about $60 billion of provisions in  North America , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cards unit is profitable though “non-strategic” and a
sale of the unit will depend upon whether the bank achieves a
“sensible price,” Gulliver said.  ‘Inefficiency’  “HSBC has a lot of inefficiency and manages a lot of its
processes on a region-by-region basis,” Cormac Leech, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London , said before the
statement was published.  The bank reiterated that it seeks a return on common equity
of 12 percent to 15 percent. It lowered that goal in February
from 15 percent to 19 percent.  HSBC could climb to about 950 pence a share if Gulliver
committed to ensuring all businesses generate a return on equity
exceeding 10 percent, Gareth Hunt, an analyst at Investec
Securities in London, wrote in a note to investors last month.
HSBC shouldn’t have “a flag in every country,” he wrote. The
bank’s shares closed at 656.2 pence in London trading yesterday.  Among the bank’s peers, Barclays cut its target for return
on equity in February to at least 13 percent from the 18 percent
CEO  Robert Diamond  has said it averaged over the past three
decades. Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest
bank, trimmed its goal to more than 15 percent from more than 18
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  