-- 
Scene Last Night: Dimon, Kravis, Rockefeller, Kanye West, Jay-Z

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-11T15:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/scene-last-night-dimon-kravis-rockefeller-kanye-west-jay-z.html
Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and James S. Crown,
chairman of First National Bank of  Chicago , were among those who
lingered in the Sculpture Garden at  Manhattan ’s Museum of  Modern
Art  last night.  Beds of red tulips and purple pansies and a reflecting pool
offered an urban oasis also enjoyed by  Henry Kravis , Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia, and actor Leelee
Sobieski with her fashion-designer husband Adam Kimmel.  Guests toasted the honorees of the museum’s Party in the
Garden, trustees Mimi Haas, Sharon Percy Rockefeller, Jill
Kraus, and Patricia Phelps de Cisneros. Daughter Adriana
Cisneros de Griffin wore a pale peach and yellow dress by Marc
Jacobs, while Kraus carried a red-and-black wicker Dolce &
Gabbana purse.  A pair of Cartier orchid-shaped earrings, made of diamonds,
amethysts and rubies graced the lobes of Cecile Perrin, wife of
Cartier North America CEO and president Emmanuel Perrin.  Cartier sponsored the event, which raised $4 million. Some
last-minute fundraising at a MoMA board meeting helped the
museum reach that figure, Haas said during the cocktail hour.  To convince trustee Donald B. Marron to give a bit more,
the diminutive Haas stood on a chair so she could speak to him
at eye-level. He obliged. “She’s a good friend,” Marron said
of Haas.  Inside the museum, 700 guests sat at mirror-topped tables
for a meal of asparagus and truffle oil, and Niman Ranch filet
mignon with small potato pancakes. The wine was from Bedell
Cellars on the North Fork of  Long Island .  For the finale: a concert back in the garden, featuring
 Kanye West  in a gray hooded sweatshirt. Late in the 45-minute
set, Jay-Z came on stage to perform “H.A.M.” and “Empire
State of Mind.”  A Leg Up  In the ballroom of the Plaza Hotel,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  president Gary Cohn and co-founders of the Tribeca Film
Festival Jane Rosenthal and Craig Hatkoff were among the rapt
audience listening to 13-year-old Maurice Elbaz of  Brooklyn .  “Doctors, ladies and gentlemen,” began Elbaz, on the
stage of the ballroom, at the annual gala for KiDS of NYU
foundation Inc., which supports children’s health services at
New York University Langone Medical Center.  Elbaz recalled the leg pain that started a year and a half
ago, and had him “limping and dragging” his leg. Dr. David
Feldman, a chief of pediatric orthopedic surgery at the medical
center, diagnosed Elbaz with Legg Calve Perthes, which had
caused his hip to collapse.  ‘No Fun’  Surgery a year ago was followed by a long recovery, Elbaz
said: “No school, no camp, no friends, no fun, six months of
torture with these titanium rods sticking out of my leg.” The
result: In November he began walking again with no pain.  Dr. Feldman also works magic with donors.  “One of the first times I met David was when we went to a
meeting with a potential donor,” Alice Tisch, chairman of the
KiDS board said at a lectern.  “I was so completely excited that I ended up neglecting
the donor and giving the money myself.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 