-- 
Schumer Says Lawmakers Reluctant to Raise Debt Ceiling ‘Playing With Fire’

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-11T17:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/schumer-says-lawmakers-reluctant-to-raise-debt-ceiling-playing-with-fire-.html
Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York
said credit markets may begin to worry before an August deadline
for averting a federal default if there aren’t signs that
Congress can reach a deal to raise the U.S. debt limit.  Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, said
lawmakers reluctant to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling are
“playing with fire.”  While Schumer said he believes Republicans and Democrats
will settle their fiscal impasse, he also urged policy makers to
give themselves a cushion in reaching a deal to avoid spooking
markets with the notion that they may fail to agree.  “If the credit markets see that we’re not making any
progress over a two-month period,” Schumer said at the
Bloomberg Breakfast today in  Washington , “they may not wait
till the night of Aug. 1. That’s the danger we face.”  The government is scheduled to hit the debt ceiling next
week and options for avoiding default will be used up by early
August, according to projections by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  ‘Greatest Worry’  During the hour-long session, Schumer said that following
the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden  at a compound in a heavily
military suburb of Islamabad, Pakistan is his “greatest worry
of all.”  Schumer said the U.S. should re-examine the security of
Pakistan’s nuclear weapons and re-evaluate the aid it provides
to that country, given the complexity of the U.S.-Pakistani
relationship.  Bin Laden’s residency in Abbottabad has raised questions
about whether some Pakistani officials were aware of his
presence in their nation.  The U.S. is “a lot safer than we were” on Sept. 11, 2001,
Schumer also said, adding that he doesn’t worry every day about
another terrorist attack on  New York .  Schumer said the most recent threat briefing he received on
May 6 didn’t indicate any “uptick” in planning for a U.S.
attack following bin Laden’s killing. U.S. officials listening
in on terrorist elements “haven’t seen anything of an
increase” in such activity, he said.  Sabbath Analogy  Schumer compared the looming debt deadline to the sundown
start of the Jewish Sabbath, explaining that some observant Jews
who are forbidden to perform certain activities considered work
during the weekly rest day stop an hour early to ensure they
don’t violate the rules. That practice sometimes is called
“building a fence around the Torah,” the Jewish holy text.  Lawmakers had “better build a little fence. I don’t know
where, but we ought to build a fence and resolve in our own
heads, ‘You can’t go down to Aug. 1 if Aug. 2 is the actual,
absolute deadline,’” Schumer said.  Schumer, one of his party’s main political strategists,
said both sides agree spending cuts are needed for domestic
programs and that the argument is over what more needs to be
done to slash the debt. He said Democrats are winning that
debate by making it a choice between their proposal to also
raise taxes on high earners and revoke some business tax breaks
versus Republican proposals for “destroying Medicare.”  “We’ll take that fight, and that’s how it’s beginning to
shape up,” Schumer said.  Ryan’s Plan  A budget plan authored by Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, and passed by the House April 15 calls for
replacing the traditional Medicare health-care system for the
elderly by providing those currently under the age of 55 with
subsidies to buy private insurance. Some Republican lawmakers
encountered vocal opposition to the proposal at meetings with
constituents during a congressional recess last month.  Schumer also said that Democrats “think the American
people are with us” on taxes, and his party has the “high
ground” on the issue.  Vice President  Joe Biden  is leading a bipartisan group of
negotiators trying to pave the way for a vote on raising the
debt limit by devising a plan to reduce the government’s long-
term deficits. Republican congressional leaders have been
insisting any provisions that boost anyone’s taxes can’t be part
of such a plan, while Democrats say it must include increased
revenues.  Gang of Six  The Obama administration and top congressional leaders will
have to be the ones who cut the deal to avert default, Schumer
said. While a bipartisan group of six senators that is working
on a debt-reduction deal including entitlement changes, spending
cuts and revenue increases “might move things in the right
direction,” they won’t have the final word, he said.  “If we can get Republicans to come out for revenues --
even a small number -- that’s a good thing, so I’m encouraging
of the Gang of Six,” Schumer said.  He said he opposed including changes to Social Security in
such a package, as members of the group have said they will do.  Beyond the debt issue, Schumer said he saw potential for
Congress this year to approve trade agreements, overhaul
immigration laws and enact an energy bill.  Approval of a trade pact with  Colombia  is more doubtful
than agreements with  Panama  and  South Korea , he said.  Republicans and Democrats may be able to agree on energy
legislation that avoids thorny issues, including increasing
energy efficiency in buildings and enacting new standards for
renewable energy, Schumer said.  Pakistan Concerns  He said Pakistan would be the top foreign policy concern
for the U.S. over the next decade.  “It’s poor, it’s going to become more militant, it’s
ethnically divided” and lacks a strong leader, Schumer said.
“It’s too important a country to say, ‘We’re getting out and
leaving it to its own devices,’ because it’s nuclear.”  If it turns out top leaders in Pakistan knew of bin Laden’s
whereabouts or harbored him during the six years he was
reportedly living in  Pakistan , Schumer said it would be a
“lightning bolt” shaking U.S.-Pakistan relations.  On  Afghanistan , he said while Democrats are inclined to
give Obama leeway to set his own pace for winding down U.S.
involvement, there is “growing disaffection” within his party
for a long-term presence there. That attitude is based in part
on a lack of confidence in Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and a
sense that unmanned drones could do much of the work troops are
now performing, Schumer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  