-- 
Schumer: Recess Appointment for Consumer Head

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-11T17:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/schumer-recess-appointment-for-consumer-head.html
President  Barack Obama  will have to
install a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau director by
recess appointment to bypass Republican efforts to force changes
at the agency, U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  said today.  “I think that’s the way it’s going to have to go because
the kind of changes they’re asking for won’t happen,” Schumer,
a New York Democrat, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Al Hunt . “Who it’ll be? I don’t know.”  Forty-four Republican senators said in a May 2 letter to
Obama that they won’t confirm anyone to run the bureau unless
Democrats agree to change its structure and funding. The group
is big enough to deny Democrats the 60 votes needed to get a
vote on a director in the 100-member Senate.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank  said Republicans are
acting “like thugs” in threatening to block nominees and are
forcing Obama to go around them.  “You have seen the greatest abuse of the nominations
process,” Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, told reporters in
Washington today. “They are trying to use the confirmation
process to substitute for the legislative process.”  Frank said a temporary appointment during a congressional
recess is Obama’s only option “unless seven Republicans change
their minds, and they are under great pressure not to.”
Republicans hold 47 seats in the Senate.  In the Bloomberg Television interview, Schumer declined to
say whether he would support a nomination of  Elizabeth Warren ,
the Obama adviser charged with setting up the bureau.  “She’s done a very good job at setting up the agency,”
said Schumer, who serves on the Senate Banking Committee. “And
I think she’s not as anti-business as many people think.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 