-- 
Shuaa Eliminates Jobs, Replaces Chairman as Dubai Ruler’s Firm Posts Loss

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-11T06:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/shuaa-eliminates-jobs-replaces-chairman-as-dubai-ruler-s-firm-posts-loss.html
Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  will eliminate 39
jobs as the investment bank controlled by Dubai’s ruler reported
its second consecutive quarterly loss after the turmoil in the
Middle East hurt financial markets.  The jobs represent 10.7 percent of full-time employees and
Shuaa expects an annualized cost saving of more than 30 million
dirhams ($8.2 million) from "a systematic right-sizing program,"
the Dubai-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.
Shuaa also appointed Sheikh Maktoum bin Hasher Al Maktoum as
chairman, replacing Majid Al Ghurair.  The net loss was 26.3 million dirhams after a profit of
19.5 million dirhams the year earlier, the investment bank said.
Shuaa reported a loss of 186.6 million dirhams in the fourth
quarter of last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Demonstrations in the region have ousted leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia  and sparked violent clashes in Libya, Syria and
Bahrain.  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  of Dubai, Shuaa’s home base, dropped
4.6 percent in the first quarter, while the company’s shares
lost 11 percent in the same period.  "Whilst we have made significant operational improvements
over the last year, we have had to take further tough decisions
to ensure that even in the most challenging environment Shuaa
can be profitable," Chief Executive Officer Sameer Al Ansari
said in the statement. "With many of our competitors either
exiting business lines or reducing their capability we see an
opportunity to build market share across our core businesses."  Revenue in the first quarter dropped to 27.1 million
dirhams from 60.9 million dirhams from the year-earlier period.
The company had a cash reserve of 448 million dirhams and
reduced total liabilities to 405 million dirhams at the end of
the first quarter, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  