-- 
Singapore to Lure More Hedge Funds on Asia’s Economic Growth, MAS Says

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-11T02:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/singapore-to-lure-more-hedge-funds-on-asia-s-economic-growth-mas-says.html
Singapore  is attracting more global
hedge funds that are drawn to Asia’s economic growth as the
regulator seeks to further develop the industry, including
building up fund administration services.  “We continue to see interest from fund managers as well as
alternative investment managers, including global and indigenous
hedge funds, which add diversity to the broader asset management
industry,” Ng Nam Sin, assistant managing director of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, wrote in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Global managers including Fortress Investment Group LLC and
Algebris Investments LLP have set up in Singapore as Asia’s
economic growth outpaces the world. The region now has as many
millionaires as  Europe  and they are set to increase allocations
to alternative investments, including  hedge funds , to 8 percent
of their portfolios this year, from 5 percent in 2009, according
to a Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co. report.  “Asia is a region which has and continues to attract
significant capital, and hedge funds will follow the movement of
capital globally,” said Tim Rainsford, the Hong Kong-based
managing director of Man Investments in Asia. “Over time, more
managers will look at Asia as a place to establish themselves.”  ‘Highly Varied’  Boston-based Sirios Capital Management LP, an equity hedge
fund co-founded by former MFS Investment Management portfolio
manager  John Brennan , registered to open an office in Singapore,
according to the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority,
which regulates businesses in Singapore. Brennan didn’t respond
to e-mailed queries.  “The profiles of hedge-fund managers and strategies
employed by them in Singapore remain highly varied,” Ng said.  Improved fundamentals in emerging Asian economies and the
search for higher yields, with low  interest rates  in advanced
economies, have fueled capital flows into the region, Ng said.  “Asian governments will have to balance the benefits from
capital inflows against the attendant financial stability risks
that volatile capital flows can bring and implement appropriate
responses,” he said.  The MAS, both the central bank and regulator of Singapore’s
financial system, will continue to “enhance the ecosystem for
fund managers,” including building fund administration services
and developing the city-state as a domicile center, Ng said.  Easier Rules  Singapore has made it easier for hedge funds to set up shop
on the island than in other Asian cities such as Hong Kong,
where hedge-fund managers face the same licensing requirements
as mutual-fund managers. While Singapore is introducing new
rules to increase oversight of the industry, small funds can
keep operating without a license.  Hong Kong  and Singapore are
the two biggest centers for hedge funds in Asia.  Singapore, where the top  tax rate  for individuals is 20
percent, is also attracting more managers after the U.K.
increased the maximum rate for income tax to 50 percent, and
U.S. and European regulators work on tougher rules.  Singapore’s hedge-fund industry  grew  to S$59 billion ($48
billion) at the end of 2009, from about $10 billion in 2005,
according to the central bank. There were 320 hedge fund
managers in the city-state in 2009, compared with fewer than 20
before 2001, according to the MAS.  “Over the next 12 months, we are likely to continue to see
interest by hedge funds seeking to tap  Asia  as a source of funds
as well as a source of excess returns,” Ng said.  ‘Talent-Driven Industry’  Still, there is a need to find good people and build the
right competencies as the hedge fund industry is a “talent-
driven industry,” Ng said. There is also a need for more
“Asian-centric research” as the region’s financial markets are
in different stages of development, he said. Research
institutions in Singapore that focus on Asia include the BNP
Paribas Hedge Fund Centre and the EDHEC-Risk Institute.  The increasing number of global hedge funds is unlikely to
crowd out smaller Singapore-based managers, Ng said.  “Given the increased focus on transparency and risk
management by investors post-crisis, both global and indigenous
hedge fund managers continue to build up their mid-back office
infrastructure, and scale up their operations to tap the
burgeoning Asian market,” Ng said. “There will always be room
for large and niche players as long as they continue to add
value to investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  