-- 
SingTel Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls 2.3%, Plans Special Dividend Payment

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-12T10:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/singtel-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-2-3-plans-special-dividend-payment.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company, said fourth-quarter
profit fell 2.3 percent on lower contributions from partners in
India and  Indonesia  and slowing growth at home.  Net income dropped to S$991.7 million ($803 million), or
6.2  Singapore  cents a share, in the three months ended March
from S$1.02 billion, or 6.4 cents, a year earlier, SingTel said
in a statement today. That compares with the S$988 million
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shareholders will get a special dividend of 10 Singapore
cents a share, in addition to the final payout of 9 cents, as
the company returns a record S$4.1 billion to investors this
year. Lower profit at  India ’s Bharti Airtel Ltd., part-owned by
SingTel, and gains in the  Singapore dollar  cut the value of
overseas sales and limited the benefit of market share gains at
its Optus unit in Australia.  “The special dividend is surprisingly making a return
after a few years and very much appreciated, said  Theo Maas , who
helps manage about $5.4 billion at Arnhem Investment Management
in Sydney, including SingTel stock. ‘‘The balance sheet is still
heavily undergeared so would expect more  capital management 
going forward.’’  SingTel shares rose 0.6 percent to S$3.16 at the close of
trading in Singapore. They have gained 3.6 percent this year
compared with a 1.9 percent decline in the benchmark  Straits
Times Index. (FSSTI)   Raising Dividend  Last year, the company, 54.4 percent owned by Temasek
Holdings Pte, said it’s boosting dividend payout ratio to 55
percent to 70 percent of underlying profit from the previous 45
percent to 60 percent. The company defines underlying profit as
net income before exceptional items and exchange differences on
capital reduction of certain overseas subsidiaries.  The dividend payout ‘‘doesn’t inhibit” any plans for
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong told
reporters at a press conference.  Full-year profit fell 2.1 percent to S$3.83 billion.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in Singapore fell 5 percent S$551 million in the
fourth quarter on content costs for its mio Internet protocol
television service, the company said in the statement.  SingTel, which added 51,000 postpaid mobile phone customers
in the quarter, is seeking to get more spending out of its
clients by bundling services like mio. Revenue in Singapore rose
1 percent in the quarter, compared with the 13 percent pace of
the year earlier.  ‘Disappointing Guidance’  In the 12 months ending March 2012, SingTel expects its
Singapore sales to rise at a “low single digit” pace with
earnings “to be stable.” Profit and revenue at Optus are
forecast to rise at “low single digit” levels.  “Guidance is a bit disappointing but SingTel is famously
conservative on its outlook,” said Arnhem’s Maas.  Optus, the second-largest phone company in  Australia  behind
Telstra Corp., is winning customers amid service disruptions at
third-ranked Vodafone Hutchison Australia.  Income at Sydney-based Optus rose 10 percent to A$672
million ($714 million) after adding 151,000 postpaid customers
in its mobile phone unit.  “The gains continue to come at the expense of Vodafone
which struggled to recover from network woes that emerged last
year,” Nicole McCormick, an analyst at telecommunications
consultant Ovum, said in e-mailed comments today.  Bharti’s Profit  SingTel, which owns stakes in operators across more than 10
countries, yesterday said it has 402.5 million mobile phone
customers, a 37 percent increase on the year earlier.  The earnings contribution from its regional carriers fell
12 percent to S$479 million in the fourth quarter, compounded by
gains in the Singapore dollar. In constant currency terms, the
profit would have been little changed.  The  Indian rupee  was worth an average of 2.6 percent less
against the Singapore dollar in the quarter from a year earlier
while the  Thai baht  fell 3.9 percent in value, SingTel said.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile-phone operator,
last week posted a worse-than-estimated 31 percent drop in
fourth-quarter profit after higher network costs and advertising
expenses eroded margins. Bharti’s contribution to SingTel profit
fell 29 percent to S$173 million.  PT Telekomunikasi Selular, or Telkomsel, posted a 7.2
percent decline in contributed earnings to S$190 million.  Earnings from  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) ,  Thailand ’s biggest
mobile-phone company, rose 38 percent to S$73 million and Globe
Telecom Inc., SingTel’s Philippine unit, posted an 3.3 percent
fall in profit to S$59 million, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  