-- 
Skype Gets 40% Markup as Microsoft Surprised Owners: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-11T20:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/skype-gets-40-markup-as-microsoft-surprised-owners-real-m-a.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is paying a dot-com
era price for Skype Technologies SA, almost 40 percent more than
the world’s most popular Internet calling service itself says
the business is worth.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software company, agreed to
pay $8.5 billion for Luxembourg-based Skype, which lost money in
four of the past five years even as it quadrupled sales. The
takeover, the largest for an Internet company since May 2000, is
32 times Skype’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s 39 percent more than the multiple Skype used
to value its own equity in an April regulatory  filing .  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is betting
the biggest acquisition since the company was founded in 1975
will help reverse past failures and enrich owners who lost out
as shares of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  quadrupled Microsoft’s
gain in the past five years. By buying Skype, Microsoft may lure
more users to its mobile-phone platform and narrow Google’s lead
in Internet advertising after reporting its worst two-year
stretch of sales growth. Shareholder  Hank Smith  of Haverford
Trust Co. says the investment isn’t worth the price.  “I just thought, ‘You’ve got to be kidding me,’” said
Smith, chief investment officer at Haverford Trust, which
oversees $6.5 billion in Radnor, Pennsylvania, and owns about
1.96 million Microsoft shares. “They don’t have a great track
record of ‘investments.’ It almost brings you back to those
crazy valuation metrics in the late ‘90s.”  ‘Frittered Away’  You can make a case that Microsoft has “frittered away
capital,” said Smith, who wants Microsoft to use its $50.2
billion cash pile on dividends and buybacks. “It’s definitely
because of the competition with Apple and with Google.”  “It’s not low for sure,” Ballmer, 55, said of Skype’s
acquisition price in a telephone interview yesterday. “It
requires we do good work both within the Skype division and in
creating value elsewhere in the company.”  Ballmer added that Microsoft didn’t overpay and the
transaction values Skype at “not a lot higher” than some
publicly traded companies. He expects the deal will add to
Microsoft’s profit in the year after it closes.  Jennifer Caukin, a spokeswoman at Skype, didn’t respond to
an e-mail requesting comment.  Microsoft’s reserves give it the ability to pay for what it
needs and Skype offers a way for Microsoft to diversify its
products to compete with Apple and Google, according to  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., which oversees $3.6 billion including Microsoft shares.  ‘Another Hamburger’  “$8.5 billion in cash for a Microsoft is like you and I
paying five bucks for another hamburger,” McCormick said.
“Microsoft right now is trying to do things to keep up with
other faster growing technology companies. This is the way to do
it. I will give them the benefit of doubt.”  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , is buying Skype
from investors including private-equity firm  Silver Lake  and the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, which took a controlling
stake in November 2009 that valued the company at $2.75 billion.  Microsoft’s offer is more than twice that amount and
includes the assumption of Skype’s debt. Skype had about $725
million in borrowings and a revolving credit line of $30
million, a Securities and Exchange Commission filing in April
showed. Skype had planned to raise money in a U.S. initial
public offering this year, according to the prospectus.  Fair Value  The acquisition values Skype at about 32 times its $264
million in adjusted Ebitda in 2010, a 39 percent markup to the
company’s own assumptions. At the start of the year, Skype used
a trailing 12-month Ebitda multiple of 23.2 times to determine
the “fair value” of its common stock, its filing showed.  While  Skype  had a total of 663 million users, it has only
converted 8.8 million users of its free PC-to-PC phone services
into paying customers, according to the filing.  Skype reported a net loss of $6.9 million last year, its
fourth money-losing year since 2006, its filing showed.  “Well it’s certainly an amazing amount of money for a
strategy that looks like a long shot,” said Eric Johnson, a
professor at the Tuck School of Business at  Dartmouth College  in
Hanover,  New Hampshire . “Microsoft is desperate to become
relevant. They’re so far behind that they need something
significant to jumpstart themselves.”  “Skype’s a cool company, but putting this together into
something that’s actually going to be generating significant
revenue is going to take work on their part,” he said.  Takeover Price  Skype’s owners refused to entertain offers of less than $7
billion, the value they expected to get from the planned IPO,
according to people with knowledge of the discussions, who asked
not to be identified because the talks were private.  Microsoft paid a premium in part because it expected Skype
to increase in value after going public, meaning a deal would
cost more down the road, two of the people said.  Ballmer offered more than $7 billion to cover Skype’s debt
and keep a competitor from gaining a business that would add
calling features to games, e-mail and software on computers and
mobile phones. While Google expressed interest, neither it nor
other bidders made formal offers, the people said.  The size of the deal surpasses Microsoft’s $5.5 billion
takeover of AQuantive Inc. including net cash in May 2007 as the
company’s largest. In May 2008, Microsoft abandoned an effort to
buy Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo! Inc. for $47.5 billion.  Internet Acquisitions  Skype would also be the biggest Internet takeover since the
height of the dot-com bubble 11 years ago, when Spain’s Terra
Networks SA agreed to buy Internet search service Lycos Inc. for
$13.8 billion in May 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The all-cash agreement for Skype, which Ballmer sealed
after his initial overture to New York-based  Silver Lake  just
over a month ago, comes after Microsoft was unseated by Apple as
the world’s most valuable technology company.  In the past five years through yesterday, shares of
Microsoft have gained 8 percent, versus a 395 percent surge for
Apple of Cupertino,  California . Google, based in  Mountain View ,
California, has advanced 35 percent. Today, Microsoft fell 1.2
percent to $25.36. Apple slipped 0.6 percent, while Google
dropped 1.3 percent.  Revenue growth at Microsoft, which dominates the personal
computer operating system and office applications software
markets, has also lagged behind its competitors. Sales increased
6.9 percent last year after dropping 3.3 percent in 2009, the
worst two-year span since at least 1987, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Apple’s sales jumped 52 percent in its last
fiscal year, while Google reported a 24 percent increase.  Deal Rationale  “It’s clearly the laggard,” said  Philip Orlando , the New
York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees $358.2 billion. “One of the reasons that
the stock has lagged in this rally that we’ve seen over the last
couple of years is the fact that you don’t have the underlying
organic growth.”  Microsoft is buying Skype, which has 170 million active
users, to connect the service to its Outlook e-mail, Xbox game
console, Windows mobile phone and corporate-phone software.  Ballmer is aiming to revive Microsoft’s  Internet
advertising  revenue. The company’s online services division had
an operating loss of almost $2.6 billion in the 12 months ended
March. Losses at the unit have widened in each of its past four
fiscal years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Microsoft plans to add Skype to its Windows-based mobile
phones to lure more customers after losing ground to Apple’s
iPhone and Google’s Android devices.  Product Appeal  Skype can help boost the popularity of Windows-powered
devices such as tablet computers, according to  Colin Gillis , an
analyst with BGC Partners LP in  New York .  Apple has increased its share of the global phone market
and is the biggest seller of tablets. Last quarter, Apple’s net
income surpassed Microsoft’s for the first time in 20 years.  “Apple, for the last five or 10 years, has had the sexiest
new product development story in technology,” said Federated’s
Orlando. “You look at Google, which has some cache in the
Internet space. Then, you look at someone like Microsoft. They
are post the rapid growth phase of their development.”  The company also trails Google in Web search and related
advertising, while Skype, which has a lead on late-entrant
Google Voice,  announced  in March that it would start showcasing
advertising on its website.  Google had 66 percent of the U.S. online-search market in
March, according to Reston, Virginia-based researcher ComScore
Inc. Microsoft’s Bing search engine had about 14 percent.  Squandered Opportunities  Not all of Microsoft’s acquisitions have propelled growth
as much as it forecast. In 2001 and 2002, Microsoft spent more
than $2 billion to acquire small-business software makers Great
Plains Software Inc. and Navision A/S, predicting the businesses
would generate $10 billion a year in revenue by 2010.  At the end of last year, the efforts were bringing more
than $1 billion in sales a year, still short of Microsoft’s
initial estimates.  The Skype deal is “just a continuation of basically
squandering a lot of opportunities with the cash and not doing
very good things with it,” said  Donald Yacktman , president of
Yacktman Asset Management Co., which manages about $10 billion
in Austin, Texas, and owns more than 21 million Microsoft
shares. “I can’t believe he can continue to strike out every
time he goes to the plate,” he said, referring to Ballmer.  Instead, Microsoft should focus on returning more money to
its shareholders, according to Yacktman.  “‘Expensive’ is putting it mildly,” Yacktman said of
Skype. “This is a very poor use of cash. The kingdom’s bigger,
but the residents are poorer. It just kind of boggles my mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 