-- 
SocGen, Lazard Bankers Said to Be Probed in Parmalat Breach

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-11T20:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/socgen-lazard-bankers-said-to-be-probed-over-lactalis-stake-in-parmalat.html
A banker from  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and one
from Societe Generale SA are under investigation for market
abuse over their role in Groupe Lactalis’s stake-building in
 Parmalat SpA (PLT) , said a person with direct knowledge of the probe.  Italy’s financial police today searched the banks’ Milan
offices, as well as those of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and two public-relations firms, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the investigation is
continuing. An Intesa banker is also being probed for  insider
trading , said the person.  Lazard spokesman Richard Creswell declined to comment.
Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman at Credit Agricole declined to
comment by e-mail.  Intesa doesn’t have evidence that the firm’s banker Fabio
Cane acted in a manner that damaged the bank, Matteo Fabiani, a
spokesman for the Italian lender, said in an e-mailed statement.
Cane didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Societe
Generale (GLE)  said the police visited its offices and is co-operating
with the authorities, according to an e-mailed statement.  Lactalis said in an e-mailed statement it’s not the subject
of a criminal probe and that it acted correctly when it built a
stake in Parmalat.  Lactalis first disclosed it had bought Parmalat stock and
equity swaps on the shares on March 17. Five days later, the
Laval, France-based company said it would buy an additional 15.3
percent Parmalat stake held by a group of activist investors,
bringing its holding to 29 percent and making it the dairy
company’s biggest shareholder. Lactalis said on April 26 it
would offer to buy Parmalat shares it didn’t already own.  New Board  Zenit Asset Management AB, Skagen AS and Mackenzie
Financial Corp., three activist funds, agreed in January to work
together in nominating a new board at Parmalat.  Societe Generale, based in Paris, is advising Lactalis on
the Parmalat takeover, which  Credit Agricole  is helping to fund.  Lazard advised the funds on their sale to Lactalis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while Intesa was
working to solicit alternative bids for Parmalat. The Intesa
banker allegedly tipped off his wife, who works at Societe
Generale, said the person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 