-- 
Somalia’s Political Paralysis Weakens Deterrence of Terrorism

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-11T19:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/somalia-s-political-paralysis-weakens-deterrence-of-terrorism.html
Political paralysis in Somalia
threatens efforts to defeat terrorists who have vowed to avenge
the death of  Osama bin Laden ,  United Nations  and Somali
officials said today.  The Islamic militia al-Shabaab, which the U.S. accuses of
ties to al-Qaeda and which seeks to overthrow Somalia’s
Transitional Federal Government, is planning “revenge
attacks,” Prime Minister Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed told the UN
 Security Council  in  New York . His government is on “high
alert,” he said.  Mohamed described a “descent into political chaos” caused
by a split between his government and the nation’s parliament
over extending their terms beyond the agreed August deadline for
ending the transition to a permanent government. The government
extended its term by one year and the parliament decided to give
itself three more years in office, creating a split over when
elections will be held.  “This is the worst possible time to be distracted by
untenable election processes and the divisive campaigning that
will inevitably take place. We need to defeat these aggressors
at their source and this needs strong political will,
cooperation and collaboration,” Mohamed said.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since 1991, when former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted.
The government, supported by a 9,000-strong African Union
peacekeeping force, controls sections of the capital, Mogadishu,
while the militants hold almost all of south and central
Somalia.  ‘Political Paralysis’  Augustine Mahiga, the special representative of UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to Somalia, said Somalia’s
executive and legislative branches aren’t working together. The
disagreement is causing “political paralysis” that might
prevent action to secure the port of Kismayo, which he said
“provides vast revenues to al-Shabaab with impunity.”  Mahiga said government and allied forces recently made
“significant territorial gains” in Mogadishu and southern and
central Somalia.  The humanitarian situation is “reaching catastrophic
proportions,” he said.  The  Security Council  adopted a statement expressing
“concern at the discord between the Transitional Federal
Institutions and its impact on the political process and the
security situation.” The statement also urges all sides to
“refrain from further unilateral action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  