-- 
Sony U.S. PlayStation Blog Inaccessible in Some Areas

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-11T17:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/sony-playstation-blog-access-disrupted-after-security-boost.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to show the cause
of disruption was security measure and no new attack occurred.)  Sony Corp. (6758) , struggling to restore
online entertainment services after a theft of user data, said
its U.S. PlayStation blog was partly inaccessible outside the
country due to security steps taken following the incursion.  Sony boosted the U.S. PlayStation  site ’s security after
hacker attacks last month, Makiko Noda, a spokeswoman for the
Tokyo-based company, said by phone today. That is likely why
some access by users outside the U.S. has been denied, she said.  The maker of PS3 game consoles was targeted in a “large-
scale, coordinated denial-of-service attack” in April by the
group called Anonymous in a protest against Sony for suing a
hacker,  Kazuo Hirai , the company’s executive deputy president,
said in a statement last week. The PlayStation blog was among
the services attacked, Noda said.  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics took down
its PS Network and Qriocity services April 20 because of data
theft affecting 77 million users. Sony Online Entertainment, a
U.S. unit that offers online games, also shut its network May 1
after discovering personal information from approximately 24.6
million accounts may have been compromised.  The total number of users affected is the most reported by
any single company, surpassing the 92 million America Online
subscribers whose screen names were stolen in 2003, according to
Koki Shiraishi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co.  Resuming partial operation of the PS Network and Qriocity
may take another day or longer, Sony’s Noda said today. Before
discovering the  data theft  at San Diego-based Sony Online
Entertainment, Sony had planned to bring the services back May
8.  Sony Chairman Howard Stringer apologized to users of the PS
Network and Qriocity on the blog May 5.  “We’re very sorry for the inconvenience,” Noda said
today. “We’re investigating the matter and trying to improve
the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  