-- 
South African Manufacturing Growth Retreats in March From Seven-Month High

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-11T12:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/south-african-manufacturing-growth-slows-to-4-6-percent-in-march.html
South African manufacturing growth
slowed to an annual 4.6 percent in March from a seven-month high
a month earlier as a stronger rand and weak credit expansion
curbed demand.  Growth in factory output, which accounts for 15 percent of
the economy, eased from a revised 5.7 percent in February,
Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 3.7 percent. Output rose a seasonally adjusted 1.6
percent in the month.  “The key thing is what happens to the export market,”
Nicky Weimar, a Johannesburg-based economist with  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED) , said in a phone interview. “Continued global growth will
be the key ingredient.”  While manufacturing returned to growth in the final three
months of last year as carmakers boosted output following the
end of a strike, factories have been slow to recover from the
country’s 2009 recession. Borrowing by households and businesses
remained subdued in March, easing to an annual 5.1 percent from
5.4 percent the month before, the central bank said on April 29.  South Africa ’s Manufacturing Circle, an industry lobby
group that includes Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. and Hulamin
Ltd., on May 5 said a strong rand, lower exports and a rise in
imports has led to “dangerously low” margins. The rand has
surged 39 percent against the dollar since the start of 2009,
undermining the competitiveness of the nation’s exports.  Unemployment  Inflation accelerated to 4.1 percent in March, a nine-month
high, from 3.7 percent, according to the nation’s statistics
agency. The country’s unemployment rate climbed one percentage
point to 25 percent in the first quarter, the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate three
times to 5.5 percent last year to help support the economy’s
recovery. It will announce tomorrow that it is keeping the rate
unchanged, according to all 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank may wait until January next year before it
hikes its interest rate as it seeks to protect the economic
recovery, Weimar said. “We’re saying the Reserve Bank will
focus more on fighting any secondary effects than combating
inflation,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  