-- 
South Africa May Keep Main Interest Rate on Hold to Help Support Economy

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/south-africa-may-keep-key-rate-at-5-5-to-help-support-economy.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow as
a drive to support the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy
outweighs concern about a pick-up in inflation, economists said.  Governor  Gill Marcus  will keep the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent, according to all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
She is due to announce the decision in a televised press
conference starting at 3 p.m. local time.  The Reserve Bank has left the key rate unchanged this year,
after lowering it three times in 2010, on concern that surging
fuel costs may push inflation outside the bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target range. Policy-makers are unlikely to raise rates
as manufacturers are still holding back on investment and
unemployment is rising.  “In more normal circumstances, the Reserve Bank would be
thinking of tightening  interest rates ,” said  Razia Khan , head
of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in London.
“But there are things that can’t be ignored: the still fairly
sluggish nature of South Africa’s economic recovery and the
uncertainty associated with the factors driving inflation, such
as rising oil and food prices.”  Gasoline costs increased 4.8 percent at the beginning of
March, pushing the inflation rate to a nine-month high of 4.1
percent that month. The bank is monitoring these so-called
“cost-push” pressures to see if they spread more broadly in
the economy, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said on April 16.  Unemployment  Job losses and a slow recovery in the economy may
overshadow inflation concerns for now. The bank expects the
economy to expand 3.7 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012,
lower than the 7 percent rate needed to meet a government pledge
to create 5 million jobs in the next decade.  “Inflation is still reasonably benign,” said Elna Moolman, an economist at Renaissance BJM in Johannesburg. “The
 Reserve Bank ’s growth forecasts remain below potential and we
suspect that the bank will still be as concerned about lingering
downside risks to economic growth as at the last Monetary Policy
Committee meeting” on March 24.  The economy shed 14,000 jobs in the first quarter, pushing
the  unemployment rate  to 25 percent, the highest of 61 countries
tracked by Bloomberg. President Jacob Zuma, whose ruling African
National Congress will contest local government elections on May
18, is aiming to cut the jobless rate to 15 percent by 2020.  The Reserve Bank may delay any rate increases until the
fourth quarter, said Ahmet Akarli, an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in  London .  The bank “seems more inclined to keep rates on hold for a
while more,” Akarli said. For an earlier rate increase “we
need to see more significant supply side inflation shocks and
large upside growth surprises -- both appear unlikely at this
point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 