-- 
U.K. Stocks Decline; ITV Plc Shares Lead Benchmark FTSE 100 Index Lower

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-11T16:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/stocks-decline-itv-shares-lead-benchmark-ftse-100-index-lower-in-london.html
U.K. stocks declined for the second
time in three days as mining and energy companies declined with
commodities and  ITV Plc (ITV)  forecast that its advertising revenue
growth will slow.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and BG Group fell more than 2 percent as
copper and crude oil tumbled. ITV sank 5.3 percent after the
U.K.’s biggest terrestrial broadcaster also warned it may
underperform the market as clients cut spending.  Marks & Spencer
Group Plc (MKS)  paced advancing shares after a double upgrade at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  dropped 42.89, or 0.7 percent,
to 5,976 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London as 10 companies
including BP Plc traded without the right to their latest
dividends. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  lost 0.7 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.7 percent.  “Risk assets were sold across the board today after
initially putting in some decent gains,” said  Angus Campbell ,
head of sales at Capital Spreads in London. “A move back in the
dollar caused commodity markets to weaken.”  The FTSE 100 last week tumbled by the most since March
after a slump in commodities dragged energy and mining stocks
lower. The gauge yesterday jumped 1.3 percent as companies from
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc to Imperial Tobacco Group Plc
posted higher earnings.  ‘Uncomfortably High’ Inflation  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said today that
inflation remains “uncomfortably high” as officials raised
their forecast for consumer prices and cut their prediction for
economic growth.  The pound rose after the bank published its report, which
showed a short-term inflation outlook “markedly higher” than
the previous prediction in February. The central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent last
week, choosing to support the economic recovery rather than
fighting inflation.  Kazakhmys slid 2.8 percent to 1,265 pence, Xstrata Plc, the
world’s fourth-largest copper producer, slid 2.2 percent to
1,410 pence while Antofagasta lost 2.5 percent to 1,189 pence.  Copper declined after figures showed inflation in  China 
stayed above the government’s target, raising concern that
further monetary tightening may curb demand for the metal. The
dollar gained for the first time in three days against a six-
currency basket, curbing the investment appeal of metals.  BG Group slid 3.2 percent to 1,367 pence and Tullow Oil Plc
lost 1,348 pence. Crude dropped more than 3 percent in New York
after an Energy Department report showed that U.S. supplies rose
to the highest level in two years.  ITV Falls  ITV retreated 5.3 percent to 72.9 pence after the company
said advertising sales will rise 1 percent to 2 percent in the
first half. That compared with an increase of 18 percent a year
earlier when marketing budgets rose for the soccer  World Cup .  Marks & Spencer gained 0.8 percent to 399.2 pence after
JPMorgan raised its recommendation for the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer to “overweight” from “underweight,” saying
that the company’s “pricing power triggers a re-rating.”
Analysts raised their price estimate for the shares to 460 pence
from 310 pence.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  climbed 1 percent to 311.7 pence as investors
speculated that Qatar may make a takeover offer for the company.  “I am hearing a vague rumor of a bid for Centrica from
Qatar, but am treating it with caution,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a
London-based senior trader at ETX Capital. “I feel any suitors
will wait for the price to settle before showing their hand.”  Centrica, Burberry  Julian Mears, a spokesman for the Windsor, England-based
company, declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury retailer,
advanced 2.7 percent to 1,365 pence after French rival Hermes
International SCA reported first-quarter sales that beat
analysts’ estimates as wealthy consumers purchased more luxury
watches and fragrances.  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL)  climbed 1.8 percent to 559.5 pence after
Nomura Holdings Inc. reiterated its “buy” recommendation for
the shares, saying that the company’s risk solutions business is
undervalued.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  