-- 
Suez Cargo at Eight-Month High Defying Slowdown in Trade: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-11T16:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/suez-cargo-at-eight-month-high-signals-no-global-slowdown-freight-markets.html
Cargo carried through the  Suez Canal 
rose 4.1 percent to an eight-month high in April, signaling no
weakness in world trade and the third-highest profit ever for
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the biggest container-shipping line.  The Egyptian waterway carries about 8 percent of global
goods and handled almost 57.8 million metric tons last month,
compared with 55.6 million tons in March, data from the Suez
Canal Authority show. Rising European demand for Asian products
is shoring up container rates threatened by what Clarkson Plc,
the biggest shipbroker, estimates will be a 6.8 percent
expansion in the fleet’s capacity this year.  Commodities fell the most since 2008 last week and stocks
also retreated after economic data from the U.S. to  Germany 
raised investors’ concern that the recovery is slowing and
demand will weaken. More cargo through Suez suggests no such
slowdown because the shipments have a 90 percent correlation to
global trade, according to Geopolicity, an economic consultant.
Container rates assessed by the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association
almost doubled since the start of 2009.  “This growth in trade is what Maersk and other owners are
targeting, and the Suez Canal data show they are spot on in
their reading of where demand is going to come from,” said Fred Doll, the managing director of Forest Row, England-based Doll
Shipping Consultancy and previously a director at Clarkson. “I
look at the data as an accurate barometer of world trade.”  Hosni Mubarak   The Suez Canal, which opened in 1869, handled an average of
54.5 million tons of cargo a month in the first four months of
2011, 7.3 percent more than a year earlier, according to data
from the waterway’s authority. The growth indicates that
violence which toppled President Hosni Mubarak in February
didn’t interrupt trade.  Container vessels account for about 55 percent of traffic,
data from the Suez Canal Authority show. Liquefied-natural-gas
carriers make up another 15 percent,  oil tankers  12 percent, dry
bulk shipping 7.6 percent and car transporters 6.3 percent.
About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to the
Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Shipments between  Asia  and Europe made up 38 percent of
business for Copenhagen-based Maersk’s container-shipping fleet
last year, said Michael Storgaard, a spokesman for the company.
It sent about 2,000 vessels through the canal in 2010.  Maersk, which also operates oil and gas tankers and
shipping terminals, will report net income of 23.4 billion
kroner ($4.53 billion) this year, the mean of 17 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That will be the third-
highest ever, after last year’s record 26.5 billion kroner and
24.4 billion kroner in 2004, according to company data.  Container Fleet  The 6.8 percent growth forecast for the container fleet’s
capacity compares with an anticipated gain of 9.7 percent in
cargo volumes, estimates from London-based Clarkson show. That
helps explain why analysts covering Maersk are more bullish now
than a year ago, when they were predicting 2011 net income of
about 14 billion kroner, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Maersk will make an average of $1,394 per 20-foot box it
loads onto its ships this year, compared with $1,532 in 2010,
according to Finn Bjarke Petersen, an analyst at  Nordea Markets 
in Copenhagen who has a “buy” rating on the stock. Petersen’s
share recommendations returned 65 percent in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Maersk rose as much as 5.3 percent today, the
most since September, after first-quarter net income jumped 85
percent to 6.35 billion kroner, exceeding analysts’ estimates.
They closed 4.4 percent higher in Copenhagen and 21 of 25
analysts covering Maersk rate it a “buy” or “hold.” The
stock trades at 10 times estimated earnings, down from about 18
times a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Quite Confident’  “We are quite confident that rates will go up,” Chief
Executive Officer Nils Andersen said in an interview with
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move.”  The container industry contrasts with companies focusing on
oil, coal and iron ore. Returns for supertankers on the
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to- Japan  route dropped 84 percent this
year while rates for capesizes hauling dry bulk commodities fell
68 percent, data from the Baltic Exchange show. The London-based
bourse publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  Both markets plunged because of vessel gluts. The oil-
tanker fleet will expand 7 percent this year, more than double
the 2.9 percent expansion in trade, Clarkson estimates. Carrying
capacity in dry bulk will rise 13 percent, compared with a 5
percent gain in trade, the broker is forecasting.  Dry Bulk Rates  Oil tanker and dry bulk rates are more volatile than those
for containers. The Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association’s container
index moved 11 percent or more in six of the last 10 quarters.
Supertanker returns have risen or fallen 20 percent or more in
all except one of the last 10 quarters, while for capesizes the
figure is 21 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised last month its
forecast for growth in world trade in goods and services this
year by 0.3 percentage point to 7.4 percent.  The canal, extending about 120 miles (190 kilometers) from
Port Said to the  Gulf of Suez , cuts the journey from  Singapore 
to Rotterdam,  Europe ’s largest port, by about 29 percent,
according to data on the Suez Canal Authority’s website. That
cuts costs because the biggest  container ships  burn about
$65,000 of fuel a day, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Combined with the Sumed pipeline that runs adjacent to the
canal,  Egypt  can handle as much as 4.5 million barrels of oil a
day, enough to supply Japan, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Countries including  Saudi Arabia  use the pipeline because
the waterway generally isn’t big enough to be used by laden
supertankers. Ships take cargoes from the  Persian Gulf  to Suez,
with different vessels picking them up in the Mediterranean.  Suez Canal  Growth of traffic through the Suez Canal is also critical
for Egypt because it is the country’s fourth-biggest source of
revenue, behind tourism, foreign direct investment and
remittances from expatriate workers. The waterway, which was
nationalized in 1956, generated about $4.8 billion of tolls last
year, data from the canal authority show.  The cost of credit default swaps used to insure against
Egypt defaulting on its debt rose 51 percent this year and the
 EGX 30 Index (CASE)  of equities slumped 31 percent.  While analysts also track trade by collating port data, the
canal has the advantage of capturing almost all consignments in
one place, said Rikard Vabo, an Oslo-based analyst at Fearnley
Fonds AS, an investment bank. His recommendations on the shares
of shipping companies returned 21 percent in two years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This confirms what we’ve been seeing from ports, which is
that demand is still good,” he said. “The correlation between
cargo volumes from Asia to Europe and figures reported through
the Suez Canal is almost one to one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  