-- 
Symantec Forecast Tops Estimates, Helped by Cloud Computing

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-11T22:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/symantec-forecast-tops-estimates-helped-by-cloud-computing-1-.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the world’s largest
security-software maker, forecast higher revenue than analysts
predicted, bolstered by demand for data backup cloud-computing
programs, and the effect of a weaker dollar on overseas sales.  Revenue in the fiscal first quarter, which ends July 1,
will be $1.57 billion to $1.59 billion, Symantec said today in a
statement. Analysts had estimated $1.55 billion on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Symantec, based in  Mountain View ,  California , aims to
accelerate sales growth following the recession by tailoring its
security software to mobile devices and machines that deliver
computer over the Internet, via the cloud. The company also is
benefiting from the strength of the euro compared with the
dollar, which increases the value of revenue booked overseas,
said Brad Zelnick, an analyst at Macquarie Capital in  New York .  “They’re turning the ship and performing well,” said
Zelnick, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  Symantec rose 8 cents to $19.49 in extended trading after
the report. The shares, up 16 percent this year, closed at
$19.41 earlier in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Excluding some costs, first-quarter profit will be 36 cents
to 37 cents a share, the company said, compared with the 36-cent
average of estimates.  Storage Rebound  Storage and server sales rose 8.5 percent to $626 million
last quarter, marking a “standout” improvement for a business
that has been on a decline, Zelnick said.  For the fourth quarter, which ended April 1, earnings were
38 cents a share, compared with analysts’ 36-cent average
estimate. Sales rose 9.3 percent to $1.67 billion, topping the
$1.6 billion projection.  Growth in backup products will help drive first-quarter
earnings, said Enrique Salem, chief executive officer of
Symantec. The company also will be able to maintain growth in
its server and storage-management business, he said. It’s
getting an additional boost from the shift to virtualization,
which lets businesses use computers more efficiently.  “We are gaining share,” Salem, 45, said in an interview.
“There are some big trends that are helping Symantec right now
-- the growth in data, virtualization and the move to the
cloud.”  Intel Deal  Net income attributable to Symantec shareholders slipped
8.7 percent to $168 million, or 22 cents a share, from $184
million, or 23 cents, a year earlier. The company increased
sales and marketing spending and wrote down assets last quarter,
eating into profit. Symantec said it made the move because some
of its brands aren’t producing as much revenue as expected and
the company selling buildings and land.  Symantec’s biggest rival, McAfee Inc., was acquired by
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, for about $6.6
billion in March.  Symantec is taking advantage of the disruption caused by
the acquisition, Salem said. The company’s security revenue
increased 24 percent to $446 million in the fourth quarter.  “I do think that as you integrate a company into a much
larger company, it creates some distraction,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  