-- 
Syria Drops UN Rights Council Bid Under Western Pressure After Crackdown

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-11T18:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/syria-drops-un-rights-council-bid-under-western-pressure-after-crackdown.html
Syria , under pressure to drop its bid
for a seat on the  United Nations   Human Rights Council  because of
its repression of protesters, withdrew today from next week’s
election for the Geneva-based panel.  Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari told Asian nations that had
endorsed his government’s candidacy in January that Syria was
“reprioritizing its candidacies in the UN organization in light
of the number of reform measures that the government has started
to implement.”  Kuwait  agreed to take Syria’s place when the UN General
Assembly votes in New York on May 20 for 15 new members to the
 Human Rights Council . Kuwait,  India ,  Indonesia  and the
 Philippines  will fill out the slate of Asian candidates for four
seats from that continent on the 47-member panel.  U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice called it a “very positive
step” by Asian nations “who determined that they were
unwilling to lend sufficient support to a country whose human
rights record is deplorable and is in the process of killing its
own people on the streets, arresting thousands and terrorizing a
population that is seeking to express itself through largely
peaceful means.”  President Bashar al-Assad has appointed a new government,
ended emergency rule that was in place since 1963 and pledged
other steps to broaden freedoms in Syria that have failed to
halt the protests.  Syrian security forces today shelled the western city of
Homs, extending a crackdown on unrest that has engulfed the
country for almost two months. The assault follows attacks
yesterday on demonstrators in the capital, Damascus, and flash-
point cities including Daraa in the south.  Dead, Detained  Since the protests began in March, 757 demonstrators have
been killed, Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s National Organization
for Human Rights, said yesterday. As many as 10,000 may have
been detained, according to his organization.  The Human Rights Council election “had become a referendum
on Syria’s violent suppression of protests, and Syria withdrew
rather than face a resounding defeat,” Peggy Hicks, global
advocacy director at New York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in
a statement. “Syria needs to do more than keep its head low to
avoid further condemnation, though. It needs to change course
and stop the violence.”  Human Rights Watch said in the statement that Kuwait should
address its human rights policies.  ‘Limited Reforms’  “Kuwait has only recently begun to make limited reforms to
improve the situation of over 100,000 Bidun, or stateless
people,” Human Rights Watch said. “It has yet to deliver upon
promises made in September 2010 to reform the immigration
sponsorship system, which leaves over 2 million migrant workers
vulnerable to employer abuse, and it has no law to protect the
labor rights of the country’s more than 660,000 domestic
workers.”  Syria will be a candidate in 2013 for a three-year term on
the council, Ja’afari and Kuwait’s Ambassador Mansour Al-Otaibi
said.  Rice said Syria’s withdrawal, the suspension of  Libya  from
the  Human Rights Council  in March and other recent decisions
show the panel is “beginning to move in a more positive
direction” and “has the potential to begin to live up to its
purposes.’”  The U.S. joined the Human Rights Council in 2009, reversing
former President  George W. Bush ’s opposition to the body’s
formation and his refusal to join it. The  Bush administration 
opposed formation of the council in 2006 out of concern that
governments such as current members Cuba and  China , which have
been accused of rights abuses, could stand for election.  The council replaced a commission discredited by the
inclusion of governments including Sudan and Zimbabwe that have
been accused of widespread abuses against their citizens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  