-- 
Syrian Army Shells Homs in Widening Crackdown on Protests; Dozens Arrested

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-11T18:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/syrian-army-shells-homs-in-widening-crackdown-on-protests-dozens-arrested.html
Syria  deployed tanks to fire on
demonstrators in an extension of a crackdown on anti-government
protests that has engulfed the country for almost two months,
according to a Syrian human-rights group.  The death toll in two days has been at least 22, with 13
people in shelling of a village outside the southern city of
Daraa, where the uprising began in mid-March, said Ammar Qurabi,
the head of the National Organization for Human Rights. At least
five people died in an assault on the central city of Homs and
four in Jassem, Qurabi said in a phone interview.  In Homs, “tank shelling, the use of heavy weapons, machine
guns and artillery started in the Bab Amro neighborhood at about
5 a.m., for two hours continuously before becoming sporadic,”
Nitham al-Siraj, a human-rights activist based in the city, said
by phone. “We can hear everything, but no one is allowed in the
area.”  Today’s operations follow actions yesterday against
demonstrators in the capital, Damascus, and flash-point cities
including Daraa. The continuing suppression of protests in Syria
and Yemen comes after revolts against longtime leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia  helped spread unrest through the Middle East.  The army said it is pursuing “terrorist elements” in the
suburbs of Homs, has arrested “dozens” of wanted people there
and confiscated arms and ammunition, according to the state-run
 Syrian Arab News Agency . The latest confrontation led to
injuries among soldiers and a number of dead and wounded among
those the military was seeking, it said.  Deaths Exceed 750  Since the protests began in March, 757 demonstrators have
been killed, Qurabi said by phone yesterday. As many as 10,000
may have been detained, according to his organization.  Tanks were also headed toward the city of Hama, near Homs,
Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in
a phone interview from Syria today. Hama was the site of an
Islamist-led uprising in 1982 that was crushed by President
Bashar al-Assad’s father and predecessor, Hafez al-Assad,
leaving 10,000 people dead.  At least four people were killed and 20 wounded yesterday
in the southern village of Jassem near Daraa, Merhi said. Jassem
and the villages of Inkhil, Sanamein and Nawa are surrounded by
tanks and army units, he said.  House-to-house searches were conducted and a “large
number” of people were arrested yesterday, including men
between the ages 18 and 70 in the Damascus district of al-
Muadamiya, which had been encircled on May 9, and the suburb of
Barzeh, Merhi said.  Gunfire Heard  Gunfire was heard in al-Muadamiya early yesterday and 100
people were arrested on May 9 in the capital and its suburbs,
Qurabi said. Security forces entered three villages outside
Daraa, he said yesterday. The government said on May 5 that the
army had begun a gradual retreat from Daraa, where the protests
began in mid-March, after completing its mission by detaining
“terrorist elements and restoring security and calm.”  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since 1963 and
appointed a new government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in
recent weeks as security forces have stepped up their attacks,
sending tanks into Daraa and other cities.  Bouthaina Shaaban, a political adviser to the president,
met with a number of activists and intellectuals, Aref Dalila,
an economist and previously imprisoned dissident as well as
Louay Hussein a writer and activist, said in telephone
interviews.  ‘Major Change’ Needed  “It wasn’t really a dialogue and we stressed that during
the meeting as we haven’t been tasked to represent anyone,”
Dalila said today. “A major change is needed in the country
where there is an environment that sets the stage for open
democratic participation, prisoners are released, personal
freedoms are affirmed and people can take part in free elections
that are monitored.”  Syria freed 300 detainees from the coastal city of  Banias ,
Qurabi said. About 450 had been detained in the city since May
8, he had said. Hassan Abdel-Azim, a spokesman for the
opposition Democratic National Group who was arrested on April
30 in Damascus, was released on May 9, while Malak al-Shanawani,
a feminist activist, was arrested yesterday, Merhi said.  The Interior Ministry said 2,684 people “involved in riot
acts” have turned themselves in following a government
announcement that those who surrender between May 2 and May 15
will be exempt from prosecution and punishment, SANA  reported 
today. It said they were released after they vowed not to repeat
any act that harms the security of the state or its citizens.  EU Sanctions  Germany  warned Syria today that the European Union will
implement an additional round of sanctions that could directly
affect Assad unless his government “immediately and discernibly
stops its aggression.”  Rami Makhlouf, Assad’s first cousin, linked  Israel ’s
stability to Syria’s, the New York Times reported yesterday.
Syria’s ruling elite will fight to the end, he told the
newspaper. Makhlouf is one of 13 Syrian officials targeted by EU
sanctions that include a visa ban and an asset freeze.  The U.S. has imposed sanctions on Syrian officials because
of the violent crackdown. Syria will probably drop its bid for a
seat on the United Nations  Human Rights Council  under pressure
from countries that condemn its repression of protesters,
 Egypt ’s UN Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz said in an interview
yesterday.  ‘Heed the Calls’  “I urge again President Assad to heed the calls of the
people for reform and freedom and to desist from excessive
force,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said at a  press
conference  in Geneva today.  “I am disappointed that our humanitarian assessment team
has not yet been given the access it needs as was promised,”
Ban said, adding that he urged Syria to cooperate with the human
rights mandated commission.  Assad agreed to let the team visit to check on humanitarian
needs in Daraa, during a May 4 telephone call, according to UN
spokesman Farhan Haq.  Syria decided to widen the scope of investigations into
killings in Daraa and Latakia to include the rest of the
country, SANA said today. Syria’s council of ministers formed a
committee to prepare a new draft law for general elections and
submit its findings within two weeks, the government agency
reported.  Most foreign journalists have been banned from Syria and
the government has restricted media access to protest flash
points and made it more difficult to get visas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  