-- 
U.K. Trade Deficit Widens as Exports to Non-EU Nations Fall

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-11T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-k-trade-deficit-widens-as-exports-to-non-eu-nations-fall.html
The U.K. trade deficit widened more
than expected in March as exports of goods to countries outside
the European Union fell.  The goods-trade gap was 7.66 billion pounds ($12.5 billion)
compared with 6.99 billion pounds in February, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast of
13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was a gap of 7.5
billion pounds. Exports fell 0.5 percent and imports rose 1.7
percent.  The figures may raise concerns about the outlook for U.K.
exporters, which have been benefiting from the pound’s drop of
about 23 percent since the start of 2007. The Bank of  England 
may signal it is in no hurry to raise interest rates when it
publish quarterly economic forecasts today as consumers grapple
with accelerating inflation and the tightest fiscal squeeze
since World War II.  “From the bank’s perspective export growth is useful and
will underpin rebalancing but it probably doesn’t mean that
spare capacity is being used up more quickly,” said  David Page ,
fixed income strategist at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in London. “We
expect the bank to lower this year’s growth forecast.”  The trade deficit with non-European Union countries widened
to 4.48 billion pounds in March on declining sales of
intermediate and capital goods, particularly to the U.S. The gap
with EU nations narrowed to 3.18 billion pounds. Exports rose
9.7 percent, boost by record sales of oil.  Services Growth  Britain posted a 4.66 billion-pound surplus on its trade in
services in March, leaving the shortfall in goods and services
combined at 3.01 billion pounds, compared with 2.66 billion
pounds a month earlier.  The  Bank of England  will publish quarterly growth and
inflation forecasts at 10:30 a.m. today. Governor  Mervyn King 
will present the new projections at a press conference in
London.  The economy effectively stagnated in the fourth quarter and
surveys last week showed services, manufacturing and
construction growth slowed in April. Investors are betting the
Bank of England will maintain its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent until year end, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia,
compiled by Tullett Prebon Ltd.  Economists also warn that global growth may be hampered by
high  oil prices  while trade prospects are at risk from  Europe ’s
debt crisis, conflict in the Middle East and fallout from the
earthquake in Japan.  Tokyo-based Honda Motor Co. said April 6 it would cut
output at its plant in Swindon, England by 50 percent for seven
weeks to cope with a component shortage after the magnitude-9
earthquake in  Japan  on March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  