-- 
U.K. FSA Targeting London’s ‘Bigger Fry’ in Insider-Trade Probes

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-11T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-k-insider-trading-probes-to-target-bigger-fry-fsa-s-mcdermott-says.html
The U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority  will focus its  insider-trading  investigations on
senior London financial workers as part of its deterrence
strategy, the finance watchdog’s acting enforcement chief said.  The FSA, which was set up in 1997 and prosecuted its first
criminal case of insider trading in 2008, is “determined to
take insider dealing enforcement right into the heart of the
city,” Tracey McDermott, acting head of enforcement at the FSA,
said in an interview in London yesterday, hours before Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was convicted in  New York  of
insider trading.  “We recognize the need to go after bigger fry, not because
they’re wealthy or high profile -- we want to go after the
people we actually think are causing the most damage to the
market,” said McDermott, who took over earlier this year from
 Margaret Cole , who has gone on to lead another agency unit.  The FSA is imposing stricter supervision after being
criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial
crisis since the Second World War. The regulator in February
secured the longest-ever U.K. sentence for insider trading when
former Dresdner Kleinwort banker Christian Littlewood was
imprisoned for 40 months after admitting illegally trading over
a 10-year period, along with his wife and an accomplice.  “The FSA needs to be able to deploy the right tools,”
Carlos Conceicao, a financial-services partner at  Clifford
Chance LLP , said in a telephone interview. “The Galleon
prosecutors used wiretaps, which shows that if you’re going
after sophisticated people you need sophisticated tools to
gather evidence.”  14 Counts  Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund tycoon at the center of a U.S.
insider-trading crackdown, was found guilty on all 14 counts
against him in the illegal stock-tipping case. He faces 15 1/2
years to 19 1/2 years in prison, according to prosecutors.  “If the FSA wants to send out clear messages of
deterrence, then catching market professionals is absolutely the
right strategy,” said Conceicao, a former FSA enforcement
director.  The FSA has “a number of cases concerning commodities
derivatives on the go,” said McDermott, adding that “one of
the difficulties is around proving market manipulation, as quite
often people will try and manipulate the market and not
succeed.”  National regulators in the 27-member European Union may get
powers to take action against traders who attempt to manipulate
the market under proposals from the  European Commission  to
review market abuse laws, due to be published as soon as July.  The FSA fined former PVM Oil Futures Ltd. broker Steven Perkins 72,000 pounds ($118,000) for trading without client
authorization and lying to his employer about it while going on
drinking binges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 