-- 
U.K. Sports Minister Robertson Warns FIFA Over World Cup Corruption Claims

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-11T14:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-k-sports-minister-robertson-warns-fifa-over-world-cup-corruption-claims.html
England  may be pushed to quit
soccer’s governing body FIFA if the organization doesn’t root
out corruption, U.K. Sports Minister Hugh Robertson said today.  Robertson’s comments come a day after  David Triesman ,
former chairman of the country’s Football Association, said four
FIFA executive committee members asked for favors in exchange
for votes for England to host the 2018 World Cup.  “There is a desire to try to work and change FIFA from the
inside,” Robertson, who was in Zurich when England was voted
last of four bidders in December’s World Cup vote, told  BBC
Radio 4’s Today program . “If FIFA proves unable to do that,
then I would say all options are possible.”  FIFA today said it asked England and the Sunday Times to
provide reports and evidence to back up the corruption
allegations.  Triesman alleged in front of a U.K. parliamentary
committee that Jack Warner, a FIFA vice president from  Trinidad
& Tobago , Brazil’s Ricardo Teixeira, Paraguay’s Nicolas Leoz and
Thailand’s Worawi Makudi engaged in “improper and unethical”
behavior before Russia was chosen as host of the 2018
tournament. Information supplied by the Sunday Times newspaper
to the lawmakers also alleged Qatar paid $1.5 million to African
soccer head Issa Hayatou of Cameroon and Jacques Anouma of the
Ivory Coast.  Gulf state Qatar, a surprise choice to stage the 2022 World
Cup, “categorically” denied the claims, which it described as
baseless. Warner denied them also. The others have yet to
respond to requests for comment.  Under Scrutiny  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said he couldn’t vouch for the
members that sit alongside him on the executive.  “It is my government, but my government is not designated
by the president,” Blatter said at a press conference in Zurich
yesterday. “I cannot say that they are all angels or they are
all devils.”  FIFA’s probity has been under scrutiny since the collapse
into bankruptcy of its marketing rights partner ISL in 2001.
Swiss investigators found that some  FIFA  officials, including
executive committee members, had been paid bribes by the
company, though Blatter was cleared. Its credibility was hit
further last November when two voters were suspended before the
World Cup decision following an inquiry into claims they’d
offered to sell their votes.  Challenge for Presidency  Blatter said action couldn’t be taken against any officials
who took bribes because until 2007 they were not illegal under
Swiss law.  “Until that time it has been considered as commissions and
not as bribery -- this is what I want to say here,” he said.  The 75-year-old has been with FIFA for 36 years, and led
the group since 1998. He’s being challenged for the presidency
by Mohamed Bin Hammam, 62, a Qatari who leads soccer in  Asia .  The allegations made by Triesman and the Sunday Times mean
eight of the 24 members that sat in FIFA’s highest chamber
during the bid process have been sanctioned or accused of
impropriety.  Robertson said the soccer body needs to follow the example
of the  International Olympic Committee , which instituted reforms
following a voting scandal around the 2002  Winter Games  in  Salt
Lake City .  “There is nobody currently bidding for the 2018 Winter
Olympics who doesn’t believe their system is fair and
transparent,” he said. “FIFA needs to be in the same
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 