-- 
U.S. MBA Mortgage Applications Index Increased 8.2% Last Week

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-11T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-mba-mortgage-applications-index-increased-8-2-last-week.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
rose last week to their highest level in more than a month as
declining borrowing costs spurred purchases and refinancing.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index increased 8.2
percent in the period ended May 6, the Washington-based group
reported today. The group’s refinancing gauge advanced 9
percent, the biggest gain in nine weeks, while its purchase
index rose 6.7 percent.  Consumers are taking advantage of the lowest  mortgage rates 
this year to lower payments on current loans or buy distressed
properties. At the same time, unemployment at 9 percent, falling
 home prices  and the prospect of more foreclosures coming onto
the market mean any recovery in housing will take time to
develop.  “When rates drop, the refi index tends to respond pretty
quickly,”  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said before the report. “Demand
for homes is still extremely weak. We’ll see better numbers over
the course of the year but they won’t end the year much better
than now.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan decreased to 4.67
percent, the lowest since early December, from 4.76 percent the
prior week. Borrowing costs reached 4.21 percent in October, the
lowest since the group’s records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.81
percent from 3.96 percent, the report showed.  More Refinancing  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
63.1 percent last week from 62.7 percent the prior week.  Recent data indicate the industry that helped trigger the
recession is struggling. Sales of previously owned homes, which
make up about 95 percent of the housing market so far this year,
climbed 3.7 percent in March as a mounting supply of properties
in or near foreclosure lured investors, the National Association
of Realtors reported on April 20. Even with foreclosure drumming
up demand, sales were 30 percent below their September 2005
peak.  All-cash deals made up 35 percent of the transactions, the
most on record, while distressed properties including
foreclosures and short sales accounted for 40 percent of all
deals, the agents’ group said.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.3 percent in February from a year earlier, the biggest
year-over-year decline since November 2009, the group said April
26. Prices were 32 percent below their July 2006 peak.  Builders are having a hard time selling new homes because
they compete with existing homes, which include foreclosures and
short sales.  Builder Losses  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , a homebuilder and mortgage finance firm,
posted a net loss for the quarter ending March 31, due to rising
inventories, write-offs and reduced closing volume, the
Calabasas, California-based company said April 27.  “The spring selling season is under way and at this point
the best way to characterize how it’s trending would be
uneven,” President and Chief Executive Officer Larry Nicholson
said on a conference call. “Some weeks we see real signs of
improvement, other weeks it’s a struggle to get buyers to
commit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  