-- 
U.S. House Propose New Round of Budget Cuts

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-11T23:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-house-republicans-offer-new-round-of-2012-budget-cuts-1-.html
House Republicans  proposed another
round of budget cuts affecting health care, education, housing,
transportation and scores of other programs one month after
lawmakers wrapped up a spending fight that almost shut down the
federal government.  The plan would cut another $46 billion, or 11 percent, from
the domestic “discretionary” portion of the budget on top of
$38 billion in savings enacted in April. Homeland security
funding would be reduced by $1 billion while the Defense
Department would receive an additional $17 billion, for a net
$30 billion reduction.  “This year, more than ever, we must make the hard budget
decisions to help rein in spending,” said House Appropriations
Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican.  “It’s going to be brutal,” said Representative Norm Dicks, the top Democrat on the appropriations committee. “I
worry about things like women and infant care and food
inspections and all kinds of things -- infrastructure,  Pell
grants .”  The plan is for the 2012 fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. At
the same time, lawmakers are considering more sweeping budget
cuts as part of negotiations over increasing the federal debt
limit.  Meetings With Obama  Senate Democrats met today with President  Barack Obama  on
the financial issues. Obama is slated to meet tomorrow with
their Republican counterparts.  Also, a bipartisan group of senators known as the “Gang of
Six” and another group led by Vice President  Joe Biden  continue
to meet to hash out deficit-reduction plans ahead of an August 2
deadline for raising the debt ceiling.  While they debate the debt cap, the House Appropriations
panel is pushing ahead with its annual work of setting funding
levels for hundreds of programs that comprise roughly one-third
of the government’s $3.7 trillion budget.  Idaho Republican Representative Mike Simpson, chairman of a
subcommittee with authority over environmental programs, said he
likely will revive many of the cuts approved earlier this year
by the House that were dropped in negotiations with the Senate
on the 2011 budget.  ‘Painful’  “Obviously, that’s the first place we’ll start looking,”
Simpson said. “It’s going to be painful across the board” and
“it might not be pretty, but we’ll do it,” he said.  Simpson also said many outside groups, recognizing
lawmakers’ preoccupation with cutting spending, no longer come
to him asking for budget increases.  “Now they’re coming in and saying ‘We’re not asking for
any increases -- just don’t decrease our funding,” he said.
“Flat funding is a really good thing.”  Lawmakers in April resolved a months-long fight over
spending levels for the rest of this fiscal year. That plan fell
short of Republican campaign promises to roll back domestic
“discretionary” spending to 2008 levels, so lawmakers aim to
finish the job with the plan unveiled today.  Health Care, Education  The proposal would cut health care and education programs
by $18 billion, or 11.5 percent. Transportation and housing
programs would face a 14 percent cut. Agriculture would fall by
13 percent, while foreign aid and other international programs
would be cut by 18 percent.  The cuts are even larger when compared with the budget
Obama proposed in February. The savings over that plan total
$122 billion.  The new Republican plan doesn’t identify which specific
programs would be cut. The appropriations panel divides its work
among 12 subcommittees, and today’s proposal will allow each of
those panels to begin drafting more detailed legislation within
their budget caps. Two of those subcommittees, with jurisdiction
over  homeland security  and veterans programs, are scheduled to
begin work May 13. Rogers said he hoped nine of the 12 bills
could clear the House in time for lawmakers’ August break.  Democrats who control the Senate are working on a budget
plan that would allow the same process to begin in their
chamber. Lawmakers in the House and Senate usually agree on a
total amount they will spend before beginning to decide
individual program budgets, though Senate Democrats are behind
schedule and may not adopt a budget.  Rogers said he couldn’t afford to wait for the Senate.
“We’d never get anything done if we waited on them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  