-- 
Banks Said to Offer $5 Billion to Resolve State, U.S. Foreclosures Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-11T17:58:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-banks-said-to-offer-to-pay-5-billion-to-resolve-state-mortgage-probe.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , along with three other U.S. mortgage servicers,
proposed paying $5 billion to settle a probe of their
foreclosure practices by state and federal officials, two people
familiar with the matter said.  The proposal made by banks yesterday during settlement
talks in Washington came after state attorneys general and
federal officials offered revised settlement terms and a
proposal for banks to fund principal writedowns for homeowners.  The probe by all 50 states was triggered by claims of
faulty foreclosure practices after the housing collapse, which
state officials said may violate their laws. The original
settlement proposal offered by states and federal agencies drew
criticism from banks and Republican  attorneys general  opposed to
a deal that would reduce principal amounts for borrowers.  In a new proposal, officials called for a fund,
administered by state and federal officials, that would in part
pay for principal writedowns, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman
for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller. Miller, a Democrat, is
leading negotiations for the states. Attorneys general haven’t
made a proposal for a payment by banks, Greenwood said.  The $5 billion payment proposed by the banks was reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  “An amount in that range would be viewed as a positive for
the banks, given larger numbers have been referenced
previously,” Brian Foran, an analyst with Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, wrote in a report today.
Regulators had previously suggested a $20 billion penalty.  Citigroup, Wells Fargo  State and federal officials have been negotiating with the
mortgage servicers, a group that also includes  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial  Inc. Miller has said the
five companies service 59 percent of U.S. home loans.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and Teri Schrettenbrunner of San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo didn’t return calls for comment after regular
business hours yesterday.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally Financial,
New York-based JPMorgan Chase’s Thomas Kelly and Mark Rodgers, a
spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, declined to comment.  The fund for principal reductions could pay for restitution
to borrowers whose homes were improperly foreclosed on,
Greenwood said.  Loans, Foreclosures  State and federal officials yesterday also revised
provisions of their original March term sheet offered to
mortgage servicers. That term sheet included requirements for
how banks service loans and conduct home foreclosures. The
changes aren’t substantially different from the original
proposal and incorporate negotiations with the banks, Greenwood
said. Those talks continue in  Washington  this week, he said.  Republican attorneys general criticized the original
settlement proposal, saying the plan for principal reductions
would encourage borrowers to default on loans to reduce
payments. Some of those attorneys general met yesterday in
Atlanta to discuss the issue, said Adam Temple of the Republican
State Leadership Committee.  Bob Davis, an executive vice president with the  American
Bankers Association , spoke to the group in Atlanta, telling them
principal reductions don’t work, he said in an interview. Loan
balances must be reduced so much for borrowers struggling to
make payments that it’s a better deal for lenders to foreclose
instead, he said.  “Principal reductions don’t substantially improve the
cash-flow problem,” Davis said. “You can’t lower principal
enough to make it an attractive tool.”  Encouraging Defaults  During a conference call between state officials and the
banks, some lenders said they opposed any settlement terms that
would reduce loan balances, according to one of the people
familiar with the talks. The banks argued a writedown plan would
encourage homeowners to default, a notion some attorneys general
on the call disputed, the person said.  Bank representatives said they were open to other types of
loan modifications, including changing interest payments, said
the person. Mortgage servicers have reached agreements with U.S.
banking regulators to improve procedures for modifying loans and
seizing homes.  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a Republican, said
last month that he may negotiate an alternative accord with the
banks if the national settlement turns out to be “inconsistent
with our conviction.”  ‘Some’ Changes  Pruitt said in a letter to Miller in March that forcing
lenders to reduce mortgage balances would take away incentives
for banks to loan money and “destroy an already devastated
housing market.”  Diane Clay, Pruitt’s spokeswoman, said in an interview that
the latest settlement proposal incorporates “some” of the
changes sought by the attorney general. She said she hadn’t seen
the new terms.  “General Pruitt’s letter certainly helped move the
negotiations along,” said Clay, who previously said several
“industry representatives” had contacted with her office.  Other state attorneys general who have criticized the
proposal to reduce principal balances include those from
 Florida ,  Texas ,  South Carolina ,  Virginia ,  Alabama ,  Nebraska  and
 Georgia . Attorneys general for Florida, Georgia and Alabama were
among the officials meeting in Atlanta yesterday, Temple said.  Lauren Kane, a spokeswoman for Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens, has said a bank, which she declined to identify,
discussed with her office the federal regulator settlement. Adam
Piper, a spokesman for South Carolina Attorney General Alan
Wilson, said last month that two banking representatives
“shared research” with his office and “pointed out some
concerns with certain provisions” of the original proposal.  Jennifer Meale, a spokeswoman for Florida Attorney General
Pam Bondi, said last month that her office has “had general
discussions with banks about how the matter might be resolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  