-- 
Republicans Move to Cut U.S. Unemployment Benefits to Ease Business Taxes

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-05-11T17:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-states-may-redirect-jobless-benefit-funds-under-republicans-proposal.html
House Republicans  moved to let U.S.
states cut federally paid jobless benefits and use the funds to
avert tax increases on businesses, which Democrats blasted as an
attack on the unemployed.  The Ways and Means Committee passed a bill by 20-14 today
that lets  states  shift some of the $31 billion they are set to
get for extended unemployment aid to prevent the tax increases,
pay back federal loans or fund job-training programs. Republican
David Camp, chairman of the House of Representatives panel, said
the bill would allow states to target the money more
effectively.  “Some argued that these benefits would increase economic
activity and employment, but the only increase we have seen is
an increase in unemployment taxes,” Camp, from  Michigan , said
in  Washington  today. “These taxes on jobs are only making it
harder for the millions of unemployed workers to get back to
work.”  Temporary federal funds allow the 26 weeks of unemployment
aid typically paid by states to be extended to as long as 99
weeks. Today’s measure gives states greater sway over the money,
now used only for unemployment checks. They could use it instead
to shield employers from tax increases triggered in states that
have borrowed $41 billion to pay their share of jobless claims
after they ran out of funds.  Lifeline for Jobless  Democrats said the bill chips away a lifeline for some 4
million unemployed workers and reneges on a deal with President
 Barack Obama  last year that extended the unemployment aid along
with 2001 and 2003 income-tax cuts for all Americans, including
the wealthiest. That allowed for as many as 73 additional weeks
of help for the jobless after state benefits run out.  “Calling this a jobs bill is a cruel hoax for the millions
of Americans who could see their unemployment benefits
disappear,” Representative Sander Levin from Michigan, the
Democrats’ leader on Ways and Means, said of today’s bill.
“Republicans act like the problem is the unemployed. No. The
basic problem is the lack of jobs.”  Levin said extended unemployment benefits are necessary
because there are four workers available for every job opening.
By April, more than 6 million people were jobless for 27 weeks
or more, enough to exhaust normal state-paid benefits, according
to the  Labor Department .  The bill now goes to the full House, which is controlled by
Republicans. It must also pass the Senate, where Democrats hold
a majority.  Higher Business Taxes  The measure is aimed at concern among businesses about the
tax increases they face to repay what states borrowed from the
federal government to pay their share of benefits since  the
recession  depleted their funds.  Until the loans are settled, employers are subject to a
decreasing federal tax credit for unemployment levies they have
paid. Through 2015, they face as much as $24 billion in
additional taxes in states with indebted funds, according  to a
study  by the National Employment Law Project and the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities .  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, said the
current system hits businesses that create jobs. “This isn’t
working,” he said.  Representative Ron Kind, a Democrat from  Wisconsin , said
the Republican plan is a “bailout” of profligate state
governments that could deal a blow to the economy by allowing
states to divert quickly spent unemployment-benefit cash to
paying down debt.  “That gives you a zero multiplier effect on the economy,”
he said.  Capital Concerns  In state capitals across the country, lawmakers have been
raising concerns about tax increases needed to shore up their
trust funds -- and the bill would provide them with cash to do
so. It wouldn’t change  unemployment benefits  unless states pass
laws to redirect the funds.  Michigan, Arkansas and Florida have already moved to reduce
the number of state-paid weeks residents can collect after their
trust funds went broke, forcing them to borrow from the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  