-- 
U.S. House Speaker Boehner Assails Obama Health-Care Law in Court Papers

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-11T21:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-house-speaker-boehner-assails-obama-health-care-law-in-court-papers.html
John Boehner , the Republican speaker
of the U.S. House of Representatives, asked a U.S. appeals court
to uphold a federal judge’s decision to invalidate the Obama
administration’s health care reform legislation.  Boehner, an Ohio congressman, called the health law “job
crushing” in a statement announcing the filing today.
Republican Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  announced the
filing of a brief by him and 43 of his party colleagues in a
separate statement minutes later. Filing of the friend of the
court briefs could not be independently confirmed.  In a lawsuit pressed by 26 states, U.S. District Judge C.
Roger Vinson in Pensacola, Florida on Jan. 31 ruled
unconstitutional a provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act requiring almost all Americans to obtain
some form of health insurance coverage beginning in 2014.  Finding that the insurance mandate was a critical part of
the law, Vinson invalidated the legislation in its entirety.  “While we continue working to repeal the job-crushing
health care law, I’m proud to stand with these states and job
creators in their efforts to overturn this government takeover
that is destroying jobs, increasing costs, and jeopardizing
coverage for millions of Americans,” Boehner said in his
statement.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is defending the
legislation, which he signed last year, and has asked the
Atlanta-based appellate court to overturn Vinson’s decision.  ‘Commerce Power’  “The minimum coverage provision is a valid exercise of
Congress’s commerce power,” the U.S. said in its brief filed
April 1. “The interstate nature of the market for health care
services is undisputed. Nor is it controverted that individuals
participate in the market for health care services whether or
not they have health insurance.”  McConnell, a U.S. Senator from  Kentucky , said in his
statement that the individual insurance mandate was “an
unprecedented and unauthorized exercise by Congress” of its
ability to regulate commerce.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
together with former House speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of  California ,
filed a joint friend-of-the-court brief last month in which they
defended the health care law and asked the Atlanta court to
reverse Vinson’s ruling.  Emergency Treatment  “The vast majority of uninsured Americans do seek and
receive often expensive emergency medical care,” the Democratic
leaders said. “The choice to opt out of paying for health
insurance is not the same as opting out of the health care
market.”  More than two dozen other briefs have been submitted by
supporters and opponents of the law.  The appellate court is scheduled to hear argument from
attorneys for the U.S. and the states on June 8.  The case is State of  Florida  v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 11-11021,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  