-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for May 6 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-11T14:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-may-6-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.1 million barrels per
day during the week ending May 6, 49 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 81.7
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging nearly 8.9 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased slightly
last week, averaging nearly 4.2 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged just under 9.0 million barrels
per day last week, up by 87 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged nearly 8.8 million barrels per day, 943 thousand
barrels per day below the same four-week period last year. Total
motor gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and
gasoline blending components) last week averaged 1.2 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 166 thousand
barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 3.8 million barrels
from the previous week. At 370.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
1.3 million barrels last week and are in the lower limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 0.8 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.0 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 6.4
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged 18.8 million barrels per day, down by 0.5 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged nearly 9.0
million barrels per day, down by 2.4 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
nearly 3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up
by 4.5 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 1.7 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  