-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Commodities Tumble Amid Stronger Dollar

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-11T20:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-stock-futures-climb-before-trade-data-johnson-johnson-cisco-rise.html
U.S. stocks slumped, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest decline since March, as
commodities tumbled amid a strengthening dollar and concern that
accelerating global inflation may curb economic growth.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) 
fell at least 4 percent as data from  China  raised expectations
about higher  interest rates . Yahoo! Inc. dropped 7.3 percent on
concern that its stake in a Chinese Internet business may lose
value after a transfer of ownership in the company’s online
payment business.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the biggest theme-park
operator, slumped 5.4 percent after profit missed estimates.  The S&P 500 dropped 1.1 percent to 1,342.08 at 4 p.m. in
New York, snapping a three-day rally. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  slid 130.33 points, or 1 percent, to 12,630.03. Oil fell
below $100 as a report showed that U.S. supplies surged.  “Inflation seems to be rearing its ugly head,” said Cliff Remily, a money manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg
Investment Management, which oversees $80 billion. “Some
countries are raising interest rates as a way to combat
inflation. That’s putting pressure on stocks. We’ve got a lot of
the consumer staples. These are the companies you want to be in
this kind of environment. We’ve avoided materials.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 1.6 percent this month, as gauges of
energy and raw-materials producers have slumped at least 4.3
percent. Indexes of companies less-tied to economic growth,
including utilities, health care, consumer staples and phone,
outperformed the benchmark. The S&P 500 is still up 6.7 percent
this year amid government stimulus measures and higher-than-
estimated corporate profits.  Inflation in China  Global stocks and commodities prices fell as figures showed
inflation in China stayed above the government’s target, stoking
concern about further monetary tightening that may curb demand.
Chinese inflation remained higher than 5 percent in April and
lending exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The pound rose as Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said
inflation remains “uncomfortably high” and officials signaled
they may raise rates later this year. Reports showed growth in
prices in Germany topped estimates and Poland unexpectedly
increased its benchmark rate.  “Governments around the world will be a little less
accommodative,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion
at Security Global Investors in Irvington,  New York . “People
are concerned that we may see slower growth because of that. In
addition, we’re seeing some unwinding of that trade of people
buying commodities and the euro, while selling the dollar.”  Euro Slides  The euro slipped against the majority of its most-traded
peers on speculation European leaders are slowing the drive to
grant Greece additional aid, fueling concern the nation may be
forced to restructure its debt. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said yesterday that Greece needs to stay the course on budget
cuts to deserve an extension of the 110 billion-euro ($158
billion) lifeline granted last year.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 nations
fell 0.6 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
commodities slumped 3 percent.  Energy and raw-material producers had the biggest declines
within 10 S&P 500 groups, falling at least 2.7 percent.
Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer,
dropped 5.6 percent to $48.27. Halliburton, the second-largest
oilfield services provider, fell 4.1 percent to $46.43.  CME Suspends Trading  CME Group Inc. (CME)  suspended trading of gasoline, crude and
heating oil on the Nymex for five minutes starting at 12:06
p.m., said Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for the exchange in
Chicago. Trading was stopped after June-delivery gasoline fell
25 cents, the daily limit. Limits were widened to 50 cents a
gallon for gasoline and heating oil and $20 a barrel for crude.  Equities also fell after the U.S. trade deficit widened
more than forecast in March as the highest  oil prices  in more
than two years boosted imports, eclipsing record exports. The
 trade gap  rose 6 percent to $48.2 billion, the biggest since
June, from $45.4 billion in February, the Commerce Department
reported. The median forecast of 72 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected it would widen to $47 billion. Sales
abroad climbed by the most in 17 years.  The  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, jumped 6.5 percent to 16.95.  ‘Lighten Up’  “Lighten up on risk-taking now and don’t wait for October
1 as previously recommended,”  Jeremy Grantham , the chief
investment strategist for Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van
Otterloo & Co., which manages more than $108 billion, wrote in a
report today. The S&P 500 “may still get to 1,500 before
October, but I doubt it, especially without a QE3,” he wrote.
“And whether it will reach 1,500 or not, the environment has
simply become too risky.”  The S&P 500 has rallied 26 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on Aug. 27 that he would pursue a second
round of asset purchases to stimulate the economy, a tactic
known as quantitative easing.   Yahoo fell 7.3 percent to $17.20. The payment business of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which is partly owned by Yahoo, was
restructured so that a different company now holds 100 percent
of its outstanding shares.  The transfer may diminish the value of Yahoo’s holding in
Alibaba,  Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
New York, wrote in a research note. In a worst-case scenario,
profit from the payment business could be diverted to the new
entity, away from Alibaba Group, he wrote.  Park Shortfall  Walt Disney declined 5.4 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$41.52. The world’s biggest theme-park operator reported less
second-quarter profit than analysts estimated as a shrinking
box-office, a park shortfall and the Japanese tsunami
overshadowed gains in TV.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  jumped 7.7 percent to $28.36. The retailer
reported first-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’
estimates and increased its annual profit forecast as sales
accelerated faster than expected.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  gained 1.7 percent to $23.41. The world’s
largest chipmaker raised its dividend for the second time in six
months as increasing corporate spending on technology boosts its
earnings. The quarterly payout rises 16 percent to 21 cents a
share. On Nov. 12, it raised the dividend to about 18 cents.  Deutsche Bank AG’s Bankim Chadha boosted his profit
estimates for companies in the S&P 500 for 2011 and 2012, citing
first-quarter profit margins and sales that have beaten
estimates. Combined earnings by stocks in the benchmark gauge
this year will be $99 a share, up from an earlier forecast of
$96, Chadha wrote in a note dated yesterday. Profit in 2012 will
be $106 a share, a $4 increase from his previous prediction.  Earnings-per-share have beaten analyst estimates at 72
percent of the 425 companies in the S&P 500 that reported
results since April 11, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  