-- 
U.S. Launches New Effort to Evade China’s Internet Firewalls

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-11T17:34:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/u-s-launches-new-effort-to-evade-china-s-internet-firewalls.html
The U.S. State Department plans to
spend $19 million to help dissidents bypass Iranian and Chinese
Internet censorship, including distribution of new technology
dubbed “slingshot” that circumvents firewalls in those
countries.  Assistant Secretary of State Michael Posner, who heads the
department’s  Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor , made
the announcement Tuesday in  Washington , as U.S. criticism of
 China ’s human rights record overshadowed high-level annual talks
between the world’s two largest economies.  The new software uses algorithms to track what users in
Iran and China seek to see and are blocked from accessing. Then
it would “slingshot” it back around those countries’
firewalls, getting it onto blogs, web sites, or other venues,
according to Posner.  “We’re going to be redirecting information back that the
government has initially blocked,” Posner said in a telephone
briefing.  He noted that China’s conduct on human rights has undergone
a “pretty dramatic deterioration” recently. Lawyers, artists
and activists have disappeared. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  described China’s record on various freedoms as
“deplorable” in an Atlantic magazine  interview  published
yesterday.  When Clinton gave a February speech about Internet freedom,
the words “Hillary Clinton” disappeared from the web in China,
Posner said.  More recently, the words “ Egypt ” and “Jasmine” -- the
nickname given to the revolutionary unrest sweeping the Middle
East -- disappeared from Chinese web searches. Social networking
sites such as Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have
been central in organizing protests in the region.  The $19 million represents the last of $30 million in
funding the State Department was given in fiscal year 2010 for
Internet-related projects. Posner said the $20 million that
Congress allotted the department for the current fiscal year
will be spent quickly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  