-- 
Ugandan Opposition Leader Given Airline Ticket to Return Home

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-05-11T12:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/uganda-s-main-opposition-says-leader-prevented-from-returning-to-kampala.html
Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  gave Uganda’s main
opposition leader,  Kizza Besigye , a ticket to return home from
neighboring  Kenya , after he was prevented from travelling on the
airline earlier in the day, the company said.  Kenya Airways barred Besigye from a flight at 8 a.m. local
time after learning the aircraft wouldn’t be allowed to land at
Uganda’s main Entebbe International Airport with him on board,
the Nairobi-based airline said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The airline has now confirmed and issued Dr. Besigye and
his wife tickets to depart Nairobi this evening,” it said.  Besigye led a so-called walk-to-work campaign last month to
protest against surging prices for foods and gasoline. Inflation
accelerated to 14.1 percent in April, from 11.1 percent in
March, as food costs jumped 31 percent, the  Uganda  Bureau of
Statistics said on April 29. The 55-year-old opposition leader
received medical treatment in Nairobi for injuries he suffered
during his arrest in Uganda on April 28.  “The government has no hand” in Besigye being prevented
from returning home, Uganda’s Information Minister Kabakumba
Matsiko said by phone today from Kampala.  The police had arranged a safe route for Besigye to travel
the 37 kilometers (23 miles) from Uganda’s main airport to
Kampala, Fred Opolot, the government’s spokesman, told reporters
in the capital today. He also denied any government involvement
in Besigye’s flight plans and said his “understanding” was
that the opposition leader would arrive today.  Besigye came second in a presidential election in February
after winning 26 percent of the vote. Incumbent President Yoweri Museveni, who has been in power since 1986, was re-elected with
68.4 percent. Museveni is scheduled to be inaugurated tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 