-- 
Multi-Speed Economy Pushes Bond Risk to a Two-Year High: Australia Credit

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-12T02:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/multi-speed-economy-pushes-bond-risk-to-a-two-year-high-australia-credit.html
Credit-default swaps on Australian
consumer and service companies are more expensive than the
nation’s benchmark index measuring bond risk for the first time
since 2009 as household spending slows.  The cost of protecting the debt of  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) ,
Australia’s biggest retailer;  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and four other
companies has risen 13 basis points this year to 108 basis
points on average, compared with an increase of 2.5 to 106 in
the Markit iTraxx Australia, CMA prices show. Contracts on
Woolworths are the most expensive relative to Asian peers in
seven weeks and those on Qantas are the highest since February
compared with the global  airline industry .  Consumer confidence  fell in three of the past six months
and retail sales in March declined for the first time since
October after the  Reserve Bank of Australia  boosted interest
rates to the highest in the developed world. While shipments of
 iron ore  and coal to China and  India  amid a mining boom are
driving growth, they have also spurred the currency to record
levels, hurting non-resource industries such as manufacturing
and tourism.  “Australia’s multi-speed economy is a key focus for us,”
said Chris Viol, a credit analyst at UBS AG in Sydney.
“Combined with the high Australian dollar and global issues
such as the opaque situation in  Europe , the corporate credit
implications are far-reaching.”  Tabcorp, Wesfarmers  Swaps on Tabcorp Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest
gambling company; casino owner Crown Ltd.; Wesfarmers Ltd., the
nation’s second-biggest retailer; and brewer Foster’s Group Ltd.
have also risen faster than the iTraxx index this year, CMA
prices show. The average price of contracts on the six companies
has exceeded the benchmark since the end of April. The last time
they were higher was August 2009.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Retail sales declined 0.5 percent in March from a month
earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said last week. Spending at
department stores fell 3 percent, and consumers spent 0.4
percent less at food retailers, the report showed.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens increased borrowing costs seven
times between October 2009 and November 2010, raising the
benchmark interest rate by 1.75 percentage points to 4.75
percent to contain inflation as the mining-investment boom
bolsters growth. The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main
interest rate near zero since December 2008.  Hiring Weakens  Australian employers unexpectedly cut workers in April by
the most since 2009 as hiring weakens in states less affected by
the resources bonanza, the statistics bureau said in a report
today. The number of people employed declined by 22,100, after a
revised 43,300 gain in March, according to the report. The
jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  Consumer prices may rise an annual 3.03 percent in the next
five years, according to the gap between yields on government
bonds and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to hold
inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 6
basis points to 5.36 percent today, or 221 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The Australian dollar climbed 19 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  over the past year to $1.0612 at 12:31 p.m. in Sydney
today. The so-called Aussie touched $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  The nation’s manufacturing contracted in April for the
seventh time in eight months. Short-term arrivals to  Australia 
fell 0.8 percent in March from February, according to the most
recent trend  estimates  from the Bureau of Statistics, the fifth
straight monthly decline.  ‘Subdued’ Spending  The central bank, which has left interest rates unchanged
for the past five meetings, said last week that household
spending is subdued and personal savings have increased to the
highest level since the 1980s.  “Some areas of the economy are expected to be very strong,
while conditions will be quite difficult in others due to the
appreciation of the  exchange rate  and subdued  consumer
spending ,” the RBA said May 6 in a quarterly review.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Woolworths rose 4.8 basis
points this quarter to 70, compared with a 1.9-basis-point
decline to 82.5 for an index of seven retailers in  Asia 
including  Japan ’s Marui Group Co., Bloomberg data show. The gap
between Woolworths and the Asian index was 11.3 on May 9, the
least since March 23.  Woolworths cut its profit forecast in January, the first
time in at least 10 years the company has reduced its growth
prediction. The retailer expects annual profit to rise between 5
percent and 8 percent, down from an earlier prediction of as
high as 11 percent.  ‘Pressure on Consumers’  Woolworths’ A$500 million ($543 million) of 6.75 percent
notes due March 2016 returned 0.52 percent this quarter,
compared with average gains of 0.84 percent for bonds in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Australian Industrial Index.  Clare Buchanan, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Woolworths,
declined to comment.  “There is some pressure on consumers,” Woolworths Chief
Executive Officer Michael Luscombe said last month. “No doubt
discretionary spending will feel the brunt of that.”  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and David Jones Ltd., Australia’s
biggest department store chains, said yesterday that sales
declined in the three months ended April 30 amid flooding in the
northern state of Queensland and stalled consumer spending.  Westfield Group, the world’s biggest shopping center
developer by assets, said yesterday that sales in its Australian
malls declined 0.3 percent to A$21.5 billion in the 12 months to
March 31. U.S. sales climbed 5.5 percent to $6.8 billion in the
same period, it said.  ‘More Cautious’  “Earnings growth is suffering as consumers become more
cautious and save more,” said Ben Byrne, a Sydney-based credit
analyst at Nomura Australia Ltd. “Still, corporate balance
sheets remain quite strong.”  Default-swaps on Woolworths, Wesfarmers and Crown may also
have risen on the risk they will make acquisitions to generate
growth, he said.  Qantas, which has about 66 percent of the Australian
market, has posted four consecutive months of declining
passenger yields on domestic routes. The company filled 78.4
percent of seats in March, down from 81.1 percent a year
earlier, according to company filings.  Qantas CDS  Contracts on Qantas have climbed 11.7 basis points this
quarter to 157.7 and were the most expensive relative to the
global airline industry on May 6 since the end of February, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own the airline’s $514
million of 6.05 percent bonds maturing in April 2016 instead of
similar-maturity Treasuries has risen 12 basis points this
quarter to 249, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
prices show.  Luke Enright, a spokesman for Sydney-based Qantas, declined
to comment.  “The  Reserve Bank  and government know they have to adjust
the economy for this very large lift in resources investment,”
said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia
Ltd. The resulting spending restraint from consumers is
“exactly the opposite of what retailers and the like will want
to hear,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 