-- 
United Nations Peacekeepers Shot in Disputed Sudan Border Region of Abyei

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-05-11T09:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/united-nations-peacekeepers-shot-in-disputed-sudan-border-region-of-abyei.html
Four United Nations peacekeepers were
injured in an attack by unidentified gunmen in the disputed
region of Abyei on the border of north and Southern  Sudan , the
UN said.  The Zambian nationals were shot while on patrol in the
northern part of the region, UN Mission in Sudan spokesman
Kouider Zerrouk said today from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. One
of the peacekeepers is in a serious condition and all four have
been evacuated to the hospital in the city, he said.  Abyei is contested by northern and oil-rich Southern Sudan,
which is set to become independent on July 9. The future of
Abyei is the most contentious of the remaining issues to be
negotiated before the separation. Abyei’s residents were
scheduled to vote in January on whether to join an independent
south or remain with the north. The vote was cancelled because
of disagreements over who was eligible to take part.  The Ngok Dinka people, who are loyal to  Southern Sudan ,
said they alone should be allowed to vote in the region’s
referendum. The Permanent Court of Arbitration in  The Hague , in
a 2009 ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements, largely excluding the pro-northern Misseriya ethnic
group.  In its ruling, the court set key  oil fields , including
Heglig and Bamboo, outside of the Abyei region. Those fields and
Diffra in Abyei are run by the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating
Co., which is 40 percent owned by Beijing-based China National
Petroleum Corp.  The UN has about 900 peacekeepers patrolling the Abyei
region and its mission will continue even after the attack,
Zerrouk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba, Southern Sudan via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 