-- 
Uruguay’s Central Bank to Raise Reserve Requirements as Prices Accelerate

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 
2011-05-11T20:53:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/uruguay-s-central-bank-to-raise-reserve-requirements-as-prices-accelerate.html
Uruguay is joining countries from
 Brazil  to China in raising reserve requirements as accelerating
inflation undermines economic growth in the South American
country.  Uruguay will raise reserve requirements for banks on peso
deposits to 15 percent from 12 percent and on foreign currency
deposits to 18 percent from 15 percent, central bank President
Mario Bergara told reporters today in Montevideo. The move,
which takes effect June 1, will keep $480 million in deposits
from being loaned out, Bergara said. The bank will also
establish a marginal reserve requirement on the growth of
deposits, he said.  “In light of internal price increases and the
international context, we understand that we must take
additional measures beyond the benchmark rate,” Bergara said.
“Uruguay isn’t an outlier in this, it’s something that is
happening to a good number of emerging market countries.”  Central banks across emerging markets are increasingly
using tools such as higher  reserve requirements  and taxes on
foreign loans to cool inflation as commodity prices rally. Food
prices reached a record in February as corn prices doubled from
a year earlier and wheat climbed more than 50 percent over the
past year.  Consumer prices in Uruguay’s $40 billion economy rose 8.34
percent in April from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month gain
since January 2009 and outside the government’s 3 percent to 7
percent target range. Policy makers raised the benchmark lending
rate 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, to 7.5 percent at
their quarterly meeting in March.  ‘Main Risk’  Inflation is “one of the main risks to sustainable
growth” in Uruguay, Bergara said.  The bank’s next policy meeting is June 23.  China ’s consumer prices climbed 5.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, according to the statistics bureau in Beijing.
That’s higher than the government’s 4 percent full-year target
and above the 5.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Policy makers in China have raised banks’ reserve
requirements, reined in credit growth from the record levels of
2009 and 2010, restricted home purchases, and said this month
that consumer goods company Unilever will be fined 2 million
yuan ($300,000) for telling the media that it planned to raise
prices. Inflation is “the most pressing problem” facing China,
Vice Premier Wang Qishan said in  Washington .  Foreign Loans  Brazil’s effort to raise taxes on foreign loans and debt
sales helped reduce the amount of dollars that entered the
country last month by 88 percent. Brazil received a net $1.54
billion in April from trade and investments, down from $12.7
billion in March and $2.25 billion in April 2010, according to
the central bank.  Uruguay’s decision to raise reserve requirements is meant
to “complement” and not replace the benchmark rate as the
primary tool of monetary policy, Bergara said.  The peso gained 0.3 percent today to 18.8 per dollar. The
currency has strengthened 5.9 percent this year, compared with a
gain of 2.6 percent for the Brazilian real and a decline of 2.6
percent in the Argentine peso.  Uruguay’s economy expanded 6.5 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier. Unemployment climbed to 6.4 percent
in March from 6.3 percent in February, the national statistics
agency reported today.  “The effect on inflation is debatable because the growth
in demand isn’t the result of bank financing, so the effort to
contain price increases is uncertain,” said Julio De Brun, a
former central bank president who heads the country’s
Association of Private Banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  