-- 
Vestas Plans U.K. Factory to Make New Offshore Wind Turbine

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 
2011-05-11T10:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/vestas-says-may-build-plant-for-7-megawatt-offshore-wind-turbine-in-u-k-.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S said it may
build a plant in southeast  England  to make its new 7-megawatt
offshore turbines, following similar moves by  Siemens AG (SIE) , Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA and  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)   Vestas signed an option agreement for 70 hectares (173
acres) of land at the Port of Sheerness, Kent, the Randers,
Denmark-based company said today in a  statement  on its website.
The plant may create 2,000 jobs in the area, Vestas said.  “We are looking forward to seeing the U.K. government
providing the best possible terms for the offshore wind industry
to truly take off and the potential jobs becoming a reality,”
Vestas President of Offshore Anders Soe-Jensen said in the
statement. “It is evident that we don’t just jump head first
into an investment of this size.”  The world’s largest windmill makers are lining up sites in
Britain to seize a share of its offshore wind industry, the
world’s largest.  General Electric Co. (GE) , the biggest wind-turbine
maker in the U.S., also has said it may build a plant.  Manufacturers need to be close to the sites of wind parks
because their machines typically weigh hundreds of tons and are
dozens of stories tall, with rotors that cut a swath larger than
a soccer field.  The U.K’s Carbon Trust, which advises the government and
businesses on carbon-reducing policy and technology, in March
estimated that annual U.K. offshore wind-industry investment
could total 5 billion pounds ($8 billion) to 10 billion pounds
by 2020, with the global industry at as much as 55 billion
pounds in that year.  Most Ambitious  Britain plans to develop 13 gigawatts of sea-based wind
farms by 2020 to help meet European renewable-energy goals. Last
year, the  Crown Estate , which manages the country’s seabed on
behalf of the monarchy, awarded licenses for as much as 32
gigawatts of turbines, equivalent to about 20 new nuclear
reactors.  Construction of the Vestas factory is dependent on
regulatory certainty and public investment to lower the risks
involved in building offshore wind farms, the company said.  Vestas didn’t reveal the factory’s construction budget. The
manufacturer in 2009 closed its only U.K. turbine factory on the
Isle of Wight, off the south coast of England, citing
insufficient demand. Vestas Chief Executive Officer Ditlev Engel
said in February that the facility would have had nothing to do
between 2009 and 2015, and the decision to close it was right.  A Mitsubishi unit in December said it will invest as much
as 100 million pounds in a research center in Edinburgh to
develop a sea-based, 5-megawatt-plus wind turbine within five
years. Zamudio, Spain-based Gamesa plans an offshore wind
technology center in Glasgow and a manufacturing, logistics and
operations facility in Dundee, while Siemens has said it will
open a new factory in Hull.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric said in
February it plans to announce a site for a new U.K.
manufacturing facility, without specifying a date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  