-- 
Vienna Museum Settles With Heir on Nazi-Looted Schiele Painting

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-11T12:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/vienna-s-leopold-museum-settles-with-heir-on-nazi-looted-schiele-painting.html
Vienna’s  Leopold Museum  agreed to pay
$5 million to the granddaughter of Jenny Steiner, a Jewish silk-
factory owner, to keep in its collection a painting by  Egon Schiele  that was stolen by the Nazis.  The 1914 painting, “Houses by the Sea,” belonged to
Steiner until she fled Austria in 1938, shortly after the Nazis
marched into Vienna. She escaped to Paris and later emigrated to
the U.S. with her two daughters. The painting was seized and
sold by the Nazis, then later auctioned. Rudolf Leopold, the
founder of the Leopold Museum, acquired it in 1955, the museum
said in a  statement  published today on its website.  “After long negotiations, we succeeded in finding a fair
and just solution,” the museum said. “Both sides went to great
lengths to find a definitive settlement.”  The Leopold Museum owns 44 Schiele paintings and 180 works
on paper, the biggest collection of the artist worldwide. During
Rudolf Leopold’s lifetime -- he died on June 29 last year at the
age of 85 -- the museum argued that as a private foundation, it
was not subject to  Austria ’s  restitution law , which only applies
to federal government museums.  After Leopold’s death, his son Diethard Leopold pledged to
settle all outstanding claims for Nazi-looted art in the
museum’s collection as quickly as possible.  Further Heirs  Steiner’s granddaughter claimed one-third of “Houses by
the Sea,” said Klaus Pokorny, the museum’s press spokesman. The
claimants for the remaining two-thirds are U.S. institutions
which inherited from Steiner’s other heirs, he said.  “The important thing is that we have settled with the only
surviving direct heir of Jenny Steiner,” Pokorny said by phone
from Vienna. “We are still hoping for an agreement with the
other heirs and have made offers.”  In July last year, the museum agreed to pay $19 million to
the heirs of the Jewish art dealer Lea Bondi Jaray to settle a
decades-long dispute over Schiele’s portrait of his lover Wally,
stolen by the Nazis in the 1930s.  The Leopold Museum is selling a Schiele painting, “Houses
With Colorful Washing,” at a  Sotheby’s (BID)  auction on June 22 to
pay for “Wally,” the auction house said last week. The
cityscape is expected to fetch as much as $50 million, a record
for the artist.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 