-- 
Wall Street, Business Groups Press Congress to Raise Debt Limit

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-11T22:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/wall-street-business-groups-press-congress-to-raise-debt-limit.html
Congress must raise the federal debt
limit or risk “a massive spike in borrowing costs” for U.S.
companies, more than 60 trade associations representing
businesses and  Wall Street  told lawmakers.  “The failure to increase the statutory debt limit in a
timely fashion could have a significant and long-lasting
negative impact on the  U.S. economy ,” the groups said in a
letter today to congressional leaders including Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and House Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of  Ohio .  Democrats and Republicans are sparring over how much to
trim the deficit and whether to extend the $14.29 trillion debt
ceiling. The U.S. is scheduled to reach the limit May 16 and can
keep borrowing until about Aug. 2 by taking “extraordinary
measures,” Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said last
week.  Those signing the letter include the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association , Wall Street’s biggest
lobbying group; the Financial Services Roundtable; the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the  Business Roundtable ; the National
Association of Manufacturers; and the Investment Company
Institute, which represents the mutual fund industry.
Organizations representing manufacturers in states including
Alabama and Kentucky also signed the letter.  While the associations urged lawmakers to raise the limit,
they also said that they “remain extremely concerned about the
level of the federal debt and large annual budget deficits” and
urged Congress to make “tough calls on U.S. spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Roberts at 
 Lroberts13@bloomberg.net  