-- 
West African Oil Rally Threatens Indian Growth: Energy Markets

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-05-12T16:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/west-african-oil-rally-threatens-indian-growth-energy-markets.html
The highest prices for West African
crude in more than two years are threatening to dent economic
growth in  India  while boosting revenue for suppliers in  Nigeria 
and  Angola .  Nigerian Bonny Light crude has risen $10 a barrel, or 9.3
percent, since Feb. 16, when political unrest in  Libya  cut
supplies of similar quality crude, outpacing the 8.5 percent
gain in  London ’s Brent oil. A $10 increase in oil prices may cut
India’s economic growth by 0.2 percentage point, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Bonny Light’s official selling price
was $3.40 above Brent in April, the highest since November 2008.  Refiners are turning to Nigerian and Angolan crudes as
fighting in Libya cuts the supply of lower-sulfur, “sweet”
crude, which is more easily refined into cleaner-burning fuel.
Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp. will buy 15 percent
of West African crude exports this year, down from 12 percent in
2010, according to Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH. Profit at  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , operator of Nigeria’s largest oil fields, rose
30 percent in the first quarter as prices climbed.  “India’s import bill is on the way up,” said  Praveen Kumar , the Singapore-based head of South Asia oil and gas at
FACTS Global Energy, an industry researcher. “Indian refiners
can either buy West African crude or Middle Eastern crude, and
they have maxed out on how much Middle East oil they can buy.
It’s expensive, but they have no choice.”  Refinery Setup  The rally in prices is hurting India, the world’s second
fastest-growing major economy behind  China , because it can’t
diversify its crude supplies, according to FACTS. Indian
refiners typically set up plants to process light, sweet crude
grades because they yield the best quality of automobile fuel.  Refiners are seeking to raise gasoline output to meet an
increase in demand as vehicle and fuel use surges with rising
incomes. India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated
to almost 9 percent in March, exceeding the central bank’s 8
percent estimate. The economy may expand “around 8 percent” in
the 12 months through March from 8.6 percent the previous year,
central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on May 4.  India may buy 38 percent of all West African crude supplied
to  Asia  in May, up 10 percentage points from a year earlier,
said  David Wech , head of energy studies at JBC Energy GmbH. The
country will import 17.4 million barrels from the region this
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of five traders, up
from 17 million barrels in April.  Goldman Sachs  A cargo of Bonny Light crude cost $115.86 a barrel
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices have
climbed $19.5 a barrel, or 20 percent, this year. Dated Brent,
the marker price for West African oil, was at $112.47 a barrel
and has advanced $18, or 19 percent, in 2011.  In addition to denting India’s economic growth, an increase
of $10 in  oil prices  may raise the country’s current account
deficit by 0.4 percentage point and fiscal deficit by 0.2
percentage point, Goldman Sachs said in an April 21 report.  Refiners processing Bonny Light crude in  Singapore , a
benchmark indicator for Asia, were making a loss of $2.78 a
barrel May 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a gain of $1.48 for North Sea Brent oil and a
profit of $3.74 for  Saudi Arabia ’s Arab Light.  Refiner Losses  Losses at India’s state-run refiners are being exacerbated
because they sell most fuels at prices set by the government
below market rates to curb prices in a country where 66 percent
of the population lives on less than $2 a day. Processors are
losing about 5 billion rupees ($112 million) a day selling fuels
such as diesel and kerosene below cost, according to data from
the  petroleum ministry.   The government compensates state refiners for selling fuels
below cost, increasing the burden on the fiscal budget, said
Jagdish Meghnani, a Mumbai-based oil and gas analyst at Alchemy
Share & Stock Brokers.  “State-run refiners are making huge losses by selling
below cost, they are nowhere near international refining
margins,” he said. “Ultimately, the government will have to
raise prices and make consumers pay for it.”  While the rising cost of crude has capped the shares of
Indian companies, rival refiners that can switch more easily to
different grades of oil have gained. Bharat Petroleum shares
gained 0.8 percent this year in Mumbai, while Indian Oil’s
advanced 2.2 percent. Valero Corp., the biggest independent
refiner in the U.S., rose 14 percent. SK Innovation Co.,  South
Korea ’s largest processor, climbed 12 percent.  Gasoline Costs  India may increase gasoline costs by 2.5 rupees a liter,
Bloomberg UTV reported May 10, citing oil ministry sources it
didn’t identify. The ministry has recommended raising diesel
prices too, according to the report. Indian Oil currently sells
gasoline for 58.37 rupees a liter and diesel for 37.75 rupees a
liter in  New Delhi , according to the company’s  website .  Libyan crude output, which last year averaged 1.6 million
barrels a day, tumbled to 285,000 barrels a day in April,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Crude oil production in
Libya accounts for 8.8 percent of global low-sulfur, or sweet,
crude output, according to JBC Energy.  “West African grades are some of the best replacements”
for Libyan crude, Wech said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest producer, pumped 1.9 million
barrels a day in April. Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that produce about 90 percent
of the country’s oil. Angola was the second-biggest, producing
1.6 million barrels a day.  Shell earned $6.3 billion in the first quarter, excluding
one-time items and inventory changes compared with $4.8 billion
a year earlier. The company’s shares rose 4.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  