-- 
Wisconsin Borrowing Costs Plunge From January Sale: Municipal Credit

-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/wisconsin-borrowing-costs-plunge-from-january-sale-municipal-credit.html
Governor  Scott Walker ’s moves to
limit the power of public worker unions in Wisconsin may have
been rewarded by investors as the state’s borrowing costs fell
by more than half since the Republican took office in January.  Walker signed a bill March 11 that eliminates the ability
of public employees except police and firemen to collectively
bargain for benefits. The unions have said that the governor was
using the deficit as a pretext to break their power.  The state today is offering about $286 million in tax-
exempt debt following an “overall tightening of spreads” since
January. Wisconsin’s improved premiums may be a result of
Walker’s efforts to address the state’s projected $3.4 billion
deficit, said Duane McAllister, who helps oversee $1.7 billion
for M&I Investment Management in  Milwaukee .  The state sold about $429 million on Jan. 12, with a 10-
year maturity priced to yield 3.75 percent, or about 47 basis
points above top-rated general obligation debt, according to
Bloomberg Valuation pricing. The same security was yielding
about 21 basis points above the benchmark yesterday. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The state’s addressing the fiscal challenges,”
McAllister said. “We’re looking at structural changes and
that’s very favorable for the market.”  Walker’s moves also increased employee contributions for
health care and pensions, prevented raises from outstripping
inflation without voter approval and barred public employers
from collecting union dues. Walker said the changes were
necessary to mend the recession-battered state budget and give
governments the ability to curb costs, which have been stalled
by court challenges.  Wave of Protests  The bill resulted in weeks of protests at the Capitol in
Madison and was the defining issue in the April 5  Wisconsin 
Supreme Court election. There also are efforts underway to force
recall elections for 16 state senators.  A “budget repair bill” from Walker authorized the
refinancing of debt as the state faced a $137 million midyear
deficit, according to a May 9 report from Moody’s Investors
Service. The restructuring achieved $165 million in saving,
Moody’s said.  “The fiscal-year 2011 biennium is on track to have an
ending surplus of $83.8 million,” Kimberly Lyons and Emily Raimes, Moody’s analysts, wrote in the report.  Rarity Value  Demand for Wisconsin’s offering this week may be boosted by
a dearth of supply of munis in general and of state general
obligation debt specifically, said Gary Gildersleeve, a partner
at Evercore Wealth Management in  New York , which oversees about
$2.5 billion. States and municipalities are selling about
$4.78 billion this week, down about 37 percent from the same
week last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In January, no one wanted to buy muni bonds, but now
you just can’t find enough of them,” Gildersleeve said. “I
would think they’ll do very well.”  Wisconsin’s offering, backed by the full faith and credit
of the state, is rated AA by S&P and Fitch, and Aa2 by Moody’s,
all third-highest. While the state’s bonds are among the most
highly rated, Wisconsin doesn’t necessarily benefit from local
demand as residents pay tax on the securities, McAllister said.  “Still, there’s a lot of demand for quality GOs like
this,” he said. “They shouldn’t have any trouble.”  Frank Hoadley, Wisconsin’s capital finance director, didn’t
respond to calls or e-mails seeking comment on the sale.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempts maturing in 10 years fell
3 basis points to 2.73 percent yesterday, the lowest since Nov.
15, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. Rates have come
down 75 basis points from their Jan. 18 high.  “We expected that a lot of the credit fears would work
their way out, just not this early,” said Gildersleeve. “The
better issuers have fantastic liquidity, and anything that’s
well-known is doing well.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK DORMITORY AUTHORITY, which sold the third-most
municipal debt in 2010, plans to sell about $333 million in tax-
exempt bonds as soon as today to finance loans to 25 school
districts. The securities, which will be backed by borrower
repayments, are rated A+ by Fitch, fifth-highest.  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF)  will lead banks underwriting the offering. (Updated
May 11)  VIRGINIA, one of seven states with a top ranking from the
three major credit rating companies, plans to sell $600 million
in tax-exempt debt through the Commonwealth Transportation Board
this week to finance transit, rail and other capital projects.
The state today will take interest-cost bids from banks seeking
to underwrite the offering. The bonds, backed by transportation
revenue subject to appropriation, carry second-highest rankings.
(Updated May 11)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan A. McGrail in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  