-- 
Worst Spain Quake Since 1954 Kills Eight as Europe Debates Nuclear Safety

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-12T16:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/two-earthquakes-hit-spain-s-murcia-region-killing-seven-2-.html
Spain ’s biggest earthquake in 57
years damaged a town and killed nine people, hours before
European regulators met to set criteria for nuclear-plant safety
tests ordered because of Japan’s quake-related atomic disaster.  Temblors measuring 4.4 and 5.2 yesterday injured 293
people, three seriously, the regional government said in a
statement on its  website . The quakes were centered in Lorca in
the Mediterranean coastal region of Murcia and caused a “large
amount” of damage to property, the national government said.  Spain’s Cofrentes reactor, about 180 kilometers (112 miles)
south of Lorca, was undamaged and operating normally, a
spokeswoman at the plant said today. Cofrentes, owned by
Iberdrola SA, was given a 10-year license extension one day
before the March 11 earthquake and tsunami battered  Japan .  European nuclear regulators from 27 nations met in Brussels
today and failed to set parameters for inspections required for
the region’s 143 atomic reactors after Japan’s biggest quake on
record caused the worst nuclear accident in 25 years. They
scheduled negotiations to continue in  Prague  on May 19-20.  “There’s still discussion going on on whether man-made
disasters should be included in the stress-tests,” said  Marlene Holzner , energy spokeswoman at the European Commission. “It’s a
very complicated issue.”  Floods vs Terror  EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said last week
that the tests should cover threats from natural disasters as
well as potential man-made catastrophes such as a terrorist
attack. His proposal is broader than a recommendation by the
Western European Nuclear Regulators’ Association, which said the
checks should focus on the resistance of nuclear plants to
earthquakes, floods and other extreme natural events.  The earthquake was Spain’s strongest since 1954, when a 7-
magnitude temblor struck near Granada, adjacent to Murcia. That
quake ranks as the biggest on Spanish soil, according to the
government-run National Geographic Institute’s website.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  reports the Spanish earthquake
in that year at  7.9  and also lists it as the country’s biggest.
The USGS reported yesterday’s second temblor at 5.1.  Europe  has suffered fewer major earthquakes than nations
including Japan that lie on the so-called Ring of Fire, an arc
of volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the Pacific Basin.  Campaign Suspended  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero suspended the
campaign today for regional elections in 13 of Spain’s 17
states, including Murcia, in response to the disaster, his staff
said in a statement. Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba visited the area, where Zapatero said that 140
emergency vehicles are helping in the rescue.  The Cabinet at its meeting tomorrow will approve measures
for the reconstruction of the town, Zapatero said.  The quakes caused “significant” damage to infrastructure,
heritage sites and housing, and the government has sent 800
soldiers and policemen to the area, he said. The government will
“spare no expense” in the reconstruction of the town, he told
a televised news conference in  Madrid  today.  The quake in Lorca, whose medieval-era castle sits on a
ridge where Christians and Muslims battled in the Reconquest,
now threatens Murcia’s efforts to reorder its public finances as
Spain tries to rein in the euro region’s third-largest  budget
deficit  and shield its economy from the sovereign debt crisis.  Murcia is one of Spain’s poorest regions in terms of gross
domestic product per  capita , according to the National
Statistics Institute. The state had the second-largest budget
deficit last year at 5 percent of its economic output.  Cars Crushed  Spanish public television showed images of cars crushed
under debris and chunks of stone fallen from the facade of the
church in Lorca. A field hospital was set up in the town after
officials evacuated a hospital that was damaged during the
quakes, the regional government said.  An alignment of planets yesterday provoked speculation in
 Italy  that a major earthquake would hit  Rome . The talk was fed
by discussions of the work of the late Raffaele Bendandi, a
self-taught seismologist who believed that quakes could be
predicted by observing the combined movements of the planets,
the sun and the moon.  More than 24,000 people were killed or left missing after
Japan was struck by the magnitude-9 earthquake and resulting
tsunami on March 11.  New Zealand ’s southern city of Christchurch
was hit by earthquakes in September and February. The 6.3-
magnitude temblor in February killed more than 170 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirlingat 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  