-- 
Woody Allen Marvels at Carla Bruni, Paris: Cannes Movie Review

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/woody-allen-marvels-at-carla-bruni-directs-love-letter-to-paris-review.html
Woody Allen  opened the  Cannes Film
Festival  yesterday with a wistful ode to the French capital,
complete with river views, sidewalk cafes and accordion music.  Even French First Lady Carla Bruni-Sarkozy gets a walk-on
part in “Midnight in Paris,” as Allen box-ticks his way around
the city, musing about its 1920s heyday -- and warning of the
perils of nostalgia.  “It’s a big trap to think living in another time would be
better,” the 75-year-old director told reporters after the
 premiere . “When you think back to earlier times, you only
extrapolate the nice things.”  “When you went to a dentist, there was no Novocain or
anything, there was no air conditioning, there was none of the
things that you’ve gotten used to that make your life
palatable,” said Allen, eyebrows arched over his eyeglasses.
“I really wouldn’t like to go back to any time other than right
now.”  “Midnight in Paris” is the story of Gil (played by  Owen Wilson ), a Hollywood scriptwriter and novelist manque who --
like Allen -- shamelessly idealizes Paris. He’s in town with his
controlling fiancee, Inez (Rachel McAdams), and her rich
parents. Dad is a diehard Republican with Tea Party leanings;
Mom is a snooty matron who would readily blow $20,000 on a
chair.  Gil’s not as dopey as he looks. Though he failed freshman
English, the California boy is clued up on 1920s Paris and its
leading lights. He’d give anything to live in their midst.  Drinks Party  One day, Gil and Inez run into Paul (Michael Sheen) -- a
pontificating know-it-all -- and his wife Carol. Soon, all four
are at a fancy drinks party, where Paul terms the wine
“slightly more tannic than the ‘59.”  This is where Bruni-Sarkozy comes in. As their elegant
 Rodin Museum  guide, she leads them through the pine-lined
gardens, and politely corrects Paul when he gets the name of
Rodin’s wife wrong (“I am certain, Monsieur,” she says,
pursing her lips). The former model pops up twice more,
translating book excerpts for Gil (their relationship stops
there).  Gil is so enthralled with the city that he strolls through
it at all hours, alone. One night, he’s invited into a vintage
car by champagne-swigging revelers, who take him to what seems a
1920s theme party, where the women have plumed headbands, the
men have crinkled hair, and the guests have familiar names.  Rugged Hemingway  Gil, as incredulous as the rest of us about his dream-like
experience, has a series of side-splitting encounters. One is
with a rugged young man introducing himself as Hemingway, who
wears brown suede and speaks in a preachy macho monotone.  “You’re too self-effacing,” he booms at the bewildered
Gil. “It’s not manly.”  The plot twists get so outrageously funny that you wonder
how Allen could end the movie convincingly. The answer is, he
doesn’t. The closing scenes are corny, and include a banal
exchange between Gil and a dazzling artist’s muse (played by
Marion Cotillard).  The real surprise is Wilson’s performance. In Allen’s own
words, “Owen is the opposite of me,” which would make him seem
out of place, offhand. Wilson, after all, was the unrepentant
cad in “Wedding Crashers,” chasing bridesmaids at nuptials he
was not invited to. Here, his full-lipped pout and stunned gaze
work well. Bigger roles may follow.  The movie’s real star, of course, is Paris. Darius
Khondji’s cinematography shows every one of its landmarks at
their postcard best.  Still, “Midnight in Paris” is no match for Allen’s
previous work, “You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger,” a
portrait of 21st-century  London  that was both cartoonlike and
true to life.  In the end, “Midnight in Paris” may well be nothing more
than Allen’s therapeutic attempt to come to terms with the
regret of not having lived in the French capital himself.  Rating: **1/2.  “Midnight in Paris” (produced by Mediapro, Versatil Cinema
and Gravier Productions) opened in France May 11 and will open
in the U.S. on May 20.  Information:  http://www.sonyclassics.com/midnightinparis/ .  The 64th Cannes Film Festival runs through May 22.
Information:  http://www.festival-cannes.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 