-- 
Sugar Surplus Seen for a Second Year, Cutting Costs for Coca-Cola

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-11T07:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/world-sugar-market-to-see-surplus-for-second-year-lowering-costs-for-coke.html
Sugar output may exceed demand for a
second year after farmers boosted planting as futures surged,
pushing prices lower, Standard Chartered Bank said. That may
lower costs for drinks makers like units of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   Sugar futures will average 24 cents a pound in  New York  in
2011, about 15 percent lower than the average so far this year,
before rebounding to 25 cents next year, said  Abah Ofon , an
analyst at the bank.  Futures surged to 36.08 cents a pound in New York in
February, the highest price since 1980, boosting costs for food
and drink makers.  Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co SA (EEEK) , the world’s
second-biggest Coke drinks bottler, yesterday reported its first
quarterly loss since December 2008.  “The sugar price is coming down in the world market quite
dramatically, so that will give us a different cycle for next
year,” Robert Murray, chief financial officer at  Athens ,
Greece-based Coca-Cola Hellenic, said on a conference call
yesterday. Sugar accounts for 12 percent of the cost of goods
sold, he said.  Higher input costs, particularly from sugar and
polyethylene terephthalate, a resin used to make plastic
bottles, “impacted profitability” in the first quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Doros Constantinou said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Thai Output  The sugar market will have another year of surplus in the
season beginning October after output exceeds demand by about 1
million metric tons in the current season ending Sept. 30,
ending two years of deficits, Ofon said in a phone interview
from  Singapore  yesterday. He did not give a surplus forecast for
the next season.  Ofon’s estimate for this year’s surplus matches that of the
 International Sugar Organization , which raised its outlook on
May 5, from 200,000 tons in February.  Cane output in Thailand, the world’s second-largest
exporter, may climb to a record 94 million tons this season
ending Oct. 31, with sugar production of 9.6 million tons,
Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, secretary-general of the country’s
Office of the Cane & Sugar Board, said today. Next season’s cane
harvest may match this year’s level if the nation doesn’t have a
drought or heavy rains, Prasert said.  Still, futures will not collapse as importing countries
including  China  are likely to take advantage of any dip in
prices to seek supplies overseas to rebuild domestic stockpiles,
Ofon said.  China Purchases  “China would remain a net importer next season,” Ofon
said. “It would be looking to buy, should prices dip
significantly,” he said, without providing an import forecast.  China’s purchases may rise 35 percent to 2.7 million tons
in the year ending September 2012, Paul Deane, an agricultural
economist at the Australia New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
in a May 9 interview.  Futures may rebound in the second quarter of 2012 as
supplies from Brazil and  Thailand  begin to dry out and other
exporters including  India  and the European Union hold back sales
to rebuild stockpiles, Ofon said.  “While globally there is a surplus, that surplus is not
necessarily going to be exportable,” Ofon said.  Raw sugar for July delivery jumped 4.3 percent in New York
yesterday to close at 21.87 cents a pound.  Sugar production in India may reach 24.5 million tons this
year, the food ministry said last month. That would be the first
time in three years that output exceeded demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  