-- 
Xerox’s Burns Looks to Europe, Latin America to Boost ACS Sales

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/xerox-s-burns-looks-to-europe-latin-america-to-boost-acs-sales.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , a year into integrating
its $6 billion purchase of Affiliated Computer Services Inc., is
expanding its services business internationally to boost sales
after its largest deal ever.  “There’s significantly more to go -- it’s a big
opportunity,” Chief Executive Officer Ursula Burns said in an
interview yesterday after the company’s investor briefing at the
New York Stock Exchange. ACS, which helps customers handle tasks
such as accounting and human resources, gets more than 90
percent of its sales from  North America .  Burns is trying to squeeze costs and boost sales while
integrating ACS. She projects that expanding services -- first
in Europe and then in  Latin America  -- will increase sales in
the unit 6 percent to 8 percent next year.  “We have a very, very strong presence already,” Burns
said. “Xerox is everywhere in  Europe .”  The company boosted its 2012 earnings forecast yesterday
and also reiterated its profit forecast for this year, according
to a statement.  Xerox, based in Norwalk,  Connecticut , climbed 28 cents, or
2.8 percent, to $10.46 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have dropped 9 percent this year.  The company has started hiring sales personnel for services
in Europe, focusing on selling first to Xerox customers, Burns
said. The services market there could be a $3 billion business
for Xerox, said Lynn Blodgett, the former CEO of ACS who now
heads the division for Xerox.  Cost Cutting  Xerox cut costs by $100 million in 2010 after the ACS deal,
and plans to slash another $120 million this year, Chief
Financial Officer Luca Maestri said yesterday. Burns is using
services from ACS internally to help Xerox lower costs. She’s
also eliminated about 5,000 jobs.  While total sales climbed 16 percent last quarter as it
gained ACS services, revenue at the company’s technology
business, including its printing equipment and related supplies,
was little changed for the second consecutive quarter.  Xerox forecast sales to increase by 1 percent to 3 percent
in the technology unit next year, as it expands equipment
distribution to small and medium businesses and boosts sales of
color pages.  Per-share profit, excluding some items, will be $1.18 to
$1.28 next year, the company said, boosting its earlier forecast
of of $1.10 a share to $1.20. Analysts, on average, estimated
$1.23, according to a Bloomberg survey. Xerox maintained its
2011 forecast of $1.05 per share to $1.10, excluding some items.  Repurchasing Shares  Total sales will increase 4 percent to 6 percent in 2012,
compared with the company’s forecast of 3 percent to 5 percent
this year. On that basis, sales would be at most $22.7 billion
this year, compared with analysts’ average estimate of $22.9
billion.  Xerox also reiterated its plan to begin repurchasing shares
this year, after halting buybacks after the ACS acquisition. The
company will spend at least 70 percent of its available cash,
which should total $1 billion to $1.2 billion, on the
repurchases, starting in the third quarter, Maestri said at the
investor briefing.  “It’s a huge deal -- massive, massive,” said Ananda Baruah, an analyst with Brean Murray & Co. of the repurchases.
“It’s as big a reason that people are in the stock as anything
else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 