-- 
Yahoo Declines Amid Investor Concern About Possible Value Loss in Alibaba

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-11T20:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/yahoo-falls-after-restructuring-of-china-payment-operation.html
Yahoo! Inc. had its biggest decline
in almost a year amid concern that its stake in Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. may lose value after the Chinese company ceded
ownership of its online-payment business.  The payment business of Alibaba Group, which is about 40
percent owned by Yahoo, was restructured so that its Alipay unit
is now controlled by a separate company, according to a filing
yesterday. Yahoo said the shift -- to a company mostly owned by
Alibaba Group Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma -- was necessary
to expedite getting a license for Alipay.  Yahoo, owner of the largest U.S. Web portal, is using its
stake in Alibaba Group as an entry into the Internet market in
 China . The transfer may diminish the value of Yahoo’s holding in
Alibaba,  Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
 New York , wrote in a research note. In a worst-case scenario,
profit from the payment business could be diverted to the new
entity, away from Alibaba Group and Yahoo, he wrote.  “Alipay is a valuable asset,” Rohan wrote. “Investors
valuing Yahoo on its sum of the parts will have to remove Alipay
from the equation.”  Yahoo declined $1.35, or 7.3 percent to $17.20 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
advanced 3.4 percent this year.  License in China  Alipay is required to get a license from the People’s Bank
of China to operate its payment business, and was restructured
as a Chinese domestic company to speed up getting the license,
Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, said in an e-mail. Yahoo and Softbank Corp., another
Alibaba Group shareholder, are in talks with Alibaba Group’s
management about the terms of the restructuring and commercial
arrangement related to Alipay, she said.  Alibaba’s other assets include Taobao, an online-shopping
site, and  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , an e-commerce site for businesses.  Yahoo stock got a boost on May 2 after Greenlight Capital
Inc. said it bought a stake, citing Yahoo’s investment in the
Chinese  Internet company  and other Asian assets.  Yahoo Japan Corp. and Alibaba.com, the publicly traded unit
of Alibaba Group, make up about $8 per share alone in Yahoo’s
value,  Greenlight  wrote in an April 29 letter to clients.
Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba ultimately may be worth as much as the
company’s entire current market value, wrote Greenlight, which
is run by  David Einhorn .  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in
 Minneapolis , said in a note today he doesn’t expect the shift in
Alipay’s ownership to have a negative effect on Yahoo, and the
stock’s drop creates an opportunity to buy the shares.  “Alipay was spun out due to regulatory reasons around
foreign ownership,” Munster wrote. “We expect Yahoo to be
compensated for the spun out asset of Alipay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  