-- 
Yen to Hit Record as Quake Spurs ‘Risk-Averse’ Repatriation, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-05-11T02:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/yen-to-hit-record-as-quake-spurs-risk-averse-repatriation-jpmorgan-says.html
The yen may revisit this year’s
record high against the dollar as Japanese investors refrain
from investing in overseas assets to reduce risk following the
nation’s biggest earthquake, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Risk-averse” investors and companies may bring home as
much as 10 trillion yen ($123.5 billion) as the country
struggles to rebuild from a magnitude-9 quake and tsunami on
March 11, said  Junya Tanase , chief currency strategist at
JPMorgan in Tokyo. The repatriation will contrast with growing
demand elsewhere in the world for higher-yielding assets, Tanase
said. Japan, the world’s largest net creditor nation, also runs
one of the biggest current-account surpluses, he said.  “Given such characteristics, upward pressure on the yen
may intensify as the flow of money abroad is disrupted by
reduced risk appetite among domestic investors and companies,”
Tanase said yesterday in a media briefing in  Tokyo . “They can’t
aggressively invest in foreign assets now. There will be a
repatriation of funds into yen for the short term.”  Japan’s currency soared to a post-World War II record of
76.25 per dollar on March 17, six days after the record temblor.
The yen gained on bets insurance companies would repatriate
overseas assets to pay for reconstruction. Group of Seven
nations intervened on March 18 by selling the yen to stem its
advance.  The yen will rise to 78 per dollar by the end of March
2012, JPMorgan forecasts. Japan’s currency traded at 80.89 per
dollar as of 11:34 a.m. in Tokyo.  Current Account  Japan’s current-account surplus totaled 1.75 trillion yen
in March, compared with 1.64 trillion yen in February, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the  Finance Ministry  releases the figures tomorrow. The
current account is unlikely to fall into a deficit even as the
impacts of the disaster may shrink the nation’s trade surplus,
Tanase said.  The yen is also likely to continue strengthening because of
weaker demand for the dollar as the U.S., the world’s largest
net debtor nation, keeps borrowing costs low, according to
Tanase.  “The recent dollar-yen exchange rates have been derived
from dollar weakness rather than yen strength,” Tanase said.
“ Interest rates  in the U.S. must be much higher than those in
Japan to stabilize the dollar-yen rate. It is abnormal that
these two countries use almost identical zero-rate policies, and
thus the dollar won’t see a sustained upward trend until the
 Federal Reserve  enters a full-fledged cycle of interest-rate
increases.”  The Fed will raise interest rates at the end of next year
at the earliest, JPMorgan expects.  Intervention Unlikely  Japanese authorities are unlikely to act again to weaken
the yen because market volatility has calmed since the
earthquake, Tanase said.  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen rate
declined to 10.13 percent today from 16.92 percent on March 17,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.　  “Any intervention decision will be made based on
volatility, not on a certain level of exchange rates,” said
Tanase. “As far as the dollar weakness leads to a gradual
appreciation of the yen, as we expect, the level itself won’t
trigger further intervention. The G-7’s joint intervention on
March 18 was merely a response to an emergency situation.”  Japan  sold 692.5 billion yen to purchase dollars on March
18, the only intervention during the quarter ended March 31, the
Ministry of Finance said on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 