-- 
Myer, David Jones Affirm Profit After Quarterly Sales Drop

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-11T07:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/myer-david-jones-affirm-profit-after-quarterly-sales-drop-1-.html
Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and  David Jones
Ltd. (DJS) ,  Australia ’s biggest department store chains, affirmed
their annual earnings forecasts after sales declined amid
natural disasters and stalling  consumer spending .  Myer’s sales fell 2 percent to A$657 million ($712 million)
in the three months ended April 30, the Melbourne-based company
said in a statement today. Sydney-based David Jones, the second-
largest chain, posted a 1.4 percent drop in revenue to A$411.7
million in the same period. Both companies were reporting third-
quarter results.  Myer kept its March 17 forecast for annual net income to be
as much as 5 percent less than the year-earlier profit of A$169
million. David Jones continues to expect a rise between 5
percent and 10 percent in annual earnings. The chains have been
cutting costs to counter rising fuel prices,  interest rates  and
household expenditures, which have eroded discretionary consumer
spending.  “Trading conditions were difficult throughout the quarter
however in April we experienced an improvement in retail
conditions due to a later Easter and colder weather,” David
Jones Chief Executive Officer Paul Zahra said in the statement.  Consumer sentiment in April was down 9.3 percent from a
year earlier, also driven by this year’s floods in two states
and Cyclone Yasi, which washed out properties and damaged crops,
according to Westpac Banking Corp.  Myer said revenue from stores open at least a year declined
3.1 percent with the floods and Yasi cutting about A$6 million
from sales.  “While the last three months continued to be characterized
by a cautious consumer with an increased propensity to save, we
have seen an improvement in the retail environment,” Myer Chief
Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said in the statement. “There
was a moderate and steady improvement in sales as the third
quarter progressed.”  David Jones  rose 2.5 percent to A$4.56 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading, while Myer gained 0.3 percent to
A$3.18. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  