-- 
Yields Rise to 2008 High as Subsidies Threaten Deficit Goals: India Credit

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-05-11T19:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/yields-rise-to-2008-high-as-subsidies-threaten-deficit-goals-india-credit.html
India ’s bond yields surged to a 31-
month high as strategists said the government’s decision to
raise subsidies will undermine efforts to trim the fiscal
deficit.  Benchmark 10-year note yields climbed to 8.29 percent
yesterday, the highest level since October 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup
Inc. said this week the government won’t be able to limit the
shortfall to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ending March 2012, from 5.1 percent, following an increase in
handouts on fertilizers on April 28.  The deficit is preventing Asia’s third-biggest economy from
improving its BBB- rating, the lowest investment grade,
according to  Standard & Poor’s . Accelerating inflation has
forced Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee to curb living costs in
a nation where the  International Monetary Fund  estimates 66
percent of the population survives on less than $2 a day.  “There will be a nasty combination of surprises on the
fiscal-deficit front,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist
at Credit Suisse in  Singapore , said in an interview on May 10.
“The budget was full of very optimistic assumptions on the
subsidies front.” He predicts the shortfall will be 5.3
percent.  Mukherjee has estimated a 12 percent drop in the subsidy
bill to 1.44 trillion rupees ($32.2 billion) in the current
financial year, with fuel accounting for about 16 percent,
fertilizers taking up 35 percent and food products about 42
percent.  Import Prices  Companies that ship in fertilizers get a percentage of the
government-mandated import price as a subsidy. The government
raised the benchmark rate for potash to $420 a metric ton on
April 28 from $390 after global prices increased. It also set
the benchmark for di-ammonium phosphate about 6 percent higher
at $612 a ton.  India’s state-run  oil  companies aren’t allowed to sell
diesel, cooking gas and kerosene at market rates, with the
government compensating them for selling products at lower
prices. These companies are losing 4.95 billion rupees in
revenue every day on sales of the fuels, according to the oil
ministry.  Benchmark 10-year government bonds have dropped every day
this week on speculation domestic fuel prices will be raised
this month. The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate has increased
36 basis points since official data on April 15 showed wholesale
prices rose 8.98 percent in March from 8.31 percent the previous
month.  ‘Tough Choice’  While raising diesel  rates  will improve the companies’
revenue, the subsidy bill is still bound to rise as any increase
will unlikely keep pace with the cost in world markets. The
government could boost diesel prices by between 7 percent and 10
percent, the Hindustan Times said yesterday, without saying
where it got the information. Global crude rates have gained 31
percent in since June 25 last year, when India last raised
domestic prices.  “Increasing fuel prices is a tough choice,” said
Krishnamurthy Harihar, a treasurer at the Mumbai unit of
FirstRand Bank Ltd.,  South Africa ’s second-biggest financial
services company. “If you do that, inflation will accelerate.
If you don’t, subsidies will rise, which will spur more
borrowing. So anyway it’s negative for bonds.”  Fuel prices may be increased after the results of elections
in five states are announced on May 13, Harihar said.  Fund Inflows  Global oil rates are likely to increase in coming months,
according to state-run Bank of Baroda. Crude has gained 7
percent this week to $103.60 a barrel in  New York  following a 15
percent slide last week.  “The trend isn’t toward easing of crude prices” given the
recovery in the global economy, Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-
based economist at state-run  Bank of Baroda , said in an
interview yesterday. “Overall, the government’s subsidy burden
will rise and there will be pressure on the fiscal deficit.”
Nitsure forecasts the deficit will “certainly cross” 4.6
percent.  The rupee has been little changed this year as higher
import prices of crude have countered overseas fund inflows of
$3.2 billion into the nation’s debt. The currency gained 0.2
percent to 44.70 per dollar yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The increase in fund inflows followed widening spreads
between India’s bonds and those in advanced nations. The
difference in yields between 10-year notes in the South Asian
nation and those in the U.S. was 506 basis points yesterday,
compared with 463 at the end of last year. Rupee notes have
returned 0.4 percent this year, the least in  Asia , according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  State Asset Sales  While increased  subsidies  will weigh on the deficit,
receipts from selling  state assets  and any increase in fuel
prices will improve government finances, according to the
National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. Mukherjee plans
to raise 400 billion rupees from selling shares in state-run
companies this financial year.  “I don’t subscribe to the theory of runaway fiscal
deficit,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New Delhi-based economist at
the policy institute. “It will all depend on how much the
government increases fuel prices by and how much it collects
from disinvestment. Both these will help the government in not
exceeding the fiscal deficit target by much.”  ‘No Respite’  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has increased six basis points this month to 170,
according to data compiled by CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “The deficit target looks optimistic,” K. Ramanathan,
chief investment officer in Mumbai at ING Investment Management
Pvt., a unit of the largest Dutch financial services company
that oversees the equivalent of $512 million, said in an
interview on May 10. “There is oil inching up after a fall and
inflation remains an issue. So there is no respite for bonds.”  He predicted the yield on 10-year bonds will hover between
8.3 percent and 8.5 percent over the next three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  