-- 
Yuan Gains ‘in Theory’ Can Help Ease Inflation, NBS Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T05:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-11/yuan-gains-in-theory-can-help-ease-inflation-nbs-says-1-.html
Yuan appreciation can “in theory”
help curb inflationary pressure in the world’s second-biggest
economy by easing the cost of imported goods,  Sheng Laiyun ,
spokesman for  China ’s statistics bureau, said today in Beijing.  “If imported inflation is the main factor driving up
inflation then yuan appreciation can reduce the cost of
purchases and as a result help ease inflation,” Sheng told
reporters after a briefing to discuss April’s inflation data.  China’s consumer prices gained 5.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, exceeding the 5.2 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 30 economists and the government’s 4
percent annual inflation target for this year. Officials
including People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan have
said the yuan’s exchange rate can be tool for reining in prices.  Sheng also urged caution, saying today that currency
appreciation is a “double-edged sword.” “If inflation is
driven by domestic demand then appreciation of the yuan will
likely add problems,” he said without elaborating.  It’s not yet clear what the main factors are behind the
current bout of inflation, Sheng said.  April’s pace of inflation slowed from March’s 5.4 percent
increase. Food inflation eased to 11.5 percent from 11.7 percent
in March and non-food inflation was 2.7 percent, unchanged from
the previous month which was the highest in at least six years.  Food Prices  Upward pressure on prices remains high, Sheng said today.
Government price controls have achieved an initial effect and
food costs had a smaller impact on the consumer-price index last
month as prices declined. “The trend of price rises has been
initially curbed,” he said.  The government will be able to keep prices “basically
stable” if its policies are well implemented, Sheng said,
declining to respond to a question about whether inflation can
be kept within the government’s target this year.  The lagging effect of earlier price increases contributed
3.1 percentage points to inflation last month while 2.2
percentage points was accounted for by “new factors,” Sheng
said.  --Victoria Ruan, Zhang Dingmin in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,
 John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 of
 vruan1@bloomberg.net 
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7576 or
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  