-- U.S. Undersecretary to Discuss Hacking With Chinese Officials
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/hacking-is-top-u-s-china-economic-issue-ex-trade-official-says.html
U.S. Undersecretary of State  Robert Hormats  said he will discuss cybersecurity with his Chinese
counterparts during his visit to the Asian nation, describing
the issue as “troublesome.”  “We need to have a serious dialogue,” Hormats told
reporters yesterday in the southern Chinese province of  Hainan 
where he is attending the Boao Forum for  Asia . “It is a problem
that needs to be addressed.”  U.S. intelligence agencies and security firms such as
Mandiant Corp. have traced attacks on American corporate
networks to China, pushing the issue to the top of President
 Barack Obama ’s agenda. He told Chinese President Xi Jinping in a
telephone conversation last month that cybersecurity would be a
key part of talks between the two nations while U.S. Treasury
Secretary Jacob. J. Lew raised the issue with Xi on March 19
during a visit to Beijing.  “It’s a serious problem that requires serious cooperation
between our two countries at very high levels,” Hormats said.
Cybersecurity “weakens confidence among Americans, particularly
in the business community, and our relationship, and it causes
mistrust,” he said.  He declined to name the Chinese officials he will be
meeting during his visit or what proposals he will put forward
to address the problem, which he said is getting worse. Hormats,
who is undersecretary of state for economic growth, is in China
from April 5-10 to attend the Boao Forum and an Internet
industry forum, according to a  schedule  published on the website
of the U.S. State Department.  ‘Extremely Negative’  China has said it opposes hacking and that it is a victim
of cyber attacks. Premier  Li Keqiang  said last month at his
first press briefing after taking office that the U.S. should
stop making “groundless accusations.”  Charlene Barshefsky, who served as U.S. trade
representative from 1997 to 2001, said cyber attacks against
American companies allegedly emanating from China have had an
“extremely negative” effect on relations between the world’s
two biggest economies.  “I think this is perhaps the most significant economic
issue between the U.S. and China at the current time,”
Barshefsky said in an interview while attending the Boao Forum.
“It has extremely negative spillover effects, particularly with
the development of strategic trust, so I do think that the U.S.
and China have to come to an agreement on the proper bounds of
cyber activity.”  Cyber attacks moved past terrorism to take the top place in
the U.S. intelligence community’s annual list of global threats,
according to a report presented to the Senate intelligence
committee last month.  Data Theft  In an annual survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in
 China  released last month, more than a quarter of respondents
said they had been the victim of  data theft  and 72 percent said
enforcement of intellectual property rights was either
ineffective or totally ineffective, up from 59 percent in 2012.  Barshefsky, a senior international partner at Washington
law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale, said she would encourage
companies to be “exceptionally skeptical” about the protection
of intellectual property rights in China and to hold “very
key” elements outside the country. She said she would encourage
companies to segregate employees and what information they have
access to.  The threat from cyber attacks is leading to mistrust and
could undermine confidence in China and the U.S. to foster
collaboration around technology and energy,  Myron Brilliant ,
senior vice president for international affairs at the
Washington-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in an interview
at the Boao Forum yesterday.  “Ultimately it’s up to the Chinese government at the
central level to say this is a priority issue for them and to
crack down on cyber theft,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  