-- Magic Mushroom Study for Depression Delayed by U.K. Rules
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/magic-mushroom-study-for-depression-delayed-by-u-k-rules.html
A clinical trial of  psilocybin , the
active ingredient in “magic mushrooms,” as a possible
treatment for depression is being delayed by U.K. and European
regulations, the study’s lead researcher said.  Rules governing illegal drugs in research are stalling the
start of a trial, said  David Nutt , president of the British
Neuroscience Association. The study is being delayed even though
it has received 550,000 pounds ($843,000) in funding from the
U.K. Medical Research Council, said Nutt, who is also a
professor of neuropsychopharmacology at Imperial College London.  The U.K. classifies psilocybin as a Class A drug, Nutt
said. That means a special license needs to be obtained to use
the substance in research. The manufacturing of a synthetic for
use in patients is also tightly controlled by EU rules, he said.  “Finding companies who could manufacture the drug and who
are prepared to go through the regulatory hoops to get the
license, which can take up to a year and triple the price, is
proving very difficult,” Nutt told reporters at an April 5
briefing ahead of a conference on neuroscience today in  London .  Experiments published last year involving healthy
volunteers have suggested psilocybin lowers activity in the
brain’s medial prefrontal cortex, which is hyperactive in
depression, and also enhances recollections of positive personal
memories.  Timothy Leary  Magic mushrooms, also known as “shrooms,” have been used
for centuries in healing ceremonies and were employed
extensively in psychotherapy in the 1950s. The fungi, favored by
former Harvard University psychologist Timothy Leary, who
founded the Harvard Psilocybin Project, are typically eaten but
can also be dried and smoked or made into a tea.  Nutt plans to give 30 patients 2 milligrams of psilocybin,
or about the equivalent of five mushrooms, and compare the
results with 30 patients taking a placebo. A second dose may be
given six months later, he said. The ingredient will be given
intravenously.  The rules on clinical trials may be less strict in the
U.S., though the threat of litigation there in the event of harm
to a patient presents too great a risk for the study’s funders,
Nutt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  