-- Malaysia’s Najib to Fight Graft, Seek UN Seat If Re-Elected
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-04-07T03:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/malaysia-s-najib-vows-to-fight-graft-seek-un-seat-if-re-elected.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
pledged to fight corruption, boost public services and seek a
non-permanent seat on the  United Nations Security Council  if his
coalition retains power in elections due in a matter of weeks.  Najib promised more specialist graft courts and greater
public disclosure of government contracts if the National Front
is allowed to extend its 55 years of unbroken rule, according to
a manifesto he unveiled at his first election rally since
dissolving parliament on April 3. Among the pledges are improved
health care and transportation, including a high-speed rail link
between  Kuala Lumpur  and  Singapore .  “My sincere apologies to all Malaysians if we have done
anything wrong,” the prime minister said in speech last night,
broadcast live on national television. “At the end of the day,
we are ordinary humans. If we are given a strong mandate, I can
assure you that we will do better in the next five years.”  In the lead-up to the polls, Najib has boosted  government
spending , distributed a second round of cash handouts to the
poor, and raised salaries of civil servants, police and the
military. He also delayed implementing a goods-and-services tax
and froze plans to wind back state subsidies on essential items.
There would be increased handouts for the poor, and car costs
and broadband fees would be lowered, the manifesto said. The
Election Commission meets next week to set a date for polls.  Common Ideas  “A lot of the ideas have already been mooted by the
opposition, like lowering car prices, cheaper Internet and a
pan-Borneo highway,” James Chin, professor of political science
at the Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s  Monash University , said
by phone today. “Najib talked mostly about things that are
popular with the people. He didn’t give details on macro-
economic issues like implementing GST and cutting state
subsidies.”  To stay in power, Najib, 59, must see off a resurgent
opposition led by former Deputy Prime Minister  Anwar Ibrahim .
Brokerages including Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citigroup
Inc. expect an even closer election result than in 2008, when
the National Front retained power by its narrowest margin since
Malaysia’s independence from Britain in 1957.  Anwar’s three-party People’s Alliance opposition coalition
also wants to fight corruption, bring down living costs and
boost government efficiency if it comes to power, according to
its election manifesto.  Worst Performer  The risk of the ruling coalition losing seats in the
election has helped make the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
Southeast  Asia ’s worst-performing benchmark this year. The stock
gauge is little changed, while  Indonesia  and  Thailand ’s leading
indexes have risen more than 14 percent.  Najib, who inherited a country in recession when he
replaced Abdullah Ahmad Badawi as leader mid-term in 2009, wants
a mandate to complete his economic and government reforms
started less than three years ago. He’s focusing on his track
record in boosting investment and improving incomes as he seeks
a popular mandate for the first time.  Malaysia ’s economy has shown resilience in the face of the
global slowdown, expanding by more than  4 percent  for each of
the 13 quarters to the end of 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Private investment  has tripled since Najib began
his economic-transformation program in September 2010, rising 25
percent last year to 139.5 billion ringgit ($46 billion),
according to government data.  Fighting Corruption  Almost half of the voters surveyed in a poll by the  Merdeka
Center for Opinion Research  said fighting graft is a more
pressing issue for the next government than taming inflation or
boosting foreign investment. The survey of 1,021 voters was
conducted from Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 on the country’s peninsula and
had a margin of error of 3.07 percent.  While Malaysia moved to 54th from 60th place among 176
countries in Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
Index last year, it was ranked last for bribery among 30 nations
surveyed. About 3,000 executives from 30 countries were asked
whether they’d lost a contract in the past year because
competitors had paid a bribe. In Malaysia, 50 percent said yes,
the Berlin-based advocacy group said.  The National Front is “committed to doing much more to
combat the scourge” of corruption, according to its manifesto,
which emphasized its experience in government and urged voters
not to “gamble away” the future.  Anwar’s Allies  The opposition comprises Anwar’s multiethnic People’s
Justice Party, the Chinese-majority Democratic Action Party, and
the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, which wants to expand Shariah
law.  The  People’s Alliance  won control of five of Malaysia’s 13
states in the 2008 election. The National front later won back
Perak state when several lawmakers defected.  The opposition currently holds 75 of 222 parliamentary
seats, while Najib’s alliance has 137, according to the
Malaysian parliament  website . Anwar predicted a minimum 10-seat
majority for his alliance in a March 8 interview.  Najib’s manifesto said Malaysia would use a UN Security
Council seat to play a greater role in regional peace, promoting
moderate Islam and inter-faith harmony. A National Front
government would support the establishment of a Palestinian
state, and humanitarian efforts in Gaza, the  West Bank , southern
Thailand and Mindanao in the  Philippines , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stan James in  Hong Kong  at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  