-- Auroras Encore Wins Grand National Horse Race by Nine Lengths
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-06T16:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/auroras-encore-wins-grand-national-horse-race-by-nine-lengths.html
Auroras Encore pulled away from the
field to win the Grand National, giving jockey Ryan Mania a
victory in his debut at the U.K. steeplechase horse race.  Auroras Encore, at 66-1 odds, won the 4 3/8-mile (7-
kilometer) race at  Aintree Racecourse  in northwestern  England  by
nine lengths. Sue Smith became only the third female trainer to
win the National.  “There are no words to describe it,” Mania, 23, said in
an interview with Britain’s Channel 4 television. “I got a
dream ride and can’t believe my luck. He just finished so
well.”  Cappa Blue, at 12-1 odds, was second, followed by 10-1
Teaforthree and 66-1 Oscar Time.  Across the Bay, Teaforthree and Balthazar King set the pace
for most of the race before the latter started to fade with
about 10 of the 30 fences remaining.  Auroras Encore joined Across the Bay, Teaforthree and Oscar
Time at the head of the field at the 27th fence and the four
stayed there until Across the Bay started to lag two fences
later.  Teaforthree took the lead after the final fence but was
passed by Auroras Encore, who then ran away to the easy win.  “He’s a grand little horse, and you can ride him anywhere,
anyhow,” Smith told Channel 4. “He’s given him an absolutely
wonderful ride.”  Jenny Pitman was the first female trainer to win the
National, with Corbiere in 1983, and added a second victory with
Royal Athlete 12 years later. Venetia Williams then won with
100-1 shot Mon Mome four years ago.  All 40 horses in the field came home safe a year after two
horses were fatally injured, Aintree said in a statement. The
British Horseracing Authority made a number of safety changes to
the course in September, including moving the starting line
forward to shorten the length of the race from 4 1/2 miles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  