-- Billy Packer Says Weak Teams Allow Wichita State, Upsets to Rise
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/billy-packer-says-weak-teams-allow-wichita-state-upsets-to-rise.html
College basketball teams aren’t as
good as they were a decade ago, giving rise to more upsets and
allowing schools such as  Harvard University , Florida Gulf Coast
University and Wichita State University to advance in the
sport’s premier postseason tournament, a longtime analyst said.  “A situation where Wichita State makes it all the way to
the Final Four, these are situations where fans in the past knew
that they really had no chance of beating some of the power
clubs,” former CBS analyst Billy Packer said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “ Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. “Now, I would say 35 or 40 knew that they
had a chance to win the next game, which makes the college level
different, but interesting.”  Louisville plays Wichita State and  Michigan  faces off with
Syracuse tonight in the semifinals of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association men’s tournament. The winners play for the
national title two nights later at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.  Defending champion  Kentucky , known for recruiting high
school stars who jump to the pros after a season, finished the
year 21-12 and wasn’t even invited to the NCAA tournament.  The Wildcats, who might have four freshman selected in the
National Basketball Association draft this June after losing
eight first-year players to the NBA in the previous three
seasons, were beaten by Robert Morris, 59-57, in the first-round
of the National Invitational Tournament last month.  Packer said he doesn’t think Kentucky’s failures this
season will change coach  John Calipari ’s recruiting tactics.
Kentucky could have as many as seven McDonald’s All-American
high school standouts attend the school next fall, he said.  “One-and-done is here,” Packer said. “If John can
coordinate that same effort next year with the talent he’s
bringing in, he will have a good shot to remake another national
championship ball club there.”  Power Conference  Packer said he believes in the next five to 10 years, the
top college basketball teams will align themselves in a power
conference similar to what the Bowl Championship Series has
accomplished in football.  He thinks those teams will create their own championship
separate from the NCAA tournament. With the wealth they acquire,
any excluded institutions “basically will be playing intramural
sports,” he said.  Packer said he thinks this year’s game will be an all-Big
East affair, with Louisville beating Syracuse for the title.  The teams are familiar with one another. Just a month ago,
they battled in the Big East tournament final, with Louisville
rallying from a 16-point second-half deficit to beat Syracuse
78-61 at  New York ’s Madison Square Garden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  