-- Brazilian Prosecutors Ask Federal Police to Investigate Lula
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-04-06T14:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/brazilian-prosecutors-ask-federal-police-to-investigate-lula.html
Federal district prosecutors have
asked Federal Police to investigate allegations that former
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took part in a
cash-for-votes scheme that toppled several of his closest aides.  In a  two-sentence statement  posted on their website late
yesterday, the prosecutors said their request is based on
advertising executive Marcos Valerio’s sworn testimony in
September that he twice transferred funds for Lula’s personal
expenses.  A former cabinet chief and the one-time head of Lula’s
Workers’ Party are among those who have been convicted by the
 Supreme Court  for their roles in the so-called mensalao scandal,
Portuguese for “big monthly payment.” At least 25 people have
been found guilty in the case, in which public funds were used
to bribe lawmakers from 2003 to 2005.  Lula’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mail today from
 Bloomberg News  seeking comment. In December, Lula called the
accusations “a lie.”  When the scandal broke in 2005, Lula went on national
television to say he had been betrayed by his aides and had no
knowledge of their wrongdoing. A year later, after being re-
elected, he blamed the opposition for inventing the charges in a
bid to topple his government. He served as president from 2003
to 2011, when he was succeeded by  Dilma Rousseff .  Valerio was sentenced in October to 40 years in prison for
corruption, conspiracy and  money laundering . Judges at the
Supreme Court said he was the main operator of the mensalao
scheme, responsible for collecting money and distributing it for
many purposes, according to the orders he received from the
Workers’ Party.  The Federal Police didn’t respond immediately to a request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  