-- Canadian Dollar Declines After Worst Jobs Loss Since Recession
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/canadian-dollar-declines-after-worst-jobs-loss-since-recession.html
The Canadian dollar weakened against
the majority of its most-traded peers as the nation lost jobs
last month and U.S. payrolls grew less than forecast, fueling
speculation the North American economy is slowing.  The currency fell yesterday versus its U.S. counterpart
after Canada reported 54,500 fewer jobs in March, the biggest
monthly jobs decline since the country was in recession in 2009,
driving the  unemployment rate  up to 7.2 percent from 7 percent.
Canada had a  net loss  of 25,700 jobs in the first three months
of the year. Housing starts may have slowed in March, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists before an April 9 report.  “If we are in a period of slower growth and elevated
vulnerability, we should see that correlation with financial
assets pick up again,” said  David Tulk , chief macro strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, by phone from
Toronto. “If that tone is negative, then the Canadian dollar is
likely to remain under a little bit of pressure here, I would
say, through to the second quarter.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed this
week at C$1.0176 per U.S. dollar, ending weaker than its 50-day
moving average. One loonie buys 98.27 U.S. cents.  Futures Positions  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the greenback,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on a
decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain --
so-called net shorts -- was 64,544 on April 2, compared with net
shorts of 62,645 a week earlier.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart rose. The three-month so-called 25-
delta risk reversal rate rose to 0.97 percent after reaching
0.89 percent on April 2, matching its lowest in 10 weeks. Risk
reversals measure the premium on options contracts to sell
Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  Canada ’s 10-year  benchmark  bonds rose, with yields falling
12 basis points, or 0.l2 percentage point, to 1.75 percent,
after touching the lowest level since Dec. 11. The 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 gained C$1.08 to C$97.68.  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$2.7 billion ($2.7
billion) of securities maturing August 2016 on April 10.  Economic Status  Canada’s jobs figures bring the labor market more in line
with other parts of the economy, where  output growth  slowed to a
0.6 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter and inflation
has lagged the central bank’s 2 percent target since May.  Housing starts in Canada slowed to 175,000 in March from
180,000 the month before, according to a Bloomberg survey of 17
economists.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said a rebound in
exports and business investment will lead growth through next
year, as consumers struggle with record debt loads. The central
bank’s March 6 policy statement called for the economy to “pick
up through 2013” on its way to 2 percent annual growth.  “The bank will likely have to come down a bit in terms of
its expectations for growth,” said Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at  CIBC World Markets , by phone from Toronto.
“Various indicators we’ve seen through the months of March are
beginning to strike a more cautious note and markets are
beginning to see that. You’re seeing a selloff in risk assets
and you’re seeing the Canadian dollar also weaken.”  Jobs Data  In the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner, employment
expanded by 88,000 jobs, less than the 190,000 jobs forecast in
the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 87 economists.
In the absence of sustained and bigger gains in employment and
earnings underscores the  Federal Reserve ’s view that more
progress is needed before record monetary policy stimulus that
has devalued the currency can be scaled back.  Fed officials are waiting for sustained signs of job-market
resilience before winding down their $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases. Automatic budget cuts that will take $109.3 billion
from the U.S. government this year went into effect March 1.  “There’s no question that we’re in at least a slowing
period for the Canadian economy and that’s going to drag on the
Canadian dollar,” said Mark Frey, chief market strategist at
Cambridge Mercantile Group, a corporate currency broker, by
phone from Victoria British Columbia. “You pair that with some
very dovish policy from the Bank of Canada from the beginning of
March and all of a sudden we have an arrangement where the
Canadian dollar is going to be fundamentally weak versus the
 U.S. dollar  for the next six to nine months and as we get to the
close of the year.”  The loonie fell 0.7 percent in the past week against nine-
developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar also fell 0.7 percent and the
euro rose 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  