-- Clinton Seeks Student Innovation to Address Social Issues
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-04-06T17:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/clinton-seeks-student-innovation-to-address-social-issues.html
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton
told a gathering of college-student innovators not to be
dissuaded by fear of failure because even that may hold the
seeds of eventual success.  “I know something about this,” he said last night at
Washington University in St. Louis, pointing to his loss in his
first Arkansas political race and a later defeat that left him
for a time the “youngest former governor in American history.”  Speaking at the sixth annual  Clinton Global Initiative
University , a conference designed to support efforts by young
leaders to address global issues, he told the gathering that
it’s important for society to encourage people to take risks in
pursuit of their visions.  “We need to create a culture where failure is OK, so long
as it is not the product of laziness,” Clinton said.  More than 1,000 college and university students came from
every state and more than 75 nations for the youth-oriented
version of the annual  Clinton Global Initiative  event that
encourages both networking and commitment to action. Clinton
noted it was his first time at the university since taking part
in a 1992 debate that helped seal his lead over then President
George H.W. Bush.  Sharing the opening-night stage with Clinton was Jack Dorsey, the St. Louis native who was co-founder of Twitter Inc.
and the mobile payments startup Square Inc. Dorsey said he put
his initial idea for the Twitter social messaging service on the
shelf for five years until the time seemed right.  “Look at every mistake as a learning opportunity, as
something you can rebound from and not react to, but use as a
way-point on the journey to push forward,” he said in response
to a question about how he has handled worries about failure.  ‘Fundraising Event’  Dorsey is chief executive of Square, which makes a device
that turns a smartphone into a credit-card payments system, and
is executive chairman of Twitter, which has about 200 million
active users. Speaking earlier to reporters, Dorsey didn’t
signal whether either company may seek an initial public
offering of shares this year.  “An IPO is another fundraising event; it’s a milestone,
it’s not something to race toward and then stop. It’s something
to move through,” he said. While the question regularly comes
up from reporters, “we never talk about this in the company,”
he said.  Chelsea Clinton, the former president’s daughter and a
board member of the William J. Clinton Foundation, said CGI-U
has produced about 3,500 project commitments since the first
gathering in 2007. The projects include student-initiated
programs such as a vaccine awareness campaign in Nepal and the
 Philippines , a software project to empower girls in  Kenya , and
the Kansas City Free Eye Clinic to help underserved populations.  Awareness Gap  Seminars today offered students advice on matters from
fundraising to “creating buzz” and working sessions discussed
projects aimed at poverty alleviation, empowering girls and
women, internet-based human-rights efforts, and global
sanitation issues. About 300 student groups vied for grants from
a funding and mentoring nonprofit organization, the New York-
based Resolution Project. For instance, four University of
Chicago undergraduates sought support to implement a text-
message-based inventory-management system they have developed to
improve the supply chain for rural health clinics in nations
such as  Peru .  Building Windmills  A lot of the innovation is made possible by new technology
“where you can have private funding and sharing of ideas and
targeting of projects,” the former president said last night.
And it is “partly because of peoples’ awareness that there will
always be a gap between what the government can provide and what
the private sector produces that’s pretty large right now
because of the economic and other problems in the world.”  Along with Dorsey, Clinton shared the stage with William
Kamkwamba, who drew international attention after being inspired
by a picture of a windmill to build one out of spare parts to
generate electricity for charging mobile phones in his Malawi
village.  Kamkwamba, now a student at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire, said he originally envisioned the windmill as a
way to pump water for irrigation but couldn’t afford a pump, and
then had an idea of how to cheaply build a generator using odd
parts.  Also on the panel was Kenneth Cole, a clothing designer and
chairman of Kenneth Cole Productions Inc. who was an early
supporter of AIDS awareness and research programs, and Zainab Salbi, an Iraqi immigrant who is founder of Women to Women
International, which assists women in war-torn regions.  Today’s sessions wrap up with the former president to be
interviewed by faux-pundit Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central’s
Colbert Report. Chelsea Clinton said that was put on the
schedule because even “earnest do-gooders’‘ should have fun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in St. Louis at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  