-- Ericsson Chairman Says Equipment Demand Looks Positive This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-06T07:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/ericsson-chairman-says-equipment-demand-looks-positive-this-year.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, said a more optimistic outlook for
U.S. demand and China’s move to upgrade mobile services will
help support growth in the equipment market this year.  The outlook for overall 2013 demand is “stable and
slightly on the positive side,” Chairman Leif Johansson said in
an interview today in the southern Chinese province of Hainan,
where he’s attending the Boao Forum for Asia.  Ericsson reported fourth-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates after wireless carriers boosted spending on network
upgrades to provide better Internet connections to their
subscribers. The Stockholm-based company’s gross margin, or the
proportion of sales remaining after production costs, also
widened more than expected.  “I am a little more optimistic on the U.S.,” Johansson
said. “Perhaps Europe too has stabilized. I don’t think we have
any more bad news coming from Europe.”  Johansson also said he sees growth in China continuing.
 China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest carriers by users, said
last month that it plans to increase capital expenditures by 49
percent this year to 190.2 billion  yuan  ($30.7 billion). In 2012,
China and northeast Asia accounted for about  17 percent  of
Ericsson’s sales.  Ericsson in February said it signed a five-year contract to
manage  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s wireless network in Siberia and the Ural
regions. In that same month, the company announced it won a $1
billion contract to manage the systems of Indian carrier
 Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  