-- Ex-BizJet Executives Charged by U.S. Over Bribery Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/ex-bizjet-executives-charged-by-u-s-over-bribery-claims.html
Two former executives at Lufthansa
Technik’s BizJet International Sales and Support face U.S.
charges that they participated in a scheme to bribe government
officials in Latin America, while two others pleaded guilty.  Bernd Kowalewski, the former president and chief executive
officer of BizJet, and Jald Jensen, a former sales manager, paid
bribes to Mexican, Brazilian and Panamanian officials in
exchange for their assistance securing contracts for BizJet,
according to charges filed in federal court in Tulsa,  Oklahoma ,
in January 2012, the Justice Department said yesterday in e-
mailed statement. Kowalewski and Jensen are believed to be
outside the U.S., according to the statement.  Peter DuBois, the former vice president of sales and
marketing at BizJet, and Neal Uhl, the former vice president of
finance at the company, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to violate
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and their pleas were unsealed
yesterday, according to the statement.  The four former executives “authorized and caused hundreds
of thousands of dollars to be paid directly and indirectly to
ranking military officials in various foreign countries,”
Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman said in the
statement.  BizJet is a U.S. based-unit of Koeln, Germany-based
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s second-largest carrier. The
government in March 2012 announced a deferred prosecution
agreement with BizJet and an $11.8 million monetary penalty to
resolve charges related to the FCPA. The FCPA prohibits bribing
foreign government officials to gain a commercial advantage.  Money Laundering  U.S. District Judge Gregory K. Frizzell in Tulsa yesterday
reduced the sentences for DuBois and Uhl to probation and eight
months home detention based on their cooperation in the
government’s investigation, according to the statement.  Electronic court records for the case didn’t identify the
lawyers for the former executives.  Jay Holtmeier, a lawyer for BizJet, didn’t immediately
return a call after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the charges against the executives.  The case is USA v. Bizjet International Sales and Support,
Inc., 4:12-cr-00061, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Oklahoma (Tulsa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 