-- Ex-News Corp. COO Chernin Said to Plan Bid for Hulu Site
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/ex-news-corp-coo-chernin-said-to-plan-bid-for-hulu-site.html
Peter Chernin , the former  News Corp. (NWSA) 
chief operating officer, offered at least $500 million for Hulu,
the online television service he helped found, two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Chernin submitted the bid for Los Angeles-based Hulu last
week, said the people, who sought anonymity because the talks
are private. The price doesn’t include Hulu’s $330 million in
debt and would increase with additional content rights and
longer contract terms, they said.  Hulu’s controlling owners,  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , are weighing whether to sell Hulu or buy each
other out. As No. 2 at News Corp. in 2007, Chernin helped start
Hulu, which offers free and subscription online video. He now
has his own media company, Chernin Group, with investments in
television, film and digital media in the U.S. and Asia.  The offer was reported yesterday by Reuters.  Charles Sipkins , Chernin’s spokesman, declined to comment. Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Hulu, declined to comment.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, and New York-based
News Corp. each own about one-third of Hulu and have management
oversight. Co-owner Comcast Corp. is barred from an active role
by regulators following its 2011 NBC Universal acquisition.  About a year ago, Hulu repurchased a 10 percent stake from
Providence Equity Partners Inc. for about $200 million. The
private-equity company had invested $100 million to help start
the venture.  Canceled Sale  Hulu’s owners canceled a sale of the website in October
2011 after bids fell short of the $2 billion asking price.  Hulu offers free reruns of television shows and movies,
with newer programming and earlier access available on its $8-a-
month Hulu Plus. It generated about $700 million in revenue last
year. The company is searching for a chief executive officer
following the departure last month of  Jason Kilar . Andy Forssell
is acting CEO.  Chernin left News Corp. in 2009 and started Santa Monica,
California-based Chernin Group, receiving a $200 million
investment from Providence in April 2012. He is on the boards of
Twitter Inc. and  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , in which he is an investor.  His company produced “Rise of the Planet of the Apes.” It
is looking for media investments in the U.S., India, Indonesia
and China. His latest picture, “Oblivion” with  Tom Cruise ,
opens April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  