-- Mexico Peso Reaches Strongest Since August 2011 as U.S. Jobs Lag
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-06T01:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/mexico-peso-reaches-strongest-since-august-2011-as-u-s-jobs-lag.html
Mexico ’s peso reached its strongest
level since August 2011 as sputtering U.S. job creation boosted
speculation that the Federal Reserve will maintain its record
stimulus.  The currency jumped 1.1 percent, the biggest daily advance
since Jan. 2, to 12.1752 per U.S. dollar at 3 p.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s increased
1.3 percent against the dollar on the week, fueling a 5.6
percent advance this year, which is the biggest rally against
the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts.  Payrolls in the U.S., Mexico’s biggest trading partner,
posted the smallest gain in nine months in March, Labor
Department data showed today in  Washington . Fed officials have
have said they are waiting for sustained signs of job-market
resilience before winding down their $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases. The U.S. jobs data spurred investor speculation that
the Fed will continue the so-called quantitative easing, or QE,
according to Mike Moran, a senior currency strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc in New York.  “After the number that we say today you can pretty much
kiss goodbye the possibility of the Fed reducing the speed of QE
anytime soon,” Alberto Bernal the head of fixed-income research
at Miami-based brokerage Bulltick Capital Markets. “One of the
best ways of playing quantitative easing is to be long the
peso.”  The payrolls grew by 88,000 in March, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised
268,000 February increase. The jobless rate fell to 7.6 percent
from 7.7 percent.  Carstens Comments  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said today at an
event in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico that the peso is a reflection of
the nation’s economic strength.  “To the extent that we have a strong economy, we’re going
to have a strong currency,” he said. “This is a good
combination of factors.”  The difference between the number of wagers by hedge funds
and other large speculators on a peso advance versus those on a
drop -- so-called net longs -- was 142,755 on April 2, compared
with 128,162 a week earlier, according to data compiled by the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy is expected to grow
faster than  Brazil  for a third-straight year in 2013, according
to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated bond due in 2024
tumbled seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.89
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  