-- Hiring Cools Even as U.S. Jobless Rate Falls to Four-Year Low
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/hiring-cools-even-as-u-s-jobless-rate-falls-to-four-year-low.html
Employers in March added the fewest
workers in nine months and the jobless rate fell to a four-year
low as the share of Americans in the labor force slumped,
marking a pause in the job-market recovery.  Payrolls grew by 88,000, less than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised 268,000 gain in
February, Labor Department data showed yesterday in Washington.
Unemployment dropped to 7.6 percent, the lowest since December
2008, from 7.7 percent.  The inability to sustain bigger gains in hiring and wages
helps explain why the Federal Reserve is maintaining record
 monetary policy  stimulus. Bond yields tumbled and stocks
retreated as the report heightened concern that  federal budget 
cuts will temper growth in the world’s largest economy following
a first-quarter pickup.  “We’re still in the same slow-growth mode we’ve been in
now for the past four years,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania . “The
job market’s going to slow, but I don’t think it’s going to
cave.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.4 percent to
close at 1,553.28 yesterday in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.71 percent, the lowest
level of 2013.  The median of 87 estimates in a Bloomberg survey called for
a 190,000 advance in payrolls. Revisions added a total of 61,000
jobs to the employment count in January and February.  Piling Up  Some companies are struggling to make do with fewer
workers. At  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , merchandise is piling up in
aisles and in the back of stores because the company doesn’t
have enough employees to keep shelves stocked, according to
interviews with workers.  In the past five years, the world’s largest retailer added
455 U.S. Wal-Mart stores, a 13 percent increase, according to
filings and the company’s website. In the same period, its total
U.S. workforce, which includes Sam’s Club employees, dropped by
about 20,000, or 1.4 percent. Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,
 Arkansas , employs about 1.4 million U.S. workers.  “Most American companies are still lean and mean,” said
 Ethan Harris , co-head of global economics research at Bank of
America Corp. in New York. “They’ve been very disciplined about
controlling their workforce, their spending and investment.”  Retail payrolls  slumped in March by the most since February
2012, and factory employment declined by 3,000, the first drop
since September, yesterday’s report showed.  Among those having trouble finding work Howie Appel, 65,
who lost his position as a corporate recruiter at HNTB Corp. in
Lake Mary,  Florida , in 2009. He has worked several part-time
jobs since then, he said.  Support Group  One of his roles is helping others find jobs as executive
director of ProNet Career Resources, an unemployment and under-
employment support group he founded in 2003. Many of its members
are baby boomers struggling to find opportunities as they
compete with recent college graduates.  “It’s a very, very slow comeback,” Appel said. “We’re
hearing all over the place that there are openings. We’re
hearing it, but not seeing it.”  The unemployment rate, derived from a survey of households,
was forecast to hold at 7.7 percent, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. The March figure was accompanied by a 496,000
decline in the labor force.  The share of the working-age population in the labor force,
known as the  participation rate , fell to 63.3 percent, the
lowest since May 1979. As the participation rate declines, it
takes smaller gains in employment to push down the jobless rate.
In March, the number of unemployed Americans fell to 11.7
million, the fewest since December 2008.  Budget Cuts  Job-market progress slowed just as $85 billion in automatic
across-the-board government budget cuts, known as sequestration,
started March 1. The reductions in planned spending, which began
because Congress couldn’t compromise on a debt-reduction
strategy, trim 5 percent from domestic agencies and 8 percent
for the Defense Department this fiscal year.  “Sequestration is going to have an adverse effect” on the
economy, Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said on Bloomberg Television. “That’s one of
the headwinds we’re facing.”  Krueger repeated President  Barack Obama ’s call to replace
the cuts with a deficit-reduction package that includes raising
more revenue from taxes in addition to reducing outlays. The
U.S. needs to continue spending on infrastructure and education
to ensure future growth, he said.  Healthy Growth  Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said he expects
healthy economic growth in the U.S. this year and next and
doesn’t see a “need to panic” over the employment report.  Summers, who directed Obama’s National Economic Council for
the administration’s first two years, said the economy should
expand this year at a rate “north of 2.5 percent.” Next year,
there’s “a good chance for above 3 percent” growth, he said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Even as hiring slowed, employers boosted hours to meet
demand. The average work week for all employees increased by six
minutes to 34.6 hours, the highest since February 2012. And
temporary-help positions, an indicator of future hiring,
increased by 20,000 in March.  Private payrolls, which exclude jobs at government
agencies, climbed by 95,000 in March after a revised gain of
254,000 the previous month. Government payrolls decreased by
7,000 last month after a 14,000 increase.  Construction Jobs  A healthier real-estate market has created the need for
more  construction jobs  since the middle of 2012. Construction
companies added 18,000 workers last month after a 49,000 surge
in February that was the biggest in almost six years.  The Pollack Shores Real Estate Group, an Atlanta-based
apartment developer and property manager, has boosted employment
to 120 this week from 93 at the end of 2012. The company plans
to build about 2,000 apartments this year, twice as many as last
year, said President Steven Shores.  “That will create a significant number of construction
jobs,” which are contracted out and not on the company’s staff
directly, he said. “We are starting to see a lack of  labor
supply  drive up some pricing in our areas.”  Fed policy makers reiterated in a March 20 statement that
they would continue $85 billion of monthly bond purchases until
the labor market outlook improves “substantially.” Each month
the Fed is purchasing Treasuries and mortgage bonds to keep
interest rates low, spur economic growth and trim unemployment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  