-- Kansas Lawmakers Approve Legislation Restricting Abortion
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-04-06T03:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/kansas-lawmakers-approve-legislation-restricting-abortion.html
Kansas  lawmakers approved
legislation banning abortions on the basis of fetal gender and
declaring that life begins at fertilization, the latest in a
growing number of states to add restrictions.  The measure, which also would ban public funding for
abortions, passed 90-30 in the state House of Representatives,
which sent it to Governor  Sam Brownback  for his signature. The
Senate passed the bill earlier, 28-10. Brownback, a 2008
Republican presidential candidate, opposes abortion.  Kansas becomes the latest state to set its own limits in
reaction to the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade decision,
which legalized a woman’s right to an abortion.  “There’s almost a race under way -- a race to the bottom -
- in terms of restricting a woman’s ability to make her own
decisions and to try to impose a set of beliefs on all the
citizens in these states,” Peter Brownlie, chief executive
officer of  Overland Park , Kansas-based  Planned Parenthood  of
Kansas and Mid-Missouri, said yesterday by telephone.  Alabama lawmakers this week joined six other U.S. states to
require doctors performing abortions to have hospital-admitting
privileges, which the legislation described as a safety measure
and opponents said is an effort to close clinics. Arizona,
Kansas, Mississippi,  North Dakota , Tennessee and  Utah  have
passed similar laws, said Elizabeth Nash, state issues manager
for the Guttmacher Institute in New York, which promotes sexual
and reproductive health.  Brownlie said banning abortions based on gender would put
the physician in the position of being an investigator to find
out why a patient wants the procedure.  “An abortion is deeply personal and often complex,”
Brownlie said. “It needs to be left to a woman and her family
and her faith, with the counsel of her physician.”  North Dakota’s Republican Governor Jack Dalrymple in March
signed a ban on abortions as early as six weeks into a
pregnancy, the narrowest window of any U.S. state. The law also
bars the procedure because of genetic abnormalities, the first
such measure in the nation.  In Arkansas, a near-ban on abortions from the 12th week of
pregnancy onward was approved by legislators who overrode a veto
by Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  