-- Kerry Returns to Middle East to Discuss Peace Process, Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-06T14:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/kerry-returns-to-middle-east-to-discuss-peace-process-syria.html
 U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
headed back to the Middle East today for the third time in less
than a month in an effort to break a deadlock in the peace
process and discuss the two-year crisis in  Syria .  The departure of the top U.S. diplomat was delayed by three
hours because of a fault with his plane door that forced a
switch of aircraft. His first stop was scheduled to be Istanbul,
where he was due to meet on Sunday, April 7, with Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan for discussions about relations
with  Israel  and the civil war in Syria, which has killed more
than 70,000 people.  Kerry will be building on President  Barack Obama ’s effort
to help rebuild relations between Israel, America’s closest
Mideast ally, and  Turkey , an important NATO partner.  During Obama’s three-day visit to Israel last month, the
U.S. leader and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke
by telephone on March 22 with Erdogan about the incident that
damaged relations between the two nations. Netanyahu apologized
to Turkey for the 2010 deaths of nine Turks taking part in an
aid flotilla to Gaza that was intercepted by Israeli security
forces.  Kerry will stay in Turkey less than 24 hours before flying
to Israel. In Jerusalem and Ramallah, Kerry will push to bring
Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas
closer toward direct talks.  In a nine-day trip that will end in Asia, Kerry will also
attend a meeting with the Group of Eight foreign ministers in
 London   before travelling to Seoul, Beijing and Tokyo. He is
scheduled to return to  Washington  on April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  