-- Obama Seeks to Halt Church Subpoena in Birth-Control Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/obama-seeks-to-halt-church-subpoena-in-birth-control-case.html
The Obama administration urged a
court to block a subpoena by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
 New York  seeking White House files for its lawsuit challenging
the contraception coverage requirement of the federal health-
care law.  The administration said that the archdiocese is seeking 13
“broad categories” of documents, requiring an “exceptionally
burdensome search” of executive branch files, including those
of the president and vice president, according to a motion filed
April 4 in federal court in  Washington . The motion was posted
yesterday on the court’s electronic docket.  “Routine civil discovery seeking information from the
offices of the President, the Vice President, and their staffs
is generally not allowed,” the White House said, citing U.S.
Supreme Court rulings. “Such discovery is particularly
unwarranted here.”  Charles Michael Carberry, a lawyer for the archdiocese,
didn’t immediately return a call yesterday after regular
business hours seeking comment on the administration’s request.  In December, U.S. District Judge Brian Cogan in  Brooklyn ,
New York, ruled that the archdiocese and two other Catholic
entities can proceed with the contraceptive-coverage challenge.
Cogan ruled that the archdiocese, which includes 370 parishes
and insures 9,000 people, is facing impending injuries from the
rule, even though it doesn’t take effect until January 2014.  Changes Coming  The government argued that the case should be dismissed
because the coverage mandate isn’t causing imminent injury and
there will be changes to the requirements to accommodate the
interests of religious organizations.  In January, U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in
Washington threw out a related challenge to the birth-control
mandate filed by the Archdiocese of Washington and four other
Catholic nonprofit groups, ruling was too early to hear the
lawsuit.  At least forty-three Catholic organizations, including the
archdioceses of New York and Washington, as well as the
University of  Notre Dame  and the  Catholic University  of America,
filed lawsuits in 2012 in courts across the country, arguing
that the mandate violates the freedom of religion guaranteed in
the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.  The contraceptive requirement is part of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
intended to create almost-universal health-care insurance
coverage.  The subpoena case is Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York
v. Sebelius, 13-mc-00318, U.S. District Court District of
Columbia (Washington). The New York case is Roman Catholic
Archdiocese of New York v. Sebelius, 12-02542, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  