-- Monti Cabinet Approves 40 Billion-Euro Payment to Italian Firms
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-04-06T12:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/monti-cabinet-approves-40-billion-euro-payment-to-italian-firms.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
Cabinet approved the payment of 40 billion euros ($52 billion)
owed by the government to private companies in an effort to spur
a recovery in the recession-hit country.  “The payment will happen within 12 months,” Economic
Development Minister  Corrado Passera  said at a press conference
broadcast by SkyTG24 television today. The Cabinet also approved
measures to contain the deficit to 2.9 percent of  gross domestic
product  this year, according to an e-mailed statement.  Monti’s caretaker government is under pressure to bring
relief to the corporate sector while keeping the deficit within
3 percent of GDP. Money owed to suppliers of central and local
administrations totaled 91 billion euros in 2011, Bank of
 Italy ’s chief economist Daniele Franco told the Rome-based
Parliament on March 28. The arrears may have topped 100 billion
euros in 2012, banking lobby ABI said in an April 4 statement.  Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said at the press
conference that 7 million euros out of 20 billion euros to be
paid in 2013 will weigh on this year’s deficit, while the
payments will gradually boost the country’s debt by 40 billion
euros. The payment of debts taken over by banks from suppliers
will be made through  government bonds , the statement said.
Passera estimated these debts at about 15 billion euros to 20
billion euros.  Greater Flexibility  Italy, which has  Europe ’s second-biggest debt burden,
entered the recession in the second half of 2011. The Treasury
expects the euro region’s third-largest economy to shrink 1.3
percent this year and to expand by the same amount in 2014,
Grilli said last month.  “In many countries the most powerful measure is to pay
back the arrears,” European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
told reporters in  Frankfurt  on April 4, without citing Italy.  EU leaders agreed at a summit last month on the need for
greater flexibility in the reduction of public deficits at a
time when most member states are mired in recession.  The Brussels-based Commission “looks forward to a decree
law by the Italian government in order to address the urgent
issue of unbearable commercial debt,” EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said April 4.  “The accelerated repayment of commercial debt to Italian
enterprises would not be a silver bullet, but would greatly help
to alleviate their severe situation.”  Rehn discussed the issue in an April 3 telephone
conversation with Monti, according to EU spokesman Olivier
Bailly. Monti committed to keep the deficit below the EU
ceiling, Bailly said.  Fitch Ratings  cut Italy’s credit rating last month by one
level as an inconclusive election in February produced political
paralysis that threatens the country’s ability to deal with the
fourth recession since 2001. Fitch also said it expects Italy’s
GDP to decline 1.8 percent this year as public debt peaks at
almost 130 percent, up from 127 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  