-- Honus Wagner Baseball Card Goes for $2.1 Million
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-07T04:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/honus-wagner-card-goes-for-2-1-million-in-public-auction-record.html
A Honus Wagner trading card that the
National Baseball Hall of Fame calls the sport’s “most famous
collectible” sold yesterday for $2.1 million, a record for any
baseball card at public auction.  Bidding on the 1909 T206 card of the shortstop closed
yesterday at the price that includes a buyer’s premium,  Goldin
Auctions  said in an e-mailed statement without identifying the
purchaser. The price eclipses the $1.62 million the same T206
Wagner sold for in 2008, the previous record for a public sale
of a card, according to the New Jersey-based company.  Also in the Goldin collection, a 2009 World Series ring
that New York Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  gave his
cousin Yuri Sucart sold for $50,398, according to the Goldin
statement. The ring was one of many copies Rodriguez says he
made.  Rodriguez said in 2009 that he used performance-enhancing
substances as a member of the  Texas Rangers  and said Sucart
helped him obtain and inject the drugs. Sucart is banned by
 Major League Baseball  from the Yankees’ clubhouse, charter
flights and other team-related activities.  Scarce Card  The Wagner card, graded Excellent 5 by Professional Sports
Authenticator, is part of the T206 series released in 1909 by
the American Tobacco Co. for distribution in cigarette packs.
It’s known as the “Jumbo Wagner” because its dimensions are
larger than most other T206 Wagner cards.  Wagner batted .329 in 21 seasons, primarily with the
Pittsburgh Pirates, winning eight National League batting titles
and five stolen-base crowns. The second player behind Cap Anson
to reach 3,000 hits, Wagner was part of the inaugural 1936 class
at the Cooperstown, New York-based  National Baseball Hall of
Fame , and died in 1955.  The Hall of Fame has a T206 Honus Wagner available for
public viewing in its museum. A plaque beneath the card reads,
“Wagner’s fame, the scarcity of the card and the story behind
it make this baseball’s most famous collectible.”  Wagner was upset after the Pirates sold his picture to the
tobacco company. Although he smoked cigars and chewed tobacco,
he didn’t like cigarettes and didn’t want youngsters buying them
for his photo, according to the Society for Baseball Research.  Wagner stopped the run, although a few of the cards reached
the hands of collectors who held on to them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  