-- Ovarian Cancer Vaccine Made From Tumors Yields Responses
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-06T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/ovarian-cancer-vaccine-made-from-tumor-cells-yields-responses.html
Scientists have crafted an
experimental  vaccine  against advanced ovarian cancer that was
safe and triggered an immune response using muscled-up blood
cells primed by tumors that were taken from the patients.  It took 7 days to make the injection individually for each
woman, according to a report today at the  American Association
for Cancer Research  meeting in  Washington . The therapeutic
vaccine was the first step in a two-part process that involved
teaching the woman’s blood cells to recognize the cancer, then
infusing an army of her own infection-fighting immune system
cells to attack the tumor. The study was the first clinical
trial of this new approach.  While the research in 31 patients wasn’t large or long
enough to prove they all did better than with traditional care,
19 showed positive responses, said Lana Kandalaft, director of
clinical development at the Ovarian Cancer Research Center at
the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia. One woman who
had suffered several previous relapses before treatment remains
cancer-free after almost four years, defying expectations.  “We are preventing progression of already existing
disease,” said Kandalaft, the study’s lead researcher, in a
telephone interview. “Most of the patients are now on
maintenance vaccine, just to keep the system going. We haven’t
seen them recur. We are seeing how long they can go.”  Ovarian cancer is often caught late, making it hard to
treat. It kills more than 14,000 women in the U.S. each year,
making it the fifth  deadliest  cancer.  There was no comparison group used in the research, and
some patients have only been followed for a few months. Still,
the tumors normally resume growing within months, with death
expected for most women within two years, Kandalaft said.  ‘Dramatic Difference’  “For some patients, it’s a dramatic difference,” she
said. “For others, we cannot say if it’s better than the
standard of care that’s out there now.”  The vaccine was given in combination with  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s Avastin, a commonly used drug for ovarian cancer that shuts
off the blood supply to the tumor. Women were given repeated
doses of the vaccine, as long as there was enough tumor tissue
to make additional doses, to try to keep the cancer at bay.  The findings provide additional evidence that enhancing the
immune system can play a role in fighting cancer, said  Donald
Trump , chief executive officer of Roswell Park Cancer Institute
in Buffalo,  New York . While the results should be considered
cautiously, they will generate enthusiasm, said Trump, who
wasn’t involved in the research.  “Exactly how this will shake out isn’t clear,” he said in
a telephone interview. “It’s a preliminary study. But it’s an
exciting time in immunology to be sure.”  Crafted Individually  The bespoke vaccine was crafted using each woman’s tumor
and blood. Blood cells were manipulated in a laboratory to
develop into dendritic cells, which normally detect foreign
invaders and marshal the immune system. The living tumor was
treated with chemicals to make it more immunogenic, exposing its
potential weaknesses.  Finally, the tumor cells were added to the dendritic cells,
priming them to set off an immune system alarm if they detect
cancer. The treated dendritic cells are sent back into the body
to lead the immune system’s fight against the cancer.  “The dendritic cell is completely ready to educate the T-
cells in the body to recognize the tumor,” Kandalaft said. “We
made it easier for them, by telling them what to do.”  The women were given the vaccine after surgery to remove
all of their cancer. Seven of the 19 patients who responded to
vaccination with the treated dendritic cells had no measurable
disease at the end of the study.  The remaining 11 patients went to the second-stage of the
trial. Their infection-fighting  T-cells  were removed three
months after the vaccination, expanded and made more active,
then returned to the body to resume fighting the cancer. Seven
of those patients had stable disease, while another had a
complete response that temporarily ridded her body of cancer. It
subsequently returned, and she died last year, Kandalaft said.  Side Effects  There were almost no side effects, she said. Trump
cautioned that risks from immune therapy can develop later.  “We have to remember that the goal of immune therapy is to
establish an immune response against the cancer,” Trump said.
“It may sometimes turn out that the immune response acts
against the cancer as well as human tissue. It’s not safer than
other therapies, it’s just the toxicities are going to be a
little different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  