-- Portuguese Government Says Court Ruling Has Negative Effect
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-04-06T22:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/portuguese-government-says-court-ruling-has-negative-effects-.html
The  Portuguese government  said a
 Constitutional Court  decision to block planned cuts in salary
payments to state workers and pensioners has “negative
effects” for the country.  “The government doesn’t agree with the Constitutional
Court’s interpretation of the Constitution in its ruling about
some norms of the 2013 budget,” Luis Marques Guedes, the
secretary of state for the presidency of the council of
ministers, said in Lisbon today. “The Constitutional Court’s
decision places serious difficulties on the country to comply
with the goals and budget targets it has to meet.” The
government respects the court’s decision, he said.  Guedes also said the court’s decision has an  effect  on the
country’s international credibility and comes before an
“important” European Union meeting in Dublin next week.
 Portugal  has been seeking an agreement from its European
partners to extend the maturities of its aid loans, he said.  The ruling by Portugal’s highest court that the measures
are unconstitutional means the government may need to find
alternative savings to comply with the country’s 78 billion-euro
($101 billion) aid plan from the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and lower demand from European trading partners as
he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the terms of the
bailout. The government on March 15 announced wider deficit
targets as it forecast the economy will shrink twice as much as
previously estimated this year.  Meeting With President  Passos Coelho will address the country at 6:30 p.m.
tomorrow. The prime minister requested a meeting today with
President Anibal  Cavaco Silva , Guedes said.  Cavaco Silva reiterated that the government is in condition
to complete its term in office and said he is committed to
ensuring that international agreements are honored, according to
a statement posted on the presidency’s website after the
meeting.  Portugal forecasts debt will peak at 123.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014. It targets a deficit of 5.5 percent in
2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent limit in
2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. Portugal’s budget
deficit last year widened to 6.4 percent of GDP from 4.4 percent
in 2011.  Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar in October announced an
“enormous” increase in taxes on wages and other income to meet
deficit targets in 2013 and the government also plans to cut
spending by about 4 billion euros in the three years through
2015.  About 80 percent of the deficit-trimming effort in the 2013
budget plan comes from revenue gains, most of which being 3.7
billion euros of tax increases, with the rest coming from
spending reductions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  