-- Rutgers’s Barchi Vows to Keep Job Amid Scandal Uproar
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r ,   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-06T12:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/rutgers-s-barchi-vows-to-keep-job-amid-scandal-uproar.html
Rutgers University President Robert Barchi accepted his athletic director’s resignation and vowed to
keep his own job amid growing uproar by faculty and politicians
over the handling of a basketball coach’s abuse of players.  Barchi, 66,  apologized  to students, players and faculty at
a news conference yesterday and said he regrets not seeing video
of the abuse sooner. Ralph Izzo, chairman of the university’s
Board of Governors, told reporters there are no plans to oust
Barchi.  Even as Barchi tried to put the scandal behind him, fresh
documents raised questions about Rutgers’s response, threatening
his plan to reorganize the university’s campuses and vault its
academics and athletics into the top tier of public colleges.
The controversy also became an issue in the re-election campaign
of New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie .  In a statement, Christie, a first-term Republican, called
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti’s decision to resign
“appropriate and necessary.” The governor commended Barchi for
taking steps to establish new leadership for Rutgers athletics.  Christie wrongly praised Barchi for “decisive
leadership,” said Barbara Buono, 59, a Democratic state senator
from Metuchen who is running for governor. He “seems to think
that the resignation brings this regrettable chapter to an end,
and I think he’s sorely mistaken,” she said.  In a telephone interview, Buono, a graduate of Rutgers Law
School and the mother of two Rutgers students, urged the Board
of Governors and the state legislature to review the matter.  Christie Reversal  In 2010, another video led Christie to fire his first
education commissioner,  Bret Schundler , after New Jersey didn’t
qualify for $400 million in schools funding from the federal
government. The administration at first said the loss was due to
a clerical error on a Race to the Top grant application.  “I’m not going to fire anybody over this,” Christie said
at an Aug. 25, 2010, news conference, where he attributed the
mistake to “some mid-level person at D.O.E, who is putting this
application together.”  When a video of a meeting of Schundler, department staff
and federal officials showed that some application information
was missing, Christie reversed himself.  “I ordered an end to Bret Schundler’s service,” Christie
said three days later.  The April 3 dismissal of Rutgers basketball coach Mike Rice
followed the national telecast of a video showing him physically
and verbally attacking players at practices while using gay
slurs.  Pernetti Letter  Yesterday, several new documents provided details about the
university’s handling of the matter.  Pernetti said in his  resignation letter  that his instincts
when he saw the video were to fire Rice, rather than suspend
him.  “However, Rutgers decided to follow a process involving
university lawyers, human resources professionals, and outside
counsel,” Pernetti wrote. “Following review of the independent
investigative report, the consensus was that university policy
would not justify dismissal.”  Yet, the outside law firm’s Nov. 26 investigative report,
released yesterday, concluded that Rice’s action could violate
his contract: “We believe there is sufficient evidence to find
that certain actions of Coach Rice did ‘cross the line’ of
permissible conduct and that such actions constituted harassment
or intimidation within Rutgers’ Policy.”  Murdock Lawsuit  A Dec. 27 letter to Rutgers’s legal counsel from the
attorney for Eric Murdock, the school’s former director of
basketball player development, alleged that Pernetti knew about
the abuse as early as June. Attorney Barry Kozyra said in the
letter that he submitted a CD containing audio recordings of
phone conversations between Murdock, Rice and Pernetti from that
time.  Murdock, a former NBA player, is suing the university for
wrongful termination, saying his contract wasn’t renewed because
he brought Rice’s behavior to their attention. He is seeking
$950,000 to resolve his claims, according to the letter.  At his press conference, Barchi denied any cover-up. He
said he first saw the video on the evening of April 2, and
decided immediately afterward that the coach must go. Rice was
fired the next day.  Rice’s conduct was “‘unacceptable and does not represent
the high standard of leadership and accountability we strive for
within the Rutgers athletics program,’’ Barchi said.  ‘‘I’m not going to try to defend myself,’’ Barchi told
reporters yesterday. ‘‘That’s for the people I report to to make
a decision about.’’  Different Outcome  Barchi said he regretted not taking action sooner. Rice was
initially suspended and fined $50,000 in December, three weeks
after Rutgers was invited to join the  Big Ten Conference , a move
from the Big East Conference that may increase the school’s
athletic-department income by millions of dollars.  ‘‘I wish I had the opportunity to go back and override’’
the initial decision not to fire Rice, Barchi said. ‘‘The
outcome would have been different.’’  It wasn’t the first time a Rutgers president had faced such
an uproar. Francis L. Lawrence, who served  from 1990 to 2002,
fended off calls for his resignation after he made comments in
1994 suggesting that black students didn’t have the ‘‘genetic
hereditary background” to perform as well on standardized
tests. His presidency survived.  Barchi is a neurologist and former provost of the
 University of Pennsylvania . Since becoming the school’s 20th
president, he has set about implementing Christie’s directive to
reorganize the state’s higher education system, including the
merger of Rutgers and state medical schools.  State Funding  State funding for  Rutgers ,  New Jersey ’s flagship public
university, fell 10 percent to $262 million in the three fiscal
years through June 2012. The school’s subsidy to sports programs
was $28.5 million in fiscal 2011, the largest among 54 U.S.
public universities in the six biggest football conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As a result, academic units were forced to cut budgets. The
history department stopped paying for faculty telephones and the
psychology department chairman issued a directive suggesting
professors give shorter and fewer tests to save money on
photocopying.  Rutgers is facing pressure to raise revenue, cut costs and
improve its academic profile -- all while undergoing the most
sweeping restructuring of any state system, said  Terry Hartle ,
senior vice president of the Washington-based American Council
on Education, which represents 1,800 college presidents.  President’s Attention  Especially in this tough environment, when the president’s
attention was focused elsewhere, the scandal at Rutgers shows
how big-time athletics has the potential to derail a president,
Hartle said in a telephone interview.  “The risk that universities face is not reacting
aggressively enough as soon as they discover there is an
issue,” Hartle said.  The diversion of cash to subsidize sports rankles some
professors.  “We call on the board of governors, once again, to revisit
their oversight of the athletics department and to create a
healthy balance between academics and athletics,” the Rutgers
chapter of the  American Association of University Professors -
 American Federation of Teachers  said in a statement this week.  The number of faculty members calling for Barchi’s
immediate resignation swelled yesterday to at least 50.  Education Commitment  Barchi’s concern for sports overshadows his commitment to
poor and minority students and is part of a broader effort to
refashion Rutgers more along the lines of a business, at the
expense of academic values, said Beryl Satter, a history
professor at Rutgers’s  Newark campus , who was among academics
that signed a letter calling for the president to resign.  “The abuse of student athletes is just a part of the
picture,” Satter said in a telephone interview.  Robert Puhak, a math professor at the Newark campus who
serves on the executive committee of the University Senate, said
“a relatively small percentage” of the faculty is calling for
Barchi’s resignation.  “It’s important in a situation like this to make sure
things are considered in a fair, logical and comprehensive
manner, not in an emotional rush,” said Puhak, who said he
would like to give the president more time to do his job.  A group of 38 professors also backed Barchi.  Barchi Defenders  “A very unfortunate chapter in university life unfolded
over the last several days and the healing process will take
time,” the professors said in an April 5 letter. “Given his
strong and decisive leadership, we have no doubt that President
Barchi will address these issues quickly and firmly. We strongly
support his continued leadership.”  Some students also came to the president’s defense,
including 19-year-old Indraneel Purohit, who is studying
computer science. He credited Barchi for creating a long-term
plan for the school.  “There are a lot of positive things he’s done in the last
six months and I feel like it’s unfortunate this had to blow up
the way it did,” he said.  At the same time, supporters of athletics suggested the
president could face a backlash because of the resignation of
the athletic director.  “The response we’re seeing is very negative toward the
administration right now,” said Brian Kelley, president of the
basketball booster club, the  Rutgers Court Club . “I’m hearing
that a lot of people don’t feel like they are going to renew
their season tickets or continue their donations to the athletic
department.”  Revenue Benefit  Until the basketball scandal broke, Rutgers’s academic
ambitions had been buoyed by the school’s announcement it was
switching to the Big Ten Conference, an academic powerhouse.  Like Rutgers, all Big Ten colleges except  Nebraska  are in
the Association of American Universities, an invitation-only
group of 62 research schools. The conference also makes up the
Committee on Institutional Cooperation, which facilitates
sharing of academic resources. The school’s biggest benefit from
the switch may be getting a share of conference revenue -- $265
million in 2010.  Rutgers, with more than 58,000 students on three campuses,
was founded in 1766 as Queen’s College and renamed in 1825 after
Revolutionary War hero Henry Rutgers. Graduates include
economist  Milton Friedman , singer  Paul Robeson  and Massachusetts
Senator  Elizabeth Warren , who went to the law school.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  