-- S&P Wins Delay of Pennsylvania Lawsuit Over Ratings
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/s-p-wins-delay-of-pennsylvania-lawsuit-over-ratings.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. persuaded a judge
to postpone  Pennsylvania ’s lawsuit over its Standard & Poor’s
unit’s securities ratings while a judicial panel considers
whether to transfer it and similar state suits to another court.  U.S. District Judge Christopher Conner in Harrisburg put
the case on hold yesterday over objections by lawyers for
Pennsylvania who are seeking to have the case returned to state
court. McGraw-Hill moved the lawsuit, filed Feb. 5 in state
court, to federal district court last month, saying the claims
are governed by federal law.  Company lawyers asked Conner on March 11 to put the
Pennsylvania case on hold, and asked a federal judicial panel on
March 18 to consolidate all the state cases and transfer them to
federal court in  Manhattan  for pretrial matters. State lawyers
said Conner should first rule on their request to send the case
back to state court.  The Pennsylvania case is one of 16 state complaints against
S&P filed around the same time the U.S. Justice Department sued
the company in Los Angeles federal court for allegedly
disregarding the credit risks of mortgage  bonds  during the
housing boom to win business rating securities.  Conner said the issue of whether to return cases to state
courts is common to all the state lawsuits, and the matter
should be left to the court that is eventually assigned all the
cases.  ‘A Waste’  “The court concludes that it would be a waste of judicial
resources to proceed” with the Pennsylvania case “when the
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation is considering the
consolidation of 17 identical cases,” Conner said.  Not putting the case on hold would prejudice S&P, which
would be forced to litigate 16 separate actions simultaneously,
he said.  The judicial panel is expected to rule in 60 days to 90
days on whether and where to consolidate the cases. Conner
halted the case until the panel decides.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP) , 13-605, U.S. District Court, District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  