-- More China Cities Slaughter Poultry as H7N9 Bird Flu Cases Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-06T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/second-china-city-halts-live-poultry-trade-as-h7n9-virus-found.html
Two more Chinese cities slaughtered
poultry after residents were infected with the deadly H7N9
strain of avian influenza as  Shanghai  confirmed two new cases of
a virus that’s already killed six people.  In Hangzhou, where two out of three people diagnosed with
the disease have died, trade at a farm-produce market was
suspended after the virus was found in quail and a cull started
yesterday, the official  Xinhua News Agency  reported. In Nanjing,
where three people have been diagnosed with the disease, live
poultry trading was halted and more than 8,400 birds seized, the
China News Service said yesterday.  The outbreak, first reported last month, caused soybean
futures and Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong and New York to
fall on April 5 on concern the virus may spark an epidemic and
hurt the nation’s economic recovery. The new cases confirmed in
Shanghai yesterday take the total number of human infections to
18, all in eastern  China .  “The current situation seems to be much more serious than
previous cases of bird flu, although still no comparison to the
SARS in spring 2003,” Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics
at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong, said in an April 5 report.
The outbreak could have a “sizeable” impact on the economy
“so investors are justified to be cautious,” he said.  Lower Growth  The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome that hit
China in 2003 caused economic growth for one quarter to drop by
2 percentage points, an impact of about 0.5 percentage point on
an annualized basis, Lu wrote. If the current situation
deteriorates, Lu said he may lower his estimate for expansion of
gross domestic product for the second quarter to below 8 percent
from 8.1 percent.  China’s  economy  grew 7.9 percent in the last three months
of 2012 from a year earlier, the first acceleration in eight
quarters, according to National Bureau of Statistics figures.
Previously released data show GDP growth slowed to 7.9 percent
in the second quarter of 2003, the peak of the SARS epidemic,
from 10.8 percent in the previous three months.  China’s stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen were closed
April 4 and 5 for a public holiday. In Hong Kong, the benchmark
Hang Seng Index fell 2.7 percent on April 5 to its lowest level
since November on concern the bird-flu outbreak will worsen. The
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
companies in the U.S. dropped 1.8 percent.  No Panic  China Southern Airlines Co., Asia’s biggest carrier by
passenger numbers, slumped 8.5 percent in Hong Kong while Air
China Ltd., Asia’s biggest carrier by market value, declined 9.8
percent on concern travel to the region may be limited.  Even so, “past experiences told us that the negative
impact from such epidemics won’t last too long and ensuing pent-
up demand could be strong, so there is no need for panic in the
financial markets,” Lu said.  The confirmed human infections of the new strain of
influenza are “isolated” and there has been no sign of human-
to-human transmission, Xinhua said yesterday, citing the
National Health and Family Planning Commission.  Six deaths have been confirmed by China’s authorities --
four in Shanghai and two in Hangzhou. Their ages ranged from 27
to 87.  Poultry Ban  The new cases in Shanghai, the country’s financial hub,
take the number of infections in the city to eight. One is a 74-
year-old male farmer who fell ill on March 28 and the other a
66-year-old retired man who developed cold-like symptoms on
March 29, Xinhua reported, citing the city’s center for disease
control and prevention. Both were confirmed as having the H7N9
virus yesterday, it said.  Shanghai was the first city to close its poultry markets.
Two were stopped on April 4 and all were shuttered yesterday,
officials said at a briefing in April 5. More than 20,000 birds
have been destroyed so far, they said. The government also
banned live poultry from other parts of the country from
entering the city.  In Nanjing, the capital of Jiangsu province about 167 miles
(269 kilometers) northwest of Shanghai, residents were told to
refrain from touching any birds, “not even the bird droppings
on your vehicle’s windshield,” China National Radio said
yesterday, citing a local government spokesman it didn’t name.
“Use tools to remove droppings if you must,” the spokesman was
quoted as saying.  Poultry Check  In Hangzhou, the capital of Zhejiang province about 100
miles (160 kilometers) southwest of Shanghai, one patient
diagnosed with H7N9 bought and ate quail from a market in the
city’s Shangcheng district, Xinhua said yesterday. The local
center for disease control and prevention detected the virus in
quail sold in the market on April 5 and samples have been sent
to the national disease control and prevention center for
checking, it said.  Hong Kong’s Secretary for Food and Health Ko Wing-man said
that he isn’t ruling out the possibility that the city may see
bird-flu cases in poultry or humans, Radio Television Hong Kong
reported yesterday on its website. The government will try to
identify suspected cases as soon as possible, implement
isolation and carry out rapid tests so that a large-scale
outbreak in the city can be avoided, Ko was quoted as saying.  China’s Food and Drug Administration said yesterday it
expedited approval of intravenous anti-influenza drug Peramivir
“to satisfy demand.” The drug is “effective and provides an
alternative to patients who cannot inhale or take drugs
orally,” according to a statement on its  website .  Shares in Nasdaq-listed BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc., the
Durham, North Carolina-based company that developed the drug,
surged 29 percent on April 5.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  