-- Subbarao Sees 1991 Crisis Rerun Unlikely in Trade Deficit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-04-08T04:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/subbarao-sees-1991-crisis-rerun-unlikely-in-trade-deficit.html
India  probably won’t suffer a repeat
of its 1991 financing crisis even as it faces a record current-
account deficit, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  “We’re unlikely to have a balance-of-payments crisis,”
Subbarao said in an April 6 speech in the southern Indian city
of Bangalore, flagging a more liberalized economy and mainly
market-determined currency. Officials are in “no way interested
in seeing the rupee” drop, top government adviser  Raghuram Rajan  said in a Bloomberg TV interview aired today.  The  deficit  swelled to $32.6 billion in the quarter ended
Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of gross domestic product, stoked by
gold and oil imports and subdued exports. Subbarao said the
imbalance in the widest measure of trade isn’t “sustainable,”
exceeds the desired level of 2.5 percent of GDP and is
“worrying” as it comes amid slowing economic growth.  The shortfall has triggered memories of the 1990s crisis,
when India pledged gold as collateral for a loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  after foreign reserves slid. The
present-day deficit has led the nation to change policies since
September by easing curbs and levies on capital inflows. India
has also cut  interest rates  to boost faltering growth.  Two decades ago the country devalued the rupee, tackled
government monopolies, cut tax rates and let foreign companies
take majority stakes in sectors including automobiles and
pharmaceuticals to rescue the economy.  “Rupee depreciation isn’t going to help that much in the
short run” in spurring exports as overseas markets are suffering
“deep” economic problems, Rajan, the chief economic adviser in
India’s  Finance Ministry , said in the television interview.  Rupee’s Outlook  The former IMF chief economist said India has received
significant inflows in the last few months and “there’s no real
necessity to believe that we’re going to see a substantial fall
in the rupee.” It may take two years to bring the deficit back
to reasonable levels, he said.  The currency has depreciated about 6.6 percent against the
dollar in the past year, the second biggest decline in a basket
of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It has climbed 0.6
percent in 2013 and was at 54.735 at 9:34 a.m. in Mumbai.  The current-account gap was probably “significantly”
narrower in January to March, Rajan said separately in an
interview in  Singapore  on April 6.  Inflation remains stubborn and elevated, Subbarao also said
in Bangalore.  Consumer prices  climbed almost 11 percent in
February from a year earlier.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in New Delhi
two days ago that India needs to contain inflation. Chidambaram
has pledged to narrow the nation’s budget shortfall further to
help restrain the climb in the cost of living.  India’s GDP rose 5 percent in the fiscal year ended March
2013, the slowest pace since 2003, hampered partly by a
moderation in investment, the statistics agency estimates.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has cut  interest rates  50 basis
points to 7.5 percent so far this year to support economic
expansion. The next policy review is due May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  