-- Vietnam Growth Requires Reform, National Assembly’s Ngan Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-06T18:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/vietnam-growth-requires-reform-national-assembly-s-ngan-says.html
Vietnam ’s government will need to
accelerate economic structural reforms to boost growth that was
at a 13-year low last year, National Assembly Vice Chairwoman
Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan said.  “The economy will continue to face difficulties this year”
amid an international slowdown and domestic challenges, Ngan
said yesterday at a conference held by the National Assembly’s
economic committee in the southern city of Nha Trang.  Vietnam’s government is trying to revive expansion that
last year was the least since 1999, after rising levels of bad
debt crimped lending. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has
approved a master plan to revamp the economy and last month set
up a steering committee to restructure banks by 2015, even as
the market is “skeptical” about a quick resolution, said Alain Cany, co-chairman of the Vietnam Business Forum Consortium.  The economic slowdown may “not change much” this year,
Victoria Kwakwa, the World Bank’s Vietnam country director, said
in an interview in Nha Trang yesterday. The government in
particular needs to focus on resolving non-performing loans, she
said. “It will help restart the process of banks beginning to
have the confidence to start lending again in a more prudent
way,” Kwakwa said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam last month cut  interest rates 
after  inflation  slowed in March, the seventh policy easing since
the start of 2012 as the monetary authority struggles to spur
lending.  Gross domestic product  expanded 4.89 percent in the
first three months of the year from the same period a year
earlier, government data showed.  Bad Loans  Establishing a debt asset management company as part of the
plan to restructure banks will be delayed until at least the end
of April, Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the Government Office, said on
March 29. The government had planned to set up the management
company in March, according to Le Xuan Nghia, a member of the
National Financial and Monetary Policy Advisory Council.  Vietnam needs to “urgently put in place a non-performing
loan resolution mechanism” and strengthen risk management and
corporate governance systems, Deepak Mishra, the  World Bank ’s
lead economist in Hanoi, said April 5 at the Nha Trang
conference. Vietnam’s economic challenges “can’t be fixed by
repeatedly easing monetary and fiscal policies,” he said.  The bad-debt ratio dropped to 6 percent of outstanding
loans as of Feb. 28, from “about 8 percent” last year, Dam
said earlier. Bank lending contracted in the first two months
after growing 9 percent last year, which was the slowest pace in
at least two decades. The monetary authority will promote credit
flows to spur economic growth, it said on April 4, reiterating
its target of 12 percent credit growth this year.  Restructuring  “The government needs to improve its current master plan to
restructure state companies and overhaul the banking system,
otherwise it will not work effectively as it lacks clear action
plans,” Truong Dinh Tuyen, a member of the National Financial
Monetary Policy Advisory Council, said yesterday after the
conference. “Government plan for restructuring state companies
needs to impose market standards with a specific time frame for
companies on issues including information disclosure,” he said.
“The bank restructuring plan needs to be more specific with
clearer goals and timelines.”  Vietnam’s economy grew 5.03 percent last year, the slowest
pace since 1999, and the World Bank predicts expansion of 5.5
percent this year. That would mark the first time in at least
two decades that the nation expands less than 6 percent for
three straight years.  The benchmark VN index has gained more than 20 percent this
year as easing in some advanced economies spur inflows into
 emerging markets . The dong traded at 20,925 per dollar.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  