-- World Powers Offered Iran Relief on Gold Trade in Nuclear Talks
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-04-06T15:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/world-powers-offered-iran-relief-on-gold-trade-in-nuclear-talks.html
The world powers holding talks with
Iran on its nuclear program offered to ease sanctions on
precious metals trade as part of an accord, Russian Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.  “All that was in the Almaty package has remained,
including the possibility to cancel the prohibition for precious
metals trade,” Ryabkov said in an interview in the Kazakhstan
capital, where the talks concluded today. He didn’t elaborate.  Representatives of the world powers and Iran ended the
latest two-day round of nuclear talks without setting a date or
location for another one. The European Union’s foreign policy
chief,  Catherine Ashton , said “wide differences” remain.  Curbs on precious metals are part of the sanctions on
energy and finance imposed by the  United Nations , U.S. and
European Union in order to restrict  Iran’s nuclear program , on
the grounds it may be trying to build atomic weapons. The U.S.
and Israel have threatened military strikes to achieve that goal
if diplomacy doesn’t work. Iran says its nuclear program is
peaceful.  Iran’s gold imports, especially from Turkey, surged after
the imposition of financial sanctions made it difficult for the
country to obtain dollars and other hard currencies.  Iran has been buying gold in Turkey with cash it received
from sales of natural gas to its neighbor, Turkish Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan said in November. The  U.S. Senate  voted
later that month to include precious metals in a further round
of restrictions on Iran, and exports from Turkey have declined
since then.  For Related News and Information:
Iran’s Khamenei Says  Tel Aviv  at Risk If Israel Makes a Mistake  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  