-- Yankees Lose, Orioles’ Davis Joins Willie Mays in Home Run Feat
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/yankees-lose-orioles-davis-joins-willie-mays-in-home-run-feat.html
Prince Fielder hit two home runs and
drove in five runs to give the  Detroit  Tigers an 8-3 victory
against the New York Yankees, who have lost three of four games
to start the Major League Baseball season.  In Baltimore, Chris Davis hit a grand slam for the Orioles
and had five RBIs yesterday to become the fourth player in MLB
history to homer in his first four games of the season, a feat
he now shares with Willie Mays, Mark McGwire and Nelson Cruz.  The Cincinnati Reds (3-1) recorded a 15-0 shutout to hand
the Washington Nationals (3-1) their first loss of the season.
Todd Frazier and Zack Cozart each hit two home runs, and Xavier
Paul had a pinch-hit grand slam, for the Reds, who had 19 hits.  The Miami Marlins (1-3) won their first game of the season,
defeating the New York Mets 7-5 at Citi Field in New York. The
Mets evened their record at 2-2.  At Comerica Park in Detroit, Fielder hit a three-run homer
in the fifth, Alex Avila added a home run in the sixth and
Fielder ended the game’s scoring in the seventh with a two-run
homer for the Tigers (2-2).  Austin Jackson scored on Miguel Cabrera’s grounder in the
first inning and Omar Infante hit a run-scoring single in the
second to give the Tigers a 2-0 lead.  Nunez Hurt  Leadoff batter Brett Gardner scored on a wild pitch by
winning pitcher Doug Fister (1-0) in the fifth and Kevin Youkilis added two more runs with a homer to center as the
Yankees temporarily took the lead.  Eduardo Nunez , substituting for injured shortstop Derek Jeter, was hit on his right biceps by a Fister pitch in the
fourth and left the game. X-rays were negative, the Yankees
said.  “I was scared it was broken,” Nunez told reporters. “The
pain hurt a lot.”  Including Jeter, who is not expected to return from his
broken ankle until next month, the Yankees have five former All-
Stars on the disabled list: third baseman Alex Rodriguez who had
hip surgery; first baseman Mark Teixeira with wrist injury,
outfielder Curtis Granderson with a broken forearm and pitcher
Phil Hughes with back pain.  Fister allowed three runs on six hits in five innings. Drew
Smyly got his first save of the season, pitching four perfect
innings in which he struck out five. Ivan Nova (0-1) gave up
four runs on five hits and struck out five in 4 2/3 innings for
the Yankees.  Davis Homers  At Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Davis’s grand slam in the
eighth broke a 5-5 tie with the Minnesota Twins to give the
Orioles (3-1) a 9-5 victory. Davis is 9-for-15 with four home
runs and 16 RBIs this season.  Manny Machado hit a scoring single in the third to give the
Orioles a 1-0 lead, while Chris Parmelee sent home a run on his
single, Brian Dozier added a two-run triple and then reached
home on Eduardo Escobar’s single to give the Twins (2-2) a 4-1
lead.  Adam Jones scored on J.J. Hardy’s grounder in the fourth
inning and then hit a run-scoring double before crossing home
plate on Davis’s sacrifice fly in the fifth to tie the game 4-4.  Dozier gave the Twins a 5-4 lead in the sixth inning on his
run-scoring single and Jones tied the score 5-5 in the eighth on
a single that sent home Nolan Reimold before Davis’s grand slam.  Luis Ayala (1-0) allowed two hits and struck out one in 1
2/3 innings for the Orioles. Casey Fien (0-1) surrendered four
runs on three hits and struck out one in 2/3 inning for the
Twins.  Homer Bailey (1-0) allowed two hits and struck out six in
six innings for the Reds. Washington’s Dan Haren (0-1)
surrendered six runs on nine hits in four innings while striking
out five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  