-- Yen Plunges Most in Three Years on Japan Stimulus; Dollar Drops
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-06/yen-plunges-most-in-three-years-on-japan-stimulus-dollar-drops.html
The yen slid the most against the
dollar in more than three years after the  Bank of Japan 
outstripped forecasts and announced unprecedented measures to
fight deflation, spurring concern the currency will be debased.  The dollar dropped against the euro by the most in almost
three months as U.S. jobs gains in March trailed forecasts,
adding to speculation American economic growth is faltering and
the  Federal Reserve  won’t slacken stimulus soon. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak next week in Atlanta. The
yen fell the most against the euro since 2010 as  Japan ’s central
bank said it would double its bond buying.  “This was at the upper bound of market expectations,”
Richard Cochinos, a currency strategist at Bank of America Corp.
in  New York , said yesterday in a phone interview of the BOJ’s
announcement. “It’s in our view a very yen-negative event that
should have longer-term flow implications. The fact that we had
a very weak payroll and you didn’t see dollar-yen significantly
lower is very meaningful.”  The yen tumbled 3.4 percent, the most since the five days
ended Dec. 4, 2009, to 97.57 per dollar this week in New York,
snapping a three-week winning streak. It touched 97.83, the
weakest level since June 2009. The Japanese currency dropped 4.7
percent, the most since the week ended Sept. 17, 2010, to 126.79
per euro. Against  Europe ’s shared currency, the greenback lost
1.3 percent, the most since Jan. 11, to $1.2991 per euro,
falling for the first week since March 15.  Euro Bets  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The  difference  in the number of wagers
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the
euro compared with those on a drop -- so-called net shorts --was
65,701 on April 2, the most since November. Net shorts were
49,095 a week earlier.  The yen was the biggest loser among the dollar’s 31 most-
traded peers. Hungary’s forint was the biggest winner, rallying
3.2 percent to 229.96 to the greenback.  The forint rose as the Hungarian central bank unveiled
measures to boost lending and economic growth. While the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank will use as much as 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion)
of its foreign reserves, the level of reserves will stay within
safe limits, bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy told reporters on
April 4.  Asian currencies depreciated the most since January this
week as policy makers from the  Philippines  to Japan proposed
measures that tend to weaken their exchange rates. The
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index declined 0.3 percent since
March 29, the most since the week ending Jan. 25.  BOJ Decision  BOJ officials said April 4 the central bank will increase
its monthly bond purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($77 billion),
exceeding the 5.2 trillion yen forecast by economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. They also suspended a cap on some bond holdings
and dropped a limit on debt maturities. They set a two-year
horizon for their goal of 2 percent inflation.  The two-day policy meeting was the first led by Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda since he took office last month. Officials are
working to end 15 years of deflation.  “The Bank of Japan was very aggressive,” Sireen Harajli,
a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at  Credit Agricole  SA,
said in a telephone interview. “It reaffirmed  market sentiment 
regarding weakness in the yen.”  U.S. Employment  Japan’s currency, traditionally considered a haven, fell
yesterday for a second day against the greenback even as a Labor
Department report showed U.S. payrolls grew by 88,000 workers in
March, the least in nine months. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists was for a gain of 190,000.  The  jobless rate  declined to 7.6 percent, from 7.7 percent,
the Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The latest
figure, the lowest since December 2008, reflected a 496,000
decline in the size of the  labor force .  The report followed data this week from the  Institute for
Supply Management  showing its index of U.S. service industries,
which accounts for almost 90 percent of the economy, expanded in
March at the slowest pace in seven months.  “We’re very concerned that the data in the U.S. is
beginning to soften,” Bank of America’s Cochinos said.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds a month in the third
round of its quantitative-easing strategy to spur the economy.
While policy makers reiterated after their March meeting the Fed
will maintain its purchases until there’s significant
improvement in the labor market, Bernanke told reporters the
pace may be altered if warranted by a healing economy.  Bernanke Speech  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at the Fed Bank of Atlanta
2013 Financial Markets Conference on April 8. The central bank’s
next policy meeting is April 30-May 1.  The euro climbed on April 4 against the dollar by the most
on a closing basis in almost two weeks, 0.7 percent, after the
 European Central Bank  held  interest rates  steady at 0.75 percent
and ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers are “ready to
act” if the region’s economy declines further.  Draghi said Cyprus, whose bank bailout sparked concerns
Europe’s debt crisis would spread, isn’t a template for
resolution and voiced determination to support the euro.  “Draghi reiterated that no country is going to leave the
euro, and that gave the euro support,” Credit Agricole’s
Harajli said yesterday. “Whether the euro is going to be able
to sustain these gains remains an open question. The  euro zone 
continues to slow.”  The euro fell versus most major peers on April 2 as data
showed the region’s unemployment rate increased to a record 12
percent in early 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  