-- 
‘Viagra in a Condom’ May Make Futura a Target

-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 
2011-12-07T16:56:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/-viagra-in-a-condom-may-make-u-k-s-futura-a-target-of-reckitt-benckiser.html
A new condom that aims to enhance
erections may also lift earnings and buyout prospects for
unprofitable U.K. drugmaker  Futura Medical Plc. (FUM)   Durex condoms made by partner  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc 
will contain a dose of Futura’s Zanifil gel inside the tip,
boosting blood flow within the penis. The product results in
firmer, larger and longer-lasting erections for men who may find
wearing condoms challenging, according to Futura.  Premium pricing may help the condom generate global sales
of 150 million pounds ($235 million) annually within five years,
tempting Slough, England-based Reckitt Benckiser to keep all
that revenue for itself, said Daniel Mahony, who manages $300
million at Polar Capital in London. Reckitt Benckiser, the maker
of Lysol cleaners, doesn’t usually agree to sales-sharing
accords, which makes it likely takeover talks are under way,
said Lala Gregorek, an analyst at Edison Investment Research.  “It’s essentially Viagra in a condom,” said Mahony, who
owns shares of Guildford, England-based Futura. “I wouldn’t be
surprised if Reckitt tries to either buy the whole company or
buy that royalty stream out at some point.”  Futura Chief Executive Officer James Barder declined to
comment on any discussions with Reckitt Benckiser. While Futura
isn’t for sale, he said, “ultimately, we’re looking to optimize
and maximize our return at the appropriate time.”  Heroin Substitute  Reckitt Benckiser declined to comment on any discussions
with Futura. The maker of Vanish stain removers and Finish
dishwasher tablets has a drug division, which accounted for 9
percent of sales last year. The unit sells the Suboxone opioid
substitute for those addicted to heroin. Still, it seems
unlikely that Reckitt would want to expand in health care by
buying Futura, said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec
Securities in London.  “If there’s a wide application of Futura’s technology
across all parts of Reckitt Benckiser’s portfolio, that might
tip the balance,” said Deboo, who  rates  Reckitt Benckiser a
“hold.” “As a general rule, however, I don’t think they would
want to own a specialized pharmaceutical company.”  Futura rose 19 percent to 81 pence in London. It was the
stock’s biggest advance in three years. Before today, it had
dropped 4.9 percent in 2011, giving Futura a market value of
49.7 million pounds. The company has posted a loss every year
since first listing in 2003, though that will probably change
next year, Mahony and Gregorek said.  Blood Flow  Futura is also developing a  topical spray  that helps delay
ejaculation, which is due to hit U.S. stores next year through a
partnership with Australian condom-maker  Ansell Ltd. (ANN)  The Ansell
partnership for the drug, called PET500, along with Zanifil’s
prospects, will bring in enough royalties to push Futura into
profitability next year, Gregorek said.  Zanifil, like Futura’s other experimental drugs, relies on
a patented delivery system known as  DermaSys  that allows
medicine to rapidly permeate the skin. Zanifil is based on the
chemical nitroglycerin, used to treat chest pain and heart
failure since the 19th century. The drug widens the blood
vessels by relaxing the muscles in the vessel walls, increasing
blood flow.  Unlike Pfizer Inc.’s Viagra, the condom with Zanifil will
be available without a doctor’s prescription. Pfizer, the
world’s biggest drugmaker, has sold the Viagra pill as a
treatment for erectile dysfunction since 1998. That drug, which
boosts blood flow in the penis, had 2010 sales of $1.9 billion.  U.S. Condom Market  Reckitt Benckiser also owns marketing rights to another of
Futura’s experimental compounds,  MED2002 , a version of Zanifil
to be sold as a standalone erectile-dysfunction treatment. A
separate gel in development to treat joint pain with partner
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  will start a key clinical testing program
next year.  While Mahony and Gregorek expect the Zanifil condoms to
reach store shelves in  Europe  next year, the biggest growth
prospects may lie in the U.S., where Durex condoms lag the
Trojan brand. Trojan, owned by  Church & Dwight Co. (CHD) , accounts for
about 75 percent of U.S. over-the-counter condom sales, while
Durex holds only 6 percent to 8 percent, according to Bill Howe,
president of  PolyTech Synergies LLC  and a consultant to the
condom industry.  “The unique selling point may well help it in territories
where Durex is not strong,” Futura’s Barder said. Zanifil may
also help win over men who don’t use any kind of condom because
of decreased sensitivity or partial loss of erection, he said.  Royalty Stream  The partners are “exploring the approval process” in the
U.S. and other markets, Barder said, declining to give U.S.
approval or sales forecasts.  The Zanifil-containing condoms are cleared for sale in 29
countries. The companies haven’t disclosed how they will name,
price or split sales of the product, though Barder said the
Zanifil condom will carry a “premium” price tag. Mahony
estimates Futura will receive 15 percent of Reckitt’s revenue
from the condom. If that’s the case, the value of the royalty
stream exceeds Futura’s market value, he said.  The delay in bringing the product to market may be because
the companies are negotiating a takeover or new sales agreement,
Edison’s Gregorek said in an interview. Reckitt Benckiser is
also integrating its July 2010 acquisition of Durex maker SSL
International Plc, which may contribute to the holdup, she said.  The main reason the product isn’t yet on shelves might be
more complicated than that, according to Futura CEO Barder.  Forty percent of condoms are purchased by women, and the
marketing materials need to strike the right balance between
men’s and women’s attitudes about sex, he said.  “If the packaging says it will give you a bigger penis,
and a woman gives it to a man, it might cause a reaction, like
‘What, you’re saying my penis is small?’” Barder said. “This
area does have sensitivities. Positioning is critical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in  London  at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  