-- 
Affymax Wins U.S. Panel’s Backing on Anemia Drug to Rival Amgen’s Medicine

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T23:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/affymax-wins-u-s-panel-s-backing-on-anemia-drug-to-rival-amgen-s-medicine.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  won a U.S. panel’s
backing for an experimental anemia medicine that would compete
with treatments marketed by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  for
patients with chronic kidney disease.  The benefits of the drug, known as peginesatide, outweigh
potential heart risks, outside advisers to the Food and Drug
Administration said today in a 15-1 vote in Silver Spring,
Maryland. The FDA isn’t required to follow the advisory panels’
recommendations.  “As a result of this vote, we expect Affymax shares to be
up sharply tomorrow -- likely into the double-digits,”
Christopher Raymond, an analyst at  Robert W. Baird  in Chicago,
said today in a note to investors. Trading on Affymax was halted
pending the outcome of the meeting. The shares had declined 19
percent this year before today.  Peginesatide would be  Palo Alto , California-based Affymax’s
first product if it gains FDA approval. The therapy would
compete with Amgen’s Epogen, which generated $2.5 billion in
revenue last year, and J&J’s Procrit, with 2010 sales of $1.9
billion. Affymax’s medicine works as well as those treatments
and had “similar safety results” for people on dialysis, the
patient group for whom Affymax seeks approval, FDA staff said
Dec. 5 in a  report .  ‘No Reason’ to Reject  “We don’t have a reason to say no to this drug in the
dialysis setting,”  Wyndham Wilson , the panel chairman, said
after the vote. Wilson is chief of lymphoma therapeutics at the
National Cancer Institute’s Center for Cancer Research, in
Rockville,  Maryland .  Peginesatide, like Epogen, Procrit and Amgen’s Aranesp, is
part of a class of drugs known as erythropoiesis-stimulating
agents that boost production of red blood cells.  The FDA recommended in June that doctors use the lowest
possible doses of the agents because of potential heart risks.
The agency in 2006 first warned that high doses of the anemia
drugs may cause heart attacks and strokes.  Peginesatide proved noninferior to Epogen, Procrit and
Aranesp in late-stage  clinical trials  and had similar risks of
death, stroke and heart attacks in dialysis patients, Affymax
said today in presentations to the panel. The trials consisted
of 2,609 patients.  Peginesatide’s effects last longer than approved
treatments, making it more convenient and less expensive to
administer, according to Affymax’s September quarterly report.
The drug can used once a month, compared with an initial dose of
three times weekly for Epogen.  Affymax is co-commercializing peginesatide in the U.S. with
Osaka, Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)   Amgen Deals  Amgen, of Thousand Oaks, California, signed a seven-year
agreement with dialysis provider  DaVita Inc. (DVA)  of Denver to
replace a deal expiring Dec. 31 that will meet at least 90
percent of DaVita’s requirements to treat anemia,  William Tanner , an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in  New York , said
Nov. 18 in a note to clients.  Amgen also signed a nonexclusive agreement with  Fresenius
Medical Care AG  for an undisclosed amount of years, Tanner said.
Fresenius, based in Bad Homburg, Germany, and DaVita are the
largest dialysis providers respectively by annual revenue.  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, began this year reimbursing for all services
associated with end-stage  kidney disease  in one bundled payment
to attempt to save money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Silver Spring, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 