-- 
Agility Unit Sues U.S. to Lift Freeze on Military Contracts

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T20:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/agility-unit-sues-u-s-to-lift-freeze-on-military-contracts-1-.html
A unit of  Agility (AGLTY) , the Kuwaiti
storage and logistics provider, sued to lift a freeze on
government contracts imposed after the company was accused of
defrauding the U.S.  Agility Defense & Government Logistics Services called the
freeze “capricious” in a filing in federal court in Alabama.
The  Defense Logistics Agency , or DLA, an arm of the U.S.
Department of Defense, suspended the unit from new contracts 10
days after Agility was indicted in November 2009.  Agility, which supplied food to U.S. forces in  Iraq , paid
premium prices for goods to inflate its profits, according to
the indictment. Agility, formerly known in  Kuwait  as Public
Warehousing Co., pleaded not guilty in August to the allegations
in federal court in Atlanta.  DLA acknowledged that Alabama-based Agility Defense &
Government, or DGS, faced “no allegations” of wrongdoing, the
company said in the complaint. DGS’s business “has collapsed”
since the indictment and its workforce has shrunk to fewer than
50 employees from about 1,200, according to the complaint.  DLA’s “shifting, inconsistent and unsubstantiated
rationales for suspension render its continued suspension of DGS
and Agility International arbitrary and capricious,”  the
company said. The claims of unfairness were brought under the
Administrative Procedures Act.  DGS Offer  To satisfy the defense agency, DGS offered to restructure
and end its affiliation with Agility, according to the
complaint.  Mimi Schirmacher, a spokeswoman for the DLA, said the
agency doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The criminal case in Atlanta continues. During Agility’s
arraignment in July, U.S. District Judge Thomas Thrash said new
witnesses could be subpoenaed to “investigate new potential
charges.”  Richard Deane Jr., a  Jones Day  partner and former U.S.
attorney in Atlanta who represents Agility, declined to comment
on the criminal case. Jim Cox, a DGS spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  The case is Agility Defense & Government Services Inc. v.
U.S. Department of Defense, 11-cv-04111, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Alabama .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  