-- 
AIG Is ‘Fed-Ready’ Ahead of Expected Oversight, Hancock Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-07T23:44:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/aig-is-fed-ready-ahead-of-expected-oversight-hancock-says-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, is prepared for more oversight as the
 Federal Reserve  moves to regulate non-bank financial firms, the
head of the company’s property-casualty division said.  “We’ve done more to de-lever our balance sheet and become
Fed-ready, because we expect to be regulated by the Fed, than I
think almost any other large insurance company,” said  Peter Hancock , 53, chief executive officer of AIG’s Chartis operation,
at a conference today held by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New
York . The insurer has the necessary controls and risk-profile
“to manage unexpected events,” he said.  Regulators are weighing proposals that would help decide
which non-bank financial firms are systemically important and
require Fed oversight, as they implement aspects of the Dodd-
Frank legislation. The New York-based insurer said in regulatory
filings, including one in February, that additional regulation
from the law could “materially and adversely affect AIG’s
businesses” and hurt cash flows and credit ratings.  The Fed helped rescue AIG in 2008, after bets on the
housing market squeezed liquidity. The insurer’s bailout swelled
to $182.3 billion. AIG repaid the remaining $21 billion on its
Fed credit line in January and has a stake in Fed-controlled
vehicles that took over mortgage-related assets after the
bailout. The U.S. Treasury Department, which invested more than
$40 billion in the insurer, holds 77 percent of the company’s
shares and is seeking to wind down the stake.  “Today, this company doesn’t owe the government
anything,” Hancock said. “There is no recourse debt to the
government left.”  Stress Testing  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , 67, said last month in a
conference call that the insurer doesn’t know whether the Fed
will be its regulator and is operating as if that will be the
case. The company has done stress testing to see what may happen
under certain adverse scenarios, he said on a conference call
Nov. 4.  AIG gained 40 cents to $24.46 in New York today and has
dropped almost 50 percent this year. Mark Herr, a spokesman for
the insurer, declined to comment, as did  Jack Gutt  of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer, is seeking to
sell its deposit-gathering business to avoid tighter regulation
that comes with bank status. The Fed rejected MetLife’s plan to
raise its  dividend (MET)  and resume share buybacks, the insurer said
in October.  Share Buybacks  AIG said last month it may buy back as much as $1 billion
in shares. Hancock said the insurer plans to build $25 billion
to $30 billion in capital at the holding company over the next
five years, mostly in dividends from subsidiaries.  Pretax income at Chartis fell 72 percent to $910 million in
the first nine months of this year as the company faced claims
from natural disasters including the Japan earthquake and
 Hurricane Irene  in the U.S. AIG gets about half its pretax
income from the division, Hancock said today.  Chartis is targeting nations including China, India and
 Mexico  for growth, Hancock said.  “We are not banking on any one country,” he said. “We’ve
really got a tremendously diverse portfolio of businesses and
geographies in which we can exploit our comparative advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  