-- 
Lakers Will Open Shortened NBA Season With Three Games in as Many Days

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/lakers-will-open-shortened-nba-season-with-three-games-in-as-many-days.html
The  Los Angeles Lakers  will play on
each of the opening three days of the National Basketball
Association season, the first of 42 triples in the lockout-
shortened schedule.  The Lakers begin at home against the  Chicago Bulls  at 5 p.m.
eastern time on Dec. 25, one of five opening-day games. They
visit the Sacramento Kings the next day and return to L.A. to
face the  Utah Jazz  on Dec. 27. All 30 teams will play on three
successive nights at least once, with none having to do so more
than three times under the 66-game schedule.  Teams don’t face triples during a typical 82-game season.
The scheduling became necessary because the shortened season
will begin 55 days late following a five-month labor dispute.
There were 64 so-called triples during the 1998-1999 campaign,
which was curtailed to 50 games by a labor dispute.  The league and players agreed in principle on a new labor
contract on Nov. 26 and are expected to ratify the deal by
tomorrow to allow training camps to open the following day.  “The new collective bargaining agreement is designed to
provide more competitive balance for our league, reward strong
performances by our players and strengthen our game by improving
its economics,” NBA Commissioner David Stern said in an open
letter to fans last night.  TNT Coverage  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Broadcasting System begins its
28th year of NBA coverage with the  New York Knicks  hosting the
 Boston Celtics  at 12 p.m. eastern time on Dec. 25.  In all, TNT will broadcast 45 games, including 10
appearances by the Celtics and Lakers, nine by the Miami Heat
and eight each by the Dallas Mavericks and Knicks.  Also on opening day, the Oklahoma City Thunder host the
 Orlando Magic , the Los Angeles Clippers are at the Golden State
Warriors and the Mavericks host the Heat, who Dallas beat in
June to earn their first NBA title.  “It’s going to be a little bitter for us because we’re
going to have to watch them raise their banner, but it will be
great motivation,” Miami forward  Chris Bosh  told NBA TV last
night.  After beginning the season at the Lakers, the Bulls have
six more road games out of their opening nine fixtures.  “On the road is where you really develop that chemistry
because you have that us against the world mentality,” analyst
Greg Anthony told NBA TV. “If you play .500 or just above that,
you feel real good.”  The NBA All-Star Game will be held Feb. 26 in Orlando.  NBA players will vote on whether to ratify the collective
bargaining agreement between today and tomorrow afternoon,
Sports Illustrated said on its website, citing a letter from
union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  to players. The NBA’s
board of governors will meet in  New York  tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 