-- 
Alain Allegretti Shocks Chelsea With $14 Fish Soup: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/allegretti-shocks-with-14-fish-soup-fresh-chips-in-chelsea-ryan-sutton.html
Alain Allegretti excels at charging
large sums of money for French food, so I did a double take when
I saw his affordable menu at La Promenade Des Anglais.  The chef earned his bona fides in exorbitant pricing at Le
Louis XV in  Monaco , where mere vegetables can cost 80 euros
($107). He launched his eponymous Manhattan flagship in 2008,
with just two entrees below $30 at the time of my review. It
didn’t take long to close.  Now the Frenchman is serving homemade potato chips in West
Chelsea. No dish is over 30 bucks.  Not so fast. Allegretti’s most affordable establishment to
date,  La Promenade  isn’t necessarily a steal. Those chips cost
$16. They’re for scooping up sweet shrimp, raw and scented with
lemongrass. The salty affair goes down easier with a bright,
bitter lavender lemonade, redolent of Provence’s signature
flower.  There are no amuses, no tasting menus, no tablecloths or
other good fabrics to keep the noise level in check. The
cacophony notwithstanding, La Promenade instantly ranks among
the city’s better Southern French restaurants, serving the
highly aromatic fare of Nice.  And hamburgers. Take a pass on the $19 short rib burger,
however tasty it might be.  Sea Breeze  You’re here for the Cote D’Azur -- the $14 seafood soup,
for example, that tastes like the Mediterranean boiled down with
saffron, rockfish and garlic.  Some will visit La Promenade for the scene: Six-foot-five
models who surely frequented this space when it was still Amy
Sacco’s Bette; these gaunt members of the ceviche-set will feast
on honeyed ricotta (good), salt cod crostini with prosciutto
(great) and bluefin tuna (outstanding), the latter paired with
veal sweetbreads for a great vitello tonatto riff.  Such lofty surf-and-turf should be consumed with $19 flutes
of  Paul Goerg . That’s a good enough deal; La Promenade’s wine
list hits the right pricing notes. Gallery-goers and owners will
find Champagne starting at $70 the bottle; Laurent Dauphin Brut
is just $15 by the glass.  The Zind-Humbrecht Riesling ($85) is an unusually smooth
gem from Alsace, with just enough tang to cut through the oils
of harissa-marinated swordfish ($29), but not too much acid to
push the tomato-heavy menu into heartburn territory.  Chewy Ragu  Allegretti shows off the bright side of tomatoes with
trofie pasta and tuna belly ($20). He makes it a vehicle for
smoky chorizo in a warm salsa for ratatouille raviolini ($19).
He even dabbles in old-school red saucery, giving diners a
concentrated pork ragu, a chewy, meaty cloak for soft gnocchi
($19).  Nice has always boasted an Italian flair; La Promenade
respects that tradition by serving firm pasta, an outlier in a
world of overcooked French noodles.  Striped bass arrives and you start sniffing. What is it?
Truffle leek bouillon. Allegretti treats proteins like a
parfumier, scattering powerful scents every which way.  The heady aroma of Espelette breadcrumbs helps rescue an
average pork loin ($28). Are the frog legs bland? Not at all;
they’re just a whiteboard for the punch of garlic cream.  Dessert intoxicates further. Pumpkin spice donuts are the
right call. Avoid the 1980s-style chocolate “lava” cake and a
saccharine grapefruit tart. The baba -- a rum soaked sponge cake
that reeks of orange -- is $10, precisely $25 less than what Le
Louis XV charges in Monaco. I’m sold.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Nothing over $30.  Sound Level: Boisterous, often over 80.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Fish soup is a must.  Special feature: Close to the High Line park.  Will I be back? Yes.  La Promenade des Anglais is at 461 W. 23rd St. Information:
+1-212-255-7400;  http://www.lapromenadenyc.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York restaurants for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 