-- 
Alliant Energy Seen Luring Warren Buffett in Midwest Power Play: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-12-07T17:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/alliant-energy-seen-luring-warren-buffett-in-midwest-power-play-real-m-a.html
With  Alliant Energy Corp. (LNT) ’s shares
approaching an all-time high, the electric utility could help
shareholders reap a record profit by selling itself to Warren Buffett or  Wisconsin  Energy Corp.  The operator of power plants in Wisconsin and  Iowa  revised
some provisions for executive pay and employee retirement plans
in an event of a takeover, according to the company’s filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission this week. Madison,
Wisconsin-based Alliant rose to a four-year high yesterday after
disclosing the change, which may signal the utility is preparing
for a sale, said Elizabeth Nowicki, a mergers and acquisitions
professor at  Tulane University Law School .  Alliant, which meets Buffett’s criteria for a takeover
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, may attract  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., Wisconsin
Energy or Xcel Energy Inc. with its assets in the U.S. Midwest,
Caris & Co. and Westwood Holdings Group Inc. said. Alliant,
which has risen twice as much as the average regulated utility
in  North America  under 62-year-old Chief Executive Officer Bill Harvey, would be worth at least $46 a share, Manulife Asset
Management said, exceeding its high of $45.74.  “There has been talk of Alliant as a possible target,”
Andrew Levi, a New York-based utility and power analyst for
Caris, said in a telephone interview. “Berkshire Hathaway, with
their ownership of MidAmerican, they’re always kind of looking
for a deal. Wisconsin Energy also fits the bill.”  Alliant rose 1.3 percent to $42.85 at 12:10 p.m. in  New
York  today, the highest since June 2007. The advance was the
biggest of any utility in America, based on  Standard & Poor’s 
equity indexes.  Housekeeping  Scott Reigstad, a spokesman for Alliant, said the changes
disclosed in the  SEC filing  “can best be characterized as
housekeeping items that make technical tweaks” and aren’t
associated with “any potential future event.”  He declined to comment on whether Alliant has been
approached about an acquisition or is considering a sale.  Buffett, CEO of Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire , didn’t
respond to a request for comment e-mailed to his assistant,
 Carrie Kizer . Barry McNulty of Wisconsin Energy, and  Xcel (XEL) ’s
Steve Roalstad declined to comment on rumors or speculation.  Alliant ended at $42.32 a share yesterday, its highest
price since December 2007. The regulated utility serves more
than a million customers in Wisconsin,  Minnesota  and Iowa with
its 9,700 miles of electric transmission lines and 8,000 miles
of natural-gas pipelines, its  website  said.  In a regulated market, utilities can pass along costs to
customers by raising rates, while states monitor prices so that
providers aren’t earning excessive returns.  ‘Change-In-Control’  Alliant revised its so-called change-in-control provisions
in an SEC filing on Dec. 5 to restrict the ability of any
“successor to the company” to amend employee retirement plans
for three years after a takeover of the utility. The company
also changed the timing of severance payments for executives to
10 days after the date of a takeover, the filing said.  The revisions are effective Jan. 1.  Tulane University ’s Nowicki, who is a former SEC attorney,
says the revisions made by Alliant aren’t typical.  “The changes made are specific enough and unique enough
that it’s not part of some typical corporate governance
review,” she said in a telephone interview. “There’s something
going on. Alliant is envisioning something, whether they’ve
already been approached by a possible acquirer or whether they
have an insider who’s interested in increasing their control.”  In a takeover, Alliant could get $46 a share to $54 a
share, said Greg Phelps, who manages $4.5 billion at Manulife
Asset in  Boston , including Alliant shares.  Utility Deals  While Alliant faces slowing profit growth this year, the
stock has advanced 50 percent since Harvey began as CEO in July
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than
the 21 percent gain for comparable companies.  Alliant, valued at $4.7 billion, would make sense for
Berkshire’s MidAmerican utility unit, according to Caris’ Levi.
Berkshire bought  Des Moines , Iowa-based  MidAmerican  in 2000 in
what was the 81-year-old billionaire’s first foray into energy.  Buffett, who said five years ago that owning regulated
utilities was “a way to stay rich,” has turned to acquisitions
this year to help reduce Berkshire’s cash hoard. Berkshire,
which had about  $35 billion  in cash on its balance sheet at the
end of the third quarter, could spend as much as $10 billion on
its next acquisition, Buffett said in a Nov. 21 interview.  Morningstar Inc. ranked Alliant among the most-likely U.S.
companies to be acquired, according to a September report.
MidAmerican was cited as a buyer for Alliant.  Buffett Criteria  It was also one of the companies Bloomberg identified in
March that met the acquisition criteria Buffett listed in his
annual  letter  to shareholders.  Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power, and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his report. He has shifted his takeover strategy as
Berkshire has grown to focus on “capital intensive
businesses,” such as power producers and railroads, which
require consistent investment in infrastructure and equipment.  So-called value investors such as Buffett also purchase
companies when their stock prices are low by historical
standards compared with earnings.  Alliant is now one of 32 U.S. companies with values from $2
billion to $10 billion with capital expenses accounting for at
least 10 percent of their net fixed assets; a return on equity
exceeding 10 percent; profit growth in the past five years that
ranked in the top 50 percent; and an average price-earnings
ratio in that span that was less than the median company in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wisconsin Energy  “ Warren Buffett  has always liked the regulated utility
model,”  Travis Miller , a utility analyst at Morningstar in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “This is one of the
more attractive utilities right now. He’s got a lot of cash
available and we wouldn’t be surprised to see him make a move.”  Wisconsin Energy and Xcel Energy could also buy Alliant,
according to William Costello, a Dallas-based utility analyst
and money manager at Westwood, which oversees $14 billion.  Milwaukee-based Wisconsin Energy, which has a market value
of $7.7 billion, and Alliant would be a “great combination”
because Wisconsin Energy would be able to add customers in Iowa
and Minnesota, he said. Alliant would also provide Minneapolis-
based Xcel, which has a capitalization of $12.7 billion, with
assets in Iowa and a bigger presence in  Wisconsin , considered an
attractive state for regulated utilities, he said.  “Alliant fits pretty well with either of them and would
give them both a little bit more diversification and more
longer-term growth prospects,” said Costello, whose firm owns
shares of  Wisconsin Energy (WEC)  and Xcel. “Both of those companies
would love to be buyers. I’d be happy to see either one of them
merge with Alliant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 