-- 
Alumni Give Back to Alma Mater by Buying Bonds, Loop’s Knox Says

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-12-07T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/alumni-give-back-to-alma-mater-by-buying-bonds-loop-s-knox-says.html
Ohio State University sold $500
million of taxable 100-year bonds Oct. 19, which helped bring
the total issuance of century bonds to the highest in 15 years.
Lerry Knox, senior vice president at Loop Capital Markets LLC in
 Chicago , who worked on a recent $212 million sale for the
University of  Connecticut , discussed via e-mail the financing of
higher education and alumni involvement for today’s issue of the
Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market newsletter.  Q: Do universities reach out to their alumni when they’re
going to sell bonds?  A: Historically, most universities have not made it a
practice for a targeted outreach to their alumni base during the
bond-offering period. However, we are finding it more common in
recent bond offerings for universities to make a concerted
effort to inform their alumni base of upcoming bond offerings.  Many universities also design specific retail-only order
periods to give alumni and retail investors the opportunity to
purchase bonds in advance of the institutional order periods.
These retail order periods occur either a day or two before
institutional pricing, or retail orders are given priority over
institutional orders for bonds.  Q: About how often do alumni buy bonds from their alma
mater?  A. Generally speaking, most people lump alumni investors
with retail investors. As such, this data is difficult to
isolate in a bond offering, and to distinguish alumni
participation from general mom-and-pop retail and professional
retail orders.  However, what I find to be an often overlooked aspect of
“alumni participation” is the fact that institutional
investors are alumni of some great institution. And many times,
if the investment opportunity fits within their portfolio
objectives, alumni portfolio managers enjoy buying the bonds of
their school and supporting their alma mater. So you can imagine
it is very difficult to pinpoint alumni support from the general
buying public and institutional investors.  Q: What distinguishes universities in regard to alumni
support?  A. If we consider retail orders as a proxy for individual
alumni support, we find that universities that make a specific
effort to inform their alumni base regarding the bond offering
are also universities that hold a high premium for retail
participation generally. Therefore, these schools often have
high retail participation in their offerings compared to schools
that do not have this practice.  Q: Have you heard of some possible motivations behind
alumni’s purchase of these bonds?  A: The ability for investors to give back to their school
while at the same time earning a return on their investments.
This is a classic win-win situation for the university and the
alumni investor. Generally speaking, retail investors, again as
a proxy for alumni, are less price sensitive and will accept a
lower yield than institutional investors. As a result, this
helps lower the overall borrowing costs to the university. So
the alumni provide needed financial support for their
universities and the universities are able to reduce the overall
borrowing costs of their bond offering.  Q: How much of this has do to with the demand for education
bonds in general?  A. The higher-education sector is one of the strongest
sectors in the municipal and corporate markets. I think that
this is evidenced by the four century-bond transactions that
were sold in the higher-education sector this year. The ability
of higher-education institutions such as the  Ohio State
University , USC, MIT and CalTech to access credit markets at a
far longer maturity than just about any corporate or even
sovereign borrower speaks to the relative strength of the
sector.  I think that Moody’s said it best in a sector comment where
they stated that “Premier U.S. universities’ access to the vast
pools of global wealth in the taxable  bond market  is credit
positive because it gives them additional channels to raise
money and greater flexibility in how to spend it.” Moody’s also
stated, “Investors perceive top universities as stable entities
likely to survive the next hundred years. Universities in  Europe 
began operating 1,000 years ago, while the oldest U.S.
universities predate the federal government.”  That is not to say that this sector is not without its
risks: declining enrollments, operational reliance on endowment
earnings, decreasing state and federal funding. But, well-
managed universities have the ability to access both the tax-
exempt and taxable markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  