-- 
American Economy Rebounding as Investor Favorite in Global Poll

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/american-economy-rebounding-as-rising-favorite-of-investors-in-global-poll.html
The U.S. receives its highest rating
from international investors in more than two years on new
optimism that the world’s largest economy will weather the
financial crisis in  Europe  and avoid a recession in 2012,
according to a Bloomberg poll.  More than two in five of those surveyed -- 41 percent --
identify the U.S. as among the markets that will perform best
over the next year. That’s up from less than one in three who
felt that way in September and is the biggest percentage for the
U.S. since the survey began in October 2009. It’s also almost
double that of the next two top-rated markets, Brazil and  China ,
according to the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll conducted Dec.
5-6 of 1,097 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers.  The U.S. “may not be in the best shape ever, but compared
to others it should outperform,” Alexis Laming, a poll
respondent and associate director for Arab Bank ( Switzerland )
Ltd. in Geneva, says in an e-mail. It has “good growth
potential for next year.”  Less than a quarter of investors say they expect the U.S.
to relapse into recession within the next year, according to the
poll. In September, half those surveyed forecast a U.S. economic
contraction within that time frame.  U.S. respondents are more optimistic about the American
market than their counterparts overseas: More than half pick it
as a best-performing market for 2012 compared with a third of
non-U.S. investors who do the same.  Treasuries Safest  Investors also give a vote of confidence in the U.S.
Treasury market. Seven in 10 say Treasuries will remain the
safest investment for at least the next year, while 47 percent
say they anticipate the market will have that distinction for at
least the next three years.  European investors are the most skeptical about U.S.
government bonds: Almost 40 percent say the securities aren’t
the safest investment now.  The poll follows the release of a series of stronger-than-
forecast economic statistics in the U.S. The  unemployment rate 
fell last month to 8.6 percent, its lowest level since March
2009, while manufacturers reported that their business expanded
in November at its fastest pace in five months. Still, the
jobless number compares with the 5.0 percent rate at the start
of the last recession in December 2007.  Global Prospects Better  The prospects for the global economy also are improving,
though not as much as for the U.S., according to the poll. One
in three investors -- 33 percent -- say they expect the world
economy to fall into recession within the next year, down 10
percentage points from September.  Stocks, especially U.S. shares, are the asset class of
choice, based on the poll. Almost two of five surveyed identify
equities as the investment that will offer the highest returns
over the next year, while 43 percent say they plan to increase
their exposure to  stocks (INDU)  in the next six months. That’s up from
39 percent in September.  Almost half of investors say they expect the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to rise in the first half of next year. That’s
a higher percentage than for stock markets in Europe and  Asia .
The S&P index yesterday rose 0.1 percent in New York to
1,258.47, a three-week high.  Avoiding Europe  “Equity valuations are currently very attractive and have
quite a bit of room to run,” John Macdonald, a poll participant
and account executive at Balance Sheet Solutions LLC in
Warrenville,  Illinois , says in an e-mail, adding that his
comments shouldn’t be construed as a recommendation to buy
shares. He sees “a bona fide bull market cycle” developing as
an expanding U.S. jobs market boosts  consumer confidence  and the
European Union reaches “some form of resolution” of its debt
crisis.  Until that happens, though, investors are steering clear of
Europe, according to the poll. More than half those surveyed
name the EU as among the markets that will suffer the worst
returns over the next year.  Asian investors are the most downbeat on Europe: More than
three in five say its markets will perform the worst in 2012.
Forty-three percent of Europeans single out their region as a
market to avoid.  A majority of respondents say they plan to reduce their
exposure to European sovereign debt and the euro over the next
six months. The currency stood at $1.34 at 4:08 p.m. in  New York 
yesterday.  EU on ‘Precipice’  “I am dumbfounded by the current situation globally,”
says survey respondent David Jaderlund, a general partner at
Jaderlund Investments in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “The EU is on
the precipice, yet is valued” at 1.34 to the dollar, he adds in
an e-mail.  European leaders will meet in Brussels on Dec. 8-9 in their
latest attempt to tackle the region’s financial crisis. As part
of that effort, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have called for new rules to tighten
euro-area economic cooperation.  The brightening outlook for the U.S. and world economies
has encouraged investors to become less conservative with their
money, the poll results show. About a quarter of those surveyed
intend to increase their holdings of commodities over the next
six months, up from 19 percent in September.  Pluralities of more than 40 percent say they expect prices
for both gold and crude oil to rise in the first half of next
year. Gold futures for February delivery fell 0.2 percent to
settle at $1,731.80 an ounce at 1:46 p.m. on the Comex in New
York yesterday. Prices have climbed 22 percent this year. Crude
oil for January delivery  rose (SPX)  29 cents to $101.28 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Futures are up 
11 percent this year.  Fewer Cash Reserves  Thirty-six percent of investors plan to build their cash
reserves over the next six months. That’s down from 42 percent
in September, which was the highest percentage reported since
the poll began asking that question in June 2010.  Bonds are identified as the asset class that will offer the
worst returns over the next year: Almost three in 10 singled
them out for that distinction. Even though U.S. Treasuries are
seen as safe, almost two in five respondents say they’ll reduce
their holdings in the securities in the first half of 2012.  Forty six percent forecast that the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note will be higher six months from now, compared with
40 percent who said that in September, the poll shows. The yield
on the 10-year note stood at 2.09 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time yesterday.  The dollar still finds favor among investors. More than one
in three say they are increasing their holdings of the U.S.
currency; only 14 percent are reducing them.  U.S. Improving  Thirty-eight percent of those contacted say the  U.S.
economy  is improving, almost four times as many as those saying
that in September. About a quarter say it is deteriorating, down
from three in five in September. The balance described the U.S.
economy as stable. Less than one in 10 expect another financial
meltdown in the U.S. within the next year.  The world economy is described as deteriorating by 54
percent of those polled, compared with 68 percent who felt that
way in September.  Geopolitical events may alter the outlook. Twenty-four
percent of those surveyed expect a military strike against
 Iran’s nuclear program  within the next year. Another 35 percent
anticipate that occurring within the next two to five years.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.0 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  