-- 
Manchester United, City Exit as Basel, Napoli Advance in Champions League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-07T23:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/manchester-united-city-exit-as-basel-napoli-advance-in-champions-league.html
Manchester rivals United and City
exited soccer’s  Champions League  as Basel and Napoli qualified
for the round of 16 at the expense of the English teams.  Basel won 2-1 at home last night against three-time
champion United to finish second in Group C. Napoli beat
Villarreal 2-0 to take the runner-up spot in Group A, one point
ahead of City, which beat  Bayern Munich  2-0.  United, the 2008 champion and runner-up to Barcelona last
season, hasn’t exited at the group stage since 2005-06 and was a
finalist in three of the past four years.  “It’s a big blow,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told the
website of tournament organizer UEFA. “The last few years have
been outstanding and it’s a loss because it’s the best
tournament in the world.”  The top two teams in each of the eight groups qualified for
the knockout rounds of the continent’s top club competition.
United and City are among the third-place teams who dropped into
the second-tier Europa League.  Lyon and  CSKA Moscow  also reached the next round on the
final night of group play. Lyon routed Dinamo Zagreb 7-1 to
finish runner-up in Group D, while CSKA took second place in
Group B by beating Inter Milan 2-1.  Real Madrid completed a perfect run through group play by
beating Ajax 3-0, Benfica defeated Otelul Galati 1-0 and Lille
and Trabzonspor tied 0-0 in the other games.  Needing to draw in  Switzerland  to ensure it reached the
round of 16, Manchester United found itself a goal behind after
nine minutes, when Marco Streller scored for the home team.  ‘Big Blow’  “Losing the early goal was a big blow,” Ferguson said.
“When you’re away from home and 1-0 down you have a job to do
and we didn’t take our chances.”  Basel defender Markus Steinhofer came close to giving
United a goal in the second half when his attempted clearance of
Nani’s cross hit the crossbar.  Alexander Frei then made it 2-0 in the 84th minute, before
 Phil Jones  scored for United four minutes later.  United then pressured for the tying goal and finished with
a 21-11 shot advantage without being able to beat Sommer again.  “It’s crazy, we beat  Manchester United ,” Basel goalkeeper
Yann Sommer said on the Champions League website. “We are a
Swiss team against Manchester United. We believed in ourselves
and fought to the end.”  Benfica’s home win over Otelul Galati gave it the top spot
in Group C. Oscar Cardozo scored for the Portuguese club, which
had already qualified for the next round.  Napoli Edges City  Manchester City  needed to beat Bayern, which had already
clinched first place in the group, and have Napoli fail to win
in Villarreal to secure a place in the next round.  City led 2-0 in its game and appeared poised to advance
before Napoli scored twice in the final 25 minutes to win in
 Spain .  “Nobody gave us a chance,” Napoli forward Ezequiel
Lavezzi said on the Champions League website. “To be in a group
that was so difficult and to get through is really beautiful.”  Gokhan Inler scored after 65 minutes and Marek Hamsik added
a goal 11 minutes later to guarantee Napoli’s advancement.
Premier League leader City got goals from  David Silva  and Yaya Toure.  “We’re obviously disappointed but I must say well done to
Napoli,” City defender  Vincent Kompany  said on the Champions
League website. “They’re a good team and the biggest mistake
anyone could make would be to underestimate them.”  Lyon began the final round of group games three points
behind Ajax and needing to overcome a goal difference of seven.  Fastest Hat Trick  The French team scored six times in the second half to
rout 10-man Dinamo Zagreb and claim second place in Group D from
the Dutch club, a four-time European champion.  Bafetimbi Gomis got three of his four goals in an eight-
minute span of the first and second halves for the fastest hat
trick in Champions League history.  Dinamo’s Jerko Leko was sent off in the 28th minute after
receiving his second yellow card.  “We believed we could do this,” Gomis said on the
Champions League website. “We believed we could do this miracle,
we worked for that.”  Ajax saw its chances crushed at home as Real  Madrid  became
the fifth team, and the first since Spanish rival Barcelona in
2002-03, to win all its group matches.  “This is a huge setback,” Ajax’s Christian Eriksen said
on the Champions League website. “We would never have expected
Lyon to win 7-1. We will need a few days to recover from this.”  Vassili Berezoutski’s 87th-minute score gave CSKA Moscow
the victory over Group B winner Inter Milan. The result lifted
the Russian team, which began the game last in the group, to
eight points, one more than Trabzonspor and two ahead of Lille,
who missed out on their chance to qualify after playing to a
goalless draw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 