-- 
Landsbanki Islands Makes $3.6 Billion Payment on Icesave Claims

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T16:41:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/landsbanki-islands-makes-3-6-billion-payment-on-icesave-claims.html
Iceland  has made the first payment to
cover about $11 billion in depositor losses stemming from the
U.K. and Netherlands, moving the island closer to ending a
three-year dispute with the two countries.  Failed lender  Landsbanki Islands hf , which sold the Icesave
Internet accounts outside Iceland, today disbursed 432 billion
kronur ($3.6 billion) to creditors with priority claims,
including U.K. and Dutch authorities, which have already
compensated depositors who risked losing their savings when the
bank tumbled three years ago.  Today’s payment “is close to one-third of the recognized
priority claims,” the winding-up board of Landsbanki said in a
statement on its  website . “In tandem with making the payments,
the winding-up board deposited in special escrow accounts an
equivalent percentage of all equally ranked claims which are
still disputed or where resolution of disputes is not yet
concluded.”  Iceland in September said it will reimburse Landsbanki’s
foreign depositors for all losses, more than double the amount
covered by guarantees. The island’s  Supreme Court  a month later
upheld an emergency bill that gave depositors priority status
over bondholders, paving the way for Icesave repayments to start
and healing relations with the U.K and the Netherlands.  Still, valuing the assets held in Landsbanki may become
more difficult as  Europe ’s debt crisis roils markets.  Loan Portfolio  “We have to take into the calculations that the European
economic situation isn’t at its best,” Larentsinus Kristjansson, the chairman of Landsbanki’s resolution committee,
said in an Nov. 18 interview. “As of now, that doesn’t impact
our loan portfolio.”  The bank’s committees may delay the sale of Iceland Foods,
of which Landsbanki holds 67 percent, initially due to be
completed this year, to the beginning of 2012, Kristjansson
said. Dow Jones reported on Dec. 5 that TPG Inc. had dropped out
of the bank’s bid for Landsbanki’s stake in the retailer.
Iceland Foods is Landsbanki’s biggest asset.  “We hope that we can complete the sale early next year,
obviously under the condition that the price is right,” he
said. “If we’re not satisfied with the offers we get for our
shares, we might well postpone the sale and wait until the
economic climate is more favorable.”  Book Value  Landsbanki’s committees said last month the bank had
recoveries estimated at 1.35 trillion kronur as of Sept. 30,
exceeding the total 1.32 trillion kronur book value of priority
claims, calculated at exchange rates as of April 22, 2009. The
bank had the equivalent of 510 billion kronur in cash at the end
of last quarter, or about 37 percent of priority claims.  Funds remaining for general claimants such as bondholders
will be between 20 billion kronur and 30 billion kronur,
Kristinn Bjarnason, an attorney and a member of the winding-up
committee, said in an interview last month. Landsbanki
bondholders stand to get about 5 cents on the euro, according to
the latest prices available on the website of HF Verdbref.  Iceland’s banks defaulted on $85 billion at the end of
2008, as the government seized domestic operations in an effort
to protect the $12 billion economy from collapse. The local
assets of Landsbanki,  Kaupthing Bank hf  and Glitnir Bank hf,
were taken over by the state, which created new banks.  Landsbanki’s failure triggered a diplomatic dispute with
the  Netherlands  and the U.K., which both had to cover depositors
in the lender’s Internet accounts. The dispute left about
350,000 foreign depositors in the lurch.  Iceland, which completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program in August, has since outperformed a number of euro
area nations in recovering from the crisis. It will see its
economy grow at more than double the pace of the euro-area
average next year, the IMF said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  