-- 
Marathon, Triathlon Training Can Temporarily Damage the Heart, Study Finds

-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 
2011-12-07T00:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/marathon-triathlon-training-can-temporarily-damage-the-heart-study-finds.html
Marathon runners and others engaging
in extreme endurance exercise may temporarily damage the right
ventricle of their hearts, researchers found.  The impact on the ventricle, one of the four chambers
involved in pumping blood around the body, was reversed after a
week in most of the 40 athletes who took part in a study
published today in the  European Heart Journal . Five of them
showed more lasting damage, the researchers found.  Scientists led by Andre La Gerche, a research fellow at the
 University of Melbourne’s St. Vincent Hospital , set out to probe
the link between endurance exercise and heart function in a
group of elite athletes in  Australia  who planned to compete in
one of four sporting events: a marathon, an endurance triathlon,
an alpine cycling race or an ultra-triathlon.  They found that in most athletes, “the heart rebuilds in a
manner such that it is more capable of sustaining similar
exercise stimulus in the future,” La Gerche, who is currently
based at the University Hospitals Leuven in  Belgium , said in a
statement. “The question is whether there are some athletes in
whom extreme exercise may cause injury from which the heart does
not recover completely.”  The study participants trained for more than 10 hours a
week and had no known heart problems. They agreed to undergo
magnetic resonance imaging, blood tests and echocardiography a
few weeks before the race, immediately after the event and 6 to
11 days later.  Right after the race, the athletes’ hearts had changed
shape, with volume increasing and the function of the ventricle
decreasing, the study found. The five athletes whose hearts
hadn’t fully recovered in the last test showed signs of scarring
known as fibrosis, and they had been training and competing for
longer than the others, the researchers said.  The findings shouldn’t be seen as an indication that
endurance exercise is unhealthy, the researchers wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade at  mfourcadebloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  