-- 
Harry Morgan, Colonel Potter on Landmark TV Show ‘M*A*S*H,’ Is Dead at 96

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-12-07T17:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/harry-morgan-colonel-potter-on-landmark-tv-show-m-a-s-h-is-dead-at-96.html
Harry Morgan, the actor who played
strait-laced U.S. Army Colonel Sherman T. Potter on the
television series “M*A*S*H” through eight of its 11 celebrated
seasons, has died. He was 96.  He died today at his home in  Los Angeles , the  New York 
Times reported, citing his son, Charles Morgan. No cause was
given.  Morgan was 60 years old and a veteran of movies and
television when he introduced the character of Colonel Potter on
“M*A*S*H” in September 1975.  The  show , an often-dark comedy about a mobile Army surgical
hospital during the  Korean War , was entering its fourth season.
The previous season had ended with the doctors and nurses
absorbing the shocking news that their most recent commander,
Lieutenant Colonel Henry Blake (McLean Stevenson), had been
killed in a plane crash on his long trip home after his
discharge.  The happy-go-lucky commander Blake was replaced by Morgan’s
more professional, paternal and complex Potter. A 1983 Time
story said of the character, “A cavalryman in the first World
War who turned medic and was Regular Army to his jodhpurs,
Potter became the stern but sentimental father figure every
MASHman needed 7,000 miles from home.”  In a 2004  interview  with the Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences Foundation, Morgan described Potter, a lover of horses
and an amateur  painter , as a firm yet sentimental commander --
“very human, very kind, a wonderful character, pretty much like
myself.”  ‘Goodbye, Farewell’  Morgan, who was 89 at the time of the interview, said he
still got mail from “M*A*S*H” fans.  Morgan, as Potter, led the unit through the series’  final
episode , “Goodbye, Farewell and Amen,” which became the most-
watched TV show in U.S. history when it aired on Feb. 28, 1983.  With the war over and the unit disbanded, Potter took off
for a final ride on his horse as two of his least regimental
subordinates, played by Alan Alda and Mike Farrell, afforded him
a rare salute.  “They didn’t have that kind of visible respect for the
colonel throughout the show. It was very touching,” Morgan
said.  Morgan won an Emmy Award in 1980 for outstanding supporting
actor. He was nominated for 10 other Emmys.  Morgan joined two other “M*A*S*H” stars in a spinoff,
“AfterMASH,” that continued their storylines back home after
the war. Potter was administrator of a veteran’s hospital in
 Missouri . The show lasted from 1983 to 1985.  Early Years  “It was hard to say goodbye to ‘M*A*S*H,’” Morgan said.
“I could have done it another 10 years.”  Harry Bratsberg was born on April 10, 1915, in  Detroit ,
where his father, Henry, worked for the automobile company
founded by World War I fighter pilot Eddie Rickenbacker.  Henry and Hannah Bratsberg raised Harry and his two younger
siblings in Muskegon,  Michigan . Harry later appeared in  plays  as
Harry “Bratsburg,” changed his name to Henry Morgan after
moving to Hollywood, then -- after realizing there was a radio
comedian by that name -- settled on Harry Morgan.  As a teenager, he aspired to be a lawyer and was part of a
champion debating team in high school. He began studying at the
University of Chicago but ran out of money and went to work for
a Muskegon office-furniture maker, Shaw-Walker.  The company sent him to Washington, where he became
involved in the Civic Theater. He said his first performance was
in “The Front Page.”  Working With Fonda  “I wasn’t enjoying selling  office equipment ; I wasn’t
selling much of it, actually,” Morgan recalled. So he tried
summer stock in Mount Kisco, New York, and Westport,
 Connecticut .  He acted alongside  Henry Fonda  in a stage production of
“The Virginian,” became friends with actress Frances Farmer,
through whom he met his wife, Eileen Detchon, and joined the
Group Theatre in New York, where he worked with Elia Kazan and
Lee Strasberg.  Morgan’s stage career culminated in a role on Broadway in
the Group Theatre’s production of the Clifford Odets play
“ Golden Boy ,” about a young man torn between pursuing paydays
in boxing or his love of the violin.  After moving to Hollywood with his wife in 1942, Morgan
signed with 20th Century Fox and began his film career with “To
the Shores of Tripoli” (1942), which starred Maureen O’Hara and
Randolph Scott.  Television Career  He said his favorite movie was “The Ox-Bow Incident”
(1943), a Western nominated for an Academy Award as best
picture. Morgan and Fonda played cowboys who witness vigilante
justice.  On television, Morgan performed in the CBS situation comedy
“ December Bride ” from 1954 to 1959 and its spinoff, “ Pete and
Gladys ,” from 1960 to 1962.  He played Bill Gannon, the new partner of Sergeant Joe
Friday (Jack Webb), when Webb resurrected the TV series
“ Dragnet ” in 1967.  He made his first appearance on “M*A*S*H” in a guest role
in 1974, one year before joining the show fulltime. He played
the decorated and mentally unbalanced General Bartford Hamilton
Steele, whose visit causes havoc in the military hospital unit.  With Detchon, Morgan had four sons, three of whom survive
him. After her death in 1985, Morgan married the former Barbara
Bushman Quine in 1986.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  