-- 
Stocks Rise Amid Optimism Over European Crisis Summit; Treasuries Advance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-12-07T21:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/asia-stocks-copper-advance-before-europe-summit-aussie-rises-on-gdp-data.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the Dow
Jones Industrial Average to the highest level since October,
amid optimism that European leaders will announce greater
efforts to halt the debt crisis at a summit this week.
Treasuries gained, commodities fell and the euro fluctuated.  The Dow rose 46.24 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at
12,196.37 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2
percent at 4 p.m. New York time. The euro was little changed at
$1.3412, recovering from a loss of as much as 0.4 percent. Ten-
year Treasury yields decreased for the first time this week,
losing six basis points to 2.03 percent. The S&P GSCI Index of
commodities slumped 0.9 percent as sugar, coffee, gasoline and
wheat lost more than 2 percent.  The  S&P 500  erased an  earlier loss (SPX)  in the final hour of
trading after Nikkei reported that the Group of 20 nations is
considering a $600 billion  International Monetary Fund  lending
program to supplement  Europe ’s efforts to tame the sovereign-
debt crisis. Stocks trimmed gains in the final minutes as CNBC
said the IMF denied the report.  “It’s difficult to get a bottom line outcome on the
European situation,” Philip Dow, director of equity strategy at
Minneapolis-based RBC Wealth Management which oversees about
$160 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Macro concerns
are driving the market,” he said. “It’s a challenging
environment to manage money.”  JPMorgan Rallies  Financial shares in the S&P 500 rose 1.2 percent as a
group, leading gains among seven of the 10 main industry groups.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. climbed 2.3 percent after Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the company can buy back $1 billion or
more in stock, adding that the bank may or may not repurchase
more shares.  JPMorgan led the  Dow’s advance (INDU) , followed by gains of at
least 1.2 percent in Bank of America Corp., Johnson & Johnson,
Cisco Systems Inc. and American Express Co.  The S&P 500 extended its gain for the year to 0.3 percent
and the Dow is up 5.4 percent in 2011.  Pressure on Europe’s leaders to halt the spread of the
region’s debt crisis at a summit starting tomorrow intensified
as the EU had its AAA long-term rating put on “creditwatch
negative” by S&P following a similar action on 15 of the 17
euro governments. The action "does not have any impact on the
sovereign credit ratings on non-Eurozone members of the European
Union," John Piecuch, director of communications at S&P, said in
an e-mail.  Deutsche Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA were among European
lenders that also were given a negative outlook by S&P.  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.2 percent. Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Italy ’s third-biggest bank, led a drop
among lenders. ING Groep NV fell 4.7 percent after saying it
plans to take a charge related to its U.S. annuity business.  European stocks  gained earlier  after the Financial Times
reported yesterday that officials were negotiating a bigger
rescue effort to discuss at the European summit, including
running both temporary and permanent rescue funds in tandem.
Gains evaporated after Germany rejected combining the current
and permanent euro-area rescue funds and expressed pessimism
over the outcome of this week’s summit.  Three euro-area officials with knowledge of policy makers’
deliberations said the  European Central Bank  may announce a
range of measures tomorrow to fight the crisis.  Options for the ECB include loosening collateral criteria
so that institutions have more access to cheap ECB cash and
offering them longer-term loans, said the officials, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  IMF Report  After U.S. financial markets closed, Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today there has not been discussion
among the  Group (S5FINL)  of 20 nations on a $600 billion plan to boost
lending to the IMF. He reiterated that  Canada  opposed the idea
of the IMF leading a loan package for Europe and said the
region’ s governments should solve the problem internally.  The euro depreciated against 11 of its 16 major peers,
while the dollar weakened against 13.  Most international investors predict at least one nation
will eventually dump the euro and they say greater fiscal ties
or a smaller currency area are the best fixes for the region’s
debt crisis, according to the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll.
Almost half the respondents in the poll say one or more
countries will leave the 17-nation bloc within a year and almost
a third more predict an exit by the end of 2016.  Never before has the euro influenced U.S. stocks as much as
this year, a sign that American equities aren’t going anywhere
until Europe’s crisis is solved.  The link between the Dow average and swings in the currency
reached a record on Dec. 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The so-called correlation coefficient showing how
much two markets rise and fall in tandem hit 0.85, the highest
level since the euro was founded in 1999, data on 60-day rolling
averages show. A reading of 1 means assets are moving in
lockstep.  German, Portugal Bonds  German bonds advanced after bids exceeded the target at an
auction. The yield on the German five-year note fell seven basis
points to 1.04 percent.  Germany  got bids for 8.67 billion euros
($11.6 billion) of five-year notes sold today, more than the
maximum target of 5 billion euros, the Bundesbank said.  The Portuguese two-year note yield dropped 120 basis points
to 15.94 percent, according to generic Bloomberg rates. The
government issued bills due March 2012 at an average yield of
4.873 percent, down from 4.895 percent at a previous auction on
Nov. 16. Italian 10-year bond yields reversed earlier declines,
gaining 12 basis points to 5.99 percent.  Libor Climbs  The rate at which London-based banks say they can borrow
for three months in dollars rose to the highest level since July
2009 as the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis intensifies. The
London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , for three-month dollar
loans climbed to 0.54000 percent, from 0.53775 percent
yesterday, data from the British Bankers’ Association showed.  The ECB said demand for three-month dollar loans jumped
after it almost halved the cost of the funds in a concerted
action with five other central banks including the U.S. Federal
Reserve. The ECB said it will lend $50.7 billion to 34 euro-area
banks tomorrow for 84 days at a fixed rate of 0.59 percent. That
compares with the $395 million lent in the last three-month
offering on Nov. 9 at a rate of 1.09 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  