-- 
Assad Is ‘Tool’ or Disconnected From Reality, U.S. Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-12-08T11:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/assad-denies-ordering-military-crackdown-on-syria-s-civilian-demonstrators.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
denial that he ordered the violent crackdown on protesters
suggests that he is either a “tool” of others in the regime or
he is “completely disconnected” from reality, said U.S. State
Department spokesman Mark Toner.  “There was no command to kill or be brutal,” Assad said
yesterday in a pre-recorded television interview with ABC News
in Damascus. When asked whether his security forces acted too
harshly, he said: “They are not my forces. They are military
forces that belong to the government. I don’t own them.”  Toner said Assad’s claim “either says that he’s completely
lost any power that he had within  Syria  -- that he’s simply a
tool -- or that he’s completely disconnected with reality.”  “What is very clear is that the Syrian security apparatus
is carrying out this -- a clear campaign against peaceful
protesters,” the State Department spokesman said at the daily
news briefing. Responsibility for the violence and bloodshed
“ultimately rests on Assad and his cronies,” he said.  The United Nations estimated on Dec. 1 that more than 4,000
people have been killed since March, when protesters began
taking to the streets inspired by movements that toppled leaders
in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . Tens of thousands have been
arrested and more than 14,000 are reported to be in detention
since unrest began, according to the UN.  ‘Turning Against Him’  Economic and political pressure has been increasing on
Assad to end the violence, which risks moving Syria to a civil
war as soldiers defect and take up arms against the government,
with increasing reports of attacks against military and
infrastructure targets.  The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency today reported a
blast at a pipeline in the central Homs region, where some of
the biggest clashes in recent weeks has occurred. Al Jazeera
television said the pipeline caught fire after the explosion.  Assad “is turning the senior officers against him,” Muhy
al-Deen al-Lathiqani, a member of the Syrian opposition, said
after the president’s comments were aired. “They are saying now
that he is abandoning us by not taking responsibility and
escaping it all,” he said in an interview with  Al Arabiya .  The Syrian president may have little sway over elements of
the security forces, including “members of the family who are
not necessarily going to listen to him, and also the old guard
left from his father’s day,” said  Mustafa Alani , director of
national security at the Geneva-based Gulf Research Center.  ‘Dual Military Structure’  “Syria has a dual military structure, those that protect
the regime and those that protect the state, and this is not
under his control,” Alani said in a phone interview. “You
can’t rule out the possibility of civil war” with the two
branches of the security forces on opposing sides, he said.  Assad’s family and many top military officials are members
of the Alawite sect, affiliated with Shia Islam, which is a
minority in Syria and whose privileged status may be at risk
should a change of government create a state dominated by the
Sunni majority.  The Arab League Dec. 6 said it would maintain its economic
sanctions on Syria, rebuffing a demand by its government to
remove the measures as one of several conditions for admitting
monitors. In a show of support for Syrian protesters, U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met in Geneva Dec. 6 with the
Syrian National Council, a coalition of opposition groups.  The Local Coordination Committee in Syria, a network of
activists, has called for a “dignity strike” and civil
disobedience on Dec. 12,  according to its website .  ‘Some Mistakes’  Assad said most of the people who have been killed in
protests and fighting since March were his supporters and troops
and the dead include 1,100 soldiers and police officers. He
asked for the UN to send “concrete evidence” to support
allegations that Syria has committed  war crimes .  “We are talking about false allegations and a distortion
of reality,” Assad said when asked about the UN findings. “Who
said that the  United Nations  is a credible institution?”  There was no command to kill or be brutal, said Assad, who
conceded that some members of the armed forces did exceed
limits. He said those soldiers were punished for doing so.  “Every ‘brute reaction’ was by an individual, not by an
institution, that’s what you have to know,” he said. “There is
a difference between having a policy to crack down and between
having some mistakes committed by some officials.”  U.S. Comments ‘Regrettable’  Jihad Makdissi, a Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman, said
in a televised news conference in Damascus yesterday that Assad
was making no attempt in the interview to absolve himself of any
responsibility. “It is regrettable and not normal that the
American State Department used the president’s comments out of
context,” he said.  The  Arab League  on Dec. 3 ordered a freeze on the assets of
19 Syrian officials, a ban on their travel and a reduction in
flights to Syria if the government refuses to admit
international monitors, release political prisoners and end its
crackdown on protests. The punitive measures against Syria are
the first the Arab League has imposed on a member state since
its formation in 1945.  The U.S. and the European Union have their own sanctions
against Syria, while the UN Security Council wasn’t able to pass
any punitive measures after Russia and  China  objected to a
resolution condemning the violence in October.  Assad said the threat of sanctions doesn’t worry him.  “We’re not isolated,” he said. “You have people coming
and going, you have trade, you have everything.”  When asked whether he regretted the violence, the Syrian
president said: “You feel sorry for the lives that have been
lost. But you don’t feel guilty when you don’t kill people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  