-- 
AT&T Says IPhone to Help Push Smartphone Sales to Record

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-12-07T21:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/at-t-says-smartphone-sales-in-fourth-quarter-nearing-record.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless operator, said smartphone sales in the fourth quarter
are likely to hit a record, driven by devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The company said it sold 6 million smartphones in the first
two months of the period, compared with the previous quarterly
record of 6.1 million in the third quarter of 2010. Since
December is traditionally one of the strongest months for sales,
AT&T said it expects to push past the previous mark.  “We expected this to be one of our strong smartphone sales
quarters ever,” John Stephens, the company’s chief financial
officer, said today at a UBS AG conference in  New York . “What
we didn’t know was that we would nearly break our smartphone
sales record in just the first two months of the quarter.”  AT&T, the first operator to offer the Apple phone in the
U.S., sells the latest model, the iPhone 4S, and the older
iPhone 3GS, which is free with a two-year service contract. It
also offers devices that run on Google Inc.’s Android operating
system from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.  Sales of smartphones, which are typically subsidized by
carriers to gain future service revenue, are expected to have a
near-term negative impact on margins and earnings, Dallas-based
AT&T said in a regulatory filing. Still, the upfront costs are
worth the benefits in the future, Stephens said.  T-Mobile Deal  “The benefits of this incredible growth are clear: these
subscribers are the premium customers for the industry, helping
create long-term value and stability,” he said. “It’s an
investment we are more than willing to make.”  Walter Piecyk , an analyst with BTIG LLC, estimates that
AT&T will sell 8.7 million smartphones in the fourth quarter,
with 5.3 million of those being Apple iPhones.  Stephens declined to give details about the negotiations to
complete AT&T’s proposed acquisition of  T-Mobile USA , a deal the
U.S. Justice Department has sued to block.  AT&T is “motivated to complete” a deal with  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile’s parent company, he said.  AT&T rose 0.8 percent to $29.40 at the close in New York
and is little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  