-- 
Aussie Dollar Advances After Economy Expanded, Before EU Summit

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-12-07T01:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/aussie-dollar-advances-after-economy-expanded-before-eu-summit.html
The Australian dollar rose against
most of its 16 major peers after a report showed the country’s
gross domestic product expanded more than economists forecast
last quarter.  Demand for the Australian and New Zealand dollars was
supported after Financial Times reported European governments
may combine their temporary and planned permanent rescue
facilities before a summit this week. The South Pacific nations’
currencies slid late yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  put
 Europe ’s bailout fund on watch for a credit downgrade.  “The GDP data was strong and that is bullish for the
Aussie,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “It suggests that the
economy is still doing quite well. I think it will take back
some of the rate-cut expectations.”  The Australian dollar advanced 0.3 percent to $1.0272 as of
11:43 a.m. in Sydney from $1.0245 yesterday in  New York , when it
fell 0.3 percent. The currency rose 0.3 percent to 79.86 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was little changed at
78.05 U.S. cents from 77.98 cents. It rose to 60.68 yen from
60.59 yen yesterday, when it dropped 0.2 percent.  Australia ’s gross domestic product expanded 1.0 percent in
the third quarter from the previous three months, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That compared with the median
of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.8 percent
gain. Compared with a year earlier, the economy expanded 2.5
percent in the third quarter, today’s report showed. Economists
forecast a 1.9 percent year-over-year gain.  Funding Proposal  The Financial Times reported yesterday the funding proposal
was being debated ahead of the Dec. 8 summit. Operating the
European Stability Mechanism in combination with the 440
billion-euro ($590 billion) temporary fund next year would
potentially boost Europe’s anti-crisis resources to 940 billion
euros.  The Australian and  New Zealand  currencies declined late
yesterday after S&P added the Europe’s bailout fund to the 15
euro nations placed on a negative outlook before a summit of
European leaders this week. Germany, France, Netherlands,
Austria, Finland and Luxembourg -- the euro area’s six AAA rated
countries -- are among the nations being placed on “CreditWatch
negative” by S&P.  “We could lower the long-term  credit rating  on EFSF by one
or two notches if we were to lower the ‘AAA’ sovereign ratings,
which are currently on CreditWatch, on one or more of EFSF ‘s
guarantor members,’’ S&P said in a statement yesterday.  ‘‘We’ll tread waters until the European summit,’’ said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a
unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker. ‘If they can
deliver, obviously the Aussie dollar will get a significant
boost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  