-- 
Barclays See Australian ‘Champions’ Restoring Deal Balance

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T02:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/australian-champions-to-restore-balance-in-foreign-deals-barclays-says.html
Australia , after yielding its biggest
brewer, sugar refiner, wheat seller and pulverized coal exporter
to foreign acquirers in the past two years, is poised for an
increase in takeovers overseas as companies seize on a strong
currency, according to Barclays Plc.  The value of purchases abroad by Australian companies may
match that of inbound deals next year, said Daniel Janes, the
head of mergers and acquisitions for Australia at  Barclays
Capital . That hasn’t happened since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The core theme for 2012 is rebalancing,” said Janes,
whose firm helped  Canada ’s Agrium Inc. buy local wheat exporter
AWB Ltd. in 2010. “One of the parts will be Australian
champions taking their opportunities on the global stage.”  Australia’s natural resources, health care, consumer and
agricultural companies operate in global industries and are
encouraged by a favorable  exchange rate  to scout the world for
assets, Janes said. The Australian dollar has gained 54 percent
since October 2008.  “The exchange rate makes it more attractive to buy rather
than sell, as long as the sectors are flourishing,” said Ron
Masulis, a finance professor at the Australian School of
Business in Sydney, part of the University of New South Wales.
“But it’s wise for any potential acquirer to be a bit gun-shy,
especially as they move further away from their base.”  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , based in  London , in September agreed to buy
Foster’s Group Plc, maker of Victoria Bitter. St. Louis-based
Peabody Inc. is buying Macarthur Coal Ltd. of Brisbane.  ‘Elephant Deals’  Those acquisitions were among the $72 billion of inbound
purchases announced in 2011, according to Bloomberg data. That’s
more than double the $28 billion of acquisitions overseas by
Australian companies, which included the $12.1 billion takeover
by Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, of Petrohawk Energy Corp. in Houston.  Such “elephant deals” have reinforced confidence in
takeovers among Australian boards, Janes, 39, said in the Dec. 5
interview in Sydney. Barclays Capital ranks third behind Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. among merger arrangers
in Australia this year, up from 17th in 2010.  The gap between the price companies are seeking for assets
and what buyers were prepared to pay narrowed in the second
half, and more sales are planned for next quarter, Janes said.
He declined to name any potential acquirers.  “No year is ever considered successful unless the elephant
deals come to pass,” said Janes. “This year had its good share
of elephant deals, but 2012 should reflect the same level.
Australia has the opportunity to create leading companies and
take them out onto the international market and acquire.”  Centro’s Failure  The value of announced takeovers involving Australian
companies stands at $132 billion so far in 2011, compared with
$148 billion for all of last year, Bloomberg data show,  Not all Australian companies have enjoyed success overseas.
 Centro Properties Group  this month won final approval to convert
borrowings into equity after a debt-fueled $9 billion U.S.
buying spree between 2006 and 2007 backfired.  Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. cost Foster’s at least $8
billion to build through acquisitions such as Beringer Wine
Estates Holdings Inc. in 2000. Treasury was spun off in May and
now has a market value of A$2.5 billion ($2.6 billion).  National Australia Bank Ltd., Australia’s fourth-largest
lender, in October 1997 agreed to pay $1.2 billion for HomeSide
Inc., a U.S. home-loan provider. The bank sold HomeSide in 2002
after $2.2 billion of writedowns stemming from the takeover.  In Australia, Janes said he expects private-equity firms to
buy and sell more assets in 2012 as access to credit improves.
They’re likely to bid for companies in healthcare and consumer-
related industries, and for those offering services to the
 mining industry , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  