-- 
Australia’s Economy Expands More Than Forecast on Consumers, Mining Growth

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-07T03:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/australia-s-economy-expands-more-than-forecast-on-consumers-mining-growth.html
Australia’s economy grew faster than
estimated last quarter on  consumer spending  and mining-driven
investment, spurring the local currency as investors pared bets
on the pace of interest-rate cuts next year.  Gross domestic product rose 1 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4 percent the prior
quarter, the fastest pace in four years, a Bureau of Statistics
report released in Sydney today said. The median of 24 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for 0.8 percent growth.  The data show the only Group of 10 economy to avoid a
recession during the global credit crisis was well placed before
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified, Citigroup Inc.
economists said.  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens  has lowered
rates at consecutive meetings for the first time since 2009, and
investors today reduced odds for a 50-basis-point cut on Feb. 7.  “The result should allow RBA Board members to enjoy their
Christmas-New Year break,” said  Paul Brennan , a senior
economist at Citigroup in Sydney. “Economic momentum finished
the third quarter solidly and recent cuts in official  interest
rates  should help safeguard sectors of the economy most exposed
to short-term cyclical swings until the RBA board next meets.”  Currency Gains  The Australian dollar rose after the report, buying $1.0268
at 1:30 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0243 before the data.  Compared with a  year earlier , the economy expanded 2.5
percent in the third quarter, today’s report showed. Economists
forecast a 1.9 percent year-over-year gain.  Yields on interbank cash-rate futures for the next five
months climbed, with the April contract gaining 8 basis points
to 3.35 percent, the highest level in almost a month.  Household spending rose 1.2 percent in the third quarter,
adding 0.7 percentage point to GDP growth, today’s report
showed. Non-dwelling construction jumped 24.4 percent, adding
1.5 points, the report showed. Machinery and equipment advanced
6.4 percent, contributing 0.4 point to the expansion.  “The economy is certainly not weak,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP  Australia , Ltd., a unit of
the world’s biggest interdealer broker.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and its demand
for iron ore, coal and energy drove the nation’s terms of trade
-- a measure of export prices relative to import prices -- to a
record this year.  Mining Boom  Mining increased 3.7 percent, adding 0.3 point, today’s
report showed.  Resource projects valued at A$456 billion ($468 billion),
driven by companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , have cushioned a
slump in manufacturing and services hit by a record currency and
subdued consumer spending.  Today’s report showed the resource-rich states of Western
Australia and Queensland led growth. Western Australia’s economy
expanded 8.4 percent last quarter from three months prior, and
16.4 percent from a year earlier. Queensland grew 3.5 percent
last quarter and 9.3 percent from the year before.  Private-sector business investment surged 12.9 percent from
the prior quarter and 22.7 percent from a year earlier,
economists at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and
ICAP said.  “The strong investment outcomes are further evidence of
the massive pipeline of planned investment in Australia,”
Treasurer Wayne Swan said in a statement after the data were
released.  Government Spending   The report also showed government spending dropped 1.2
percent, subtracting 0.2 point from GDP growth. Imports rose 4.3
percent, subtracting 1 point.  The nation’s household savings ratio rose to 10.1 percent
in the three months through September from 9.1 percent in the
second quarter, today’s report showed.  “The Australian economy certainly recorded healthy
growth,” said  Savanth Sebastian , a Sydney-based economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender.
“However, the focus for the Reserve Bank is likely to be the
uncertain global economic environment and the downside risks
emanating from  Europe .”  Stevens, in yesterday’s statement announcing his decision
to lower the benchmark rate a quarter percentage point to 4.25
percent, warned of rising risks to global growth.  “The sovereign credit and banking problems in Europe, to
which European governments are still seeking to craft a full
response, are likely to weigh on economic activity there over
the period ahead,” he said.  Australia’s jobless rate fell to 5.2 percent in October as
employment gained by 10,100 workers. Government data tomorrow
may show unemployment stayed at that level in November, with the
number of workers increasing by 10,000, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  