-- 
Barclays to Stop Retail Lending in India, Cut 200 Positions

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-08T01:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/barclays-plans-to-stop-new-retail-loan-operations-in-india.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to stop offering
new retail loans in  India  to focus on  wealth management  and
corporate and investment banking as the nation’s economic growth
shows signs of cooling.  The bank aims to “consolidate and build a sustained
profitable Indian business” based on its strengths, spokesman
Subhayu Mishra said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. Existing loans will continue, and the lender will
maintain its deposits business, he said.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, will
eliminate 200 of its 1,200 retail banking positions in India as
it winds down consumer lending operations, a person with
knowledge of the matter said, declining to be identified as the
information is confidential. Cuts in the country come amid the
slowest quarterly growth since 2009 and headcount reductions at
banks worldwide stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The London-based bank will cut the number of branches at
its Indian finance unit to less than 10 from about 27 now, the
person said. That’s down from a peak of about 79 outlets in 2010.
Barclays is also in the process of selling about 32 billion
rupees ($622 million) of retail loans in India, the person said.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  has bought about 1.75 billion rupees
of credit-card loans from Barclays in India, Arijit De, a
Standard Chartered spokesman in India, said yesterday.  Barclays’s plan to wind down its retail banking operations
in India and sell some of the assets was reported yesterday by
the Economic Times newspaper.  Global Job Cuts  Barclays is among global banks cutting staff as Europe’s
debt crisis and increased regulation threatens to erode earnings.
The bank said Nov. 1 that it had already eliminated 3,500 jobs
this year, ahead of its August prediction that it would remove
3,000 posts.  Citigroup (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
said yesterday it will cut about 4,500 jobs in coming quarters
to reduce costs amid slumping revenue and “unprecedented”
market conditions.  Barclays is halting new retail loan operations in an
economy that expanded at the slowest pace in almost two years,
and where the rupee has fallen almost 14 percent this year as
investors sold emerging-market assets on concern Europe’s debt
crisis will trigger a global recession.  India’s $1.7 trillion economy expanded last quarter at the
slowest pace in almost two years after the central bank raised
 interest rates  to tame inflation. The nation has also signaled
it’s prepared to act against excessive declines in the rupee, as
 Asia ’s worst performing currency this year threatens to
exacerbate the fastest inflation among so-called BRIC nations
and hurt growth.  The recent sharp depreciation isn’t a sign of
“helplessness in dealing with the kind of global turbulence we
are seeing,” central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in
Mumbai on Dec. 3. “We do have the instruments to do this in the
form of strategic  capital controls , which can be used to enhance
the supply of foreign exchange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  