-- 
Bargain Bank Values in Europe Fail to Lure Buyers

-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-12-08T17:23:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bargain-bank-values-in-europe-fail-to-lure-buyers-as-debt-crisis-deepens.html
European banks are struggling to find
buyers for at least $32 billion of businesses earmarked for sale
as the sovereign-debt crisis drags on, raising the likelihood
they’ll have to settle for fire-sale prices.  European Union lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG  and
 France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  have announced plans to shed more
than $1 trillion of assets over the next two years to bolster
capital. On top of selling loans, the banks put at least 50
businesses up for sale in markets spanning the globe, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Expected valuations on many assets that are going be sold
will need to come down,” said Eric Richard, co-head of the
financial institutions group in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  at Credit Suisse Group AG. “There is a lot of backlog.”  While some of the assets are prized possessions in  emerging
markets  such as  China  and eastern Europe, buyers are balking
amid concern over the future of the euro region and the value of
sovereign debt, as well as financing limitations. That may lead
the region’s banks, already trading near record low valuations,
to swallow losses on the sales.  Denizbank (DENIZ)  AS, the Turkish lender of Dexia SA, and  Bank
Millennium SA (MIL) , a Warsaw-based unit of  Banco Comercial Portugues
SA (BCP) , are examples of profitable businesses in attractive markets
that have seen bidders drop out, according to people familiar
with those discussions. Dexia spokesman Benoit Gausseron said
“there are several candidates” for Denizbank, without
elaborating. A BCP spokesman declined to comment.  Consuming Capital  Pressure on European banks to raise funds is growing as
they write down sovereign debt and seek to comply with rules
requiring higher capital ratios.  Standard & Poor’s  said Monday
that  Germany , France and four other European states may be
stripped of their AAA credit ratings as the debt crisis prompts
15 euro nations to be put on review for possible downgrade.  Europe’s banks will need to raise 114.7 billion euros
($152.7 billion) in capital as part of measures introduced in
response to the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, the European
Banking Authority said today. European lenders will have to
raise 8 billion euros more than estimated by the regulator in
October.  The benefits of getting capital-consuming assets off their
balance sheets may outweigh the disadvantages of selling at  low
valuations (BEBANKS) , said Alain Garnier, a partner at Linklaters LLP
specializing in financial-services M&A transactions.  Selling at Loss  “Keeping these assets can in some cases cost them,” said
Garnier. “It’s not that some of these activities are loss-
making, but that they consume a lot of capital.”  European banks in the  Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index  traded at
0.57 times  book value  last month, the lowest since February
2009, just months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Western European bank units sold at an average of 2 times
book value from 2005 to 2007, while this year they have sold for
0.6 times, according to Bloomberg data.  Billionaire Richard Branson’s Virgin Money Holdings U.K.
Ltd. agreed to buy Northern Rock Plc for 747 million pounds
($1.2 billion) last month, the first sale of a British
government bank holding since the 2008 financial crisis. With
additional payments, the total price of as much as 1.03 billion
pounds was lower than the bank’s book value of 1.1 billion
pounds at the end of June, and almost 400 million pounds less
than the sum invested by the government.  Private Equity  KBC Groep NV’s shares  dropped (KBC)  16 percent in the 10 days
after the company announced the sale of its private banking unit
to Precision Capital, backed by a Qatari investor, for 1.05
billion euros, at the low end of the range the Belgian bank had
sought and 300 million euros less than an earlier deal that
collapsed for regulatory reasons.  “The valuation of these businesses is not making
transactions any easier,” said Thierry Marais, global head of
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA’s financial institutions group. “Banks want to
create capital, but many of them face selling at a loss, which
is why negotiations often take a long time.”  Potential hot spots for sales are asset management and
private-banking operations, because regulations for the
businesses make deals more feasible for nonbank buyers.  Deutsche
Bank  has begun talks with potential bidders for its asset
management arm, which it may break up to raise capital. The unit
may fetch less than $4 billion, people familiar with the matter
said on Nov. 30. Klaus Winker, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment.  “Sovereign wealth funds and private equity firms can play
a role in asset management and private banking, but would find
it more difficult in traditional retail banking from a
regulatory standpoint,” said Credit Suisse’s Richard.  Newedge Sale  Newedge, the futures and options brokerage jointly owned by
Societe Generale and Credit Agricole SA previously valued at
about 2 billion euros, may be sold, according to two people with
knowledge of the process. At least part of the business has been
open to acquirers for about a year, the people said.  The unit may be valued at between 800 million euros and 1.2
billion euros, based on its 2010 earnings, estimated Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based analyst at AlphaValue. Spokeswomen for
Societe Generale and Credit Agricole declined to comment.  Santander Sales  Europe’s debt crisis drove  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
largest bank, to retreat from its expansion in  Latin America  as
it seeks to raise capital. The bank announced two days ago the
sale of its Colombian unit to Chile’s Corpbanca for $1.2
billion, and yesterday raised $958 million by selling a 7.8
percent stake in its Chilean unit. Latin America accounted for
62 percent of Santander’s net income last year and 21 percent of
its assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Right now, few buyers want to expose themselves to the
euro region,” said Edouard de Vitry, head of the financial
institutions group for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at UBS
AG. “But where you are seeing interest is in the foreign
operations of European banks in markets that are faring better,
including the U.S., Latin America and  Asia .”  Dexia (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian lender that’s being broken up,
has seen potential bidders for Denizbank drop away as banks
including Russia’s OAO Sberbank withdrew, people familiar with
the discussions said.  ‘Big Promises’  The Istanbul-based lender, which had a book value of 4
billion Turkish new lira ($2.2 billion) at the end of September,
might be valued at about 3 billion euros, said Alex Koagne, a
Paris-based analyst at Natixis SA.  Banco Comercial Portugues has delayed the sale of Bank
Millennium because of market conditions, after failing to get
firm offers in the latest round of bidding, according to people
with knowledge of the discussions. In October, the Polish
company reported its highest quarterly profit in three years,
beating analyst estimates.  “Banks are making big promises for next year, but they are
not finding buyers,” said Chris Wheeler, a financial-services
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London . “What CEO would be thanked
for doing an M&A deal these days? They may miss fantastic
opportunities, but it’s all about being cautious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in New York at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  