-- 
Berkshire Buys $2 Billion Power Project as Buffett Wagers on Solar Energy

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-12-07T17:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/berkshire-s-midamerican-energy-to-buy-topaz-solar-farm.html
Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings utility agreed to buy the $2 billion Topaz project in
southern  California , branching into solar power after the
industry was battered by stock markets around the world.  The Topaz Solar Farm will be one of the world’s largest
photovoltaic power plants and is being developed by the seller,
 First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of Tempe,  Arizona , according to a joint
statement today. Terms weren’t disclosed. The project’s 550-
megawatt capacity is equal to about half a new nuclear reactor.  Buffett’s Iowa-based utility, which entered clean energy by
buying U.S. wind farms and a stake in Chinese electric-car
producer BYD Co., struck today’s deal after First Solar failed
to get a U.S. government loan guarantee for the project that
will use its thin-film panels. The purchase may make it easier
for the solar company to sell additional projects.  “Selling Topaz to the smart financial guys at MidAmerican
relieves uncertainty about some of their other projects,”  Paul Clegg , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York  who
has a “buy” rating on First Solar, said today in an interview.
“I don’t doubt they will find buyers for more of their
projects.”  Tax benefits may have helped attract the billionaire, said
Gerard Reid, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., a
London-based unit of the New York investment bank Jefferies
Group Inc. “The reason for the move from wind to solar is very
simple,” he said in an interview. “Tax credits for wind in the
U.S. expire at the end of next year, while solar ones run till
2015.”  Stock Performance  Berkshire slipped 1.1 percent to $116,149 at 12:06 p.m. in
New York, while First Solar advanced 7.7 percent to $49.65. The
renewable energy company’s shares had fallen 65 percent this
year through yesterday, matching the drop in the 17-company
Bloomberg Industry Global Leaders Large  Solar Energy  index.  The declines, triggered by plunging prices for solar panels
and their components, have pushed companies around the world to
conserve cash, look for partners or consider bankruptcy.
Cylindrical thin-film panel maker Solyndra LLC received a $535
million government loan guarantee and then went bust this year.  MidAmerican, which had $46 billion in assets on Dec. 31,
called the Topaz purchase a “strategic move” that builds on
its experience with  wind energy . The natural gas and power
provider has built up stakes in more than a dozen wind parks
that can generate at least 1.5 gigawatts of power, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Largest Supplier  The power company sells electricity to 2.4 million
customers in the U.S., and is the largest supplier in  Iowa ,
 Wyoming  and  Utah , according to Buffett’s most recent annual
letter to Berkshire shareholders. Buffett is chairman and chief
executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire.  The unit transports 8 percent of the country’s gas through
its pipelines and is among the largest producers of wind energy.  First Solar has agreed to build and operate the plant in
San Luis Obispo County for MidAmerican. Construction began in
November and is set to finish by early 2015, the companies said.  “Selling such a project before you build it makes your
life so much easier,” Reid said about First Solar. Photovoltaic
energy is also a “much safer” bet than wind because there’s
less maintenance and weather risk, he said.  Buffett, 81, has said that businesses like utilities have
earnings power even under adverse economic conditions and can
provide fair returns on capital as long as they make investments
in infrastructure to meet customer needs. Owning utilities is
“not a way to get rich,” he said at a meeting of U.S. state
regulators in 2006. “It’s a way to stay rich.”  Berkshire’s earnings from the utilities and energy business
were $888 million in the nine months ended Sept. 30, an increase
of 13 percent from the same period last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  