-- 
BHP, Anglo’s Cerrejon to Miss Coal Output Goal After Storms

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-12-07T18:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bhp-anglo-s-cerrejon-misses-coal-output-goal-as-colombia-rains-shut-mines.html
BHP Billiton Plc (BHP) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Cerrejon coal mine will miss its output target
this year after rainstorms curbed production in Colombia.  Cerrejon will produce less than its target of 32.5 million
metric tons after rains prompted mine stoppages to ensure the
safety of workers, said the venture’s Chief Executive Officer
Leon Teicher. Output at Cerrejon, the world’s largest open pit
coal mine for export, will be above 32 million tons, he said.  “Whenever there is rain we stop the mine,” Teicher, who’s
slated to step down this month, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s had a major impact on our production in October, November
and December, but we have been able to compensate.”  Rainfall that also is hampering operations at mines owned
by  Glencore International AG’s Prodeco group , Drummond Co. and
Itochu Corp. will limit the nation’s coal output through early
next month, National Federation of Coal Producers President
Jaime Olivella said today in a phone interview.  Colombia  is
South America’s largest supplier of coal.  Colombia will produce 75 million to 80 million metric tons
this year, according to Olivella, below a government forecast
for 85 million tons. Rain is flooding mining pits, making roads
slippery, forcing trucks and excavating equipment to operate
more slowly and slowing coal transport between mines and ports,
according to Olivella.  December Rainfall  At Cerrejon, the number of days of rainfall in December
already has exceeded the amount management expected for the
whole month, Teicher said. Rains increase the risk of driving
large trucks loaded with tons of coal.  Last year, Cerrejon exported about 31.3 million tons of
coal while production was 31.5 million tons, according to
Teicher. Next year, exports from Cerrejon to  Latin America  will
likely surpass  North America  led by growing demand from
utilities in Chile and  Brazil , he said.  “We’re about at the inflection point,” Teicher said.  Colombia mainly produces thermal coal and also has mines
exporting metallurgical coal used for steel production. In the
mountainous provinces of central Colombia, flooding is slashing
production of metallurgical coal, according to Olivella.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  