-- 
Big East Reaches Far West as San Diego State, Boise State Among Five Added

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-12-07T23:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/big-east-reaches-far-west-as-san-diego-state-boise-state-among-five-added.html
The  Big East Conference  reached the
West Coast today with San Diego State and Boise State added as
football members in 2013, and  Central Florida , Houston and
Southern Methodist joining in all sports.  The additions extend the Providence, Rhode Island-based
conference’s geographic reach across the U.S. and ensure it will
have 10 football members by the time the  University of
Pittsburgh ,  Syracuse University  and  West Virginia University 
depart.  The Big East has been looking to expand for several months
amid conference shakeups throughout college sports. The league’s
growth was crucial to maintaining its football standing as one
of the six conferences with automatic bids to the Bowl
Championship Series. A conference receives $22 million for the
first team it sends to a BCS game and about $6.1 million if it
gets a second berth, according to Bill Hancock, the series’
executive director.  “Since the creation of the  Big East  in 1979, the
(conference) has a record of reinventing itself,” Big East
Commissioner John Marinatto said on a conference call. “We have
taken another bold and creative step in our history. We are
heading west.  ‘‘Our conference will continue to have by far the single
largest media footprint spanning from coast to coast in
football. The Big East conference will be the first truly
national college football conference.’’  Marinatto said he intends to add two more football schools
to create two six-team divisions with a conference championship
game that pits the East and West division champions.  The commissioner said the conference hasn’t considered
changing its name even though the conference is no longer based
along the East Coast as its name implies.  ‘‘This is a continuation of the dominoes that are falling
around conference realignment,’’ Mark Emmert, president of the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association , said today in an
interview in New York. ‘‘I certainly hope they are taking care
of student-athlete welfare in all of this.’’  At least eight football-playing schools are required for
the automatic BCS bid, an essential factor when the Big East
begins negotiations on its next television contract.  Schools Leaving  College football teams have been rushing to switch
conferences in the last year in search of more television
revenue and to make sure they aren’t left in a conference
without an automatic BCS bid. The Big East, Pac-12, Big 12, Big
Ten, Southeastern and Atlantic Coast conferences get automatic
bids to BCS bowl games.  Syracuse and Pittsburgh accepted invitations to join the
ACC on Sept. 18, while  West Virginia  said on Oct. 28 that it’s
moving to the Big 12. Syracuse was one of the Big East’s
founding schools in 1979 and Pittsburgh joined in 1982. West
Virginia has played football in the Big East for the past 21
seasons.  Texas Christian University  in October reneged on a
commitment to join the Big East in 2012, opting instead to
accept an invitation to become a member of the Big 12.  The departures had left the Big East with five football-
playing schools: Rutgers, Cincinnati, Louisville, South Florida
and  Connecticut .  Antitrust Questions  Media consultant and former CBS President  Neal Pilson  says
schools are blowing up decades-old rivalries just to get into a
conference that automatically sends a team to play in the BCS,
and that those moves give ‘‘added strength” to arguments that
their system violates antitrust laws.  “It certainly looks like the sole motivating factor for
the Big East and schools joining them is to stay in an exclusive
club, or get into an exclusive club,” he said.  For Boise State, in  Idaho , the Big East partnership brings
the possibility of an automatic BCS bid that the school’s
football program has sought. While the Broncos have gone 72-6
over the past six seasons and twice won the BCS’s Fiesta Bowl,
Boise State currently plays in the Mountain West Conference,
which doesn’t automatically send its champion to one of the BCS
bowl games.  Bowl Assignments  Boise State went 11-1 this season, with its only loss a
36-35 defeat against TCU in which the Broncos missed a field
goal as time expired. Yet the BCS’s Sugar Bowl passed over the
Broncos in favor of  Michigan  (10-2) and  Virginia Tech  (11-2),
leaving Boise State to play in the Dec. 22 MAACO Bowl in  Las
Vegas  against a 6-6 Arizona State team.  San Diego State also currently plays in the Mountain West,
while Houston, Central Florida and SMU are in Conference USA.
Houston started 12-0 this season before losing to Southern
Mississippi in the Conference USA championship game.  Emmert of the NCAA said that adding two members that are
almost 3,000 miles from the Big East headquarters solely in
football made financial and academic sense.  “That’s much more reasonable than trying to move
volleyball teams coast to coast on a Tuesday for a Wednesday
match,” he said.  Television Negotiations  The Big East has a year left on its six-year, $200 million
television rights agreement to show football and basketball
games on Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN network.  Last spring, ESPN presented the conference with an outline
for a deal that would have quadrupled annual revenue to $155
million.  But the offer came on the heels of the Pac-12 conference
signing agreements with ESPN and News Corp.’s Fox network that
will pay it about $225 million a year. The Big East presidents
believed the market had reset and they wanted to reassess.  “The big markets in the Northeast have always been
professional sports cities,” Pilson said. “In retrospect, I
think most of the folks at the Big East probably think they
missed an opportunity to keep their conference together if they
had accepted the ESPN offer.”  Marinatto, who spoke to half a dozen media consultants
before inviting schools to join the conference, said the Big
East will be unique because it’s the only conference in the
country that can offer four back-to-back games in four time
zones that don’t conflict with one another.  “It’s a powerful model, and one that will be unmatched by
any other conference,” Marinatto said. “This is the largest
footprint in all of college sports. No other conference in the
country can offer that. It was important that we had a strong
presence in the West.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington,  Delaware , at
   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 