-- 
Black-Led Detroit Resists White Control Under Manager

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-12-08T15:51:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/black-led-detroit-bridles-at-white-control-under-emergency-manager-law.html
(Corrects figure in fourth paragraph under ‘Getting as
Pass’ subhead in story originally published Dec. 7.)  The law that threatens  Detroit  with
direct state rule may be repealed through a petition drive
powered by unions and residents opposed to white control of a
city that’s 82 percent black.  “It’s nothing but a takeover bill,” said Brandon Jessup,
chairman of the Stand Up for Democracy coalition seeking 161,300
signatures to place the measure on the November ballot. “This
is definitely a race issue. It’s affecting people of color not
only in this generation but future generations.”  Detroit  has the highest concentration of blacks among U.S.
cities with more than 100,000 residents, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data. It will exhaust its cash by April and may
run up a deficit topping $200 million by June.  Last week, Governor  Rick Snyder , a white Republican,
ordered a review that may lead to appointment of an emergency
manager, rekindling rancor in a city scarred by race riots in
1967. Detroit lost one-quarter of its population since 2000 --
much of it to largely white suburbs.  Four  Michigan  cities are controlled by emergency managers.
All have populations that are mostly black. If Detroit joins
them, 49.7 percent of the state’s black residents would live
under city governments in which they have little say.  Michigan ’s emergency managers have sweeping authority to
nullify union contracts, sell assets and fire workers. Snyder
has said he doesn’t want one for Detroit, though he called the
city’s financial condition severe enough to warrant help.  Do It Yourself  “I view an emergency manager as a situation I want to
avoid,” the governor said yesterday in an interview at the
Capitol in Lansing. “I’m really supportive of the mayor and
council coming up with solutions that will structurally solve
these problems.”  Emergency managers’ autocratic power, under a law passed in
March, galvanized labor unions and home-rule advocates. If
opponents get the repeal question on the ballot, the measure
would be suspended until voters decide to keep it or scrap it.
It also is being challenged in court.  “Detroit needs to be run by Detroiters,” Mayor Dave Bing,
a black Democrat, said last week at a press conference the day
before Snyder called for the review.  Councilwoman JoAnn Watson compared the city’s resistance to
Rosa Parks’ refusal to move to the back of a bus, an act that
began the Montgomery  boycott  in 1955 and a civil-rights
watershed.  Councilman  Kwame Kenyatta  said an emergency manager would
be “a master, as someone to control the plantation,” according
to the  Detroit Free Press .  ‘Egregious Scale’  On Dec. 1, U.S. Representative  John Conyers , a Detroit
Democrat, wrote a letter asking U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate. Michigan’s law discriminates against
cities with many blacks, he said. An emergency manager for
Detroit, he wrote, “would be perpetuating the discrimination on
an even more egregious scale.”  Snyder said the four cities came under state control due to
financial facts, not the complexion of their populations.  “We’re just doing our fiduciary duty, representing the
citizens of the state,” Snyder said. “It’s not about
emotional, subjective things.”  Emotion, however, may derail his effort in Detroit.  George Galster , 63, a professor of urban affairs at  Wayne
State University  in Detroit, said the racial divide there is the
deepest of any major U.S. city. Armed troops quelled riots there
in 1836, 1863, 1943 and 1967, he said.  “This town has been steeped in racial hatred for so long,
white folks and black folks have a real hard time cooperating,”
Galster said.  Deadly Violence  Detroit’s white flight began in the 1950s as auto companies
and suppliers closed and suburban housing opened up, he said. A
1967 riot brought 43 deaths and required the intervention of the
National Guard and regular Army troops.  The city’s population loss and concentration of poverty
results from the state’s giving suburbs unchecked control over
 land use , which promoted sprawl, Galster said.  Detroit is familiar with takeovers. In 1999, the state
assumed power over the city’s schools under then-Governor  John Engler , igniting charges of racism from Detroiters who disrupted
a state Senate committee. Fearing violence, police set up metal
detectors in the Capitol for gallery spectators before the final
vote.  The schools reverted to an elected local board in 2005, and
were placed under an emergency manager in 2009 by Democratic
Governor Jennifer Granholm. Both Engler and Granholm are white.  Getting a Pass  The fight reveals divisions in a state hit hard by the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009. Michigan lost 860,000
jobs from 2000 to 2009, due largely to the near-collapse of the
U.S. auto industry.  While the state has taken over majority-black Flint,
Pontiac,  Benton Harbor  and Ecorse, and is reviewing Inkster, it
hasn’t been as aggressive in mostly white Allen Park and
Jackson, said Jessup, 30.  Neither of the latter warranted action because both had
plans to address financial difficulties, Terry Stanton, a
Treasury Department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Treasurer Andy Dillon, in a Dec. 2 memo to Snyder, cited
Detroit’s below-investment-grade bond ratings -- BB by Standard
& Poor’s and BB- by  Fitch Ratings  -- and long-term debt of more
than $10 billion, with no plan to reduce it, as reasons for a
review.  Jessup called the emergency manager law, Public Act 4, a
“radical attempt” to create crises as a way to attack employee
unions and hand municipal services to private companies. The
petition drive will collect enough signatures by the end of
December, he said.  Little to Tax  An emergency manager wouldn’t solve Detroit’s fundamental
problem, said Robert Kleine, treasurer under Granholm. The city
is hobbled, he said, by lack of revenue from the state and an
increasingly poor populace.  “You get to the point where you can’t cut any more without
destroying the quality of life,” said Kleine, 70.  Louis Schimmel , emergency manager for Pontiac, north of
Detroit, said repealing the law would wreak havoc on hopelessly
indebted cities that need someone to keep them from bankruptcy.  Schimmel said other municipalities will need state action.  “There may be half a dozen more,” said Schimmel, 74, a
former receiver in two cities. “I don’t think we’ll have 25 of
them.”  Even those that stay out of trouble may be harmed by their
neighbor’s travails.  Farmington Hills , a Detroit suburb of almost 80,000,
weathered the recession better than many others, said City
Manager Steve Brock. He ascribed its success to budget cuts, a
tax base balanced between residential and commercial property,
and a population wealthier than Michigan as a whole.  Brock, 51, said he’s concerned about Detroit, both as a
municipal official and a neighbor. He said a dysfunctional urban
core affects the entire area.  “I’m kind of a student of this, and I think it’s going to
bear mightily on what happens in our region and our state,”
Brock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  