-- 
Boeing’s Machinists Face a ‘Leap of Faith’ in Landmark Vote on Wage Accord

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-12-07T17:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/boeing-machinists-face-leap-of-faith-in-contract-vote-anchoring-737.html
Boeing Co.’s (BA)  Machinists union is
voting on a landmark contract today that may thaw decades of
hostility with the planemaker’s management while helping boost
jet production to records.  The surprise proposal unveiled last week to about 31,000
workers, mostly in the Seattle area, would extend the current
agreement by four years. That would keep Boeing strike-free
through 2016, after four Machinist walkouts since 1989 delayed
hundreds of deliveries and cost the company billions.  If workers ratify the contract, Boeing will build its
planned 737 upgrade at the current factory near Seattle, while
the union will seek to retract a National Labor Relations Board
complaint over a new 787 Dreamliner factory in South Carolina.
The NLRB case had been denounced by congressional Republicans.  The union was “approaching a collision with Boeing, so in
effect they have created jobs for the members, diffused the
collision and a very volatile political issue on the eve of the
election, and signed an agreement, all in the same stroke,”
said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley. “Both sides were faced with uncertainty
and real losses, and the nature of collective bargaining is
seizing the moment.”  The agreement requires “a leap of faith on everyone’s
part,” said Tom Wroblewski, president for Machinists District
751. Voting will continue through 6 p.m. Seattle time today,
with results announced after ballots are counted, according to
the Machinists’ website.  Right to Work  The faltering relationship between the planemaker and its
largest union reached a new low two years ago, when Boeing
decided to build its first commercial assembly plant outside the
Puget Sound area, where the company was founded in 1916.  The Machinists complained to the NLRB after executives’
comments that the new 787 facility in  South Carolina  would avoid
walkouts in Washington. The new plant isn’t unionized, and state
law forbids requiring union membership as a condition of
employment. The labor board investigated and accused Boeing of
violating workers’ federally protected right to strike.  Wroblewski said he’s met with union members every day since
the proposal was unveiled a week ago, trying to convince them to
trust their employer and protect their jobs.  ‘Impossible to Predict’  “The vote is impossible to predict,” Shaiken said. “It’s
an unusual moment. It’s not simply any company, it’s the largest
exporter, one of our high-tech leaders, a pivotal manufacturing
firm. What happens here is critical.”  Under the proposal, Machinists would get a 2 percent wage
increase each year of the contract. They would also get a new
performance-based incentive program, pensions would be preserved
along with retirees’ medical benefits, and workers would get a
$5,000 ratification bonus.  “These aren’t the times when workers are going to reject
wage increases or bonuses,” said  Gary Chaison , a labor-law
professor at  Clark University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts .
“This is a time when, for unions, not losing is the equivalent
of winning.”  Before today, Boeing climbed 8.6 percent to $70.87 since
its agreement with the Machinists was announced. The shares
dropped 1 percent to $71.33 at 12:56 p.m. in  New York .  The context of the faltering economy along with movements
against labor groups elsewhere in the country this year is
crucial, both professors said.  ‘Embarrassment of Riches’  Still, union members are aware that Boeing has racked up
profits of more than $7 billion since the last contract vote in
2008 and amassed a $273 billion commercial jet backlog that’s
compelling it to raise output 60 percent from current records.
And requiring employees to shoulder more of their health-care
costs -- part of the new proposal -- was one of the reasons for
the strike three years ago.  “Boeing’s problem is an embarrassment of riches,” Chaison
said. “It has too much money, so that’s why the rank-and-file
might not think of this as a great agreement.”  Wroblewski said executives and union leaders began meeting
about six weeks ago to discuss “how to get through 2012,” with
labor negotiations starting ahead of the contract’s September
expiration, testimony in the NLRB case, a decision due on where
to build the 737 MAX and planned production increases.  737 MAX Employees  The contract that eventually resulted is a “landmark
agreement,” Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh ,
in a video message to workers last week.  The team developing the 737 MAX has 300 people based at the
narrow-body factory in Renton, south of Seattle, and will expand
to more than 1,000 in the next two years, Boeing said in an
online  message to employees . The company didn’t give more
specifics on production-site plans for the jet, which Boeing
committed to in July to challenge Airbus SAS’s rival A320neo.
And just as with the 787’s launch almost a decade ago, it didn’t
promise exclusivity to  Washington  state.  Albaugh acknowledged that “some questions have arisen
around Boeing’s commitment to building the 737 MAX in Renton.
Let me be as clear as I can possibly be: If this agreement is
ratified, the MAX will be built in our Renton facility.”  Winning at least some of the MAX work is important, even if
Boeing ends up putting a portion of the manufacturing elsewhere
as it did with the 787, Wroblewski said. Production of the
current 737, built exclusively in Renton, could stop by the end
of this decade.  ‘Long-Term Vision’  “Their long-term vision is to get to 60 airplanes a
month” in Renton, from 35 now, Wroblewski said. “That’s the
commitment -- they’re going to stuff as many airplanes as they
can into it -- and we’ve never had that type of commitment. It’s
a change in how we do business with this company.”  The agreement also calls for keeping wide-body jet
manufacturing as well as production of the P-8 submarine hunter
assembly line, made by Boeing’s defense business, in Washington.
If Boeing decides to close down its Wichita, Kansas, operations
as it’s studying, it will move modification work on the U.S. Air
Force’s newly ordered aerial-refueling tankers to Puget Sound.  Whatever the Machinists decide today may affect the
contract for about 25,000 engineers and technical workers
represented by the Society of Professional Engineering Employees
in Aerospace, which expires Oct. 6, 2012.  “When our members are upset, they’re not quiet,” said
Connie Kelliher, a Machinists spokeswoman. “We’ve had proposals
that they’ve thrown in the burn barrel before I’ve gotten out of
the car. Our members give strong reactions,” yet haven’t
organized protests in the week since the proposal was announced.
“Gauging off that and the e-mails we’re seeing, it’ll pass.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  