-- 
BofA, Pfizer, Sharp, Morgan Stanley, AT&T, BP in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-07T11:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bofa-alpha-sharp-amr-morgan-stanley-at-t-bp-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  reached a
$315 million settlement with a group of investors who sued its
Merrill Lynch unit claiming they were misled about mortgage-
backed securities, according to a court filing.  Holders of the asset-backed certificates sued Merrill Lynch
starting in December 2008 for alleged “false and misleading”
prospectus statements related to the securities, according to
the complaint and a brief filed yesterday in Manhattan federal
court.  The investors said that inaccurate statements were made
about qualifications of mortgage-loan borrowers, property
appraisals and debt-to-income ratios of applicants, and that
“the registration statement materially misrepresented the
credit quality of the mortgage loans underlying the
certificates.”  The $315 million will be distributed to certificate holders
who submit valid claim forms, plaintiffs’ lawyers said in court
papers.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said in a
phone interview that the company had no comment on the
settlement.  Merrill Lynch, bought by Bank of America in 2009, said
investor losses were the result of “the overall economic
downturn, housing-price declines and reduced liquidity,”
according to settlement papers.  The investors’ attorneys requested a final hearing on March
21 to approve the settlement.  The litigation included “review and analysis of more than
20 million pages of documents,” David Stickney, a lawyer for
the investors, said in court papers.  The lead case is Public Employees’ Retirement System of
Mississippi v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 08-CV-10841, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Pfizer Ordered by Jury to Pay $72.6 Million in Prempro Case  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  must pay $72.6 million in damages to three
women who said they developed breast cancer after taking the
company’s menopause drugs, a Philadelphia jury decided.  Jurors yesterday in state court deliberated over two days
before finding hormone-replacement drugs made by Pfizer’s Wyeth
and Pharmacia Upjohn units were responsible for Susan Elfont,
Bernadette Kalenkoski and Judy Mulderig developing cancer. The
panel awarded Elfont $20 million in compensatory damages;
Kalenkoski, $27.9 million; and Mulderig, $24.8 million.  “We are obviously disappointed with the verdict in this
case,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in a written
statement. “Once the verdict is finalized, the company will
weigh its legal options to determine how it will continue with
the case.”  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now lost 10 of the 18
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006. The
drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown out after trial or
had the awards reduced. It resolved some of the verdicts through
settlements, while other decisions are on appeal. It also has
had cases thrown out before trial.  Pfizer announced in May that it had settled a third of the
pending Prempro cases and had set aside $772 million to help
resolve the claims.  The Philadelphia case is Elfont v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 00924, Jury Term 2004, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  KV Pharmaceutical to Pay $17 Million in False-Claims Case  KV Pharmaceutical Co.  agreed to pay $17 million to settle
allegations that it made false claims to the U.S. in seeking
reimbursement for unapproved drugs.  The settlement resolves allegations made in a whistle-
blower lawsuit filed in Boston federal court, according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday from the Justice Department. The U.S.
claimed that Ethex Corp., a now-defunct unit of KV
Pharmaceutical, misrepresented the regulatory status of
Nitroglycerin ER and Hyoscyamine Sulfate ER, according to the
statement.  The Food and Drug Administration found the drugs ineligible
for reimbursement by government health programs including
Medicaid, the Justice Department said. The company will pay
$10.2 million to the U.S. and $6.8 million to states involved in
the lawsuit. The whistle-blower will receive $1.5 million from
the U.S. share of the settlement, according to the statement.  “Today’s settlement underscores our commitment to pursuing
pharmaceutical companies that allegedly provide false
information to obtain taxpayer dollars for unapproved and
ineffective drugs,” said Tony West, assistant attorney general
for the Justice Department’s Civil Division.  The $17 million will be paid out over five years, with less
than $1 million to be paid within the first year, Greg Divis,
president and chief executive officer of the Bridgeton,
Missouri-based drugmaker, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are satisfied with the settlement terms and the
resolution of a legacy issue associated with our dissolved Ethex
subsidiary,” Divis said.  The case is U.S., ex rel v. Actavis Mid-Atlantic, 02-11738,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Alpha to Pay $209 Million Settlement Over Coal Mine Blast  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  will pay $209 million to
settle a criminal investigation and civil proceedings related to
the fatal 2010 explosion at the Upper Big Branch coal mine, the
deadliest U.S. mining disaster in 40 years.  The payment includes $46.5 million in restitution to the
families of the 29 miners who were killed and the two who were
injured in the April 5, 2010, accident, as part of a non-
prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department, Bristol,
Virginia-based Alpha said in a filing yesterday.  Alpha will also spend $80 million on mine-safety upgrades,
$48 million for health and safety research and development, and
$35 million to resolve outstanding citations.  Upper Big Branch, located in Raleigh County, West Virginia,
was operated by Massey Energy Co., which Alpha acquired in June
for $7.1 billion.  “Investors were expecting anything from $100 million to
$150 million,” said Lucas Pipes, a New York-based analyst with
Brean, Murray Carret & Co. “It’s higher than expected but not
egregiously higher than what folks were pricing in.”  “The investigation of individuals associated with Massey
is still ongoing,” U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin said at a press
conference in Charleston, West Virginia, yesterday. “This
agreement does not impair any criminal charges against any
individuals.”  The settlement also doesn’t affect any civil lawsuits filed
by the miners’ families, Goodwin said.  For more, click here.  Sharp, Seven Panel Makers Pay $388 Million in Antitrust Case  Sharp Corp. ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , and six other makers
of liquid crystal display panels used in computers and
televisions agreed to pay $388 million to settle price fixing
claims by direct purchasers of the products.  Sharp paid $105 million, Samsung paid $82.7 million and Chi
Mei Optoelectronics Corp. paid $78 million, according to filings
in federal court in  San Francisco . The companies were alleged in
a group lawsuit to have fixed prices of the panels, driving up
prices for purchasers. The suit stems from a U.S. Justice
Department investigation.  The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-1827, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  For more, click here.  AMR Corp. Wins Ruling Over $30 Million Grant From TSA  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines won a federal appeals court
ruling over a $30 million Transportation Security Administration
grant it sought for a baggage-security system at John F. Kennedy
International Airport.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington yesterday said the
TSA improperly rejected American’s request for reimbursement for
the system, which was put in place at the New York airport after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The three-judge panel
ordered to agency to reconsider its decision.  The agency acted “arbitrarily and capriciously” in
denying the airline’s request “without providing a sufficient
rationale on the record for doing so,” Judge David Sentelle
wrote in the opinion.  American said it constructed a so-called in-line baggage
security system at JFK in 2002 to detect explosives at the
urging of the TSA, according to the ruling. An in-line system
checks for explosives while luggage is on the airport’s baggage
conveyor.  At the time, the airline preferred a system that screened
bags in the airport lobby at standalone stations where explosive
detection systems were already available, noting the in-line
system would require alterations to the terminal building,
according to the ruling.  Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman, said the
department was reviewing the appeals court decision.  “Today’s court decision affirms that the federal statutory
mandate requiring payment was not followed in this matter,” Tim
Smith, an American spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“American looks forward to meeting with the TSA to discuss this
further.”  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Transportation
Security Administration, 10-1418, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Expert-Networking Executive Loses Bid for New Fraud Trial  Former Primary Global Research LLC executive James
Fleishman lost a bid to have a conviction for his role in an
insider-trading conspiracy thrown out by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan also rejected
Fleishman’s request for a new trial. Rakoff denied both requests
in a one-page order made public yesterday.  Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California, had argued that
prosecutors failed to establish that any of his alleged
contributions to the conspiracy occurred in New York. He had
also said he was improperly barred from taking the stand in his
own defense when he was told that before he could be questioned
he had to turn over his personal diaries to prosecutors.  Fleishman was convicted in September of two separate
conspiracy charges for what the U.S. said was a scheme to obtain
and pass confidential information from technology company
employees who moonlighted as consultants for Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global, a so-called expert-networking
firm.  The nonpublic information went to fund managers who paid
Primary Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said.  Fleishman’s sentencing is set for Dec. 21. He faces as long
as 20 years in prison on the most serious count, according to
prosecutors.  Ethan Balogh , a lawyer for Fleishman, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Denies Wrongdoing in Investors’ Lawsuit  Morgan Stanley, accused by 18 Singapore investors of
fraudulently wiping out their $154.7 million investment, denied
wrongdoing and said the group was sophisticated and knew of the
risks involved.  The bank acted in good faith and shouldn’t be liable for
losses suffered by the investors as they were caused by events
beyond its control, Morgan Stanley said in a filing in federal
court in Manhattan Dec. 5.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, on Oct. 31 won a
narrowing of claims by the Singapore investors who said they
were induced to buy synthetic collateralized debt obligations
that were designed to fail.  Any alleged misstatements by Morgan Stanley on the notes
“were mere puffery or were vague statements of optimism,” the
bank said in its filing yesterday. “Defendants had no duty to
disclose the allegedly omitted information.”  U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand had granted the firm’s
request to throw out claims of negligent misrepresentation,
breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, aiding and
abetting. Sand allowed other claims of fraud and breach of good
covenant and good faith to continue.  The investors had shown sufficient evidence that they acted
reasonably in relying upon Morgan Stanley’s statements, Judge
Sand said on Oct. 31.  The investors alleged Morgan Stanley created collateralized
debt obligations -- a debt security usually backed by bonds or
corporate loans -- and failed to inform the investors that it
was a counter-party to the agreements. For each dollar the
investors lost, the bank gained a dollar, the group, including
the  Singapore Government Staff Credit Cooperative Society Ltd .
said in their lawsuit filed last year.  The case is Dandong v. Pinnacle Performance Limited, 10-
CV-8086, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  AT&T, Sprint Propose Antitrust Trial After Government’s Case  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  agreed their dispute over
AT&T’s planned purchase of  T-Mobile USA Inc. (DTE)  should be tried
after the government’s case opposing the deal while they clashed
on the proposed schedule.  AT&T and Sprint, in separate filings yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Washington, said their aim is to avoid
interfering with trial of the U.S. Justice Department’s lawsuit
scheduled for Feb. 13.  Sprint and Cellular South Inc., which also sued to block
the $39 billion T-Mobile acquisition, proposed that Judge Ellen
Segal Huvelle set a trial date “immediately” after all the
evidence is presented in the U.S. case “so that they can be
heard prior to the closing of the transaction.”  AT&T argued that no trial date should be set until Huvelle
hands down a verdict in the Justice Department case. The
lawsuits involve different claims and will require different
evidence, the company said.  “The schedule for this litigation need not depend on the
timing for the closing of this transaction,” AT&T’s lawyer,
James Wade of Haynes & Boone LLP in Washington, wrote. Wade
argued that Huvelle has authority to order the merged company to
change its behavior after the deal has closed if she finds
antitrust violations.  A hearing in all three antitrust cases is scheduled for
Dec. 9.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and T-Mobile
Aug. 31, saying a combination of the two companies would
“substantially” reduce competition. Seven states and Puerto
Rico joined the effort to block the deal, which would make AT&T
the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, filed its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, saying the proposed merger would
weaken its ability to compete with AT&T, the second-biggest, and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader.  Cellular South, based in Ridgeland, Mississippi, sued on
Sept. 19, claiming the merger threatened to “substantially”
cut competition.  The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 1:11-cv-01560;
Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600;
and Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-cv-01690, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  Accused Inside Trader ‘Shocked’ Hedge-Fund Friend Misled Him  Accused insider trader Rupinder Sidhu told U.K. authorities
he was shocked to discover a friend who worked as a hedge-fund
trader had passed him confidential information.  Sidhu, a management consultant from Osterley, West London,
thought share tips from AKO Capital LLP trader Anjam Ahmad were
based on “research, knowledge and expertise” not inside
information, according to a statement he gave to the Financial
Services Authority that was read out in court yesterday.  “I was shocked to discover what Ahmad had been doing at
his work,” Sidhu wrote. “I have not knowingly been involved in
any insider-dealing activity.”  Ahmad told Sidhu when his firm was about to buy or sell a
stock so Sidhu could benefit from the effect of those trades on
its share price, Michael Brompton, a lawyer for the FSA said
last week. Sidhu, 40, made about 500,000 pounds ($780,500) from
spread bets on companies including Julius Baer Group Ltd.,
 Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  between June
and August 2009, according to prosecutors.  Sidhu, who pleaded not guilty to 23 counts of insider
trading and one money laundering charge in April, is due to be
cross-examined today. Insider trading carries a maximum sentence
of seven years.  For more, click here.  BP Has Road Map in Citgo Oil-Spill Case for Macondo Fine  A Citgo Petroleum Corp. oil-spill case gives a template for
the way  BP Plc (BP/) ’s liability and penalty will be decided in the
government’s Clean Water Act lawsuit over the worst U.S.
offshore spill.  U.S. District Judge Richard T. Haik in Lafayette,
Louisiana, ruled Sept. 29 that Citgo must pay $6 million, or
$111 per barrel of oil spilled at its Lake Charles refinery in
2006. That’s about 10 percent of the maximum $1,100 under the
 Clean Water Act . The amount can rise to $4,300 for gross
negligence.  In the BP case, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans will oversee a trial to begin Feb. 27 on fault and on
whether there was gross negligence, which BP denies. Barbier
will use his findings in a later trial on the penalty.  The spill size and BP’s cleanup efforts may keep the
penalty at the low end of the scale, said  Anthony Sabino , a St.
John’s University law professor in New York.  “When you get into the stratosphere of a half billion, or
$1 billion, that punishment may be unjust by itself,” said
Sabino, a specialist in litigation and oil-and-gas law.  A fine of $111 a barrel would be $455.1 million, using the
government estimate of 4.1 million barrels spilled. The maximum
amount, $1,100, would mean a $4.51 billion penalty; the top
figure for gross negligence, $17.6 billion.  The company declined to comment on the litigation through a
spokesman,  Scott Dean .  BP set aside $3.5 billion for Clean Water Act fines for the
Macondo spill, assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own estimate of
3.2 million barrels, according to an annual report extract
posted on the company website.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and following  explosion 
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident led to hundreds of lawsuits against
 London-based BP  and its partners and contractors.  The BP case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production Inc.,
2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The case is part of In Re Oil Spill by
the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20,
2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  The Citgo case is U.S. v. Citgo Petroleum Corp., 2:08-
cv-00893, U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana
(Lafayette).  For more, click here.  New York Executives Go to Trial on $21 Million Fraud  Two executives of a New York holding company that owned
lighting and furniture dealers used false information to get $21
million in loans from Amalgamated Bank, a prosecutor said at the
start of their trial.  Courtney Dupree, the former chief executive officer of GDC
Acquisitions LLC in Long Island City in Queens, New York, and
Thomas Foley, a lawyer in Hoboken,  New Jersey , who was the
company’s outside counsel and then became its chief operating
officer, are charged with bank fraud, conspiracy and false
statements.  “This is a case about lying to a bank to get money,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Woll told jurors yesterday in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York. “It is about telling lies
over and over again in order to grab millions of dollars of the
bank’s money.”  Dupree and Foley ran a scheme to defraud New York-based
Amalgamated, with $4.5 billion in assets, and C3 Capital LLC, a
private-equity investment firm, from January 2007 to July 2010,
according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta
Lynch.  Amalgamated realized $16 million in losses from the crime,
Woll told jurors yesterday.  U.S. District Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto is presiding over the
trial.  When Dupree was originally arrested in July 2010,
“Amalgamated was being repaid on time and had been every
month,” Roscoe C. Howard, one of his lawyers, told jurors
yesterday. “And the bank was not complaining.”  Howard, a partner at  Andrews Kurth LLP  in Washington, said
documents in the trial wouldn’t back up the government’s fraud
accusations.  “Fraud cases leave an audit trail,” he told the jurors.
“‘Show it to us if you’ve got it.’ But they can’t. Because it
doesn’t exist.”  The case is U.S. v. Dupree, 10-cr-627, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 