-- 
Bollywood’s ‘Dirty Picture’ Evokes Seductress Mae West: Review

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-12-07T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bollywood-seductress-silk-gets-mae-west-treatment-in-dirty-picture-movie.html
An aging male superstar pompously
asks Silk, the protagonist in “The Dirty Picture,” “What’s so
special about you? I’ve been with 500 women.”  She curls her brightly painted lips into a smirk and
answers, “But have you ever been with the same woman 500
times?”  Vidya Balan is terrific as Silk, who fires brazen zingers
throughout “The Dirty Picture” with chutzpah that would have
made 1930s Hollywood temptress Mae West proud.  The Bollywood movie is ostensibly based on the life of
“Silk” Smitha, a southern Indian femme fatale who gained
notoriety in the late 1980s playing sexually charged roles in
otherwise conservative films featuring virginal heroines.  Before  India ’s economic liberalization in the 1990s, when
there was no satellite television or Internet, amorous boys
would sneak into cinemas to catch Silk on screen, only to find
their fathers in the stalls.  While she inspired clones such as “Polyester” Padmini and
“Nylon” Nalini, Silk was the center around which the audience
wove its sexual fabric.  Milan Luthria directs “ The Dirty Picture ” with a light
hand that celebrates the era’s campy cinema. Rajat Arora’s
writing has enough double entendres to keep you laughing as Silk
skips from one bed to another, on and off screen.  A host of supporting characters include veteran Naseeruddin
Shah relishing the role of an egotistic matinee idol.  Cursed Genius  When Shah’s character Suryakant, who favors roles as
college-going young men in spite of his leathery skin, is told
he will be playing an orphan in his next film, he says that
formula is stale: “That’s so ’60s. We are in the ’80s. Give my
character a sister, and then let her be raped so I can take
revenge.”  His sycophants respond by calling him a genius, but he
laments, “It’s a curse, it’s a curse.”  “The Dirty Picture” doesn’t shy away from the hypocrisy
of the audience who queued to watch Silk but would never accept
her publicly as anything more than an evil influence. On screen,
she was almost always a vamp, a corrupter of young men, a heart-
breaker who lured the hero away from the demure heroine.  Just as Mae West’s bawdy Hollywood films waned following
the enforcement of the conservative Production Code in 1934,
Silk’s star began to fade as the Indian economy opened its doors
and cable TV provided an alternative for titillation.  Suryakant sums up her demise in the movie when he explains
why Silk doesn’t need to be cast in his next film: “We can now
make the heroine herself do what Silk does.”  Suicide Mystery  The real Silk is said to have committed suicide in 1996,
though the circumstances of her death have never been explained.
“The Dirty Picture” stumbles while tracing her descent. The
sequences seem rushed as Silk drinks, gains weight, dreams of a
comeback and hurtles to her doom.  Balan’s performance is one of the bravest in Indian cinema.
In an industry where heroines pride themselves on being a “size
zero,” she is at ease displaying bulging love handles, plump
thighs and enough cleavage to raise Federico Fellini from the
grave.  She channels Silk’s visceral craving to be famous while
asserting herself in a patriarchal world.  More importantly, a decade and a half after Silk’s death,
Balan restores her humanity.  Rating: ***.  “The Dirty Picture” is playing in India and in select
theaters worldwide, including  New York ,  London  and Dubai.  Information:
 http://www.youtube.com/thedirtypicturefilm#p/u/38/O0rtINQPpYY   (Pratish Narayanan writes about Indian cinema for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 