-- 
Bombardier CEO Beaudoin Has ‘Tolerance Window’ If CSeries Jet Is Delayed

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bombardier-chief-has-tolerance-window-if-cseries-is-delayed.html
Bombardier Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer Pierre Beaudoin said a delay of as much as six months
would be acceptable for the CSeries jet, his company’s new rival
to the smallest commercial planes from Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS
that’s on schedule for delivery in 2013.  “I say that to our engineers -- a three-to-six-month
window is OK,” Beaudoin said in a Dec. 6 interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. “Six months is getting long. When we
speak with our teams, they know about my tolerance window.”  The CSeries will mark Montreal-based Bombardier’s first
foray into the market for narrow-body planes seating more than
100 passengers, which has been dominated by  Boeing (BA)  and Airbus.
Some analysts, including Joseph Nadol at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
have predicted Bombardier will be late with the plane.  Beaudoin, 49, said he still expects his company to meet the
2013 target, and he didn’t say what he would do if the CSeries
is delayed more than six months. Delays aren’t unusual for new
aircraft models, with the first Boeing 787 Dreamliner delivered
in September, three years later than its initial target.  “We don’t want to portray that we got everything figured
out, and it’s going to be absolutely perfect,” Beaudoin said.
“That would be arrogant. You are putting 100,000 parts together
more or less, and it has to fly and it has to be safe.”  The CSeries will have two versions, seating 110 to 145
passengers, with the larger model due to enter  service  in 2014.
 Guy Hachey , who runs Bombardier’s aerospace unit, told analysts
on a June 1 conference call that the first CSeries plane would
enter service “at the end of 2013.”  Orders, Options  Bombardier has about 300 firm orders, options and letters
of intent from customers such as  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
and Korean Air Lines Co. Production slots for the CSeries are
already booked until mid-2016, which means the company won’t
need to discount the aircraft just to keep production lines
operating, Beaudoin said.  The jet will compete against the smallest variants of
single-aisle 737s from Chicago-based Boeing and A320s from
Toulouse, France-based Airbus.  Brazil ’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  said last
month it will upgrade its E-170 and E-190 jets with new engines
and wings by 2018 rather than build a new, larger model to take
on the CSeries and its competitors.  “When we started this project, everyone was telling us we
were going to have competition in our category with Airbus and
Boeing, brand-new airplanes, and even Embraer,” Beaudoin said.
“Now it’s become clear nobody will have one. We will have a
window of about 10 years at least, and we will be the only one
in that category of a mainline specifically designed for 110 to
130. So as long as you believe there is a market in that
category we will have one hell of an advantage.”  The company has said the new plane will burn about 10
percent less fuel than competing models.  Revenue Plan  Bombardier’s aerospace unit accounted for 49 percent of the
company’s $17.7 billion in  sales  for the fiscal year that ended
in January. Bombardier’s other unit makes transportation
equipment such as trains.  The company intends for the CSeries aircraft to be a key
contributor in reaching a goal of almost doubling revenue in
the next decade. Beaudoin laid out the  plan  to investors in  New
York  two days ago, saying annual revenue may climb to as much as
$34 billion from an estimated $18 billion this year as trains
and planes in development start to reach buyers.  The CSeries would contribute $5 billion to $8 billion
annually toward the goal, Beaudoin said. Bombardier’s  revenue  in
the first nine months of this fiscal year was $14 billion.  The revenue target “is beyond five years, but before
10 years,” Beaudoin said in the interview. “I don’t want the
pressure on us at the beginning to go for revenue, revenue. I
want to make sure that we have a good handle on the production
of this airplane.”  ‘Never Say Never’  Beaudoin declined to comment on whether Bombardier still
expects the entire CSeries program to cost about $3.5 billion.  It’s too early to say if the CSeries will ever be expanded
to seat more than 150 passengers, he said.  “I can never say never, but we have plenty of challenges
to become a player” in the market for larger planes, Beaudoin
said. Capturing the market share Bombardier wants for its
currently planned CSeries planes may take 15 years, and a
decision on expanding the airliner may be “something for
someone else to worry about,” he said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  