-- 
Bombardier Urges Upgrades as Tracks Slow Amtrak Acela

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-12-08T15:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bombardier-urges-rail-upgrades-as-tracks-hobble-amtrak-s-acela.html
(Corrects Acela’s top speed in third paragraph of story
published Dec. 7.)  U.S. rail travelers would benefit
more from upgraded tracks allowing trains to go faster than from
immediate spending on high-speed equipment, according to
 Bombardier Inc. , the maker of  Amtrak ’s Acela.  New high-speed trains are “not really what the U.S. needs
right now,” Bombardier Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin
said yesterday in an interview. “I know that sounds odd from a
manufacturer. Before you go and buy all this new equipment,
let’s work on the infrastructure.”  An antiquated rail network keeps the Acela from reaching
its top speed, Beaudoin said at Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. Upgrades such as more underpasses and new signaling
equipment to reduce spacing between trains are among the
elements that would allow Amtrak to offer faster service, he
said. The Acela’s maximum speed is 150 miles (241 kilometers)
per hour, according to Amtrak.  Congress refused to fund President  Barack Obama ’s high-
speed and intercity rail program in this fiscal year.  John Mica ,
the Florida Republican who leads the House transportation
committee, has said the U.S. should focus on financing 220-mph
trains between Washington and  Boston , not projects nationwide.  “I did New York to Boston on the Acela and I think our
average speed must have been 30 miles, maybe 40 miles an hour,”
said Beaudoin, 49. “The train is capable of doing a lot
better.”  Acela trains, Amtrak’s fastest, are manufactured by the
transportation unit at Montreal-based Bombardier. That  division 
accounted for 51 percent of the company’s $17.7 billion in sales
in the last fiscal year, with the rest coming from the aerospace
business.  Signaling Equipment  Bombardier also makes signaling equipment, “so I would
probably get something out of that,” Beaudoin said of a
possible U.S. policy shift to favor infrastructure upgrades.  Passengers and taxpayers alike would benefit, he said,
because the ability to run faster trains on the existing rail
network would be a better investment than a single corridor for
a 250-mph train that would cost $20 billion to $30 billion.  “The average speed is what you should focus on,” Beaudoin
said. “The realities of population in the U.S. are that there’s
not that many corridors to justify this kind of stuff. So let’s
focus on the infrastructure.”  The Acela carried 3.4 million passengers in Amtrak’s 2011
fiscal year, 5 percent more than a year earlier, according to
company figures. That was more than 10 percent of Amtrak’s
ridership.  $117 Billion  Amtrak has a 30-year, $117 billion plan to bring 220-mph
service to the northeast corridor. The company and states in the
region have received $954 million from the high-speed rail
program to date to improve existing infrastructure. Amtrak’s
$1.42 billion in funding from Congress for this fiscal year was
short of a requested $2.22 billion that included plans to buy 40
more Acela cars.  More Acela orders are under consideration, Beaudoin said.  “Amtrak is looking at that now because they have enough
volume on the corridor that they need more Acelas in the
northeast,” Beaudoin said. “Whether they’ll make a decision in
the short term I don’t know, but they need it. It’s very popular
and they have some capacity issues.”  Amtrak hasn’t placed such an order with Bombardier,
Christina Leeds, a railroad spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  New York  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  