-- 
Boston Can Evict ‘Occupy’ Protesters Without Court Approval, Judge Rules

-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-12-07T23:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/boston-can-evict-occupy-protesters-without-court-approval-judge-rules.html
Police can evict Occupy Boston
protesters from their camp in a city square without seeking
court approval, a judge said.  Suffolk Superior Court Judge Frances McIntyre today denied
Occupy Boston’s request to bar the city from clearing the camp.
She lifted a temporary court order that had protected the
protesters from being evicted from the portion of the Rose
Kennedy Greenway in Dewey Square near the city’s financial
district they seized on Sept. 30.  “While Occupy Boston protesters may be exercising their
expressive rights during the protest, they have no privilege
under the First Amendment to seize and hold the land on which
they sit,” Judge McIntyre wrote.  The city argued in court that the tent city, where more
than 100 are living, poses a fire and public health hazard.  Mayor Thomas Menino issued a statement saying he “applauds”
the judge’s ruling and is concerned about health and safety
conditions in the camp.  “The city strongly encourages the Occupy movement to abide
by the Rose Kennedy Greenway regulations and remove their tents
and refrain from camping in that area,” he said in the
statement. “Today’s decision provides clarity surrounding Occupy
Boston’s status at Dewey Square and the city will act
appropriately to fulfill our duty to preserve the public’s peace
and safety.”  Emergency Meeting  Occupy Boston members planned an emergency general assembly
for 7 p.m. today at the camp to meet with their lawyers.  “We have lost our safety net and encourage everybody to
come,” the group announced on its website.  Occupy Boston must abide by rules governing the park which
do not allow overnight camping, the judge said. Her ruling
doesn’t require the protesters to leave.  The city’s fire marshal testified Dec. 1 that he witnessed
numerous fire hazards at the camp, including rampant smoking,
burning of sage and unapproved uses of extension cords.  Occupy Boston members said fire and public health officials
refused to meet with them about how the camp could meet safety
codes.  Members scuffled with police last week when they tried to
bring a 10-foot industrial sink into the camp’s mess tent.
Police confiscated the sink and also prevented members from
bringing in winter tents.  San Francisco   In  California , after a morning sweep of the Occupy San
Francisco encampment in that city’s financial district, 15
people were still in custody, said Eileen Hearst, chief of staff
of the Sheriff’s Office.  Two were charged with felonies for allegedly assaulting
police officers, while the 13 other people lacked
identification, she said.  Paul Esperza, a San Francisco Police Department spokesman,
said 64 other people had been cited and released, while 15 were
booked into jail. Those with identification weren’t booked into
jail, Hearst said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  