-- 
BP, Shell Preparing for Resumption of Libyan Oil Exploration

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e ,   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-12-07T14:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bp-shell-plan-to-resume-exploration-boost-production-in-libya.html
BP Plc  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Europe ’s biggest  oil companies , aim to resume exploration in
Libya, whose new government seeks to stabilize relations with
foreign companies following the ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi .  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  and Shell CEO
 Peter Voser  said yesterday in Doha, Qatar, they’re evaluating
resumption of drilling at wells begun before hostilities broke
out at the start of this year. Total SA CEO Christophe de Margerie said today the French company aims to develop new
production in the country after it restores output at fields
that it was forced to shut down because of the violence.  Libya, the holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves, is
restoring production after output dropped to 45,000 barrels a
day, from 1.6 million barrels, after a rebellion against Qaddafi
broke out in February. The loss of Libyan exports contributed to
a 20 percent increase in London oil prices earlier this year.  “There is a real interest that we can deploy technology
and our people and raise production,”  ConocoPhillips (COP)  CEO James J. Mulva said in an interview, referring to the transitional
government’s plan to bring oil companies back to Libya. “We can
restore production and hopefully this gives us the opportunity
to do even more.”  Production Recovery  International oil companies need access to new crude and
natural gas deposits to meet global demand, which is expected to
grow over the next two decades, according to Dudley, Voser and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  CEO Rex Tillerson. The three executives were
in Doha this week for the World Petroleum Congress.  Total aims to be one of the companies that Libya chooses
the help develop new production of oil and gas and to raise
output beyond pre-revolution levels, de Margerie said.  “The priority is restarting production in a sustainable
way,” he said. “Then there is room for additional developments
and research for increasing recovery rates. There is room for
new projects.”  The French company is in discussions with the new Libyan
government to drill wells offshore there, said Stephane Michele,
director of exploration and production for Qatar.  Total (FP)  had
drilled two exploration wells before unrest started and aims to
resume its offshore exploration program there, Michele said in
an interview yesterday.  Other IOCs  Other international oil companies that were already
producing in the North African state, such as ConocoPhillips,
Repsol YPF SA and  Eni SpA (ENI) , are boosting output.  Repsol,  Spain ’s biggest oil company, is raising output and
is now pumping 200,000 barrels a day in Libya, CEO Antonio Brufau Niubo told reporters yesterday. It has a production
capacity of 340,000 barrels a day, he said.  Eni expects to raise Libyan output to pre-crisis levels of
280,000 barrels a day by June 2012 and is targeting production
of 300,000 barrels a day in 2013, the Italian company’s Head of
Exploration and Production Claudio Descalzi said last month.  Total reached 170,000 barrels a day of production at the
Murzuk oil field and 40,000 barrels a day at the Al Jurf field
in  Libya , de Margerie said. The company hasn’t resumed
production at the Mabruk crude field, he said.  Libya’s crude output had recovered to 840,000 barrels a day
by the end of last month, the state-run National Oil Corp said
Nov. 30. Production may increase to 1.3 million by June, former
Oil Minister Ali Tarhouni said Nov. 25, less than a week after
stepping down from the interim cabinet.  New Wells  OPEC Secretary General Abdalla el-Badri said Dec. 4 he
expected Libya to be pumping about 950,000 barrels of oil a day
by the end of this month, rising to 1.3 million barrels a day in
the first quarter and to 1.5 million in the second quarter.
 Iran ’s Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said Dec. 5 it would take
about a year for Libya to return to full production.  BP, which signed an exploration agreement with Libya in May
2007, stopped exploration in February when the revolt broke out.
The company was “on the verge” of starting to drill two
onshore and offshore wells in Libya, and has now been asked by
the government to return to the country, Dudley said.  “We will make a decision when it’s the right time to
ensure the safety of our employees,” he said.  Shell had been drilling two wells in Libya before the
unrest and was considering a restart, according to Voser.  International Sanctions  ConocoPhillips and its partners had been producing about
350,000 barrels a day from Libya’s Waha field before violence
against the Qaddafi regime broke out, CEO Mulva said. The
company’s share of production was 50,000 barrels a day.  Libyan authorities have “indicated that they are going to
honor the contracts” that oil companies had with the previous
regime, Mulva said.  Libyan oil output, which rose as high as  3.4 million
barrels a day  in the early 1970s, stagnated in the 1980s and
1990s as international companies pulled out and the country was
subjected to sanctions. Production remained at 1 million to 2
million barrels a day, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics compiled
by Bloomberg.  A turnaround in its relations with the west came between
2002 and 2005 when Qaddafi abandoned a nuclear-arms development
effort, pledged to destroy a chemical weapons stockpile and
renounced terrorism. The move led to an easing of sanctions and
improved ties with the U.S. and European nations.  Libya attracted investment from international oil companies
including Eni, BP, ConocoPhillips, Total and Repsol as the
country sought to raise production capacity to 3 million barrels
a day. In 2009, Libya approved a 12.1 billion-dinar ($9.8
billion) plan to develop and upgrade 24  oil fields .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Doha at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  