-- 
Conning Steers Clients With $85 Billion From Bond ‘Gangplank’

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bradford-tells-conning-clients-with-85-billion-to-avoid-bond-gangplank-.html
Woody Bradford, who will take over as
chief executive officer of asset manager Conning Inc. next
month, said insurers should avoid riskier credits and long-
duration assets as they seek to boost portfolio yields.  “Everybody’s afraid rates are going to jump, but at the
same time they have to get yield,” Bradford said in an
interview late yesterday after he was named the next CEO of
Hartford, Connecticut-based Conning, which oversees almost $85
billion, mostly for insurers. “That’s the debate that a lot of
people are struggling with, which is they want to creep out the
yield curve, or they want to go deep in risk.”  Conning is seeking to add clients globally as insurers face
pressure from declining portfolio yields amid near-record-low
 interest rates . The asset manager, which was purchased by  Jeff Greenberg ’s Aquiline Capital Partners LLC in 2009, struck a deal
this year with Cathay Financial Holding Co. to expand in  Asia 
and, in September, named a new head of investments for  Europe .  “A lot of our message is, ‘Stay diversified, stick to your
investment strategy,’” rather than take on too much risk, said
Bradford. “The last time people did this, the ones who stepped
out on the end of the gangplank, it didn’t work so well.”  Insurers including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and  Lincoln National
Corp. (LNC)  took government bailouts after investments plunged in
value in 2008. Hartford and Lincoln have since repaid the funds.
AIG is majority owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, which is
seeking to wind down its stake.  Investment Income  The current low interest rates have hurt investment income
at companies including  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer. Treasuries have fluctuated over the past three months
as European leaders tried to convince investors that nations in
the region will be able to pay their debts. The  U.S. 10-year
yield  rose to 2.42 percent on Oct. 28, after reaching a record
low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The average yield on MetLife’s more than $350 billion in
fixed-income holdings sank to 4.8 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from 5.8 percent a year earlier, according to
data on the insurer’s website. In addition to its bond
portfolio, the life insurer is using funds to finance hard
assets such as locomotives,  power plants  and real estate.  Conning has been discussing investments such as high-
dividend equities, convertible securities and real assets, with
clients, said Bradford. The firm tailors investment strategies
to match insurers’ liabilities, he said.  Conning struck a deal to oversee about $8 billion for
insurer Phoenix Companies Inc. in September.  Bradford joined Conning last year and was promoted to chief
operating officer in September 2010. He’s a former operating
partner at private-equity firm Advent International and held
various roles at  Putnam Investments , according to a statement
from Conning. He has a bachelor’s degree from Worcester
Polytechnic Institute and a master’s in business administration
from  Harvard Business School .  Bradford succeeds Salvatore Correnti, who led Conning for
the last decade. Correnti will work in an advisory capacity as
vice chairman, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  