-- 
Brazil Rewrites Amazon Protections While Seeking to Slash Carbon Emissions

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-12-07T02:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/brazil-rewrites-amazon-protections-in-bid-to-cut-carbon-emission.html
Brazil ’s Senate approved legislation
yesterday that the government says will help the nation reach
its carbon emissions target by strengthening protections against
deforestation in the Amazon.  Brazil is seeking to cut its net greenhouse gas emissions
after loggers and ranchers cleared since 1990 a Germany-sized
tract of the world’s biggest rainforest. The changes to Brazil’s
46-year-old forestry code passed yesterday in a 58-8 vote would
strengthen an earlier lower house version by demanding property
owners and small farmers replant 24 million hectares (59.3
million acres) or pay a fine.  That’s an area about the size of the U.K. and sufficient to
comply with Brazil’s carbon targets three times over, according
to the  Environment Ministry ’s forest department. Brazil, which
will host the United Nations Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro next
year, set a voluntary target during 2009 climate talks to cut
deforestation in its Amazon region by 80 percent and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 39 percent by 2020.  “If the code’s provisions are met, you’re going to see an
immense reforestation drive in Brazil,” Senator Rodrigo
Rollemberg, head of the Environment Committee, said in an
interview yesterday. “It will be a huge carbon-capturing
program.”  Deforestation Slowing  About 347,000 square kilometers of Amazonian rainforest
were cleared between 1990 and 2010, according to the National
Institute for Space Research. While that’s an area almost as big
as  Germany , the government has pointed to a recent slowdown in
the pace of deforestation as evidence that  Latin America ’s
biggest economy can grow faster without hurting the environment.  Deforestation in Brazil’s Amazon fell to 6,238 square
kilometers in the period from August 2010 through July 2011, the
lowest since the government started monitoring the region in
1988, Gilberto Camara, head of the space agency, told reporters
this week in Brasilia.  The bill, which now goes back to the lower house, limits
the use of protected land known as Areas of Permanent
Preservation, or APPs, to tracts that meet certain criteria for
social interest, public use and a low impact on the environment,
Joao de Deus Medeiros, director of the Environment Ministry’s
forestry department, said in an interview from Brasilia.  The house version “effectively did away with APPs,” which
comprise about 140 million hectares of protected land including
riversides, mountaintops and hill slopes, Medeiros said.  Amnesty  Environmental groups, while pleased with the Senate’s
changes, expressed concern over another provision of the bill
that would provide an amnesty for small land owners who
illegally cleared forest before July 2008.  “The lower house bill was a catastrophe,” Andre Lima,
adviser for public policy at the  Amazon Environmental Research
Institute , said in a telephone interview from Brasilia. “The
Senate improved it a bit, but it’s still far from being a law
that protects the forest.”  Rural groups opposed the Senate changes, saying they will
discourage investment in Brazil’s agricultural industry, a major
source of export revenue. Senator Katia Abreu, who also heads
the National Confederation of Agriculture, said Brazil would
lose $40 billion in revenue as farmland is reduced.  “This bill is bad for productivity, bad for employment,
bad for profits and bad for Brazil,” Abreu said before passage
of the bill.  Impunity  Letting off those who illegally cut down the rainforest
will fuel impunity amongst ranchers and not necessarily help
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Lima said.  The Washington-based environmental group World Wildlife
Fund Inc. estimates that 76.5 million hectares of land will be
deforested or left unplanted as a result of the bill, Claudio
Maretti, leader of the organization’s Living Amazon Initiative,
said in a telephone interview.  “If you don’t enforce the law for past transgressions, you
create the impression people can get away with certain
activities in the future,” Alfredo Sirkis, a Green Party
Congressman for  Rio de Janeiro  and former presidential
candidate, said in a Dec. 3 interview in Durban,  South Africa .  Environmentalists also criticized the lower house bill
because it would give state governments susceptible to political
and business influence authority to enforce some environmental
rules.  In contrast, the Senate version strengthens federal
regulatory bodies such as the Ibama environmental agency by
giving them more power to verify that lumber, palm trees and
endangered species are transported in accordance with the law
and not being illegally smuggled.  The lower house probably won’t make important changes to
the Senate text because many deputies helped work on it, Candido Vaccarezza, leader of the government coalition for the lower
house, said Dec. 5 in a telephone interview.  The bill still needs approval by President  Dilma Rousseff ,
who said in May she’d veto any bill that pardons those
responsible for illegally clearing forests. The president’s
office declined to comment on whether she would sign a bill
resembling the Senate version, according to an official who
asked not to be identified because of government policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  