-- 
Breast Cancer Review in U.S. Fails to Identify Specific Causes of Disease

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-12-07T19:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/breast-cancer-s-environmental-ties-need-study-in-younger-women.html
A yearlong review of environmental
causes for breast tumors by a U.S. research institute failed to
definitely identify any chemicals, pesticides or consumer
products that trigger the most-common cancer in women.  A woman’s lifestyle, including whether she smokes, drinks
or gains weight, is the most-consistent known  environmental  risk
for  breast cancer , according to the review of available data by
the  Institute of Medicine , a nonprofit group that advises the
government on health issues.  The lack of clear ties between chemicals and other possibly
toxic substances and breast cancer doesn’t mean they are safe,
said Irva Hertz-Picciotto, chair of the IOM committee and chief
of environmental and occupational health at the University of
 California , Davis’ School of Medicine.  “In many cases, it’s because good human studies haven’t
been conducted yet, not because they have been conducted and
rejected the hypothesis,” she said in an interview. “That is
the critical piece here. We think there could be exposures very
early in life that influence the risk of cancer decades later.”  More work is needed to move suspected dangers to the
“probable” list of cancer-causing agents, said David Hunter, a
professor of cancer prevention at Harvard School of  Public
Health  in  Boston , and a study author. The review, presented at
the  San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium , identified hormone
therapy like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Prempro, weight gain after menopause,
and radiation from medical tests like CT scans as triggers.
Early research when girls’ breasts are growing is key, he said.  Whole Life  “We need to focus on a woman’s whole life course, not just
a few years prior to a breast cancer diagnosis,” Hunter said.
“What happens during childhood, and even in utero, may be
important.”  The institute study ruled out risk from hair dyes and
radiation found in devices like mobile phones and microwaves.  While chemicals including those in gas fumes and car
exhaust such as benzene may trigger tumors, others including BPA
and pesticides have less evidence implicating them, Hunter said.
It’s hard to get conclusive results because chemicals are so
prevalent, and may be most harmful earlier in life, he said.  The 350-page report, commissioned by Susan G.  Komen  for the
Cure, took at broad look at the environmental causes of  breast
cancer . More than a dozen academic leaders in oncology,
environmental and occupational health examined research on every
aspect of life that occurs outside the genes women inherit from
their parents to pinpoint potential dangers.  Damage to Cells  Breast cancer is the most-common tumor type outside of skin
cancer in women, with an estimated 230,480  new cases  this year.
Almost 40,000 women die each year in the U.S. from breast
cancer, making it the second-deadliest tumor after  lung cancer .
It is believed to stem from accumulated damage to the cells from
genetics and external factors, according to the report.  One of the most-important conclusions is that women should
work with doctors to understand their individual risk, said
Kathy Helzlsouer, director of the prevention and research center
at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore.  While steps can be taken to minimize the chances of
developing breast cancer, only women at high risk may want to
use more-aggressive measures, she said.  The generic drug tamoxifen and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Evista are
good options to prevent tumors in high-risk women, Helzlsouer
said in a telephone interview. Medical imaging with x-rays and
CT scans are sometimes necessary, though excessive testing
should be avoided, she said.  Daily Drink  A glass of wine or a similar daily drink also raises breast
cancer risk by about 9 percent, Hunter said. On the other hand,
alcohol lowers heart disease risk, again pointing to the need
for individual lifestyle decisions, he said.  “Breast cancer develops over many years, so we need better
ways to study exposures throughout women’s lives, including when
they are very young,” Hertz-Picciotto said. “We also need
improved methods to test for agents that may be contributing to
breast cancer risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  