-- 
Buffett’s $2 Billion Solar Bet Receives ‘Attractive’ Power Rates

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/buffett-gets-u-s-incentive-high-power-rates-in-2-billion-solar-farm-bet.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. , which is buying a $2 billion solar project in California,
may have picked the right time to invest in the industry.  The 550-megawatt Topaz project will qualify for a federal
incentive because construction began last month, and it will
sell electricity under a long-term contract that was completed
before  prices  for solar panels fell 44 percent in the last year.
Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings utility unit and  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the project developer, announced the deal yesterday.  Topaz, which will use First Solar panels, may be the last
large solar farm to qualify for the U.S. Treasury Department
incentive program, which is set to expire this year. It will
likely sell power at a higher price than projects that are
seeking contracts from utilities now, said  Paul Clegg , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in  New York .  “The smart guys are getting into these early projects
because they have very attractive power-purchase agreements,”
Clegg said in an interview. “Financing won’t be as easy at the
rates being signed for the latest ones.”  First Solar projects that are currently being built will
sell power for 14 cents to 16 cents a kilowatt-hour, said  Alan
Bernheimer , a spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based company. By
2014, he expects its solar farms to sell power at 10 cents to 12
cents a kilowatt-hour, he said.  The price of the Topaz deal wasn’t disclosed and Bernheimer
wouldn’t give the rates at which it will sell electricity.  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) ’s San Francisco-based utility agreed in August 2008 to buy
Topaz’s power for 25 years.  ‘Favorable Terms’  “The reason this project made sense is because the power
purchase agreement was signed three years ago at very favorable
terms,”  Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
in New York, said in an interview. He has a “buy” rating on
First Solar.  Prices for power sold under these long-term contracts are
coming down, and the expected expiration of a federal incentive
may further erode profit margins for large projects, Shrestha
said. The Treasury Department’s  1603 program , which offers cash
grants equal to about 30 percent of renewable energy projects’
development costs, is set to end Dec. 31.  First Solar received $3.1 billion in federal loan
guarantees for three other solar projects that it later sold.
Buffett is chairman and chief executive of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire.  Loan Guarantees  The Topaz plant was offered a conditional guarantee that
the company couldn’t complete because it was unable to meet some
of the requirements before the U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee program ended Sept. 30. MidAmerican Energy said the
purchase shows that solar energy is viable without government
backing.  Solyndra LLC , a failed solar panel company, received a
guarantee under the same program.  “Buffett’s investment shows that solar has come of age,”
Shrestha said. The end of the grant program “takes away some of
the incentive but there will still be viable large scale solar
plants.”  The billionaire’s endorsement may also help First Solar
sell other solar farms, even if they have power-purchase deals
with lower rates, Clegg said. “I don’t doubt they will find
buyers for more of their projects,” he said. “The returns
probably won’t be as good as the ones that have already been
sold.”  First Solar has sold and begun building projects using its
panels to buyers including General Electric Co., NextEra Energy
Inc., Exelon Corp. and NRG Energy Inc. Projects that First Solar
is developing and for which it still needs buyers total 600
megawatts, according to a company presentation on Oct. 26.  Biggest Acquisition  MidAmerican may not be one of the buyers, said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder and author of “Secrets in
Plain Sight: Business and Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.”  “I would guess this is specific to MidAmerican and this
particular deal,” he said in an e-mail. Though Buffett has
voiced support for renewable energy, “I wouldn’t think he’s
going to run around and buy solar assets.”  Buying Topaz will provide a “nice set” of  cash flow  for
MidAmerican, Jenny Chase head of solar analysis at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said in an e-mail. “This is the biggest
acquisition of a single photovoltaic project anywhere,” she
said.  The Topaz project in San Luis Obispo County is expected to
be complete in 2015. It’s the third-largest solar farm announced
to date in the U.S., tied with First Solar’s Desert Sunlight
plant, also in  California , and trailing plants that NRG Energy
and Cannon Power Corp. are developing, according to New Energy
Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  