-- 
Bulgaria to Pull Out of Russian, Greek Oil Pipeline Project

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-07T11:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/bulgaria-to-pull-out-of-russian-greek-oil-pipeline-project-1-.html
Bulgaria  backed out of a 2007
agreement with Russia and  Greece  to build an oil pipeline
bypassing  Turkey ’s crowded Bosporus and Dardanelles straits
after saying it won’t work.  Bulgaria will propose to dissolve the trilateral agreement
or withdraw unilaterally in 12 months, Energy and Economy
Minister Traicho Traikov told reporters in Sofia today. The
proposed 285-kilometer (177-mile) pipeline from the Bulgarian
Black Sea port of Burgas to the Greek port of Alexandroupolis on
the Aegean was initially estimated to cost 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion).  “Analyses show the pipeline cannot be implemented under
the conditions agreed on in 2007,” Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said at the same briefing. “Bulgaria won’t face
sanctions.”  The planned link with a capacity of 35 million metric tons
of oil a year was intended to bypass the straits linking the
 Black Sea  with the Mediterranean, saving shipping costs. The
project is competing with another plan agreed to by Russia,
Italy and Turkey in 2009 to carry oil from the Turkish Black Sea
port of Samsun to Ceyhan on the Mediterranean.  Bulgaria will pay some about 12 million lev ($8.2 million)
owed to the pipeline joint venture in which Russia holds 51
percent and Bulgaria and Greece have 24.5 percent each, Djankov
said. Bulgaria is cutting spending to contain the impact from
the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis, aiming to cut next year’s
budget gap to 1.35 percent of economic output from 2 percent in
2011.  Stalled Project  The government of Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  stalled the
project when it came to power in 2009 because of concern that an
 oil spill  would harm the country’s Black Sea resorts and ordered
an  environmental impact assessment study , before making a final
decision.  A referendum held in the Burgas region in 2008 showed
residents were opposed to the link on concern it raises the risk
that oil may spill from tankers during loading.  The proposed pipeline route violates a  European Union 
wildlife conservation directive known as Natura 2000 because it
passes through protected areas, which allows Bulgaria to
withdraw from the project without paying penalties, Borissov
said in 2009.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  