-- 
Canada Act Ending Wheat Board Monopoly Violates Law, Federal Court Rules

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-12-07T19:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/canada-act-ending-wheat-board-monopoly-violates-canadian-law-court-rules.html
Government legislation to abolish the
Canadian Wheat Board’s nearly seven-decade monopoly on grain
marketing is illegal, the nation’s Federal Court ruled.  Legislation  that passed  Canada ’s House of Commons Nov. 28
violated the law governing the Wheat Board because the
government didn’t conduct a vote among farmers, the court said
today in  ruling  posted on its website. The CWB sued in October
to retain its single-desk marketing system after conducting its
own plebiscite among farmers, who voted to retain the monopoly.  The government should “comply with the spirit of this
ruling and immediately cease actions that would strip away
Prairie farmers’ single-desk marketing system without first
allowing a vote by affected producers,” Wheat Board chairman
Allen Oberg said today in a statement.  Since 1943, the monopoly has required farmers in Canada’s
main growing region to sell all their wheat and barley meant for
human consumption to the Board. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
Conservative government, arguing that an open market will
encourage investment and innovation, proposed legislation in
October to end the monopoly by Aug. 1. The measure is awaiting
approval from the Senate.  Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz has said the government
aimed to pass the legislation by the end of this year. Ritz will
hold a media teleconference at 3:15 p.m. today in Ottawa to
discuss the ruling, according to a release from the ministry.  Human Resources Minister Diane Finley said in the House of
Commons that the government will appeal the ruling.  “The minister breached his statutory duty to consult with
the Board and conduct a vote of wheat and barley producers,”
according to the  ruling  from Justice Douglas R. Campbell.  The Canadian Wheat Board’s jurisdiction covers
Saskatchewan, Manitoba,  Alberta  and parts of British Columbia,
the region that produces the majority of the country’s wheat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  