-- 
Canada’s Dollar Weakens From One-Month High on Renewal of Risk Aversion

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-12-07T22:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/canada-s-dollar-touches-one-month-high-on-oil-economic-growth-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar declined from the
strongest level in a month as renewed concern Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis will worsen spurred an increase in risk aversion
among investors.  Canada’s currency has been the fourth-best performer after
the  U.S. dollar , yen and pound over the past three months
against the euro among the most-traded currencies, gaining 2.4
percent, as investors sought refuge from the prospect of a
global recession. The  European Central Bank  may announce a range
of measures tomorrow to stimulate bank lending, according to
three euro-area officials.  “We had a big move yesterday, but there is a more cautious
tone in the market overall and the risk backdrop is leaning
against the Canadian dollar,” said  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
Toronto. Investors are “waiting to see what comes out of the
European summit tomorrow to give the market direction.”  Canada’s currency rose as much as 0.3 percent to C$1.0066
per U.S. dollar, the strongest since Nov. 3, before trading
little changed at C$1.0099 at 5:15 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.07 U.S. cents.  Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, retreated as the
dollar gained against the euro after a German government
official said  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is more
pessimistic on the outcome of a European Union leaders’ summit
in Brussels beginning tomorrow.  Crude for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 0.6 percent to $100.55 a barrel.  Additional Options  The ECB will reduce its benchmark rate to 1 percent from
1.25 percent tomorrow, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Additional options that the central bank is considering
include loosening collateral criteria so that institutions have
more access to cheap ECB cash and offering them longer-term
loans to grease the flow of credit to the economy, said the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private. Two said an interest-rate cut is
likely, with only the size of the reduction to be determined for
the monthly decision tomorrow.  Canada’s currency rose yesterday after the central bank
kept its main interest rate unchanged at 1 percent.  Europe  Watch  “The market is still very uncertain that a deal can be
reached with anything concrete in it, which leaves a lot of
unanswered questions and what if to worry about,” said Steve Butler, director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank
of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit. “The loonie has had a
good run after the Bank of Canada was more balanced that the
market was expecting, but there is still a lot of event risk to
deal with from here with the European meetings ahead.”  Swaps traders trimmed bets the Bank of Canada will cut
 interest rates  by the middle of next year on signs the domestic
and U.S. economies will weather the European sovereign-debt
crisis.  The  Federal Reserve , Bank of Canada and other central
banks reduced the cost of emergency dollar funding last week in
a coordinated action to help prevent the spread of debt
contagion in Europe. The interest rate was reduced to the dollar
overnight index swap rate plus 50 basis points, or a half-
percentage point, from 100 basis points, and the program was
extended to February 2013.  “While markets have taken comfort from the coordinated
central bank announcement last week, the risk remains a
disappointing outcome this weekend as implementation of any
possible agreements will take time & belt tightening,”  John Curran , senior vice president at the online dealer CanadianForex
Ltd., wrote in a note to clients. “Look for  risk aversion  & a
stronger U.S. dollar to creep into” Canadian dollar market
action, he said.  Yields on the six-month overnight index swap, a security
based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate will
average during that period, climbed as much as 2.6 basis points,
or 0.026 percentage point, yesterday in the biggest intraday
increase in three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  