-- 
Canadian Pacific Boosts Saskatchewan Bakken Crude Shipments

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-12-07T22:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/canadian-pacific-rail-boosts-saskatchewan-bakken-crude-shipments.html
Canadian Pacific Railway (CP)  Ltd. said it
will spend more than C$90 million ($89 million) to boost
trainload shipments of crude pulled from the Bakken formation in
Saskatchewan and  North Dakota .  The railroad will move more than 13,000 carloads, each
carrying about 650 barrels of light crude oil, from the North
Dakota Bakken this year, almost quintupling last year’s
shipments, said Ed Greenberg, a CP spokesman in  Minneapolis . The
Calgary-based company expects crude shipments to grow to 70,000
cars annually.  CP opened a rail-loading facility in southern Saskatchewan
today, its second for Bakken crude in the province. The
facility, 25 miles (40 kilometers) from the U.S. border, allows
railcars to be loaded from trucks and will be operated by
closely held Bulk Plus Logistics LP, the company said in a
statement.  “CP will take what it has learned and the products
developed in North Dakota and apply them in the emerging
Saskatchewan and Alberta Bakken markets,” said Tracy Robinson,
CP’s vice president of energy and merchandise in Calgary. “The
model that we developed in North Dakota is proven and we’re now
bringing that north.”  Producers have turned to rail shipments to move Bakken
crude because of a lack of large pipelines in the isolated
region. North Dakota oil output jumped 28 percent to 464,121
barrels a day in September from a year earlier, according to
 state  statistics. Companies including  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  have proposed lines to carry Bakken crude to
U.S. markets.  CP operates a railcar-loading facility in Dollard,
Saskatchewan, 280 miles west of Estavan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  