-- 
Career Education Directors Sued Over Inaccurate Student Placement Reports

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-08T00:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/career-education-directors-sued-over-inflated-student-placement-reports.html
A  Career Education Corp. (CECO)  investor
sued the for-profit college operator’s board for failing to
ensure the accuracy of reported job-placement rates used to
determine federal tuition funding eligibility.  The shareholder, Kharran Bangari, sued seven of Career
Education’s directors on behalf of the Schaumburg, Illinois-
based company today in  Illinois  state court in  Chicago . She
accused the board of breach of fiduciary duty and abuse of
control, and is seeking money damages for the company and an
order compelling the board to reform its corporate governance.  In a regulatory filing last month, the company said 49 of
its schools were in jeopardy of losing their accreditation
because of job-placement misrepresentations, Bangari said. The
board members, some of them on the  audit committee  and others on
the compliance committee, “failed to exercise reasonably
appropriate oversight over the internal controls involving
accreditation,” according to the complaint.  “The company’s accreditation issues risk the very
foundation of the company’s viability as a going concern,”
which is access to federal tuition funding, she alleged. “The
company has been irreparably damaged.”  Among the named defendants is Chairman Steven Lesnik. Mark Spencer, a company spokesman, said Career Education officials
hadn’t seen the complaint and that he couldn’t comment on it.  Accrediting Council  The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges & Schools
directed Career Education to tell it this month why its
accreditation shouldn’t be suspended at the 49 health-education
and art-and-design institutions, according to Bangari.  Career Education in August disclosed in a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filing that it had identified “improper
practices” at some of its more than 90 campuses as it was
responding to a subpoena issued by New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman .  The company said it would review the reporting of placement
rates at all its U.S. schools. In the course of that review,
according to Bangari, Career Education learned that job-
placement rates at 36 of the 49 schools were below their
previously reported qualifying rate of 65 percent or greater.  The board failed to ensure the company kept reasonably
detailed records that accurately reflected graduate job-
placement rates and whether its schools were meeting
requirements, she said.  The case is Bangari v. Lesnik, 11CH41973, Cook County,
Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  