-- 
McCartney Gets Back to Beatlemania With Rolling Stone on Tour

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/mccartney-gets-back-to-beatlemania-with-rolling-stone-wood-on-tour-review.html
“There’s granddad up there, rockin' 
away,” jokes  Paul McCartney , addressing the crowd at  London ’s O2.  The sprightly 69-year-old, who bounds on the stage with all
the zest of a newly-wed (he married for the third time in
October), reveals that his grandchildren, who are in the 20,000-
strong audience, want to hear “Back in the U.S.S.R.”  The blistering version that follows is a memorable moment
of a 2½-hour, 35-song set. McCartney also sings three Beatles-
era tunes for the first time at a U.K. concert, covers  Jimi Hendrix ’s “Foxy Lady” and runs through an indulgently scuzzy
rendition of “Get Back” with grizzled Rolling Stone Ron Wood.  The star the U.K. tabloids have nicknamed “Macca” will be
playing Stockholm, Helsinki, Moscow and Manchester before a
hometown show in Liverpool on Dec. 20. A ticket would be a
perfect pre-Christmas treat for anyone remotely interested in
music.  It’s difficult to imagine him doing a poor show. Together
with  John Lennon , McCartney’s responsible for arguably the
greatest collection of songs ever written. Having a repertoire
that includes “Drive My Car,” “Paperback Writer,” “Let It Be”
and “Yesterday” (all of which McCartney and his four superb band
members play) would benefit the most mediocre of performers.  McCartney is dressed in an exquisitely cut dark suit with a
cut-away collar, as one would expect from the father of a
leading fashion designer. When not singing, he’s chatty, amusing
and sweetness incarnate. Taking off his jacket to reveal a white
shirt, he quips it will be the night’s only wardrobe change.  Vanderbilt, Rigby  Following “Mrs. Vanderbilt,” he notes, with eyebrow raised,
that the song has been voted “the No. 1 McCartney song in the
Ukraine.” He follows it with “Eleanor Rigby,” as if to emphasize
the point.  There are a few imperfections. Songs earlier in the set are
laden with a weightier rock sound than they can bear. The use of
keyboards is mawkish and graceless. A loose connection somewhere
spoils the otherwise excellent sound with a high-pitched whine.  There are many perfect moments to make up for that.
“Blackbird,” played solo with acoustic guitar, is rendered even
more exquisite by McCartney’s explanation of how it was written
to inspire those involved in the 1960s civil-rights struggle.  “Here Today”, written in memory of Lennon, captures the
personal, prosaic grief for a man mourned by millions.  Beatles Treats  “Helter Skelter” is a wild rock ride; “Sing the Changes,”
a song from the recent Fireman project, an understated
alternative-rock anthem; “The Night Before,” “The Word” and
“Come and Get It” are treats for dedicated fans who lapped up
the luxuriously expensive “Beatles in Mono” boxed set.  McCartney takes to a grand piano and plays “Live and Let
Die” for every ounce of its bombast. Each chorus comes with
enough pyrotechnic explosions to fuel a James Bond finale. It’s
a bigger showstopper than offered by many arena rock tours.
McCartney, after complaining that the bangs are too much for his
aging ears, follows it with something bigger.  “Hey Jude” is still the greatest singalong ever written.  “Oh, you know the words,” he quips, smiling broadly as
20,000 people “na-na-na” to their hearts’ content, overjoyed
at the opportunity to see this master of the popular song
happily at play.  Rating: ****.  Information:  http://www.paulmccartney.com   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 