-- 
Chavez Bond Brokerage Purge Fails to Stem Venezuelan Inflation

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-12-07T04:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/chavez-jailing-of-bond-brokers-fails-to-cut-runaway-inflation-in-venezuela.html
Herman Sifontes used to manage more
than $200 million in client assets as the head of  Venezuela ’s
largest brokerage. Then, in the spring of 2010, he was arrested
and his firm was shut down as part of a purge of brokers by
President Hugo Chavez.  Today, according to his sister, Nathalie, Sifontes is
studying Chinese history in the basement of a military prison
and teaching guards English from his cell, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its January issue.  Chavez, ruler of the oil-rich country since 1999, has
publicly blamed bond traders for  accelerating inflation  and
devaluing the bolivar, Venezuela’s currency. In 2010, the
country’s inflation rate was 27.2 percent. In just one month,
from March to April of that year, consumer prices rose 5.2
percent.  On May 25, 2010, Sifontes and three of his partners at
Econoinvest Casa de Bolsa CA were taken into custody by federal
police. Within days, seven other brokers were arrested. Three
weeks later, the financiers were formally accused by government
prosecutors of illegal  currency trading .  Tomas Sanchez , president of Venezuela’s National Securities
Commission, said in a June 2010 interview with Bloomberg News
that the brokers, who traded currencies on the bond market, were
setting arbitrary exchange rates and crippling the economy.  “These were financial thugs,” he said.  ‘Nest of Mafiosos’  On Venezuelan television in July 2010, Chavez described
Sifontes and his associates as “a nest of mafiosos.” He also
accused them of purchasing securities under false identities,
though no such charges were ever formally lodged against them.  Since the government crackdown, more than 50 brokerages
have gone out of business. Meanwhile, the economy has failed to
pick up. Gross domestic product growth is expected to be 2.8
percent in 2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
That compares with an average 4.5 percent for  Latin America  and
the Caribbean.  As of November, the annualized inflation rate stood at 27.6
percent, the highest among 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg. In
an attempt to slow inflation, Chavez froze the prices of 18
personal care items from deodorant to toilet paper on Nov. 22 as
part of a law that will seek to regulate as many as 500,000
prices in the economy.  While the  economy grew  4.2 percent in the third quarter,
key areas such as  food production  contracted 9 percent, adding
to inflationary pressures. Amid a slow economic recovery,
uncertainty shrouds Venezuelan politics.  Six More Years  Chavez announced in June that he had been diagnosed with an
undisclosed form of cancer. A 57-year-old ex-soldier who has
overcome a number of barriers -- including a poverty-stricken
upbringing and two years in prison after a failed coup d’etat
against the government in 1992 -- Chavez has said his illness
will not deter him from seeking a third six-year term in the
October 2012 elections.  As the election approaches, the government still has
financial resources that can help Chavez at the polls.
Venezuela,  South America ’s biggest oil producer, can borrow
money, albeit at high  interest rates . During 2011, the
government sold a record $7.2 billion of bonds to give the
economy a boost, including stimulus spending on agriculture,
public housing and  job creation .  Sifontes and the other brokers were arrested at a time when
the economy was hit by high inflation and an increasingly weak
bolivar. In January 2010, Chavez announced a 50 percent
devaluation of the currency, the first such measure in five
years. The government then set two official exchange rates. One
for essential imports such as food, medicine and machinery,
which stood at 2.6 bolivars to the dollar, and a second rate for
all other transactions, which stood at 4.3 bolivars to the
dollar.  Plunging Bolivar  There was, however, another legal means of trading
currencies: the  bond market  of which Sifontes and Econoinvest
were a part. During the first five months of 2010, the
fluctuating exchange rate on the bond market plunged 26 percent,
reaching a record low of 8.2 bolivars to the dollar on May 11.  Venezuelans who purchased bonds to obtain dollars deposited
their money in foreign bank accounts. These funds could be held
as savings or used to pay in dollars for imports. Bond trading
was not only legal at the time; the government participated in
it by issuing bonds of its own.  In late 2009 and early 2010, Central Bank President Nelson Merentes made it clear that the government believed the
country’s brokerages were instrumental in Venezuela’s economic
decline, according to Eduardo Fortuny, then a board member of
the  Venezuelan Association of Brokerage Houses .  Private Meetings  In private meetings with the group, Merentes called on the
brokers to halt the bolivar’s slide or risk a possible
confiscation of their businesses, Fortuny says. Merentes
declined to comment on Fortuny’s account.  One week before Sifontes was arrested along with his
Econoinvest partners Miguel Osio Zamora, Juan Carlos Carvallo 
and Ernesto Rangel, the government suspended private trading in
dollar-denominated bonds and imposed new controls that gave only
state agencies, not private brokers, the right to trade in them.  “There’s no economic reasoning for the weakening of the
bolivar,” Chavez said on state television. “This is a huge
fraud against the republic.”  As of early December 2011, Sifontes and his colleagues had
yet to go to trial. Under Venezuelan law, they can be held for
up to two years before getting their day in court. The only time
Sifontes has formally addressed his guilt or innocence since his
arrest was during a preliminary hearing on Jan. 16, 2011.  Court Testimony  While the hearing was closed to the public and the media,
an official court video recording of the proceedings obtained by
Bloomberg News shows Sifontes saying bond trading was a
legitimate business.  Indeed, one of his clients was the state-owned  oil company ,
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA , he says; another was the state
telecommunications company, Cia. Anonima Nacional Telefonos de
Venezuela, or  Cantv .  “We did nothing wrong,” he says on the tape. “I’m
completely innocent. We didn’t act behind the government’s
back.”  On the recording, Sifontes can be seen showing a PowerPoint
presentation to the judge.  “We had government support for our operations after they
established and promoted an open, alternative market as a public
policy,” Sifontes says.  ‘Arbitrary Measure’  To find Sifontes and the other brokers guilty would be a
travesty of justice, says Luis Valdivieso, Sifontes’s lawyer.  While the new controls on trading became effective on May
18, 2010, the government is seeking to prosecute the brokers for
trades they had been making since the mid-2000s, when Chavez
liberalized foreign-exchange transactions as part of what he
once called the “democratization of  capital markets .” “Every
person who bought and sold securities to obtain dollars in
Venezuela since 2004 would also be guilty of the same crime,”
Valdivieso says.  A Ministry of Planning and Finance official declined to
comment on the case. Questions e-mailed to Finance Minister
 Jorge Giordani  weren’t answered.  On Nov. 14, Chavez defended his decision to shutter the
capital markets and denied that it was an arbitrary decision.  The opposition “says that Econoinvest was the flagship
company, the best of the best,” Chavez said. “They insist that
I took an arbitrary measure against them, but they defend
corruption.”  Grandstanding Gesture  The brokerage crackdown was a typically grandstanding
gesture by the Chavez government, says  Boris Segura , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in
 New York .  “They wanted to send a signal to the rest of the market:
If you don’t behave, you’re going to go to jail,” Segura says.  Sifontes was a likely target, given his prominence in the
Venezuelan business community as executive director of
Econoinvest, which had 937.2 million bolivars ($218.2 million)
in assets before the government placed it in receivership
following the crackdown.  Married, with three children, Sifontes, 48, had worked in
finance for 20 years.  Sifontes learned that the government was closing in on him
when he was having lunch in the upscale Caracas neighborhood of
Las Mercedes. He received a call from the Econoinvest office on
his mobile phone, according to Gabriel Osio, Miguel’s brother.  Government Raid  Sifontes was informed that a group of government officials,
including two public prosecutors, 14 detectives and eight
inspectors, were carrying out a raid on the office, seizing
computers and documents and interviewing some of the firm’s 600
employees, Gabriel Osio says.  Gabriel Osio, 44, was president of Econoinvest’s executive
committee. He was also president of the Venezuelan Association
of Brokerage Houses and vice president of the  Caracas Stock
Exchange . That day, he was eating at a restaurant in the Los
Palos Grandes neighborhood, closer to the office, with his
brother Miguel, 42, Econoinvest’s legal director; Rangel, 42,
managing director; and Carvallo, 42, sales and marketing
director.  Gabriel, who was recovering from dengue fever, says he left
the lunch early. He says his brother, Carvallo and Rangel
returned to the office, where they joined Sifontes and were
taken into custody at about 8 p.m.  Gabriel says he subsequently fled Venezuela to  Florida  and
is seeking political asylum in the U.S. Miguel urged him not to
return to Venezuela, Gabriel says: “My brother told me to stay
out of it.”  Fleeing Brokers  Osio says dozens of  brokerage executives  fled the country
in the coming weeks, some because they were named in arrest
warrants and others who feared they could be next.  From his Miami base, he says he’s managing the finances of
Econoinvest’s holding company,  Econoinvest Capital SA (ECO/A) , which
continues to operate some businesses, including a Panama-based
brokerage.  Chavez’s naming of more radical officials like securities
regulator Sanchez and finance minister Giordani before the
crackdown was a signal of things to come, Osio said.  “Everything changed with the new finance minister,” he
said.  The buzz of the bond market is a far cry from Sifontes’s
new home, a prison in the working-class Caracas neighborhood of
Boleita operated by the Directorate of Military Intelligence. As
the months tick by, Sifontes and his fellow inmates, Miguel
Osio Zamora, Carvallo and Rangel have tried to keep busy, 
Nathalie Sifontes says.  Her brother has been taking online courses from Madrid-
based  Universidad de Alcala .  Prison Life  “I think that thanks to his studies, he hasn’t felt the
full weight of being behind bars,” she says.  Carvallo has learned Italian, Nathalie Sifontes says.
Rangel lifts weights and manages his Guataca Producciones
recording label, which promotes contemporary Venezuelan music.
The men visit a sunny terrace once a week for exercise before
returning to the harsh fluorescent lights of their separate
prison cells, she says.  Two months before his arrest, Herman Sifontes reviewed
 Niall Ferguson ’s 2008 book, “The Ascent of Money: A Financial
History of the World,” for Venezuela’s Institute of Finance and
Business. Ending his  review  on the institute’s website, Sifontes
pointed to what he thought was the book’s great lesson:
“Democracy, in its broadest sense, must incorporate the
business world.”  ‘Venezuela’s Problem’  Under Chavez, the Venezuelan government operates by
different rules, Sifontes said in his videotaped court
testimony.  “The government has created conditions so that the people
don’t believe in the bolivar and prefer to have dollars,” he
said. “This is Venezuela’s political, economic and sociological
problem.”  Even a politician as powerful as  Hugo Chavez  can’t, it
seems, make the markets bend to his will, no matter how often he
changes the rules and how many brokers he throws in jail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  