-- 
China’s Flight-Canceling Smog Lifts as Cold Front Clears Beijing Pollution

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T07:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/china-s-flight-canceling-smog-lifts-as-cold-front-clears-beijing-pollution.html
Beijing’s pollution dropped from
unhealthy levels as a cold front swept through the Chinese
capital, allowing flights to resume after four days of smog that
spurred criticism of the government’s environmental record.  Fog and snow forced the cancellation of almost 700 flights
since Dec. 5, with 27 called off this afternoon, according to
the Beijing Capital International Airport website. Pollution
levels dropped below “unhealthy” for the first time since Dec.
3, according to data collected by a U.S. Embassy  monitoring
station .  The smog led people to buy more air filters and pollution
masks, the Global Times and  China Daily  newspapers reported
today. The Global Times, a newspaper owned by the Communist
Party’s People’s Daily, published an editorial saying the nation
needed to “face the reality” of its pollution problem.  “Our pollution has become severe,” the unsigned editorial
said. “It is time for us to shift our focus from development to
protection.”  The U.S. Embassy’s pollution monitor, which measures air
pollutants on a 500-point air quality index, had dropped at 2
p.m. to 57, classified as “moderate,” from 268, or “very
unhealthy” six hours before. At 7 p.m. on Dec. 4, the U.S.
monitor was above 500, or “beyond index.”  Source of Tension  The U.S. Embassy’s pollution feed on Twitter has been a
source of tension with the Chinese government because it
monitors pollutants of 2.5 micrometers in size. The Chinese
government only releases data measuring pollutants that are 10
micrometers large, and its readings are often not as severe.
Access to Twitter is blocked in  China .  While the U.S. Twitter feed was reporting hazardous
pollution levels on Dec. 4, for example, the China Environmental
Monitoring Center released data showing that Beijing had been
slightly polluted, with a measurement between 101 and 200, in
the previous 24 hours. Fog warnings were issued for Beijing from
the afternoon of Dec. 4 until this morning.  Today’s Global Times editorial said the discrepancy between
the two readings was becoming an argument about credibility that
the government could lose. Chinese environmental protection “is
hardly a functional system,” it said.  The Global Times and China Daily, also state-controlled,
ran stories reporting that sales of air purifiers, masks and
humidifiers had risen since November. Chris Buckley, owner of
Beijing-based  Torana Clean Air Center , said business for air
purifiers had been “tremendous” in the last few months as
pollution reached unhealthy levels and the government switched
on coal-fired heating plants.  “Toxic Soup”  “When the weather gets cold and the coal burning kicks in,
you get this kind of toxic soup effect that’s happening,”
Buckley said in a phone interview. “You see this haze anyway
when you get a lot of pollution but on moist days it creates
this smog effect which is fog with pollution in it.”  A second China Daily story today reported that lung cancer
rates were expected to rise for the next 20 to 30 years even as
smoking rates remain flat, and that worsened air pollution
“could be a major culprit.” The report cited Shi Yuankai, vice
president of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Cancer
Hospital  Before hosting the 2008 Olympics, Beijing imposed driving
limits, suspended work at construction sites and moved factories
out of the city to clean up the capital’s air.      Beijing has
targeted transforming all its heating plants to burning natural
gas instead of coal by the end of 2015.  Restrictions started for the games that barred half the
city’s privately owned cars from roads each day were eased
afterwards so that each of the city’s automobiles is barred from
driving one day a week depending on the last number of their
license plates.  “There was some improvement in the run-up to the
Olympics,” Buckley said. “In 2010 and 2011 it’s gotten bad
again and we’ve definitely seen more sales as a result of
that.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  