-- 
China’s Stocks Climb From Six-Week Low on Easing Europe Debt Speculation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T07:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/china-s-stocks-climb-from-six-week-low-on-europe-s-debt-crisis-speculation.html
China’s stocks (SHCOMP)  rose from a six-week
low on speculation recent losses were excessive and European
leaders will step up efforts to contain the debt crisis.  China Merchants Bank Co. (600036)  and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
led gains by financial companies on speculation slowing
inflation will prompt the government to ease monetary policies.
 Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. (600720)  and Hebei Iron & Steel Co.
dropped among building-material makers on concern slumping
property sales will curtail real-estate construction.  “The decline is a bit overdone and given the prospect the
government will relax more policies going forward, there should
be a chance for valuations to recover,” said  Zhang Qi , an
analyst at Haitong Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “We see some
progress towards European leaders solving their debt crisis but
at a gradual pace. That’ll make the market volatile.”  The Shanghai Composite Index added 6.83 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,332.73 at the close, erasing an earlier 0.4
percent loss and climbing from the lowest close since Oct. 21.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 0.5 percent to 2,528.23. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, retreated 1 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has plunged 17 percent this year,
exceeding last year’s 14 percent decline, after the central bank
raised interest rates and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to
curb inflation. The index is valued at 11.1 times estimated
earnings, compared with a six-year average of 18.3 times,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks to Rally  China’s equities will rally in the first half of 2012 as
the stock market is among cheapest in  Asia ,  Michael Kurtz , chief
Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., told reporters
in  Kuala Lumpur  today. He recommends investors favor financial,
energy and material companies in a market that trades 33 percent
below its long-term average.  Merchants Bank advanced 1.1 percent to 11.89 yuan. Ping An,
China’s second-biggest insurer, rose 3 percent to 37.92 yuan.
 China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016) , the nation’s first privately owned
bank, added 1.2 percent to 6.12 yuan.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to report November’s
inflation rate and other economic figures on Dec. 9. Consumer
prices probably increased 4.5 percent last month from a year
ago, compared with a 5.5 percent rise in October, according to
the median estimate of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  Interest Rates  Swap traders are betting that China will lower interest
rates at least twice in the coming year as inflation slows,
rejecting the consensus view of economists that borrowing costs
will be left unchanged.  Contracts based on the one-year deposit rate reflect
expectations that the People’s Bank of  China  will cut the
official savings rate to below 3 percent over the next 12
months. Eleven of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last week
predicted the rate would stay at 3.5 percent through 2012, while
four said they expected at least one increase.  China’s inflation may slow to about 3 percent next year,
the Shanghai Securities News reported, citing  Zhang Liqun , a
researcher at the State Council’s development research center.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed China’s sovereign ratings and
said the outlook remains stable, citing the nation’s
“exceptional” growth prospects, holdings of overseas assets
and modest government indebtedness. China’s long-term credit
rating is AA- and its short-term rating is A-1+, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Chanos View  S&P and Moody’s Investors Service’s rosy outlooks on China
debt are wrong, Reuters reported, citing  James Chanos , president
and founder of Kynikos Associates. Chanos holds short positions
on shares in miners, construction companies that ship raw
materials to China and some Chinese banks, according to the
report.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the recent
move by S&P to place 15 euro nations including Germany and
France on review for possible downgrades will help force
European leaders to ratchet up efforts to resolve the debt
crisis at their summit in Brussels.  China’s November export growth was lower than the previous
month, Chong Quan, the country’s deputy international trade
representative, said in Beijing today. Exports grew 15.9 percent
in October. Europe is China’s biggest export market, accounting
for 18 percent of its overseas shipments, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  Property Concern  Gansu Qilianshan Cement lost 3 percent to 10.19 yuan. Hebei
Steel, the listed unit of China’s biggest steelmaker, dropped
1.2 percent to 3.35 yuan. Fujian Cement Inc. retreated 2.3
percent to 8.40 yuan.  China may decide and announce a plan for an expansion of
property tax trials to other cities at year-end, China
Securities Journal reported, citing Jia Kang, a researcher at
China’s Ministry of Finance. No decision has been made on which
cities the property tax trials will be introduced, according to
the report.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest
developer by market value, said yesterday contracted sales
slumped 36 percent from a year ago in November.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  