-- 
China’s Cheap Stocks to Rally in First Half of 2012, Nomura’s Kurtz Says

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-12-07T09:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/china-s-cheap-stocks-to-rally-in-first-half-of-2012-nomura-s-kurtz-says.html
China ’s equities will rally in the
first half of 2012 as the stock market is among the cheapest in
Asia, according to Michael Kurtz, chief Asian equity strategist
at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   He favors Chinese financial, energy and material companies
in a market that is trading at a 33 percent discount to its
long-term average, the strategist told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
today.  Nomura  was ranked No. 1 for China research in a 2010 poll
by Institutional Investor magazine.  “A lot of the pain in the first and second quarters
appears to have been already embedded into equity prices,”
Kurtz said. “Investors should be opportunistically taking
advantage of the weakness in the market to add risks to their
portfolio earlier in 2012.”  Nomura joins  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in
predicting gains for the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  after the
benchmark measure slumped 17 percent in 2011. Stocks have fallen
for a second year after policy makers raised  interest rates  and
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios to curb inflation, driving
down the Shanghai gauge’s estimated price earnings to 11.1
times, compared with a six-year average of 18.3 times, according
to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kurtz forecast the People’s Bank of China will cut interest
rates by a quarter percentage point in the first quarter of next
year and lower the reserve-requirement ratio by 200 basis points
for all of 2012. China announced on Nov. 30 that it will reduce
the amount of cash banks must set aside as  reserves  for the
first time since 2008 as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens exports
and growth.  Pro-Growth  Wendy Liu, a Hong Kong-based equity strategist at RBS, said
that China’s stocks may see a “sizeable rally” next year
because of the change in monetary policy stance, improving
investor protection and a likely more “moderate” pace of
equity offerings. Neither Liu nor Kurtz provided stock targets.  “Be bullish, while valuations still look undemanding,”
Liu said in a report dated yesterday. UBS said Dec. 1 that the
Shanghai Composite may gain as much as 30 percent in 2012, while
China International Capital Corp. turned more positive on
Chinese stocks as financial and material companies may benefit
most from a rebound in the economy.  “There will be ample evidence that Chinese policy makers
have moved back over to a growth-supportive policy bias, away
from the growth-constricting policy bias that has been in place
over the past year to contain inflation pressure,” Kurtz said.  Growth Outlook  The pace of China’s economic growth is likely to bottom at
7.5 percent in the first quarter of next year due to a pullback
in property investment and slowing exports because of Europe’s
debt crisis,  Robert Subbaraman , Nomura’s chief Asia economist,
said at the same briefing. He’s expecting growth to rebound to
8.4 percent by the fourth quarter of 2012, he said.  Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-
largest bank, may buy “cheap” Chinese banks and developers
because they may outperform in a rebound for stocks as inflation
eases, Masahiko Ejiri, a  fund manager , said in an interview
yesterday.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to report November’s
inflation rate and other economic data on Dec. 9. Consumer
prices probably increased 4.5 percent last month from a year
ago, compared with a 5.5 percent rise in October, according to
the median estimate of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  Nomura announced Kurtz’s hiring as its Hong Kong-based
chief Asia equity strategist on Oct. 28. He was previously
Macquarie Group Ltd.’s head of Asian strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  