-- 
China Sees Growing Challenges as Declining Demand Weakens Exports: Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T09:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/china-sees-severe-challenges-as-overseas-demand-weakens-exports-economy.html
China  sees an increase in domestic
costs and a slowdown in overseas demand putting “severe”
pressure on its exports next year, a sign that policy makers may
have little appetite to allow faster gains in the yuan.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s embrace of higher wages, along with a
jump in land and raw-materials prices and a stronger yuan are
restraining shipments, the Commerce Ministry said today. While
the nation can achieve export gains as long as Europe’s crisis
doesn’t deepen, it will need to focus on strengthening links
with  emerging markets , Wang Shouwen, head of the foreign trade
department, said at a briefing in Beijing.  The yuan weakened last month by the most in more than a
year, a shift that may stoke the ire of U.S. lawmakers and
presidential candidates who see the Asian nation’s
competitiveness as a damper on American job growth. China’s
surging trade surplus since joining the World Trade Organization
a decade ago has helped the country accumulate a record $3.2
trillion in foreign-exchange reserves and made it the U.S.’s
largest overseas creditor.  “The room for yuan appreciation is very limited and the
currency will have higher volatility,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk,
a senior economist with Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “It
seems China is moving to protect its exporters more aggressively,
especially as the external environment deteriorates.”  Yuan Reaction  The yuan was little changed, closing at 6.3643 per dollar
in  Shanghai  today, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  The recent decline in the yuan’s exchange rate is a “good
thing,” Chong Quan, the country’s deputy international trade
representative, said at the briefing. It shows the currency is
responding to market demand and that China is not manipulating
the value of the yuan, he said.  Stocks rose from  Tokyo  to Sydney as investors speculated
European leaders will agree on steps to ease the region’s debt
crisis at a summit tomorrow.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of equities gained 1.5 percent
as of 5:15 p.m. Tokyo time, the seventh advance in eight days.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures climbed 0.8 percent.  South
Korea ’s won rose to its strongest level in almost a week,
strengthening 0.5 percent to 1,125.95 per dollar in  Seoul .  Australia Growth  A report today showed Australia’s economy grew faster than
estimated last quarter on  consumer spending  and mining-driven
investment, spurring the local currency as investors pared bets
on the pace of interest-rate cuts next year.  Gross domestic product rose 1 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4 percent the prior
quarter, the fastest pace in four years. The median of 24
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for 0.8 percent growth.  Industrial production in the U.K. probably fell 0.7 percent
in October from a year earlier, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a report today.
 Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, may say industrial output
rebounded 0.3 percent in October from September, when it dropped
2.7 percent, a separate survey of economists showed.  Consumer borrowing in the U.S. probably rose by $7 billion
in October, compared with a $7.4 billion jump the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the  Federal Reserve  releases the figures
today.  ‘Enough’s Enough’  President  Barack Obama  last month renewed pressure on
China’s foreign-exchange policy and trade practices, saying
“enough’s enough” on what the U.S. views as too-slow
appreciation of the yuan.  Vice President  Xi Jinping  told former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  yesterday that America should “curb its
tendency of politicizing economic issues” to improve the
environment for trade and economic cooperation, the official
Xinhua news agency reported today. Xi also called for a
relaxation in U.S. restrictions on technology exports to China
and help for Chinese companies wanting to invest in the world’s
biggest economy.  China’s export situation is “quite serious” and growth in
shipments in November was slower than the previous month,
Mofcom’s Chong said after today’s briefing to release a white
paper on foreign trade.  Exports rose 10.9 percent last month from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of 32 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. That would follow a 15.9 percent  increase  in
October which was the slowest pace since gains resumed in
December 2009 after the global financial crisis, excluding
holiday distortions.  Import Slowdown  China’s trade surplus last month dropped to $15.2 billion
from $17 billion in October and $22.9 billion a year earlier, a
separate survey of economists showed. Import growth likely
slowed to 18.8 percent from 28.7 percent in October, according
to another poll. The customs bureau is scheduled to release
November trade data on Dec. 10.  China’s  trade surplus  surged after the nation joined the
 World Trade Organization  in December 2001, rising to a record
$298 billion in 2008 from $30.4 billion in the year after
accession. The excess has since declined and the customs bureau
predicted in October it would drop to $170 billion this year.  A moderating surplus and slower capital inflows, reflected
in a drop in net purchases of foreign exchange by the nation’s
banks, may ease pressure for the yuan to appreciate. It may also
push the People’s Bank of China to make further cuts in banks’
 reserve requirements  to ensure adequate liquidity in the
financial system, according to economists at banks including
Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG.  The government may rein in the yuan’s appreciation in 2012
as export growth moderates amid a global slowdown, according to
analysts at  Capital Economics  and  Australia  & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd.  Gains may be limited to 3 percent, ANZ said in a report
yesterday. Mark Williams at Capital Economics now estimates the
yuan will end 2012 at 6.2 per dollar from a previous estimate of
6.1.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Shamim Adam in
 Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Brendan Murray  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ken McCallum at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberg.net  