-- 
China’s Foreign Reserves Continue to Fall, Ex-PBOC Adviser Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T11:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/china-s-foreign-reserves-continue-to-fall-ex-pboc-adviser-says.html
China ’s foreign-exchange reserves
continued to fall through this month,  Li Yang , a former adviser
to the nation’s central bank, told an economic forum today.  “Our foreign reserves started to decline from the end of
September, then in October, November and as of now this month,
are basically falling every day,” said Li, now a vice president
at the government-backed  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences ,
which does research and analysis on public policy. Li’s comments
were published in an online transcript of the forum on the
state-run china.com.cn website.  China’s world-record  foreign-exchange reserves  increased
the least in more than a decade last quarter and  declined  in
September for the first time in 16 months, according to the
central bank, which releases the data on a quarterly basis. Li
didn’t say how he knew that foreign reserves were falling or
give a reason for the declines.  More signs of slowing capital inflows into China emerged
when a separate central bank report last month showed financial
institutions sold a net 24.9 billion yuan ($3.9 billion) in
foreign currencies in October. That number, also called the
position for foreign-exchange purchases, is watched by analysts
for signs of inflows or outflows of so-called hot money. Foreign
funds also enter China through trade and investment.  The entry of foreign currency into China fuels growth in
the nation’s money supply, instead of spurring appreciation of
the yuan, because the central bank limits the currency’s gain.
In response, the central bank sold bills and ratcheted up
 reserve requirements  for lenders during the past two years to
rein in liquidity.  Reserve Ratio Cut  The People’s Bank of China last week cut the amount of cash
banks are asked to set aside as reserves, the first such move in
three years. Li, the former bank adviser, said today the  reserve
ratio  reduction was in response to the decline in the nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves. Official reserves stood at $3.2
trillion by the end of September, according to the latest
available data.  “If foreign reserves do not increase as fast, China’s
money supply expansion won’t face as much pressure,” Li said.
Less foreign currency inflow has also led to more “two-way”
fluctuations and even depreciations in the yuan’s exchange rate
in the past few months, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ken McCallum at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberg.net  