-- 
Clinton Warns of Biological Weapon Threat, Need for Control

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-07T16:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/clinton-warns-of-biological-weapon-threat-need-for-control.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged the international community to focus on preventing
terrorists from acquiring biological weapons, warning that a
“mass outbreak” could threaten fragile economies the world
over.  Speaking before the Review Conference of Biological and
Toxin Weapons in Geneva, Clinton said biological agents such as
anthrax are getting easier to develop and terrorist groups are
working to acquire them. She called on the 165 nations that are
party to the convention to strengthen their abilities to detect
and respond to attacks and outbreaks.  The “ability of non-state actors to get weapons is growing
and therefore this must be a focus,” Clinton said. “There are
warning signs and they are too serious to ignore. Terrorist
groups have made it known they want to acquire these weapons.”  Clinton added that “a mass outbreak could cripple an
already fragile global economy by cutting off the movement of
people and goods and sparking food shortages.”  Clinton is on a five-day trip to  Europe , where she met her
counterparts to discuss  Afghanistan  and is speaking on democracy
and human rights issues.  The international accord bans the development, production,
stockpiling, and transfer of biological weapons, as well as
biological agents and toxins, according to the  Congressional
Research Service . It also bans equipment or means of delivery
designed to use such agents or toxins for hostile purposes or in
armed conflict, and it requires parties to the convention to
destroy all relevant “agents, toxins, weapons, equipment and
means of delivery.” It permits defensive biological warfare
research.  U.S. Opposition  The U.S. does not back the effort to create a verification
regime for biological weapons, similar to the one run by the
International Atomic Energy Association to track nuclear
materials, Clinton said. In the past, the U.S. has expressed the
view that a verification process wouldn’t work and might
endanger the security of U.S. biodefense programs and U.S.
commercial proprietary information, according to the Sept. 20
CRS report.  Instead, members of the convention should do more to
bolster confidence that “enough is being done,” Clinton said.  U.S. opposition to a verification system has drawn
criticism from countries such as  Iran . Prior review conferences,
in 2001 and 2006, bogged down over disagreements about
verification and technolology-transfer control issues, according
to CRS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Geneva at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva   msilva34@bloomberg.net  