-- 
Colleges Can Cut Scandal With Transparency, Top School Administrators Say

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-07T21:22:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/colleges-can-cut-scandal-with-transparency-top-school-administrators-say.html
Universities need to be more
transparent internally and with the public when there is
trouble, college athletic directors and administrators said
during panel discussions in  New York  today.  The officials, who were speaking at the IMG Intercollegiate
Athletics Forum, said the need for communication is paramount,
especially in light of the child sex-abuse allegations tied to
 Penn State University .  “The moment something goes wrong, you have a press
conference about it, you get it out and you deal with it,”
 University of Texas  President Bill Powers said during a panel
discussion about the state of intercollegiate athletics.
“Almost all the problems that we’re seeing were exacerbated by
not getting them out and dealing with them.”  Penn State fired football coach  Joe Paterno , 84, and
President Graham B. Spanier, 63, last month for their handling
of child sex-abuse allegations against former assistant coach
Jerry Sandusky.  Sandusky, 67, was charged by state prosecutors Nov. 5 with
40 counts related to alleged molestation of eight boys from 1994
to 2009. He has denied any wrongdoing. Today he was charged with
sexually abusing two more children.  Paterno, who won a record 409 games as Penn State’s coach,
was fired and Spanier was removed as the university’s president
by the Board of Trustees for inaction after word of possible
assaults became known in 2002.  Athletic Director Tim Curley and Senior Vice President  Gary Schultz  were charged with perjury and failure to report the
allegations. They have denied the charges.  Winning Mentality  “Being transparent is a part of being a winner,”
 University of Washington  Athletic Director Scott Woodward said
in an interview. “Promoting that culture is a key part of an
athletic director’s job.”  John Currie, athletic director at  Kansas State University ,
said that his salary was listed in the second paragraph of the
press release when he was hired in 2009. That set the precedent
for openness throughout the department, Currie said.  “We are getting out, meeting face to face with our people,
being very communicative and listening,” he said. “The
transparency thing has worked.”  Ohio State football coach  Jim Tressel  resigned last year
after the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  found that he
kept information regarding infractions by his players from
school administrators for more than nine months. Five Buckeyes
were suspended for selling or trading uniforms and other
memorabilia, and the team vacated 12 wins from the 2010 season.  Secrecy Threatens  NCAA President Mark Emmert said secrecy is one of the
biggest dangers to any organization.  “Any place in society where people have power asymmetry,
where you have high levels of trust between those people, and
then surround it with secrecy or privacy you are at risk for bad
things to happen,” Emmert said. “Athletics programs are
especially susceptible to all three of those and we have to work
very hard to make sure that those kinds of environments don’t
exist.”  Penn State  would also benefit from outside perspectives,
Woodward said during the panel.  “You always need new blood,” he said.  There may be financial benefits for schools being more
transparent. Currie said Kansas State’s alumni have responded to
the university’s commitment to openness.  “We’re over-the-top transparent and the people have
responded to that with some of the largest giving years we’ve
ever had,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  