-- 
Colombia Bond Yields Drop Near Two-Week Low on Inflation Outlook

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-12-07T19:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/colombia-bond-yields-drop-near-two-week-low-on-inflation-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields near a two-week low, as slower-than-forecast inflation
lifted demand for fixed-rate securities.  The yield on the nation’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.55
percent, according to the stock exchange. The yield declined to
7.54 percent on Dec. 5, the lowest level since Nov. 18. The
bond’s price rose 0.447 centavo to 119.420 centavos per peso.  “The market is calm in terms of inflation,” said Daniel
Escobar, an analyst at brokerage Global Securities in Bogota.  The benchmark security will continue trading in a range
between 7.53 percent and 7.59 percent, Escobar predicts, as the
market awaits the outcome of a summit of European Union leaders
that will start tomorrow.  Standard & Poor’s  warned this week
that it may downgrade 15 euro nations including Germany and
France depending on the result of the summit.  Consumer prices rose 0.14 percent in November, the national
statistics agency said in a Dec. 5  report , less than the 0.19
percent median forecast of 30 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
 Annual inflation  was 3.96 percent last month, down from 4.02
percent in October, which was the first time in two years that
inflation surpassed the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent
target.  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  asked policy makers
to refrain from raising  interest rates  further after the central
bank became the only one in  Latin America  to increase borrowing
costs in the past four months.  Rate Increase  Banco de la Republica raised the overnight lending rate by
25 basis points to 4.75 percent on Nov. 25.  Brazil  started
cutting rates in August as countries across  emerging markets 
shifted to policies that aim to safeguard growth from the global
slowdown.  Colombia’s central bank “has been prudent” in raising
interest rates to keep inflation in check, Santos said in an
interview late yesterday with RCN Radio, according to a
statement on the presidential website. “What I don’t think is
convenient is for them to continue raising interest rates.”  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 1,923.13 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,933.40 yesterday. The currency has dropped 0.8 percent in the
last month. Colombian markets are closed tomorrow for a national
holiday.  Trade volume has fallen in the local  currency market  as
investors await the outcome of the European summit, according to
Juan Camilo Santana, an analyst at an analyst at Cia. de
Profesionales de Bolsa SA brokerage in Bogota.  “People don’t want to bet much without knowing for certain
what will happen,” Santana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  