-- 
Colombian Stock Movers: Empresa de Energia, ETB, Helm Bank

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-12-07T22:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/colombian-stock-movers-empresa-de-energia-etb-helm-bank.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Bogota trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4 p.m. local time.  The  IGBC Index (IGBC)  rose 1.7 percent to 12,884.55, while the
Colcap Index gained 2.1 percent to 1,576.49.  Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA (EEB)  , Colombia’s
second-biggest electricity distributor, sank for a third day
after Bogota’s mayor-elect Gustavo Petro told the daily El
Tiempo he plans a merger with other public companies including
 Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Bogota SA. (ETB)   Colombia’s securities regulator suspended trading of the
shares for three business days as a preventive measure to
protect investors, according to an e-mailed statement.  EEB, as the city-controlled company is known, fell 3.7
percent to 1,050 pesos before trading was halted. The shares
have declined 17 percent in three days.  Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Bogota SA (ETB CB), the
city-run phone company serving  Colombia ’s capital, gained 2.3
percent to 440 pesos. Investors are reacting positively to
Petro’s merger plan after the initial “panic” has subsided.  “ETB is seeking a strategic partner and clearly the
arrival of a partner like EEB is positive because they have  cash
flow  that ETB doesn’t have,” said Santiago Melo, an analyst at
Alianza Valores, “ETB is the big winner in this.”  Helm Bank SA  (PFBHELMB CB), a Colombian lender, rose 8.6
percent, the most since shares began trading in 2007, to 303
pesos, after Corpbanca purchased Banco Santander SA’s Colombia
unit for $1.16 billion. Foreign acquisitions of Colombian banks,
also including Bank of Nova Soctia’s $1 billion purchase of
Colpatria in October, may be driving speculation that Helm is
undervalued, said David Pelaez, an analyst at Bolsa y Renta SA.  “With the noise of acquisitions of Colombian banks at
prices above their book values, there may be speculation that
Helm is worth more than its current value,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  