-- 
Congo’s President Kabila Set to Extend 10-Year Rule Amid Fears of Violence

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-12-07T14:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/congo-s-kabila-set-to-extend-10-year-rule-amid-fears-of-violence.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo
President  Joseph Kabila  looked set to extend his 10-year rule as
the U.S. joined other governments warning that the mineral-rich
country’s election results may trigger violence.  Kabila leads his main rival,  Etienne Tshisekedi , 49 percent
to 33 percent with 89 percent of polling stations reporting,
Daniel Ngoy Mulunda, the head of the electoral commission, told
reporters in Kinshasa, the capital, yesterday. The commission
delayed announcing provisional results for 48 hours in order to
complete counting, he said. The outcome had been scheduled to be
released yesterday, the final day of Kabila’s five-year mandate.  The results so far “indicate a nearly unsurpassable lead by
President Kabila, even factoring in a surge of votes for
Tshisekedi in his under-reported strongholds,” Philippe de Pontet,  Africa  director at Eurasia Group, the New York-based
research company, said in an e-mailed note. “The balance of
remaining districts to be counted does not favor Tshisekedi
enough to erode the president’s lead.”  Thousands have fled Congo fearing violence after at least
18 civilians were killed and 100 wounded before the Nov. 28
poll. Most of the dead were shot by Kabila’s security forces,
according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Tshisekedi and
his party rejected preliminary results, saying the figures were
impossible to verify.  U.S. Alert  The U.S. State Department issued an alert to citizens
visiting the Central African country and warned that the ability
of its embassy in Kinshasa to assist Americans may be limited as
a result of employee travel being restricted. Assistance may be
further constrained by the “fluid security situation,” it said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Seventy-eight-year-old Tshisekedi, one of 10 opposition
candidates running against Kabila, rejected the preliminary
results as fraudulent and has said that if Mulunda and Kabila
release a final tally in line with the preliminary results it
would be “suicidal.”  Riot police and soldiers have fanned out throughout the
Kinshasa. Albert Moleka, Tshisekedi’s chief of staff, called on
the police and military to withdraw, saying that Tshisekedi’s
supporters would cause no trouble if the vote counting is
transparent. Tshisekedi agreed to the delay on the vote count if
it contributes to transparency, Moleka said in a phone interview
yesterday.  ‘Peaceful Outcome’  “We’re convinced that the electoral commission will
acknowledge the reality of the vote and that will allow us a
peaceful outcome,” Jacquemain Shabani, head of Tshisekedi’s
party, told reporters today in Kinshasa. He blamed concerns
about violence on the threat posed by Kabila’s security forces.  The  African Union , European Union,  International Criminal
Court  and  United Nations  have called for calm once the results
are announced. South African President  Jacob Zuma , who heads the
security unit for the  Southern African Development Community ,
spoke on Dec. 5 to Kabila, Tshisekedi and former national
assembly speaker Vital Kamerhe, who also is also a candidate,
appealing for a peaceful outcome.  “I urge leaders, commanders, and politicians on all sides
to calm your supporters,” ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno- Ocampo said in an e-mailed statement from The Hague. “Electoral
violence is no longer a ticket to power, I assure you. It is a
ticket to The Hague.”  Congo is Africa’s second-biggest copper producer after
Zambia, holds about a third of the world’s cobalt reserves and
is the continent’s largest producer of tin ore. It is also an
important source of columbite-tantalite, the mineral known as
coltan that is used in mobile phones and computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 