-- 
Consumer Credit in U.S. Rose in October to Two-Year High

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-07T20:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increases-to-two-year-high-on-auto-student-loans.html
U.S.  consumer borrowing  rose in
October to the highest level in two years, propelled by gains in
non-revolving debt like auto and  student loans .  Credit increased by $7.65 billion to $2.46 trillion, the
most since October 2009, Federal Reserve figures showed today in
 Washington . The advance was in line with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News that projected a $7
billion gain.  The data indicate consumers are relying more on credit to
sustain spending as income gains fail to keep up with inflation
and  home prices   drop . At the same time, increasing employment
may be making Americans more willing to take on more debt
heading into the holiday shopping season.  “It’s hard to determine whether spending on credit is a
sign of optimism or a sign of distress, but just anecdotally we
feel there is the beginning of tentative feelings of comfort in
taking on slightly more debt,” said  Dana Saporta , a U.S.
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York .  Estimates in the Bloomberg  survey  of 34 economists ranged
from gains of $1 billion to $16 billion.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, climbed by
$366.2 million in October, according to the Fed’s statistics.  Non-revolving debt , including educational loans and loans
for autos and mobile homes, increased by $7.28 billion in
October, today’s report showed. The Fed’s report doesn’t track
debt secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of
credit.  Savings Rate  Households may need to borrow more to sustain spending that
climbed in the third quarter at the fastest pace this year
alongside a drop in disposable income. The savings rate  fell  to
3.8 percent, the lowest since the last three months of 2007, to
support the 2.3 percent advance in purchases last quarter,
Commerce Department figures show.  In November, U.S.  auto sales  rose to a 13.6 million
seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the best month since August
2009, according to Autodata Corp. Americans spent a record $52.4
billion during the Thanksgiving weekend, kicking off the  holiday
shopping season , according to the  National Retail Federation .  Lenders may be more willing to support those outlays after
restricting credit during the recession. Banks were more likely
to ease than tighten standards on consumer credit-card loans and
other non-auto loans in the third quarter, according to a Nov. 7
Federal Reserve survey of loan officers. They were also more
likely to report “strengthening demand for consumer credit card
and auto loans, in line with the past few quarters,” it said.  Total Borrowing  Consumer borrowing, nonetheless, has shrunk relative to its
size before the recession. Household debt in the U.S. is
currently at about $13 trillion, compared with $14 trillion in
2008,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said
yesterday during a conference hosted by Goldman Sachs Group.  “As I spend time with our consumer lending divisions and
out in the public with customers, people are paying debt down,”
the leader of the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets said. While
the “pool of consumer loans will shrink,” auto loans “will be
a growth area” along with student loans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  