-- 
Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe, Credit-Default Swaps Show

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-12-07T09:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps on sovereign and
bank bonds fell in  Europe , extending the biggest-ever weekly
declines, on speculation the region’s leaders will make progress
toward resolving the debt crisis at a summit tomorrow.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments dropped 10 basis points to 315 at 9:30 a.m. in
London, and is down from a record 385 Nov. 25. Gauges of
financial debt risk are down by more than a quarter in the same
period, signaling improved perceptions of  credit quality .  Politicians are under pressure to deliver a comprehensive
plan to restore investor confidence in the euro region after
months of indecision fueled speculation the 17-nation bloc will
break up. Most international investors predict at least one
nation will eventually dump the euro, according to the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll.  “We don’t think there is any chance of a quick fix to all
of this,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in London, wrote in a note to investors. “Although the
market is getting more optimistic.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers declined 14 basis points to 253 and is
down from a record 358 Nov. 25, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The subordinated gauge fell 20 basis points to 457,
extending the rally from a record 615 on Nov. 25.  Bigger Rescue  Officials are negotiating a bigger rescue effort to discuss
at the summit, including running two separate bailout funds
simultaneously, the Financial Times reported yesterday. A
German-French push for closer economic ties in Europe won the
backing of U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who
urged governments to work with central banks to erect a
“stronger firewall” to end the debt crisis.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 25 basis
points to 699.5. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings was down 7.75 at 164 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  