-- 
Corpbanca’s Santander Colombia Acquisition Triggers Biggest Rally in Year

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-12-07T17:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/corpbanca-surges-most-in-a-year-on-santander-colombia-buy-1-.html
Corpbanca (CORPBANC)  climbed the most in a year
in Santiago trading on prospects that its purchase of  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s Colombian unit will drive profit growth.  Corpbanca agreed to pay $1.16 billion for 95 percent of
Banco Santander Colombia SA, becoming the first Chilean
financial services company to own a foreign bank, according to a
statement distributed late yesterday. Colombia probably will
expand 5 percent next year, matching  Peru  for the fastest growth
among major Latin American economies, according to the medium
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “By all means this is positive for the bank and is moving
the stock because it’s expanding to a country that’s growing a
lot,” Hernan Campos, head of research at WAC Inversiones, said
by telephone today from Santiago.  Corpbanca gained 3.7 percent to 6.87 pesos at 1:42 p.m.
local time and earlier rose 8.7 percent, the steepest intraday
gain since September 2010.  Controlled by entrepreneur Alvaro Saieh, Corpbanca plans to
sell $450 million in new shares to help fund the purchase, which
is subject to regulatory approval in Chile and  Colombia  and is
expected to close in the first half of 2012.  The acquisition may boost Corpbanca’s profit by 10 percent
to 15 percent and generate growth opportunities, Santiago-based
brokerage Larrain Vial SA wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  ‘Attractive’ Banking  “With this acquisition, Corpbanca aims at supporting
Chilean companies in their expansion through  Latin America  and
participating in the growing Colombian banking industry, one of
the most attractive worldwide,” the bank said in the statement.  Santander Colombia’s lending portfolio totaled $2.57
billion as of Sept. 20, representing 2.7 percent of the banking
system’s outstanding loans.  Corp Group Interhold, through which Saieh controls
Corpbanca and other financial companies, will also buy at least
a 2.85 percent stake of Santander Colombia, under the agreement.  Separately,  Santo Domingo  Group, a Colombian holding
company, will invest $100 million in Corpbanca to help the
company “execute its growth strategy,” the statement said.  Foreign acquisitions of Colombian banks, including  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s $1 billion purchase of Colpatria in October, are a
sign of Colombia’s strengthening financial sector, said
Alejandro Santo Domingo. He took over as the Santo Domingo
Group’s head after his father Julio Mario Santo Domingo, a
SABMiller Plc stakeholder who was ranked the world’s 108th
richest billionaire by Forbes, died in October.  New Competitors  “Colombia has financial regulation that has given the
sector order, security and strength, and it has some
sophisticated and professional players with whom there is an
important challenge for new banking competitors,” Alejandro
Santo Domingo said in an e-mailed statement today.  Banco de Credito del Peru (CREDITC1) , the Andean country’s biggest
bank, agreed to buy 51 percent of Colombian financial services
firm Correval SA in a deal announced Dec. 1.  Santander, the euro zone’s biggest bank by market value, is
offloading Latin American assets to plug a 5.22 billion-euro ($7
billion) capital shortfall identified by the European Banking
Authority. The Spanish lender raised $958 million today by
selling shares in its Chilean unit after announcing sales of
stakes in its Brazilian bank and regional insurance business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  