-- 
Cuomo Would Halve New York’s Deficit With Tax Boost Planned for Wealthy

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/cuomo-would-halve-new-york-s-deficit-with-tax-boost-planned-for-wealthy.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  would
cut by almost half the state’s projected $3.5 billion  budget
deficit  under a plan he hammered out with top lawmakers to raise
taxes on top earners.  The Legislature may vote on Cuomo’s plan as soon as today,
said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, and
 Scott Reif , a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Dean Skelos ,
a Republican from  Rockville Centre  on  Long Island . The proposal
would raise taxes on those who earn $2 million or more and cut
rates for those who earn $300,000 or less.  “As a matter of simple math, there is not an intelligent
or productive way to close the current gap without generating
revenue,” Cuomo said yesterday in a video statement.  The proposal also would establish a fund to combine $1
billion in public cash with money from nongovernment pensions
and investors to improve New York’s infrastructure. Employers in
the 12 counties surrounding  New York City  would also see a cut
in the portion of their payroll taxes used to support the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority .  Cuomo released the plan yesterday in an e-mailed statement
jointly sent by Skelos and Silver.  “This job-creating economic plan defies the political
gridlock that has paralyzed  Washington  and shows that we can
make government work for the people of this state once again,”
Cuomo said in the statement.  If approved by lawmakers, the deal would become the latest
legislative victory for Cuomo, a 54-year-old first-term
Democrat. During the session that ended in June, the governor
pushed through an on-time budget that closed a $10 billion gap,
an ethics package, a property-tax cap and a bill to permit same-
sex marriage in the third-most-populous U.S. state.  Shrinking Bonuses  Last week, the governor said revenue is “collapsing” amid
shrinking Wall Street bonuses and job cuts in the finance
industry, which accounted for more than 20 percent of wages paid
by businesses in 2010.  New York  has projected a $3.5 billion
deficit in fiscal 2013, which begins April 1, and a $350 million
gap this year. It’s one of four states, along with California,
Missouri and Washington, to report midyear budget deficits,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  The new tax rates would generate $1.9 billion in additional
revenue while also cutting levies for 4.4 million middle-class
residents by $690 million, Cuomo said. About $1.5 billion of
that would be put toward the deficit, said Morris Peters, a
Budget Division spokesman. About $400 million of new revenue
would be spent on a youth jobs program and flood-
recovery efforts. A 2009 surcharge on those who earn $200,000 or
more that’s set to expire Dec. 31 generated about $4 billion a
year, Peters said.  New Brackets  Without the expiring surcharge, individuals who earn
$20,000 or more are taxed at 6.85 percent, the same as someone
who made $20 million. The proposed changes would create new
income brackets. The first, from $40,000 to $150,000, would be
taxed at 6.45 percent. Those who earn $150,000 to $300,000 would
have a 6.65 percent rate, while there would be no change for
those making $300,000 to $2 million.  The tax on the top bracket, $2 million or more, would rise
to 8.82 percent and expire in December 2014. Under the expiring
surcharge, known as the millionaire’s tax, those earning more
than $500,000 are taxed at 8.97 percent. Cuomo opposed a push by
fellow Democrats to extend the millionaire’s tax.  “New York has left the middle class with an undue burden
which also hinders economic recovery,” Cuomo said in a Dec. 5
statement. “Fairness dictates that the more you make, the more
you pay and the higher your income, the higher your rate.”  Tough Sell  Skelos will have to persuade fellow Senate Republicans who
have previously stood against tax increases. Because the plan
cuts taxes on the middle class and reduces the rate for wealthy
earners to below the expiring surcharge, Skelos can describe it
as a  tax cut .  “This comprehensive plan will reduce the  tax rate  for
middle-class families to their lowest levels in more than 50
years,” Skelos said in the joint statement.  The overhaul has support from the Civil Service Employees
Association, the state’s largest union, President Danny Donohue
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The agreement will produce practical benefits for all  New
Yorkers ,” Donohue said. In August, the labor group agreed to
wage freezes and furloughs to cut costs. The deal, combined with
an agreement with the Public Employees Federation, the state’s
second-biggest union, helped save $450 million.  The tax deal is a “step in the right direction, but
unfortunately falls short in obtaining the goal of a fair tax
system,” federation President Ken Brynien said in a statement.  ‘Wind of Change’  On Dec. 3, the federation encouraged members to go door-to-
door to build support for extending the expiring millionaire’s
tax. Called “Knock for the 99%,” the campaign played on a
reference to the Occupy Wall Street movement, which has seized
on economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s research that found the richest 1
percent of Americans control 40 percent of the wealth.  The deal “acknowledges that there’s a wind of change out
there and is a reflection of that,” said Assembly Majority
Leader Ron Canestrari of Cohoes after a Democratic caucus
yesterday.  The changes are part of a wider initiative to stimulate the
economy that includes the infrastructure fund and an agreement
among Cuomo, Skelos and Silver to put up for a vote a
constitutional amendment allowing casino gambling.  That would help “recapture revenue that is currently being
lost to other states,” Cuomo wrote in a Dec. 4 opinion article.
Indian casinos already operate within New York’s borders, and
 slot machines  are allowed at race tracks.  Neighboring  New Jersey  has casinos in  Atlantic City . Last
month, Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, signed
a bill that allows three casinos to open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  