-- 
Daimler Losing Value to BMW as Pure Luxury Wins Investors: Cars

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-12-07T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/daimler-losing-value-to-bmw-with-pure-luxury-play-winning-investors-cars.html
Daimler AG  celebrated its 125-year
anniversary in January, enjoying a market valuation that was 17
billion euros ($23 billion) more than  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG ’s. That gap has now all but disappeared.  The Mercedes-Benz maker’s lead over BMW, which reached 39
billion euros in 2007, has dwindled to 700 million euros.
Declining demand for some older models and the cost of
introducing new, smaller cars will make it tough to rebuild that
premium in 2012.  Daimler “is big and takes a long time to change course,”
said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a Credit Suisse analyst in  London , who’s
followed the company for more than a decade. “Management seems
to still think that the ship is impregnable, but it’s clearly
taking on water.”  Though Daimler, based in Stuttgart, and its main rival now
have similar market valuations, BMW employs less than half
Daimler’s 270,000 staff and generated 38 percent less revenue
last year. The shrinking value gap mostly reflects Daimler’s
loss of leadership in the German luxury car market. It also
shows investors are assigning little value to Daimler’s trucks
business, with 24 billion euros in sales, or to its stake in
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Buy Ratings  “Daimler’s most profitable division is the premium auto
business, and you can invest in that in its pure form in BMW,”
said Juergen Meyer, a  fund manager  at SEB Asset Management in
 Frankfurt  who oversees about 760 million euros and owns stock in
the two manufacturers.  The majority of analysts following the two automakers
recommend buying the shares --  23 of 43  for Daimler and  22 of 41 
for BMW, according to Bloomberg data. Target prices suggest
Daimler’s market value will climb to 49.3 billion euros, which
would make it 8.6 billion euros more valuable than BMW’s
projected worth -- or about half of January’s gap.  Daimler’s market value has declined 42 percent to 36.5
billion euros after hitting a 52-week high on Jan. 18. Over the
same period, BMW has slipped 6 percent and is currently worth
35.9 billion euros. Mercedes, which held the lead in global
luxury-car sales until BMW took the top spot in 2005, dropped to
third this year behind  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi.  “We are focused on executing our strategy and are fully on
track to sustainably reach our announced profitability
objectives from 2013 onward,” said Florian Martens, a spokesman
for Daimler in Stuttgart.  Contrasting Strategies  BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  cut supply
costs by more than 4 billion euros, while expanding production
in  China  and the U.S. and rolling out new models like the X1
compact SUV. The company also underscored a reputation for
innovation by developing an electric-powered city car that will
be introduced in 2013, part of its goal to boost sales of BMW
and Mini vehicles to 2 million by 2020 from 1.6 million.  “What our investors are telling us is the strategy that we
embarked upon in 2008 is the right one,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s
management board member in charge of sales said in a Bloomberg
Television interview last week in  Tokyo .  Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche struggled to introduce smaller,
cheaper Mercedes models to appeal to young urban consumers,
because the underpinnings of the high-riding A-Class compact,
which were designed for an electric powertrain that was never
needed, were costly and lacked flexibility. The company also
failed to challenge BMW’s Rolls-Royce in the ultra-luxury
segment, deciding last month to drop its Maybach brand.  ‘Weak Year’  Daimler’s car unit, which includes Mercedes and the Smart
brand, increased sales 8 percent to 42.3 billion euros in the
first nine months months of 2011, trailing BMW’s 20 percent gain
to 46.4 billion euros in auto revenue. Profitability has also
lagged. Mercedes reported earnings before interest and taxes
this year equivalent to 9.4 percent of sales, compared with 12.8
percent at BMW and 12.2 percent at Audi.  Next year may not be much better. The S-Class flagship
enters its final year before being overhauled in 2013, while
spending to introduce five compact models, including 1.4 billion
euros to expand production, adds costs. BMW’s revamped 3-Series
will also likely dampen demand for the best-selling C-Class.  “Daimler has almost no chance of maintaining its profit
level next year,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler. “2012 will be a weak year.”  It’s been a long, slow decline for Mercedes. In 2001, the
brand was the clear luxury-car leader delivering 233,000 more
cars than BMW and 390,000 more than Audi. This year, Mercedes
will likely sell 1.23 million cars, behind Audi’s 1.24 million
and BMW’s 1.34 million, according to IHS Automotive.  Targeting Youth  Over the past 10 years, the two German rivals increased
sales five times more than Mercedes, as they moved more quickly
into growing segments such as compact SUVs and expanded earlier
into China and other fast-growing markets.  Zetsche has set his sights on improving Mercedes’s profit
margin to at least 10 percent by 2013 and surpassing BMW and
Audi by 2020. A range of five small cars, including a hatchback
and sport-utility vehicle, is meant to boost sales volumes and
attract young drivers to offset the risk of being pigeonholed as
a brand for retirees.  “Mercedes needs to make its models more appealing for
young people,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at
Fairesearch in Kronberg,  Germany . “Right now, BMW has the
better growth prospects because of its youthful appeal. Changing
perception is a strategy that takes years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  