-- 
Defined Contributions Define Health-Care Future: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/defined-contributions-define-health-care-ahead-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html
Over the next decade, we are likely
to see a shift in health insurance in the U.S.: So-called
defined-contribution plans will gradually take over the market,
shifting the residual risk of incurring high health-care costs
from employers to workers.  The market today is dominated by “defined-benefit” plans,
under which companies determine a set of health-insurance
benefits that are provided for employees. These will gradually
be replaced by defined-contribution plans, under which companies
pay a fixed amount, and employees use the money to buy or help
pay for insurance they choose themselves.  The fundamental driver of this shift is the effort by
American businesses to reduce their exposure to health-care
costs. But the recent health-care-reform law may accelerate the
shift.  The defined-contribution concept is already familiar to
most American workers through their retirement benefits. Over
the past two decades, company retirement programs have moved
decisively away from defined-benefit plans, in which workers are
paid a given amount of retirement income, and toward defined-
contribution 401(k) plans, in which risks -- from fluctuating
financial markets, for example -- are borne by workers.  In 1985, a  total  of 89 of the Fortune 100 companies offered
their new hires a traditional defined-benefit  pension plan , and
just 10 of them offered only a defined-contribution plan. Today,
only 13 of the Fortune 100 companies offer a traditional
defined-benefit plan, and 70 offer only a defined-contribution
plan.  Defined-Contribution Plans  The movement toward defined-contribution plans for health
insurance is, in some ways, similar to the one that occurred for
pensions, as Kenneth L. Sperling and Oren M. Shapira explained
in an  article  earlier this year. The pension shift occurred in a
series of stages: First, the traditional defined-benefit plan
was redesigned. Then a hybrid approach was introduced (the cash-
balance plan). Finally, defined-benefit plans were frozen.  The change in health insurance is already well under way in
coverage for retirees. In the early 1990s, in response to
accounting changes and rising costs, companies began to re-
evaluate retiree health plans, and some capped the amount they
were willing to pay at a multiple of existing costs. Over time,
as those limits were reached, most companies declined to raise
them, thereby effectively creating defined-contribution retiree
health-insurance plans, with the company’s contribution set by
the cap. Exchanges have been created to allow retirees to use
these employer contributions to purchase their own health
insurance.  For current workers, the precursor to a defined-
contribution approach is the “consumer-driven” health plan.
This typically has higher deductibles and co-payments than a
traditional plan has, and it is often tied to a health savings
account. It typically still provides generous insurance for
catastrophic cases.  The share of workers enrolled in such plans remains quite
low but is expanding rapidly. A recent  survey  of large companies
found that, in 2012, almost three-quarters will offer consumer-
driven health-insurance plans.  The natural next step will be for employers to strictly
limit their health-insurance contributions to a set amount of
money that workers could use to buy insurance. Companies will
thus eliminate their exposure to unexpectedly high health-care
costs.  Some insurers are already anticipating the shift. Bloom
Health Corp. will begin offering defined-contribution exchanges
in 2012. Bloom, based in  Minneapolis   describes  itself as “a
leader in the defined-contribution health benefits
marketplace,” and says it is “committed to assisting employers
of all sizes move toward an employer-sponsored system that has
effective cost predictability for employers and increased choice
and personalization for employees.” In September, the company
announced that Health Care Service Corp., Blue Cross Blue Shield
of  Michigan  and  WellPoint (WLP)  Inc. had purchased a majority of its
equity.  Health-Care Reform  The inevitable transition to defined-contribution health
insurance may get a little push from the new health-care-reform
law. Indeed, the legislation may have a larger impact on the
type of health-insurance plan that employers offer than on their
decision about whether to drop health-care benefits altogether.  A misleading  survey  by McKinsey & Co. has suggested the
potential for huge declines in employer-based health insurance.
But projections from the  Congressional Budget Office  and other
respected researchers generally point to only a modest net
decrease. And the experience to date in  Massachusetts , which has
a health-care law similar to the Affordable Care Act, is
consistent with this prediction. (All such estimates are highly
uncertain, and what actually happens will probably depend, in no
small measure, on herd behavior. Employer surveys indicate that
most companies will consider dropping their health plans only if
other firms do.)  If most employers do retain their health plans, the state
insurance exchanges created under the new federal health-care
law will make the basic idea of a defined-contribution health
plan more prevalent, and thus may speed its adoption. The
regulations written to carry out the new law will determine how
things play out. If defined-contribution plans that are
sufficiently generous count as employer-based coverage -- as is
generally expected -- the trend toward such plans will probably
accelerate.  Whether this turns out to be a good thing will depend in no
small part on whether the defined-contribution model helps to
constrain overall health-care costs. There’s little point (and
much potential harm in terms of risk-sharing) in having
individuals, rather than businesses, take on the responsibility
of paying for health care if there is no change in the total
cost.  I have written elsewhere that although consumer-driven
plans could help somewhat, they are unlikely to be a crucial
step toward reducing health-care spending over the long term.
The evidence to date, with a few  exceptions , suggests that such
plans reduce costs only modestly. After all, the majority of
costs come from the expensive cases that are still generously
insured by catastrophic-care provisions in consumer-driven
plans.  Full-blown defined-contribution plans could perhaps
generate better results, though it will still be crucial to get
doctors and other providers to deliver  more efficient  care
especially for high-cost cases.  In any case, the bottom line is that a shift toward
defined-contribution plans seems likely. I’d be willing to bet
$1 that most large U.S. employer health-care offerings in 2020
will be defined-contribution plans. Any takers?  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  