-- 
Delta to Buy $100 Million Gol Stake to Boost Brazil Flying

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-12-07T21:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/delta-air-lines-to-pay-100m-for-minority-stake-in-gol.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  agreed to buy a
$100 million stake in  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
 Brazil ’s second-largest airline by market value, and begin
booking passengers on each other’s jets.  Gol rose 3.6 percent to 15.50 reais in Sao Paulo after
climbing as much as 9 percent earlier. Delta, the world’s
second-biggest carrier, gained 1.1 percent to $8.56 at 4 p.m. in
 New York .  Buying 3 percent of Gol expands Delta’s foothold in  Latin
America , the region where passenger yields, or the average fare
per mile, are highest for U.S. airlines, according to Bloomberg
Industries data. Delta trails  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in Latin America traffic.  “This is the most important relationship we have in  South
America , and we’re very, very pleased with it,” Delta Chief
Executive Officer Richard Anderson said today in an interview in
 Sao Paulo , where Gol is based.  This is Atlanta-based Delta’s second investment in a
foreign carrier this year, after buying a $65 million stake in
Grupo Aeromexico SAB in August to deepen their alliance on
flights between their home countries. That accord gave Delta a
board seat, as does today’s agreement with Gol.  Delta’s stake in Gol is “very positive” because it
implies a higher value for the Brazilian airline and gives the
carrier access to a global network, Edigimar Maximiliano Jr., a
Banco Bradesco SA analyst, said in a note to clients.  Booking Codes  The companies will place their industry booking codes on
each other’s flights, allowing them to take reservations for
passengers flying on either airline. Travelers also will be able
to accrue and redeem frequent-flier points on both carriers.  Delta will buy the Brazilian airline’s American depositary
receipts backed by preferred shares, Gol said today in a
regulatory filing. Gol will boost its capital by as much as 280
million reais ($160 million) by issuing preferred shares for 22
reais apiece, 47 percent more than yesterday’s closing price.  Gol also is transferring leases to Delta on two parked
 Boeing Co. (BA)  767 wide-body jets, saving 50 million reais a year.  Gol isn’t joining the SkyTeam global marketing alliance, of
which Delta is an anchor member, CEO Constantino de Oliveira Jr.
told reporters. Delta has “no intentions” to increase its
stake in Gol, said President Ed Bastian, who will join Gol’s
board.  Delta will keep the board seat as long as the U.S. carrier
retains at least 50 percent of the acquired shares, according to
the Gol filing. Delta agreed not to sell the stake for 12 months
and won’t buy additional shares without Gol’s consent.  ‘Significantly Undervalued’  “We aren’t making this investment to turn a profit on a
stock,” Anderson said in the interview. “We’re making the
investment because we are recognizing the inherent value of the
relationship we will have together and, candidly, the stock is
significantly undervalued in the market today.”  Gol fell 40 percent this year before today. The airline was
advised by Morgan Stanley, and  Barclays Capital  advised Delta.  Gol trails  Tam SA (TAMM4)  in market value in Brazil. Tam is being
acquired by Chile’s  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , Latin America’s largest
carrier by market value, in a $3.3 billion all-stock
transaction. The purchase, announced in August 2010,  needs
approval by Chilean and Brazilian regulators, and the companies
expect it to close in next year’s first half.  Yields on Gol’s perpetual dollar bonds tumbled 20 basis
points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 10.93 percent at 7:26 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, the most since Oct. 17, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on notes due 2020 fell 25 basis points
to 10.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 