-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Ackermann Letter Bomb Plot Claimed by Anarchist Group FAI

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-12-08T17:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/deutsche-bank-s-ackermann-targeted-with-suspicious-package.html
An anarchist group claimed
responsibility for a letter bomb sent to  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  and may have addressed two
more explosive packages to other banks.  Investigators found a letter in Italian by a group that
calls itself Federazione Anarchica Informale, Italian for
“informal anarchistic federation.” The FAI has claimed
responsibility for several attacks in recent years, including a
2003 letter bomb sent to the  European Central Bank , state police
and Frankfurt prosecutors said in a joint statement.  “The authors speak of three explosions against ‘banks,
bankers, ticks and blood-suckers,’” police said in the
statement. “It has to be assumed that another two letter bombs
may have been sent.”  Ackermann, who will step down as CEO of  Germany ’s biggest
lender in May, has led Deutsche Bank since 2002. Former Deutsche
Bank CEO Alfred Herrhausen was killed by the left-wing terrorist
organization Red Army Faction in 1989.  Police said earlier today that a “functional letter bomb”
was intercepted at the German lender’s headquarters in  Frankfurt 
yesterday. The package contained an explosive device. Frankfurt
prosecutors are investigating.  The explosive was a “very dangerous bomb,” Siegfried
Wilhelm, a spokesman for the Hesse state bureau of investigation
said in an interview earlier today. Deutsche Bank said yesterday
a “suspicious package” was discovered in the bank’s offices.  “Deutsche Bank is very concerned about this violent attack
on our chief executive officer,” bank spokesman Klaus Thoma
said in an interview today.  New York  Police  The New York Police Department increased patrols at
Deutsche Bank locations there and alerted an umbrella security
group for companies and financial institutions following the
Frankfurt incident.  Paul Browne , an NYPD spokesman, said in an interview that
it advised Shield, a security program for private institutions,
to be “extra careful” of similar packages in the mail.  Banks have drawn public anger as demonstrators from  Wall
Street  to London, Frankfurt and  Rome  have taken to the streets
to voice their outrage over lender bailouts. Protesters aligned
with the Occupy Wall Street movement have camped out close to
Deutsche Bank’s headquarters in Frankfurt since October.  Wall Street Firms  An executive at one of the largest U.S. banks said
authorities had asked Wall Street firms to put their mailrooms
on alert. Banks receive death threats and warnings about letter
bombs and toxins such as anthrax almost every week, the person
said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the firm
doesn’t want to attract additional threats.  “The FBI’s Joint Terrorist  Task Force  is working with
German authorities to assess the incident in Frankfurt and any
potential threat to facilities or people here,” said James Margolin, a spokesman for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
New York. “There is no specific threat to New York associated
with the incident at this time.”  The task force is an agency that includes New York police
and FBI agents, as well as other law enforcement groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ,
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  