-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to Cut 20 Japan Investment Banking Jobs

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-12-07T08:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/deutsche-bank-said-to-cut-20-investment-banking-jobs-in-japan.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Koichiro Yasuda,
the head of corporate finance investment banking in Japan,
resigned as the German bank cut about 20 jobs in  Tokyo , two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Deutsche Bank , based in Frankfurt, yesterday told
investment banking staff in Tokyo, including at least three
managing directors, that their positions were being eliminated,
said the people, who declined to be identified as the matter is
confidential. The global banking team in Japan employed about 70
people before the reductions, the people said.  Germany’s biggest lender is reducing costs globally as
earnings prospects worsen and Europe’s debt crisis intensifies.
The firm plans to reduce its headcount by around 500 positions
at its corporate banking and securities unit, primarily outside
 Germany , by March 31, the bank said on Oct. 4.  “The contagion from Europe is spreading to Japan and the
rest of Asia,” said Katsunobu Komizo, chief executive officer
at recruitment firm Executive Search Partners Co. in Tokyo.
“More job cuts are likely as Asia’s economy may be hurt when
European banks stop lending and sell non-core business units.”  Aston Bridgman, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank’s
brokerage unit in Japan, declined to comment. Yasuda wasn’t
available in three calls made to the bank’s offices.  Deutsche Bank’s brokerage unit in Japan, which employs 906
people, swung to a loss of 50.3 billion yen ($647 million) for
the year ended March 31, compared with a profit of 2.3 billion
yen a year earlier, according to its financial statement.  Industry Cuts  Deutsche Bank follows other overseas and Japanese
brokerages in cutting jobs in the country. Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Co. plans to quadruple job cuts to about 1,300 in Japan.
 Mizuho Securities Co. (8606)  will eliminate about 700 jobs, or 10
percent of its workforce, the brokerage said in October.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest brokerage, began
local reductions last month. It notified about 15 employees in
Tokyo, who worked at equity-related businesses in the global
markets division, that their jobs will be eliminated. Zurich-
based  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are also reducing
headcount in Tokyo.  Deutsche Bank jumped to Japan’s No. 3 financial adviser for
mergers and acquisitions this year from ninth last year, helped
by advising Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s acquisition of Nycomed,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bank is ranked 10th in
equity underwriting this year in  Japan , up from 11th.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  