-- 
Deutsche Bank, BNP Among Lenders That May Be Cut by S&P Amid Europe Review

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-12-07T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/deutsche-bank-bnp-may-be-cut-by-s-p-on-european-nations-review.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
are among European lenders that were placed on CreditWatch
negative by Standard & Poor’s amid a similar review of 15
countries in the region.  “We intend to resolve the CreditWatch placement on these
banks soon after the resolution of the CreditWatch placement on
the related sovereign,” S&P said yesterday in a statement.  S&P said earlier this week that Germany and France may be
stripped of their top credit ratings, and yesterday put the
European Union’s AAA rating on CreditWatch negative. The euro
area’s six AAA-rated countries were among the nations placed on
a negative outlook, and their credit ratings may be cut
depending on the result of a summit of EU leaders this week, S&P
said on Dec. 5.  Other firms placed on CreditWatch negative include
Frankfurt-based  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
French lenders  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  The
ratings company said similar actions on other large European
banks will follow.  Deutsche Bank’s rating may be cut one-notch and likely will
mirror the action on Germany’s rating, S&P said.  S&P said it likely would downgrade BNP Paribas’s rating by
one notch if it cut the rating on France by more than one level.
If France’s rating is maintained or cut one notch, BNP’s rating
likely will be affirmed, the ratings company said. S&P said it
likely would downgrade Credit Agricole or SocGen with a one-
notch cut in France’s rating.  Sarkozy, Merkel  S&P said it intends to resolve the CreditWatch for Deutsche
Bank and the three biggest French banks within four weeks of any
decision on the home nation’s rating.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel proposed amending European treaties to tighten
rules on deficit spending and water down provisions demanding
investor losses. In a joint letter to European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy , the leaders said they want a decision at an
EU summit starting today so the measures can be ready by March.  The  European Central Bank  may announce an array of steps
today to stimulate bank lending, said three euro-area officials
with knowledge of policy makers’ deliberations. Options on the
table include loosening collateral criteria and offering banks
longer-term loans to grease the flow of credit to the economy,
and two of the officials said an interest-rate cut is likely.  S&P downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating by one level to
AA+ for the first time Aug. 5, citing the nation’s political
process and criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut spending or
raise revenue enough to reduce record budget deficits.
Treasuries still rallied after the rating cut, posting their
best quarter since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  