-- 
Blood-Test Patents Debated at High Court as Einstein Invoked

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-12-07T18:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/diagnostic-medical-test-patents-debated-at-u-s-high-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices grappled
with the reach of federal  patent law , touching on both fire-
building techniques and  Albert Einstein ’s discoveries during
arguments over diagnostic medical tests.  Today’s one-hour session, which centered on a dispute
between  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Prometheus unit and the Mayo Clinic,
produced few clear answers. The justices sought to draw what
proved to be a fine line between natural phenomena, which can’t
be patented, and applications of those principles, which can be.  “My question is, ‘What has to be added to a law of nature
to make it a patentable process?’” Justice  Stephen Breyer  told
Mayo’s lawyer. “If you put too little in the answer to that
question, I believe I can make things like E=mc2 patentable,”
he said, referring to Einstein’s formula showing the connection
between an object’s mass and its energy.  “And if you put too much in, you are going to wreck your
own case,” Breyer said.  He emerged as a pivotal figure. He took part in the case
after his wife earlier in the day sold Nestle stock she had
previously owned, said  Kathy Arberg , the Supreme Court’s
spokeswoman.  Breyer learned about that conflict last night, when
Prometheus’s lawyers belatedly told the court that the company
had been acquired by Nestle in July, Arberg said. Breyer
participated in the court’s decision to hear the case in June,
about a month after Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle announced
plans to buy Prometheus.  Breyer Shift  Breyer also revealed a substantive shift today, saying he
was rethinking a 2006 dissenting opinion he wrote arguing for
limits on patents that involve natural phenomena. He said that
opinion “lacked an explanation” as to why the invention in
that case wasn’t a patentable application of a law of nature.  The Prometheus case is the second at the  Supreme Court 
since 2010 concerning what types of inventions are eligible for
legal protection. Companies, trade groups and lawyers have filed
more than two dozen legal  briefs , many warning that the court’s
ruling might have widespread, unintended ramifications. Each
side in the case says a defeat might stifle innovation.  The two disputed patents cover a method for determining the
proper dosage of thiopurine, a stomach medicine, based on the
rate at which particular patients metabolize the drug.  Doctors can use the method, which involves testing blood
for metabolites, to maximize effectiveness and limit toxic side
effects while treating Crohn’s disease and other inflammatory
bowel illnesses.  Monopoly Questioned  Prometheus is suing two units of the Mayo Clinic, the not-
for-profit medical practice based in Rochester,  Minnesota .  Mayo says the patents would give Prometheus a monopoly over
all uses of the natural relationship between the metabolites
created by thiopurine and the drug’s impact on the human body.
The patents are so broad they would bar doctors familiar with
the Prometheus method from even thinking about the connection
between metabolite levels and the proper dosage for a patient,
Mayo’s lawyer, Stephen Shapiro, told the justices.  That argument drew skepticism from Justice  Sonia Sotomayor .
“It’s not as broad as you are stating,” she told Shapiro.  Prometheus’s lawyer, Richard Bress, countered that the
patents concern concrete applications of scientific principles,
which the Supreme Court has long said fall within the scope of
the U.S. Patent Act.  Kagan Skeptical  Justice Elena Kagan questioned whether the Prometheus
patents were specific enough. The patents say doctors should
either increase or decrease the dosage of thiopurine if
metabolite levels fall outside a range specified in the patent.  “It’s not a treatment regimen,” she said. “All you have
done is pointed out a set of facts that exist in the world.”  The Obama administration is urging the court to take a
middle ground. The government says the Prometheus process
probably isn’t the type of genuine innovation that would warrant
legal protection. At the same time, the administration says the
types of methods involved in the case should at least be
eligible for patent coverage.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  questioned the government’s
approach, saying it would make instructions for building a fire
eligible for patent protection.  “It is easier to throw something out at the threshold
level, isn’t it, than to move further down the line?” Roberts
asked U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli.  The case may have its greatest impact on the field of
personalized medicine, an emerging practice that involves
determining whether a patient is genetically susceptible to a
particular disease or would be especially responsive to certain
treatments. Two companies focusing on that field,  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) , are backing Prometheus.  The case is Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus
Laboratories, 10-1150.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 