-- 
DJIA 14,000 Depends on U.S. Saying We’re in This With Europe

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-12-07T21:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/djia-14-000-depends-on-u-s-saying-we-re-all-in-this-together-with-europe.html
Never before has the euro influenced
U.S. stocks as much as this year, a sign that American equities
aren’t going anywhere until  Europe ’s credit crisis is solved.  The link between the Dow Jones Industrial Average and
swings in the currency reached a record on Dec. 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called correlation
coefficient showing how much two markets rise and fall in tandem
hit 0.85, the highest level since the euro was founded in 1999,
data on 60-day rolling averages show. A reading of 1 means
assets are moving in lockstep.  Speculation about whether Greece, Ireland and Portugal will
avoid default is drowning out results from companies such as
Akron, Ohio-based Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and Target Corp. in
Minneapolis. While  record earnings (SPX)  and an improving economy
should be pushing the Dow toward its October 2007 record of
14,164.53, they’re not because Europe is overshadowing the good
news, said Kevin Rendino, a  money manager  at New York-based
BlackRock Inc.  “What’s getting in the way is a bunch of politicians and a
bunch of budget deficits,” Rendino, whose firm oversees $3.3
trillion, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s all we
think about. It’s all we talk about. It’s incredibly frustrating
because in the U.S., we have a bunch of highly profitable
businesses, an OK economy, companies sitting on a bunch of cash
and earning as much as they ever have,” he said.  “And everyone is sitting on their hands because they’re
waiting to see what happens in Europe.”  Biggest Rally  Signs of cooperation among governments pushed the  Dow
average (INDU)  to its biggest daily gain since March 2009 last week.
The announcement on Nov. 30 that the  Federal Reserve  would join
five central banks in a program to make it easier for lenders to
obtain dollars helped the Dow rally 7 percent in the five days
ending Dec. 2, following the largest drop for a Thanksgiving
week since 1932. The euro increased 1.2 percent against the
dollar during the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Dow rose 46.24 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,196.37
today. The euro increased 0.1 percent to $1.3410.  Recession Concern  Concern Europe’s debt crisis would trigger a global
recession sent investors to the relative safety of the U.S.
currency and Treasuries in the third quarter, dragging equity
markets in 37 of the 45 countries in the MSCI All-Country World
Index into bear markets, or declines of 20 percent from a peak.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 19 percent between April
29 and Oct. 3 before paring the decrease to 7.7 percent. It’s up
0.1 percent for 2011.  “Money managers are getting whipped around,”  Donald Selkin , the New York-based chief market strategist at National
Securities Corp., said in a telephone interview. Selkin, a 35-
year Wall Street veteran, helps manage about $3 billion. “We’re
not going to set new stock highs even with these strong
corporate profits, so obviously something is holding us back and
that’s the crisis in Europe.”  Correlation between U.S. stocks and Europe’s currency has
increased along with concern about the bailout championed by
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The Dow and euro have moved in the same direction 72
percent of the time in 2011, compared with 49 percent for the 11
previous years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investor Toll  The swings have taken a toll on professional investors.
Less than 24 percent of 542 categories of funds tracked by
Morningstar Inc. have  topped (GT)  their benchmark indexes this year,
the fewest since at least 1999. A Hedge Fund Research Inc. index
of industrywide performance has fallen 3.4 percent in 2011. It’s
only the third annual loss since 1990 and the biggest decline
since 2008, when it plunged 19 percent, according to data from
the Chicago-based firm.  Improving economic reports from the U.S. government haven’t
always translated into higher stocks. October industrial
production rose 0.7 percent, beating the median estimate of 0.4
percent in a survey of economists by Bloomberg, the Fed said on
Nov. 16. The  S&P 500  dropped 3.3 percent in the two days before
a Nov. 18 confidence vote on Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  ‘Schizoid’ Markets  “The last four months, it’s just schizoid,” Nick Sargen,
chief investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors
in Cincinnati, which oversees more than $39 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “How do you position your portfolios in
this thing? For a lot of stock pickers, they throw up their
hands because they say, ‘I’m trying to find good stocks within
the market and the key driver is, is the euro-zone going to hang
together or fall apart?’”  Corporate profits that topped analyst estimates for a
record 11th straight quarter have done little to quell investor
fears about Europe. While quarterly earnings for S&P 500
companies from Goodyear to  Target (TGT)  and Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. have been 4.6 percent higher than analysts projected,
shares tumbled on days when European headlines dominated.  Goodyear said Oct. 28 that third-quarter income topped
analysts’ estimates as higher prices helped sales rise the most
of any quarter. While the largest U.S. tiremaker advanced 4.9
percent that day, it lost 8.4 percent over the next two after
then-Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he would put a
European Union agreement on financing for Greece to a
referendum. The S&P 500 lost 5.2 percent during the stretch.  Target Profit  Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, climbed
as much as 3.4 percent on Nov. 16 after posting third-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates. It ended that day down
0.5 percent. The S&P 500 slumped 1.7 percent after  Fitch Ratings 
said that further turmoil in  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  poses a
“serious risk.”  “Picking stocks is very tricky now,” Ned Gray, chief
investment officer for global and international value equity at
Delaware Investments, said in a Dec. 6 telephone interview. His
firm manages more than $160 billion in assets. “The policy-
making in the euro-zone is leading everything,” he said. “The
macro risk-on, risk-off decision is the only one that seems to
matter.”  Unprecedented Swings  Equity markets have seen unprecedented swings this year,
exacerbated by global economic concerns. The S&P 500 has moved
an average 1.7 percent each day since July 2011, compared with
0.8 percent daily in the nine years before September 2008, when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Dow alternated between gains and
losses of more than 400 points on four days in August this year,
the longest streak ever.  Because heightened volatility leads to correlated markets,
investors should focus on finding stocks that have smaller
swings and improving fundamental criteria, according to Birinyi
Associates Inc. While Europe’s debt crisis is overshadowing
profit reports today, those stocks will be more likely to
outperform their benchmarks, according to Birinyi.  “Correlation is a function of volatility, significant
volatility,”  Laszlo Birinyi , president of the stock market
research and money management firm, said in a Dec. 6 phone
interview. “Ultimately it’s another handicap that you have to
overcome, so investors will have to do what they always do but
do more of it. You have to recognize that the market’s not at
your back, so to outperform, you want to pick a stock that’s not
as much a function of the market as other stocks are.”  Default Speculation  Eight of the Dow’s 10 biggest daily drops this year were
driven by speculation about  Greece  defaulting or Europe’s debt
crisis leading to another global recession, according to
Bloomberg closing market stories.  “Whether it’s risk on or risk off today, correlations
today to things that wouldn’t have even been on our radar screen
five years ago are much higher,” John Canally, who helps
oversee about $340 billion as an economist and investment
strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston , said in a telephone
interview. “That’s something that the individual investor’s got
to keep in mind,” he said. “It’s all a proxy for risk in
Europe, which in turn is a proxy for whether or not we’re going
to have another Lehman.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  