-- 
Dollar Funding Costs Drop as ECB Loans Ease Money Market Strain

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-12-07T13:07:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/dollar-funding-costs-drop-as-ecb-loans-ease-money-market-strain.html
The cost of dollar funding in euro
money markets fell to the lowest in a month as banks snapped up
cheaper loans from the  European Central Bank .  The three-month cross-currency  basis swap , the rate banks
pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was 109
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate at 12:50 p.m.
in London, from minus 114 basis points before the ECB said
demand for its three-month dollar loans surged.  The ECB will lend $50.7 billion to 34 euro-area banks, up
from $395 million in its last three-month dollar loan offering
on Nov. 9. The ECB, the  Federal Reserve  and four other central
banks cut the cost of emergency dollar loans last week by 50
basis points to thaw credit markets frozen by Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis.  “The fact that banks are borrowing more from the ECB will
certainly ease the pressure on money markets,” said Chris Clark, an interest-rate strategist at ICAP Plc in  London . “The
market had moved to price in a much bigger uptake at this
tender, but even so, it appears to have been taken by surprise
at the volume of bids.”  The ECB is charging 0.59 percent on its latest three-month
loans, down from the 1.09 percent on its Nov. 9 offering. The
rate offered on central bank dollar loans may have reduced some
of the stigma banks previously associated with borrowing from
the ECB, Clark said.  Before the central banks cut the dollar loan rate, a bank
going to the ECB “implied that it didn’t have access to normal
market channels,” Clark said. “By contrast, today the three-
month tender offered very good value versus what was on offer in
the market.”  Spread Shrinks  The strain on unsecured dollar funding markets have been
easing amid investor optimism that policy makers are taking
steps to staunch  Europe ’s sovereign crisis. The three-month
cross-currency swap has shrunk 48 basis points since Nov. 29
when funding costs reached the highest since October 2008.  The one-year basis swap was 69 basis points under Euribor,
compared with minus 73 basis points yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of banks’ reluctance to
lend to one another in Europe, was little changed at 100 basis
points. The measure, which is the difference between the
borrowing benchmark and overnight index swaps, widened to 101
basis points on Dec. 1, the most since February 2009.  Overnight deposits  at the European Central Bank fell, as
banks placed 325 billion euros ($437 billion) with the
Frankfurt-based ECB yesterday, down from 328 billion euros a day
earlier.  Three-month Euribor, the rate banks say they pay for three-
month loans in euros, was unchanged from yesterday at 1.472
percent. One-week Euribor fell to 0.895 percent from 0.896
percent yesterday.  The dollar London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for
three-month dollar loans rose for a fourth day, to 0.54 from
0.538 percent yesterday. That’s the highest since July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  