-- 
Gadgets Under $300 Top Techie Gift List: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-12-08T23:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/dozen-gadgets-under-300-top-techie-gift-list-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Your favorite digerati should be easy
to shop for. After all, a new must-have gadget comes out every
other week. Somehow, though, many families -- my own among them
-- disagree, arguing that with so many choices, finding the
right gift can be a bewildering task, especially for non-
techies.  So consider yourself lucky if Mom has her heart set on an
iPad 2 or Sonny pines for an  Xbox 360 . But if you’re facing no
such obvious option, here are 11 other suggestions for the
holiday season.  Nook Tablet ( www.barnesandnoble.com/nook , $249). Sure,
 Amazon.com (AMZN)  captured most of the budget-tablet buzz with Kindle
Fire’s smoking $199 price tag and ready-made ecosystem of music,
movies and e-books. But for only $50 more,  Barnes & Noble (BKS)  gives
you twice the memory, twice the storage, sleeker hardware and
fewer software bugs.  TimeCommand alarm clock dock ( www.steminnovation.com ,
$100). Who wants a boring old alarm clock when you can pop your
iPhone, iPad or iPod touch onto this round dock, download the
free Stem app and make it do all sorts of tricks? Connect a
lamp, for example, and program it to come on at the same time as
your morning music. A new, space-saving mini version costs $20
less.  Peel universal control ( www.peel.com , $79). This palm-size,
pear-shaped device and free app allows an Apple or Android phone
to take charge of TV and home-entertainment gear without wires
or plug-in modules. Even better, the app learns its owner’s
viewing tastes and makes intelligent recommendations about what
to watch.  Play 3 wireless speaker ( www.sonos.com , $299). This
smaller, lower-cost addition to the Sonos multiroom stereo
system lets you stream music wirelessly from your computer or
from Internet services like Spotify and Pandora. You can play
different music in different rooms or pair up two of them for
enhanced stereo.  BungeeAir Power wireless security tether
( www.kensington.com , $100 with built-in battery, $80 without).
For those who are more attached to an iPhone than to some family
members, consider this: A case paired with a keychain fob that
sounds an alarm if they -- or their phone -- wanders off.  GoFlex Satellite wireless hard drive ( www.seagate.com ,
$200). Store up to half a terabyte of movies, TV shows, photos
and music on this nine-ounce gadget, then stream them
simultaneously to up to three nearby tablets or smartphones. A
godsend for parents looking to keep young ones amused on long
car trips.  AR.Drone flying game device ( www.parrot.com , $300). Pilot
this Wi-Fi-controlled gyroscopic hovercraft with your
smartphone. Play augmented-reality games. View a real-time video
feed from the onboard cameras. Crash into stuff. What’s not to
like?  Nest learning thermostat ( www.nest.com , $250). If you put
an Apple Store inside a Home Depot, this is what it might sell.
It’s designed by Tony Fadell, the guy who built the original
iPod. Nest is a high-tech, Wi-Fi-enabled intelligent thermostat
that learns your habits and preferences, adjusts itself
accordingly and lets you control everything from your iPhone.  Nintendo 3DS handheld game console ( www.nintendo.com/3ds ,
$170). The 3DS provides lots of options for having fun. The
glasses-free 3-D effects make games that much more immersive.
The built-in camera takes 3-D photos as well as creating
customized avatars. Most mind blowing: the included augmented-
reality games.  Soulra XL beach boom box ( www.etonsoulra.com , $250).
Twenty-two watts of thumping sound from your water-and-sand-
protected iPod or iPhone is nice. Even nicer is being able to
listen all day with no electrical outlet in sight and still have
juice left over, thanks to the fold-out 72-square-inch solar
panel. The company claims eight hours of continuous use; I got
more than 10.  Logitech K750 wireless solar keyboard ( www.logitech.com ,
$80). The keyboard charges itself in any kind of light --
artificial as well as sunlight -- and Logitech says it will stay
charged for up to three months in total darkness. Who says it’s
not easy being green?  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 