-- 
Dubai Denies Plan to Restructure Debt of State-Owned Companies in 2012

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-12-07T14:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/dubai-denies-plan-to-restructure-debt-of-state-owned-companies-in-2012.html
Dubai’s government denied a report
that the emirate plans to restructure debt of state-owned
companies next year and said it was ready to support them
through “various options.”  “There is no truth in what was said about an intention to
‘restructure’ some of the debt of government-related companies
in 2012,” Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , head of Dubai’s
Supreme Fiscal Policy Committee, said in a statement. “The
government is following a solid fiscal policy that strengthens
the level of confidence in its companies’ ability to meet all
financial obligations in a sound and systematic way.”  Dubai’s bonds fell yesterday, led by state-owned business
park operator Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE and DIFC Investment LLC,
after the Financial Times cited an unidentified government
official as suggesting the emirate may consider restructuring
some bonds coming due next year. Dubai Holding Commercial
Operations Group LLC, a property and hotels company owned by the
emirate’s ruler, said yesterday it would repay a $500 million
bond coming due in February with its own cash.  Dubai and its state-owned companies, excluding finance
companies, have outstanding debt of $101.5 billion and may need
further financial support to meet these obligations, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday. The emirate, the
 Persian Gulf ’s trade and tourism hub, was on the brink of a
default in 2009 and is recovering after a $20 billion cash
injection from the  United Arab Emirates ’ central bank, the Abu
Dhabi government and its banks.  Refinancing  “The government of Dubai may look into refinancing part of
the financial obligations that its related companies must pay in
the course of next year if needed,” according to the e-mailed
statement from Dubai’s Media Office. “There is a big difference
between ‘restructuring’ operations and ‘refinancing’ operations
as the latter is a natural and accepted process in the financing
of companies.”  Companies such as Dubai Holding Commercial, Jebel Ali Free
Zone and DIFC Investments, which have a combined $3.8 billion of
debt maturing next year, are all facing refinancing risks and
may experience “ratings volatility” as they move closer to the
maturity dates, Moody’s said in its report.  State-controlled companies including Dubai Holding LLC and
Drydocks World LLC are still in talks with lenders to
restructure debt, while Dubai World reached an agreement with
creditors on about $25 billion of liabilities in March after
roiling global markets in 2009 by seeking to delay payments.  State Support  “Dubai is making it very clear that it is standing behind
its state-owned companies and this announcement should
definitely calm investor worries,” said Sherif El Zeneiny, head
of equity trading at National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. “We
expect credit default swaps to tighten, bonds to perform well
and equity markets to rise.”  The yield on Dubai’s 5.591 percent dollar bonds due June
2021 fell for the first time in three days, dropping two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.11 percent at 6:34 p.m.
in Dubai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five-year
credit default swaps rose two basis points to 440, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  