-- 
Dubai Shares Rise, End 2-Day Losing Streak on Europe, Dubai Debt

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-12-07T07:59:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/dubai-shares-rise-end-2-day-losing-streak-on-europe-dubai-debt.html
Dubai shares rose for the first time
in three days on bets European leaders will step up efforts to
fight the region’s debt crisis and after a Dubai Holding LLC
unit said it will meet a debt repayment in February.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, climbed 1.1 percent after tumbling 3.6 percent
yesterday, while  Drake & Scull International (DSI)  PJSC advanced for
the second time this week. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 0.2
percent to 1,386.02 at 11:38 a.m. in Dubai, paring the drop for
the year to 15 percent. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  jumped 1
percent.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Standard &
Poor’s move to place 15 euro nations, including Germany and
France, on review for possible credit downgrades will help force
European leaders to ratchet up efforts to resolve the debt
crisis at their summit in Brussels from Dec. 8 to 9. The ratings
company said cuts would depend on the meeting’s outcome. The
Euro STOXX 50 Future advanced 1.3 percent.  “Equity markets will remain highly correlated to
international news and it seems that investors are expecting a
big announcement from European countries in the coming days,”
said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management at Dubai-
based Al Mal Capital. “The news of Dubai Holding paying its
bonds on time has prompted positive sentiment for investors
questioning the ability of Dubai entities to meet their
obligations.”  Paying Debt  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, a real-
estate and hospitality company owned by Dubai’s ruler, said
yesterday it will repay a $500 million bond from its cash flow
when the notes mature in February. The announcement came after
Moody’s Investors Service said Dubai and its state-owned non-
financial companies have outstanding debt of $101.5 billion and
may need support to meet these obligations.  Crude oil for January delivery rose as much as 0.6 percent
to $101.85 a barrel. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the
United Arab Emirates and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the
world’s oil.  Emaar advanced to 2.75 dirhams and Drake & Scull, a Dubai-
based construction company, rose 1.7 percent to 82.4 fils.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  gained 0.2 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index (BGCC200)  increased less than 0.1 percent. Bahrain’s  BB All
Share Index (BHSEASI)  and Oman’s  measure (KWSEIDX)  fell 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s
measure and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  