-- 
Electronic Book Industry Probed by U.S. Over Possible Antitrust Violations

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-12-07T22:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/e-book-industry-investigated-by-u-s-over-antitrust.html
The U.S. is probing the possibility
of anticompetitive practices in the e-book industry, the acting
chief of the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust division told a
House committee in Washington.  “We’re also investigating the electronic book industry
along with the European Commission and state attorneys
general,” Sharis Pozen today told the House Judiciary antitrust
subcommittee, where she appeared for a general oversight
hearing.  European antitrust regulators are probing whether  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s pricing deals with publishers restrict competition,
according to a statement from the European Union yesterday. They
are investigating arrangements with five e-book publishers and
publishers’ deals with retailers, the commission said.  The publishers are  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre, News
Corp.’s HarperCollins,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Pearson
Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s
Macmillan division.  Hachette’s e-book pricing method “not only better serves
our authors and customers, it has also helped to increase
competition and consumer choice,” Sophie Cottrell, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  An Apple spokesman, Steve Dowling, declined to comment on
Pozen’s remarks.  Company Cooperation  Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for Simon & Schuster, and Erin Crum, a Harper Collins spokeswoman, said their companies are
cooperating with the Justice Department investigation.  Wendy Spiegel, a spokeswoman for Pearson  North America ,
didn’t immediately reply to a phone message seeking comment.
Macmillan USA officials didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail
seeking comment.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said last month
that he wanted to fight “artificial restrictions imposed by
some companies to cross-border trade” and was examining the way
e-books are distributed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington
at   jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 