-- 
ECB Officials Said to Plan Additional Measures to Stimulate Bank Lending

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-07T15:15:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ecb-officials-said-to-plan-additional-measures-to-stimulate-bank-lending.html
The  European Central Bank  may
announce a range of measures tomorrow to stimulate bank lending,
said three euro-area officials with knowledge of policy makers’
deliberations.  Options on the table include loosening collateral criteria
so that institutions have more access to cheap ECB cash and
offering them longer-term loans to grease the flow of credit to
the economy, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private. Two said an
 interest rate  cut is likely, with only the size of the reduction
to be determined for the monthly decision tomorrow.  The ECB is focusing on getting banks lending again rather
than increasing its government bond purchases to fight Europe’s
debt crisis. The central bank’s insistence that governments take
measures to restore investor confidence appears to have paid
dividends, with Italian and Spanish yields plunging after
 Germany  and  France  agreed to move the 17-nation euro area toward
a fiscal union, a stance they reiterated today.  “The ECB’s role tomorrow is going to be pretty much about
the banks, and after tomorrow the liquidity side should be on a
much stronger footing,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The division of
labor is very clear -- the ECB takes care of the banks, and the
sovereigns take care of the fiscal side.”  Joint Letter  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  proposed amending European treaties to tighten
rules on deficit spending and water down provisions demanding
investor losses. In a joint letter to European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy , the leaders said they want a decision at an
EU summit starting tomorrow so that the measures can be ready by
March 2012.  Still, Germany rejects proposals to combine the region’s
current and permanent rescue funds, a German government official
told reporters in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because
the negotiations are private.  The ECB has indicated it will act to prevent a credit
shortage as this falls within its monetary policy remit.  President  Mario Draghi  said on Dec. 1 that the ECB had
“observed serious credit tightening” recently and is “aware
of the continuing difficulties for banks, due to the stress on
sovereign bonds, the tightness of funding markets and scarcity
of eligible collateral in some financial segments.”  Crisis Fixes  Most international investors predict at least one nation
will eventually dump the euro and they say greater fiscal ties
or a smaller currency area are the best fixes for the region’s
debt crisis, according to the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll
published today.  As  Europe ’s leaders craft their fifth “comprehensive”
solution in 19 months, almost half the respondents in the poll
conducted Dec. 5-6 say one or more countries will leave the 17-
nation bloc within a year and almost a third more predict an
exit by the end of 2016. Thirty-seven percent say fiscal union
is the most effective remedy for the current turmoil, with 24
percent endorsing a shrinking of the euro’s membership.  Draghi holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt
tomorrow, 45 minutes after the ECB’s rate decision is announced.  ECB Collateral  Policy makers may seek to broaden the pool of eligible
collateral for ECB loans by loosening rules governing the use of
asset-backed securities, the officials said. They may also
increase the amount of uncovered bank bonds that can constitute
a lender’s collateral portfolio from the current 10 percent
limit, they said.  The ECB is already lending banks as much money as they want
against eligible collateral for periods of up to a year. It is
likely to add two-year loans to its arsenal, two officials said.
While a three-year loan has been discussed, it is unlikely at
this stage, they said.  One official said longer-term loans might encourage banks
to lend to companies and households, and they would also help
financial institutions meet new Basel rules on holding longer-
term liquidity.  Tomorrow’s meeting is the ECB’s last scheduled opportunity
to take policy action this year. It will be accompanied by
publication of the central bank’s latest projections, including
a 2013 inflation forecast that may justify further monetary
stimulus.  Worsening Outlook  Draghi said last week that the ECB’s goal is to maintain
 price stability  “in either direction,” suggesting it would act
as forcefully to prevent a significant undershooting of its 2
percent ceiling as it would to stop an overshooting.  “This applies to both the setting of official  interest
rates  and the implementation of non-standard measures,” Draghi
said.  One official said the economic outlook has deteriorated
markedly since Draghi said on Nov. 3 that the ECB expected a
“mild recession.”  Policy makers will cut the benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point to 1 percent, according to 53 of 58 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Only two predict a half-point
reduction to 0.75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  