-- 
ECB Says Demand for Dollar Loans Surges After Cost Lowered

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-12-07T10:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ecb-says-demand-for-dollar-loans-surges-after-cost-lowered-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  said demand
for three-month dollar loans surged after it almost halved the
cost of the funds in a concerted action with five other central
banks including the U.S. Federal Reserve.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will lend $50.7 billion to
34 euro-area banks tomorrow for 84 days at a fixed rate of 0.59
percent. That compares with the $395 million lent in the last
three-month offering on Nov. 9 at a rate of 1.09 percent. The
ECB also lent five banks $1.6 billion in its regular weekly
dollar operation, up from $352 million last week. The ECB
doesn’t disclose the identity of the banks it lends to.  On Nov. 30, six central banks including the Fed, the ECB
and the  Bank of Japan  cut the cost of emergency dollar loans by
50 basis points in a global effort to ease a credit shortage
worsened by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Yesterday, demand
for seven-day dollar loans from the Bank of  Japan  surged to $25
million from $1 million.  “The reduction in the rate seems to have been enough to
reduce the stigma in using the facility,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , rate strategist at  Societe Generale  in Paris. “Banks
have had a lot of difficulty in raising funding in dollars, but
this amount is still much lower than what we had in 2009.”  European banks need dollars to fund their own lending in
the U.S. as well as to clients elsewhere doing business in the
world’s leading reserve currency. On Sept. 15, global equity
markets rallied after the ECB said it would coordinate with the
Fed to offer a series of three-month dollar loans to euro-area
banks to ensure they have enough of the currency for the rest of
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  