-- 
Media Moguls See Netflix, Hulu Video as Top Issue to ‘Navigate’

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/media-moguls-see-netflix-hulu-distribution-as-top-issue-to-navigate-.html
News Corp. Chief Operating Officer
 Chase Carey  said the biggest challenge facing the company is
digital-distribution deals with Internet companies such as
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC.  “The digital space is incredibly important,” Carey said
yesterday at a UBS AG media and communications conference in  New
York . “Over the next five years, it’ll be the number one issue
we’ll have to navigate.”  Media companies such as News Corp.,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,
 Viacom Inc.  and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  are experimenting with online
distribution of television and movie content. The efforts have
the potential to create new revenue streams for media companies,
though they need to be careful not to cannibalize revenue from
cable operators and other partners, Carey said.  “They’re an exciting new dimension to the business,” he
said.  Deep-pocketed players have emerged to offer distribution
over the Internet. Aside from Hulu and Netflix,  Amazon Inc. (AMZN) 
markets a streaming service and Apple Inc. offers digital
downloads.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S.
telephone company, could soon offer a Netflix competitor,
according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  Digital distribution, also known as “over the top,” may
make the most sense for older video, including TV shows and
movies that are generating little revenue elsewhere, said Carey
and David Zaslav, chief executive officer of Discovery
Communications Inc. Discovery, whose programs include “Deadliest
Catch” and “Man vs. Wild,” cut a deal that allows Netflix to
offer its shows well after they’re on cable channels.  18 Months And Older  “We were very intrigued by this idea of a new window,” said
Zaslav at UBS. “We don’t know what this new window is going to
do, but we created a new window, mostly 18 months old and
older.”  Time Warner CEO  Jeff Bewkes , once a vocal critic of
services like Netflix, said he sees value in Internet deals,
particularly for older video.  “These kinds of services can definitely add value to all
of us if you’re trying to get that obscure movie you haven’t
seen yet in a window that’s not the current window,” he said.
“Netflix is our friend.”  Netflix and Time Warner recently signed a distribution deal
for programs from its roster of shows on the CW Network, owned
by Time Warner and CBS.  ‘Arms Race’  Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said there’s an “arms race”
among online video companies to get the best content, helping
pull in customers. He said his company’s primary competitor may
ultimately become Time Warner’s  HBO  Go service, which lets
people watch the cable channel’s own shows such “Boardwalk
Empire” and movies the channel has negotiated rights for when
they want.  “The competitor we fear most is HBO Go,” Hastings said at
the conference. “HBO is becoming more Netflix-like and we’re
becoming more HBO-like. The two of us will compete for a very
long time.”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Carey said Netflix is evolving into something
similar to a cable channel. Los Gatos, California-based Netflix
recently secured an exclusive streaming deal with  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , allowing the studio to shift away from HBO.  Content providers like Viacom have been open to exclusive
streaming deals as well. Viacom’s Paramount movie division
signed exclusive rights to some of its films to Netflix, which
CEO Philippe Dauman sees as lucrative.  “The value of our content has increased significantly
since we did the Netflix deal,” Dauman said at UBS conference.
“We have a very good relationship with Netflix.”  Non-exclusive deals, on the other hand, allow Viacom to
sell shows and films to multiple digital distributors.  “The revenues through that form of distribution should
increase,” he said.  Hulu’s Value  CBS chief Leslie Moonves told investors at the conference
to expect more digital distribution deals in the future.  “Our guys are talking to a variety of people every single
day,” he said. “So I don’t think you’ve heard the last of
these deals.”  Hulu, which is owned by News Corp.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
 Providence Equity Partners , was pulled off the market this year
after an auction because of the video-streaming service’s
potential, said Carey. Hulu has a bigger opportunity than
Netflix and its value “dwarfed” the proposed offers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  