-- 
Medtronic Wins FDA Panel Backing to Allow Defibrillators for More Patients

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-07T23:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/medtronic-wins-fda-panel-backing-to-allow-defibrillators-for-more-patients.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, won the backing of an advisory
panel to expand the use of defibrillators that synchronize the
right and left chambers of the heart.  The  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel voted 3-2
that the benefits of the device outweigh the risks for certain
heart patients during a meeting in Gaithersburg,  Maryland ,
Medtronic said today in a statement. The FDA is not required to
follow its panels’ recommendations.  The defibrillators from Minneapolis-based Medtronic are
approved for patients with moderate and severe heart failure who
are fatigued or experience palpitations from below-normal
amounts of activity or who can’t carry out tasks without
discomfort. The company is seeking to expand the use to people
with mild heart failure.  The FDA is concerned that Medtronic is relying on results
from a subset of patients chosen after the original study failed
to show the devices worked in those with mild heart failure,
according to an agency staff  report  released Dec. 5.  The classifications of heart failure were developed by the
 New York  Heart Association.  The panel also voted 5-0 that the defibrillators are safe
and 3-2 they are effective for mild heart failure patients,
according to Medtronic’s statement.  Some physicians already use the devices on lower-risk
patients, so the market probably won’t grow significantly if
expanded use is approved, said Joshua Jennings, a senior
research analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York.  “I don’t expect it to be any type of windfall for
Medtronic,” Jennings said in a telephone interview.  The FDA approved expanding the use of  Boston Scientific
Corp. (BSX) ’s cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators in
September 2010 for patients with mild heart failure, even when
they have no outward symptoms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 