-- 
Lehman Enters Final Bankruptcy Phase as Judge Approves Plan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/lehman-enters-final-bankruptcy-phase-as-judge-approves-plan-2-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  won a
federal judge’s approval to begin the final phase of the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history, as the defunct securities firm said
it would begin to distribute some of its $23 billion in
available cash.  The bankruptcy may have reached its halfway point, as
Lehman’s plan calls for liquidation of its remaining assets over
the next three years to raise a total of $65 billion. Lehman,
once the fourth-largest investment bank, collapsed in September
2008 with assets of $639 billion.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck approved the plan after
the objection of one final creditor was overcome. The plan is
backed by creditors holding about $450 billion in claims, which
is a “huge achievement,” Peck said yesterday. The case was the
“most impossibly challenging” bankruptcy ever, he said.  Lehman, which was run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump
since the Great Depression, settled a fight with creditors in a
June payment plan that allotted more money to derivatives
claimants including  Goldman Sachs (GS)  and less to bondholders such
as Paulson & Co. Both groups had proposed rival plans to pay
Lehman’s debts.  Problems Overcome  Lehman overcame “almost insurmountable” problems in
resolving competing liquidation plans, lawyer  Harvey Miller  said
in court yesterday. The liquidation plan has the support of 95
percent of Lehman creditors, Miller said. The firm’s advisers
did a “good job” guiding it toward confirmation, he said.  Lehman’s $4 billion of 5.625 percent notes due in January
2013 fell 1 cent to 25.875 cents on the dollar as of 11:37 a.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes have
climbed from 23 cents on Oct. 4.  Lehman CEO  Bryan Marsal  has said he aims to raise $65
billion from the firm’s assets in the next few years, giving
some money to creditors in the first quarter. Lehman and its
affiliates had more than $23 billion of cash available on Oct.
31 after spending almost $1.5 billion in fees for managers and
advisers, according to a filing.  The company will distribute some of the $23 billion to
creditors in the first quarter, Lehman has said.  ‘Common Sense’  “This case has required compromise and common sense,
diligence and determination, and the reconciliation of complex
positions that at times seemed irreconcilable,” said Marsal,
co-founder of Alvarez & Marsal, the professional services firm
that has been managing Lehman’s operations during bankruptcy, in
an e-mailed statement. “Confirmation of this plan is a
testament to the enormous efforts of the many stakeholders who
recognized the value of an economic compromise plan and did
yeoman’s work to achieve it.”  Marsal has estimated that the final claims will total $370
billion, giving the average creditor less than 18 cents on the
dollar. Lehman’s senior bondholders would recover 21.1 cents on
the dollar under the new plan, compared with 21.4 cents under
the firm’s previous proposal.  The bondholder group including Paulson and the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, filed its own
liquidation plan in April that would have paid bondholders 25.4
cents on the dollar. Senior bondholders were offered 16 cents in
a rival proposal by holders of claims on Lehman affiliates,
including Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Claims on Lehman’s derivatives unit would be paid 27.9
cents to 32 cents, while commercial paper claims would get 48.4
cents to 55.7 cents, all based on each dollar of their
investment, court papers show.  Special Financing Unit  A guaranteed claim against Lehman’s special financing unit
would get 27.9 cents on the dollar, plus more than 11 cents from
a guarantee by the Lehman parent, or a total of about 39 cents.
That is more than Lehman offered in an earlier plan, though less
than the more than 40 cents proposed by the Goldman Sachs group.  Calpers paid more than 100 cents on the dollar for some of
its claims, while Paulson paid 9 cents or less for some of its
Lehman holdings.  Lehman quickened its effort to get out of bankruptcy in
June, after being mired in disputes as it neared three years in
Chapter 11 proceedings.  Separately, a group of  Lehman Brothers ’ underwriters agreed
to pay $417 million to settle a class-action lawsuit by
investors who claimed they were in the dark about Lehman’s
exposure to mortgage-backed securities in 2008, according to a
Dec. 2 filing in federal court in  Manhattan .  Fuld and other former Lehman executives in August had
agreed to settle the investors’ claims for $90 million to be
paid by Lehman’s insurers.  Goldman Subpoenaed  Lehman this month subpoenaed Goldman Sachs for documents
relating to derivatives claims. Many banks are fighting Lehman
over its handling of derivatives contracts, including Deutsche
Bank AG. More than 20 “formal” objections to the overall plan
were withdrawn before yesterday’s hearing, Miller said.  Lehman has winnowed down claims from 67,000 filed
originally demanding about $1.2 trillion from what was once the
fourth-largest investment bank. Through Oct. 31, it raised $13.8
billion from derivatives. Real estate sales fetched $3.9 billion
through June 30. Marsal has said property sales will continue
through 2014.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.
The firm filed for bankruptcy with $613 billion in debt.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  The shareholders lawsuit is In re Lehman Brothers
Equity/Debt Securities Litigation, 09-MD-02017, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 