-- 
Helaba Says Bank Failed EBA Capital Test on ‘Formalities’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-12-07T16:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/helaba-says-bank-failed-eba-capital-test-on-formalities-1-.html
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen said it
failed a financial-strength test by  Europe ’s top banking
regulator because of “technical formalities” relating to a
form of German capital.  Germany’s fifth-biggest state-owned lender would need to
raise 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) to reach a core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 9 percent or
more because the European Banking Authority’s test doesn’t
account for measures that will take effect by the end of the
year, Frankfurt-based Helaba said today in a statement.  European leaders are pushing banks to raise capital to
bolster confidence in the industry after they asked investors to
take writedowns on Greek debt to help bail the country out.
Helaba said it won’t need additional capital as a state
shareholder will convert so-called silent participations, a form
of non-voting capital used in  Germany , by the end of the year.  Helaba would fail the test because it’s based on data from
the end of September, which don’t reflect the effect of the
conversion of 1.92 billion euros in silent participations held
by the German state of Hesse, according to the statement.  Sovereign Bonds  The EBA estimated in October that the region’s financial
institutions need 106 billion euros to reach a 9 percent core
Tier 1 capital ratio by mid-2012, after marking their sovereign
bonds to market. That includes an original estimate of 5.18
billion euros for German banks.  Regulators may ask German lenders to boost their capital
levels by less than 10 billion euros, two people familiar with
the estimates said last week.  Helaba entered the capital as “hybrid instruments not
subscribed by government” in a data submission to the EBA,
according to the statement, which didn’t disclose details of the
test. The lender would have a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9.8
percent at Sept. 30 if the silent participations were
recognized, the company said.  The German bank and Hesse have taken all necessary measures
to convert the state’s silent participations to core Tier 1
capital, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  