-- 
Temasek Sells Li & Fung Exchangeable Bonds in Second Deal

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-12-08T08:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/temasek-to-sell-up-to-466-million-of-bonds-backed-by-for-li-fung-shares.html
Temasek Holdings Pte  is selling as
much as S$600 million ($467 million) of bonds exchangeable into
shares of  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the  Singapore  state-owned investment
company’s second equity-linked debt sale in two months.  Temasek, rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s , sold S$500 million
of the zero-coupon bonds maturing in 2013, according to a
Singapore stock exchange filing today. The bonds are
exchangeable into Li & Fung stock at a 40 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the sale’s
arranger, has the option of offering a further S$100 million
within 30 days of settlement, according to the filing.  The Singapore firm, which managed S$193 billion as of March
31, raised S$790 million in October selling bonds, which also
pay no interest, exchangeable into shares of London-based
Standard Chartered Plc. Temasek is borrowing at almost “zero
cost” by issuing the bonds, said Song Seng Wun, a Singapore-
based economist at CIMB Research Pte.  “Going to the bank is cheap these days,” said Song.
“This is definitely an even cheaper source of funding.”  The sale lets Temasek generate money from its investment in
Li & Fung, the world’s biggest supplier of  consumer goods  to
retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. It will use the proceeds
from the bond sale to fund its “ordinary course of business.”
The sale is scheduled to close about Dec. 14.  Li & Fung Declines  Temasek has a 3 percent stake in Li & Fung, according to
its latest annual report for the 12 months to March 31 this year.
The investment company bought HK$3.88 billion ($499 million) of
new shares in 2008.  Katherine Wang of GolinHarris, hired by Li & Fung to handle
public relations, said the company declined to comment on the
Temasek deal.  The bonds are exchangeable at HK$23.80 a share, Temasek
said. Li & Fung fell 5 percent to HK$16.14 at the close in  Hong
Kong , the biggest drop since Nov. 21.  The stock is down 28 percent for the year compared with an
17 percent decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Li & Fung
lost about 48 percent from the start of the year through Aug. 11
as the faltering U.S. economy and rising costs raised concern it
would struggle to meet its three-year earnings targets. The
stock has gained 35 percent since Aug. 11, when it reported
first-half profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Temasek Divestments  The outsourcer that began in the southern Chinese city of
Guangzhou more than a century ago has set itself a three-year
target of more than doubling operating profit at its main
business to $1.5 billion by 2013. Li & Fung, which also supplies
Kohl’s Corp., Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Esprit Holdings Ltd.,
doubled its workforce through at least 12 acquisitions since the
start of last year.  Should Temasek issue S$600 million of bonds, they will be
exchangeable for as many as 152.9 million shares, according to
the filing. Temasek has the right to settle exchanges with cash,
and will redeem unexchanged bonds at par on maturity. IFR
reported the transaction yesterday.  Temasek’s divestments this year include sales of its stakes
in  Indonesia ’s PT Chandra Asri Petrochemical and Surbana Corp.,
according to Bloomberg data.  Asian investments made up 77 percent of Temasek’s
underlying portfolio on March 31. Investments in Singapore were
32 percent of assets, while holdings in the mature economies of
 Australia ,  New Zealand ,  North America  and  Europe  were 20 percent.  Temasek invested S$13 billion during the year ended March
31, including more than S$4 billion in recapitalizations and
rights offers in Bank of China Ltd.,  Standard Chartered  and
China Construction Bank Corp., while it sold S$9 billion of
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net 
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 