-- 
Embraer Declines Most in a Week on Corruption Probe Concern

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-12-07T21:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/embraer-declines-most-in-a-week-on-corruption-probe-concern-1-.html
Embraer SA , the world’s fourth-
largest plane builder, fell the most a week as concern mounted
that a U.S. corruption investigation will lead to fines and
endanger business with the American government.  The stock dropped 1.7 percent to 11.09 reais at the close
in Sao Paulo, paring an earlier loss of as much as 4 percent.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating Embraer for possible violation of Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, the  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based company
said Nov. 2. The probe started more than a year ago in  Argentina 
with government-controlled Aerolineas Argentinas SA’s $700
million purchase of 20 E-190 jets in 2009, Valor Economico
newspaper reported today, without saying how it got the
information.  “It’s a pretty serious matter,” said Rosangela Ribeiro,
an analyst at SLW Corretora brokerage in Sao Paulo. “This
increases the noise. The market needs better clarifications from
the company.”  A press official at Embraer, who asked not to be identified
due to internal policy, declined to comment on the Valor report
and referred questions to the company’s Nov. 2 statement.  Embraer Cooperating  In that statement, Embraer said it hired external lawyers
who are conducting an investigation into transactions in three
countries that it didn’t identify. The company said it’s
cooperating with the SEC and the  Justice Department  and has
delivered documents to both agencies.  “The company is unable to foresee the duration, the scope
or the results of the investigation,” Embraer said in the
statement.  Aerolineas Argentinas’ press office didn’t answer phones or
reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the Valor report. Valor
said the company didn’t respond to an interview request.  The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits companies
listed in the U.S. from bribing foreign government officials or
making other illegal payments to obtain or retain business,
according to the Justice Department’s  website . If criminally
sanctioned, companies may be barred from doing business with the
U.S. government and fined as much as twice the value of the
benefit they sought through the improper payments. Convicted
executives may be sentenced to five years in prison.  Embraer Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado said the
investigation won’t hinder the company’s bid for a $950 million
contract with the U.S. Department of Defense, Folha de S.Paulo
newspaper reported Nov. 5, citing an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  