-- 
Emerging Stocks Climb From Biggest Drop in Two Weeks on Europe

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-07T22:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/emerging-stocks-rally-following-biggest-drop-in-almost-two-weeks.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced after
the biggest retreat in almost two weeks on speculation European
leaders will agree on steps to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.6 percent to
959.33 after slumping 1.3 percent yesterday, the largest drop
since Nov. 23. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 2.2
percent in  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan ’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  advanced 1.1
percent.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index dropped for the first day in
three, losing 1.5 percent while  Chile ’s Ipsa rose 1.6 percent.
 Micex Index  fell 0.7 percent in Moscow after protests against
election results.  Euro-area leaders may let the region’s temporary bailout
fund to run concurrently with the European Stability Mechanism
as this would allow almost double the financial firepower to be
deployed, the Financial Times said. Nikkei reported that the
Group of 20 nations is considering a $600 billion  International
Monetary Fund  lending program to help curb the crisis.  “Equity markets will remain highly correlated to
international news and it seems that investors are expecting a
big announcement from European countries in the coming days,”
Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management at Dubai-based Al
Mal Capital, said by e-mail.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is more
pessimistic about the outcome of the European Union leaders’
summit in Brussels beginning tomorrow, a government official
told reporters in Berlin today, on condition of anonymity
because the negotiations are private. Not all EU members
appreciate the seriousness of the situation, the official said.  ‘Too Optimistic’  MSCI’s emerging-market index has dropped 17 percent this
year as concerns over the European debt crisis and U.S. economic
growth prompted fund managers to seek less risky investments.
Companies in the index trade at 8.5 times estimated earnings,
less than the average multiple of 9.8 for  developed markets (MXWO) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging-market stocks will probably trail advanced-country
shares next year because companies in developing nations are
producing less cash and investors are too optimistic about the
prospects for government stimulus, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “We expect  cash flow  to come under increasing pressure”
in  emerging markets , John-Paul Smith, a London-based strategist
at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report dated yesterday. “Investors
generally appear too optimistic about the prospects for monetary
and fiscal easing within the emerging economies,” he wrote,
without giving a forecast for equity returns.  The Bovespa fell the most in two weeks as steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  dropped 3.9 percent and mining
company  Vale SA (VALE5)  lost 3.6 percent, following metals prices lower.
The MSCI Brazil/Materials index tumbled the most among ten
industry groups.  Brazil,  China   Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , Brazil’s second-largest
airline by market value, rose 3.6 percent to 15.50 reais, the
highest since July 27. Delta Airlines Inc., the world’s second-
biggest carrier, agreed to buy a stake in Gol for $100 million.  Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong climbed before a
report on Dec. 9 that’s expected to show China’s inflation
slowed to a 13-month low of 4.5 percent last month.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest mainland
developer listed in Hong Kong, climbed 2.1 percent on
speculation China’s central bank will cut  interest rates  next
year.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (349) , the nation’s
largest lender, rose 2.9 percent.  Hyundai Development  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  advanced 0.9 percent, led by
builder  Hyundai Development Co. (012630) , which jumped 7.9 percent after
the government said it will cut transfer taxes on owners of more
than one house and will lower interest rates on loans for first-
home buyers.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 404, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  OAO Lukoil , Russia’s second-largest oil company, fell 0.9
percent in Moscow and  OAO Gazprom , the largest natural gas
exporter, also fell 0.9 percent, as the Micex slid for a second
day amid protests.  Russian police said they detained about 300 people
yesterday at a rally in downtown Moscow to protest the results
of the Dec. 4 parliamentary elections.  “People were not used to looking at Russian politics in
this way before so they don’t know what to think and rather want
to be on the sidelines,”  Clemens Grafe , chief economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Moscow, said in an e-mail.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United  Russia  party won
49.3 percent of the votes, compared with 64.3 percent four years
ago.  The Chilean peso appreciated 0.8 percent against the
dollar, the best performance among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, after the National Statistics Institute
said annual inflation rose to the highest since April 2009. Most
currencies from developing markets rose, while the Indian rupee
dropped 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  