-- 
Dubai’s Biggest Bank May Need $2.2 Billion to Cover Bad Debt, Goldman Says

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-12-07T12:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/emirates-nbd-may-need-up-to-2-2-billion-provision-goldman-says.html
Emirates NBD PJSC, the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, may need to set aside as much
as 8 billion dirhams ($2.2 billion) by the end of 2013 to cover
for bad loans,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS)  said. The shares dropped.  “Looking at the guidance provided on asset quality trends,
we calculate a provisioning range of 6 billion dirhams and 8
billion dirhams is required between the fourth-quarter of 2011
and the fourth-quarter of 2013,” analysts including Waleed Mohsin and Ali Shekofti wrote in a report dated today.  Emirates NBD is one of the biggest creditors to Dubai
World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned holding
companies that reached a deal in March to delay payments on $25
billion of loans. It is also a key lender to units of Dubai
Holding LLC, one of whose investment companies is in talks with
banks to reschedule at least $10 billion of liabilities. The
bank in October took over the unprofitable Dubai Bank on orders
from the emirate’s ruler.  Non-performing loans on the books of Dubai’s banks will
peak at 15 percent to 16 percent in 2013, up from 4.8 percent in
2009 and 11.3 percent in 2010, investment bank Exotix Ltd. said
Dec. 4. Moody’s Investors Service expects provisions to peak at
13 percent to 16 percent next year, it said in a report Nov. 3.  “The significant increase in the renegotiated private
sector loans hides the true extent of the banks’ asset quality
problems,” Fitch Rating said in a report on U.A.E. banks
yesterday. “Whilst fundamental credit issues in the operating
environment remain unresolved, some of these loans may re-emerge
as non-performing loans.”  Shares Drop  Goldman Sachs, which has a “neutral” recommendation on
 Emirates NBD (EMIRATES) , cut the price estimate of the shares to 4.38
dirhams from 4.79 dirhams to reflect “lower earnings
expectations.” The stock dropped 1.5 percent, the most in a
week, to close at 3.25 dirhams in Dubai today.  Emirates NBD, 56 percent owned by the Dubai government,
reported a 59 percent decline in third-quarter profit to 175
million dirhams as loan-loss provisions rose. The bank’s ratio
of non-performing loans to total loans will rise to as much as
14 percent by the end of the year and advance by 1 percentage
point annually over the next two years, it said in October.  The bank is aiming to sell an Islamic bond this month,
Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  said yesterday.  Fitch Ratings  placed Emirates NBD’s credit rating on notice
in October for a possible downgrade on concern that a rise in
bad loans due to a weak  property market  and the impact of a
slowing global economy will affect the bank’s outlook. Fitch
rates the company A+, the fifth-highest investment grade, while
Moody’s Investors Service rates the bank A3, the fourth-lowest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  