-- 
Tepco May Sell Thermal Plants to Pay Fukushima Compensation, Yomiuri Says

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-12-07T02:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/tepco-may-sell-thermal-plants-for-compensation-yomiuri-shimbun-reports.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  may sell
some of its thermal power plants to raise funds for compensation
payments after the Fukushima disaster, the Yomiuri newspaper
 reported .  The utility known as Tepco will decide which plants will be
sold by the end of March, the Yomiuri said, without saying how
it got the information. Tepco will buy electricity from
independent power producers through tenders after the sale, the
Yomiuri said.  The owner of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may have
to pay at least 4.5 trillion yen ($57.9 billion) compensation to
those affected by the disaster, according to an estimate by a
government panel headed by bankruptcy lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe.  The utility plans to sell assets worth 707.4 billion yen to
raise funds for the compensation payment, according to a
business plan released in November. At the time, the utility
said it may also sell power-generation assets.  Tepco reiterated it’s planning to sell generating capacity
in a statement responding to the Yomiuri report. No details have
been decided, it said.  Tepco isn’t planning to sell power generation assets
immediately because it has insufficient capacity, the Nikkan
Kogyo newspaper reported today, citing President Toshio Nishizawa. Nishizawa said Tepco may consider the sales in the
medium and long term, the Nikkan Kogyo reported.  Cutting Costs  The Shimokobe committee recommended in October that Tepco
buy electricity from independent providers to reduce electricity
generation costs.  Tepco may give up plans to build new thermal  power plants 
apart from those under construction as the utility isn’t able to
raise funds for construction, the Yomiuri said.  The utility is expanding capacity at three of its fossil-
fuel stations and is planning expansions at two others, the
Yomiuri reported. Tepco has 15 operating thermal plants, the
newspaper said.  Tepco increased its target for cost cuts by about 100
billion yen to 2.6 trillion yen during the next 10 years, the
Yomiuri said. The utility aims to cut the return on pensions
contributions by as much as 4.25 percentage points from October,
the Yomiuri reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  