-- 
Equity Residential Joins Toll Brothers to Develop 40-Story Manhattan Tower

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-12-07T23:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/equity-residential-joins-toll-brothers-to-develop-40-story-manhattan-tower.html
Equity Residential, the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment owner, and luxury-home builder
 Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  formed a joint venture to build a 40-story
tower on  Manhattan ’s Park Avenue.  The bottom 22 floors will house retail and rental
apartments and be operated by Chicago-based Equity Residential,
Toll Brothers said in an e-mailed statement announcing the
deal’s completion today. Toll’s portion will consist of
condominiums on the upper 18 floors, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based company said.  The rental and condominium sections will have separate
lobbies and addresses and will operate independently, according
to the statement. Construction is slated to begin in the first
half of 2012 on the 400,000-square-foot (37,000-square-meter)
development site at 400 Park Ave. South.  Toll Brothers has completed 13 properties in the New York
metropolitan area under its City Living brand and is building
four more, according to the statement. City Living has been the
company’s most popular division because demand for housing is
stronger in New York than in other parts of the country,
according to Toll Brothers Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr.  “If I blink I think I’m back in 2005,” he said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “It is incredible
what’s going on in  New York City .”  Equity Residential (EQR)  had 28 properties with 8,290 units in
the New York market at the end of September, the company said
Oct. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  