-- 
Erdogan Party in Discord for 1st Time Since 2003, Milliyet Says

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-12-07T15:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/erdogan-party-in-discord-for-1st-time-since-2003-milliyet-says.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s governing party is in disagreement on how to deal with
a veto of draft legislation by President  Abdullah Gul , signaling
political divisions for the first time since 2003, Milliyet
 reported .  The president’s rejection of a law reducing penalties for
match-fixing in competitive sports created three groups in the
Justice and Development Party, or Ak Parti, according to the 
Istanbul-based newspaper. The last time Erdogan’s party disagreed 
on a policy issue was in March 2003, when lawmakers rejected a 
measure championed by Gul, then the prime minister, to allow U.S. 
troops to invade  Iraq  from  Turkey .  The discord comes as Erdogan recuperates at his home in
Istanbul from Nov. 26 surgery on his digestive tract. Erdogan,
who was expected to lead a Dec. 5 cabinet meeting in Ankara,
extended his rest for a second week today, canceling a trip to
 Qatar  to attend a Dec. 11-13 conference.  Since the Dec. 2 veto, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc,
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  and lawmaker Samil Tayyar have
publicly supported Gul, Milliyet said. A second group within the
party, including deputy chairman Huseyin Celik, favors
renegotiating punishments outlined in the draft law. A third
group, including the party’s parliamentary deputy chiefs
Nurettin Canikli and Mustafa Elitas, say the legislation should
be sent back to the president unchanged, according to Milliyet.  More than half of the Ak Parti’s 326 members in the 550-
seat Ankara parliament skipped the original vote on the law,
Milliyet reported. At least 150 of those lawmakers aren’t keen
on the legislation or on revisiting the bill, it said.  Soccer officials including the head of Fenerbahce, the team
Erdogan supports, are being held in custody pending trial on
charges of match-fixing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  