-- 
Estonian Lawmakers Pass Budget With 1st Gap Since 2009

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-12-07T15:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/estonian-lawmakers-pass-budget-with-first-deficit-since-2008.html
Estonia’s Parliament approved  next
year’s budget , targeting the first deficit in three years on
concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will restrain the economy
more than forecast.  Lawmakers voted 55-44 to back the budget in the final of
the three readings in the capital, Tallinn, today. The budget is
based on a 2012 forecast for gross domestic product growth of 3
percent and sets a deficit of 2.1 percent, compared with a
planned surplus of 0.2 percent this year, the same as in 2010.  The central bank and the opposition called on the Cabinet
to trim spending. The Finance Ministry has said that there’s a
risk that growth may be as low as 1 percent next year.  Government spending  “will help offset the uncertainties
stemming from global markets by spurring domestic demand and
creating jobs,” the ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
Investment will grow by 28 percent to 1.25 billion euros, it
added.  Estonia, the  fastest-growing economy  in the 27-member
European Union this year, should brace for slowing exports and
declining business and consumer confidence next year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on Nov. 29. The IMF forecast a
2012 GDP rise of 3.1 percent, while the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development expects 3.2 percent growth,
according to a forecast released on Nov. 28.  Spending is rising mainly because of compulsory
expenditures of proceeds from selling spare UN carbon-emissions
quotas and the resumption of state-pension contributions, which
were frozen in 2009.  The deficit will be covered from government reserves, the
 Finance Ministry  said. The lawmakers earlier today approved
measures to consolidate the unemployment and healthcare
insurance funds under the State Treasury, a move that would help
Estonia avoid borrowing until 2015.  Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said last month the deficit
would remain below the EU’s threshold of 3 percent of GDP even
if economic growth would drop to 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  