-- 
EU Agency to Announce Bank Capital Shortfalls

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-12-08T08:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/eu-regulators-to-release-bank-capital-shortfalls-amid-criticism.html
The  European Banking Authority  will
publish its review of how much capital lenders should raise to
absorb losses from euro-area bonds amid criticism from German
and Italian banks on the test methods and timing.  The results of the updated stress tests will be released at
6 p.m. central European time today, the regulator said in a
statement on its  website . The publication will coincide with the
start of a European Union summit in Brussels to tackle the
region’s sovereign-debt problems.  “The EBA risks adding more tension in a delicate moment,”
Gregorio De Felice,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s chief economist, said
in an interview. “ Europe  is moving in the right direction and
these measures are rowing against that tide.”  The EBA estimated in October that the region’s financial
institutions need 106 billion euros ($142 billion) to reach a
goal of holding 9 percent of so-called core Tier 1 capital by
mid-2012, after marking their sovereign debt to market prices.
European leaders are demanding banks increase capital after
financial firms agreed to accept losses on Greek  government
bonds .  Italian lenders, which the EBA said needed 14.8 billion
euros, had called for more time to meet the mid-2012 deadline
for raising the money. German bank Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen,
known as Helaba, said yesterday it would need 1.5 billion euros
more than estimated because state participations didn’t comply
with the regulator’s definition of core capital.  Inappropriate  The EBA capital measures are inappropriate in their
“method, merit and timing,” Giovanni Sabatini, director
general of  Italy ’s banking association, said Dec. 6.  Seventy banks were tested in October with data broken down
by country. Spanish banks needed 26.2 billion euros and Italian
banks 14.8 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, taking into
account booking sovereign debt at market prices, the EBA said.  French lenders’ capital shortfall shrank from the October
estimate of 8.8 billion euros ($11.8 billion), the EBA’s new
test will show, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said.  The test will reveal that their capital situation improved
due to profits in the third quarter, the person said, declining
to be identified because the results are not yet public.  Updated Figures  The updated figures take into account sovereign holdings
through the end of September, rather than the estimates, which
used June data. U.K. banks probably won’t need to raise capital,
 Andrew Bailey , head of banking supervision at the FSA, told
reporters last month.  “It’s tough for the EBA because events are moving so
quickly that it’s very difficult for any  stress test  to keep up
with actuality,”  Richard Reid , director of research for the
International Centre for Financial Regulation, said in an
interview.  Helaba blamed “technical formalities” for needing more
capital than originally estimated. The test doesn’t reflect the
effect of the conversion of 1.92 billion euros in silent
participations, a type of non-voting capital, held by the German
state of Hesse, the bank said in a statement.  The lender would have a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9.8
percent at Sept. 30 if the silent participations were
recognized, the company said.  Protest  The Frankfurt-based lender released its data a day before
the EBA planned to coordinate publishing of bank-by-bank
results. Helaba pulled out of the EBA’s official stress tests in
July two days before the regulator published the results in
protest against the way the EBA calculated the final capital
shortfall.  Regulators may ask German lenders to boost their capital
levels by less than 10 billion euros, almost double the original
5.2 billion-euro estimate for the country’s banks in October,
two people familiar with the situation said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  