-- 
EU Signals Flexibility on Demand for Climate Treaty Deadline

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-07T16:47:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/eu-signals-flexibility-on-demand-for-climate-treaty-deadline.html
The European Union signaled it may be
open to a different deadline for a new global warming treaty yet
to be negotiated, widening the scope for an agreement at United
Nations climate talks this week.  Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said its demand for
countries to craft a legally binding pact by 2015 isn’t “cut in
stone.” U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said EU pledges on
the environment would match other country’s ambitions.  The comments touch on the most controversial issue at the
discussions in Durban, South Africa, that finish Dec. 9. Envoys
from more than 190 nations are debating how to maintain momentum
in the fight against climate change after limits on fossil fuel
emissions set down in the  Kyoto Protocol  expire next year.  “The EU is showing some flexibility, but nothing will be
decided until the 11th hour,” Bangladeshi envoy Quamrul
Chowdhury said in an interview in Durban.  China and India are pushing industrial nations to extend
the Kyoto pact. The U.S.,  Japan ,  Canada  and  Russia  ruled out new
commitments under the treaty. The EU has said it would only
agree to extend Kyoto if all nations pledge to come aboard a
legally binding agreement on climate by 2015. It’s willing to
move even if other developed countries don’t rejoin Kyoto goals.  The EU accounts for only about 11 percent of global
emissions. China and  India , which have no targets under the
pact, have become two of the top three polluters since Kyoto was
negotiated in 1997, and industrial nations want the next treaty
to cover that pollution.  ‘Get Real’  “There is absolutely no point at getting a deal with 85
percent of the emissions outside and at the same time you’ve
provided camouflage for everybody else to do nothing for a whole
period of time,” Huhne at a briefing in Durban today. “We’ve
got to get real on this. If we actually want to deal with the
problem, other countries have to step up to the plate.”  Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for Hedegaard, said the EU
position “remains unchanged,” that “nothing is cut in stone
means that we have to negotiate” at the talks, and that the
commissioner’s remark indicated that “2015 is enough time for
those who say they are not ready.”  China , the U.S. and India have signaled they want to wait
until after 2020 for new measures on limiting emissions, after
the results of a study of climate forecasts from a panel of
2,000 scientists organized by the UN. This year’s talks are
scheduled to conclude on Dec. 9.  ‘Poker Game’  “This poker game that is still going on is actually
endangering the whole global process on climate change,” said
Tove Ryding, Greenpeace International policy adviser.  Huhne said what the EU agrees will determine the strength
of the commitments the EU makes. The EU has said it wouldn’t
agree to extend Kyoto limits unless all nations pledge start a
process in Durban leading to a new legally binding treaty that
should take effect by 2020 at the latest.  “If you get short of that, what you will have is similarly
weaker commitments to do something in the second commitment
period at some point in the future,” Huhne said.  Henrik Harboe, the chief negotiator for  Norway , which is
outside the EU, described the 2015 deadline as a “starting
position for these negotiations.” In an interview, he said,
“There are several variables. So we can’t say 2015 will be make
or break for the deal.”  Carbon Trading  Kyoto’s rules helped spur carbon trading and created the
Clean Development Mechanism, generating $26.5 billion of credits
and secondary trading of $68.2 billion, accounting for 18
percent of the carbon market since 2005, according to data from
the  World Bank . UN carbon credit prices have tumbled 54 percent
since June 5 partly because of concern the Kyoto limits on
emissions won’t be extended.  “The 2015 date is an important one,” Tomasz Chruszczow,
 Poland ’s chief envoy to the talks, said in an interview. “It’s
the year when the review of the Copenhagen pledges is due to
assess if they are enough to close the emissions gap”  The U.S. won’t begin talks until China and India agree to
take on legally binding actions without preconditions. In the
meantime, countries should focus between now and 2020 on a
voluntary emissions-cutting pact reached last year, according to
U.S. lead climate negotiator Todd Stern.  “The present U.S. position of no new agreement until
post-2020 is really blowing negotiations apart,” Kevin Conrad,
the climate envoy for  Papua New Guinea , said in an interview at
the meeting.  ‘Can’t Wait’  “We can’t wait for the U.S.,” Italian Environment
Minister Corrado Clini said today in Durban. “We have to design
a new geography for the global alliance to fight  climate change .
We can start a new future Kyoto 2.”  At the center of the climate discord is a 2007 UN agreement
reached in Bali,  Indonesia , that treats China, India,  Brazil  and
other big  developing countries  differently than industrialized
nations. At the time, Bush administration negotiators reversed
opposition to the pact following public pressure from other
countries including Papua New Guinea.  President  Barack Obama , who promised to help lead
international efforts to fight climate change, failed to set a
cap on U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions amid widespread opposition
from lawmakers and businesses.  “Mr. Obama believes in it but can’t do anything about it,
from what I can see,” former U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott  said today in Durban. The U.S.’s refusal to participate
in Kyoto is “scandalous,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Durban, South Africa at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  