-- 
EU-Wide Patent ‘Now or Never’ as Nations Clash on Court Process

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-12-07T12:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/eu-wide-patent-now-or-never-as-nations-clash-on-court-process.html
The European Union’s first region-
wide patent system may “never” happen unless governments bury
their differences this month on a court process to handle
disputes, an EU official said.  While governments from 25 of the 27 EU nations already
agreed on the basic structure of the patent system, discord
remains “on all points” concerning the creation of a court,
said Pierre Delsaux, deputy director general in EU Internal
Markets Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s department.  “It’s difficult to get a compromise if EU member states
are fighting for all their concerns,” Delsaux told a conference
in Brussels today. “If we don’t get an agreement by Dec. 22, I
don’t believe there’ll be a unitary patent in a very long time.
It’s now or never.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed a
compromise deal after governments last year failed to break a
deadlock on which languages should be legally binding. Attempts
to reach an agreement on an EU patent since 2000 have  faltered 
over language issues. The EU has 23 official languages and
numerous compromise proposals have failed to satisfy political
demands or risked increasing translation costs for companies.  In March, 25 EU nations agreed to move forward with a
common patent system.  Italy  and  Spain  opted out of the plans
because they objected to the language system proposals. Italy,
which now has a new government led by Prime Minister  Mario Monti , is considering joining the system, said Delsaux.  The main sticking points include the seat of the main
patent court, how the court system should be financed and the
language system.  Financial Crisis  “It would be a pity if after more than 40 years of
negotiations, the new system would not be used,” Juergen Koch,
head of corporate intellectual property at  Robert Bosch GmbH ,
the world’s largest automotive supplier, said at the event. If
EU nations now “lose their energy and speed, which in my view
will be absorbed by the financial crisis, it may take even
longer.”  Companies can end up paying 18,000 euros ($24,100) for a
patent valid in only 13 countries, including 10,000 euros for
translation, according to the commission.  “We’re in the final furlongs” toward a final accord on
the patent, Barnier told journalists in Brussels today.  Europe 
“could compete with the level of protection that industrial
inventions get in the U.S. without it costing 10 times as much
as it does at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  