-- 
Euro Gains Before Leaders’ Debt Crisis Summit, ECB Interest Rate Statement

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-07T22:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/euro-gains-as-leaders-debt-crisis-summit-optimism-rises-stocks-advance.html
The euro rose against the dollar,
after erasing earlier losses, as optimism increased that
European leaders will be able to agree on measures to help solve
the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency dropped earlier against most of its
counterparts after a German government official said the nation
rejects proposals to combine current and permanent euro-area
rescue funds. The  European Central Bank  is forecast to announce
an interest-rate cut tomorrow and European leaders gather for a
summit in Brussels during the next two days.  Australia ’s dollar
rose after gross domestic product grew last quarter faster than
economists forecast.  “Anything that will help to ensure a more stable euro zone
in the long term will be supportive of the euro in the short
term,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.
“When so many market participants are clamoring for
information, any sort of rumor can impart substantial changes in
asset prices.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3412 at 5 p.m. in  New York 
after falling as much as 0.4 percent. The 17-nation currency was
little changed at 104.18 yen. The Japanese currency gained 0.1
percent to 77.68 per dollar.  EU Warning  The European Union had its AAA long-term rating put on
“credit watch negative” by  Standard & Poor’s , which is also
reviewing ratings for BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG and
Deutsche Bank AG. The ratings company put 15 euro countries on
similar watch for downgrade earlier this week, saying it would
conclude its review following the leaders’ summit.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 109 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate today, down from minus 119
yesterday. That’s the least since Nov. 14.  The ECB said demand for three-month dollar loans jumped to
$50.7 billion today, following last week’s concerted action with
five other central banks to lower  interest rates  on such loans.
That compares with the $395 million lent in the last such
offering on Nov. 9.  Meeting Advance  “You really have a lot of uncertainty in the market before
the meetings that are coming up,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of
U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York.
“I don’t think anyone wants to take up positions going into
that. People want to stay neutral.”  Futures traders  had increased bets that the euro will fall
against the dollar to 104,302 contracts in the week ended Nov.
29, the most since June 2010. A short is a bet the price of an
asset will fall.  The Australian dollar strengthened after the Bureau of
Statistics said the economy expanded 1 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4 percent in
the prior quarter, the fastest pace in four years.  “The GDP data was strong and that is bullish for the
Aussie,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . The market may “take back
some of the rate-cut expectations.”  The Aussie advanced 0.5 percent to $1.0294.  The euro weakened after a German government official said
the nation rejects proposals to combine current and permanent
euro-area rescue funds. The government official spoke to
reporters in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations are private.  Euro Funding  The official’s comments came after the Financial Times
reported yesterday that European Union leaders may agree on a
package including the existing 440 billion euro ($588 billion)
bailout fund and a new 500 billion euro facility. Negotiations
were started about pairing the two, according to two people
familiar with the discussions, Bloomberg News reported on Oct.
20.  The euro dropped as much as 0.2 percent against its nine
developed-nation counterparts to the lowest level since Sept.
21, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
has advanced 2.2 percent in the past month, the best
performance, and the dollar has strengthened 2.1 percent.  The ECB will reduce its  benchmark rate  to 1 percent from
1.25 percent tomorrow, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ECB Choices  Additional options that the central bank is considering
include loosening collateral criteria so that institutions have
more access to cheap ECB cash and offering them longer-term
loans to grease the flow of credit to the economy, said the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private. Two said an interest rate cut is
likely, with only the size of the reduction to be determined for
the monthly decision tomorrow.  “We could see a rate cut tomorrow, as well as a little bit
of disappointment over the prospects for the EU summit,” said
Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk
at Societe Generale SA in New York. “While austerity and budget
discipline and sanctions are worthwhile causes, you still have a
debt problem.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, dropped 0.1 percent to 78.411.  Stocks Factor  Never before has the euro influenced U.S. stocks as much as
this year, a sign that American equities aren’t going anywhere
until  Europe ’s credit crisis is solved.  The link between the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and
swings in the currency reached a record on Dec. 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called correlation
coefficient showing how much two markets rise and fall in tandem
hit 0.85, the highest level since the euro was founded in 1999,
data on 60-day rolling averages show. A reading of 1 means
assets are moving in lockstep.  The pound may depreciate in 2012 as waning growth in the
 euro zone  adds a headwind to the nation’s already tepid economic
recovery and global investors reduce purchases of its debt,
according to Morgan Stanley.  The pound, which traded at $1.5710 today, will slide in
2012 to a trough of $1.39 by the end of the third quarter,  Tim Davis , a currency strategist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note
today. The currency will end the year at $1.41, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  