-- 
European Stocks Decline After Germany Rejects Combining Euro Bailout Funds

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-12-07T16:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/european-stock-index-futures-rise-on-summit-optimism-banks-may-be-active.html
European stocks  dropped after Germany
rejected combining the current and permanent euro-area rescue
funds and expressed pessimism over the outcome of a European
Union summit this week.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , Italy’s third-biggest
bank, led a drop among lenders.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  fell 4.7 percent
after saying it plans to take a charge related to its U.S.
annuity business. Airline shares slid after the  International
Air Transport Association  forecast a decline in industry profits
in 2012.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 0.2 percent
to 241.44 at the close in  London , after earlier gaining as much
as 1.2 percent.  The gauge  last week posted its biggest rally
since November 2008 as central banks lowered the interest rate
on dollar funding and  China  reduced its reserve ratio for banks.
The Stoxx 600 slipped 0.3 percent yesterday after  Standard &
Poor’s  put 15 euro-area nations on review for a potential
downgrade.  “This once again highlights the difficulties European
leaders are having in reaching agreement,” said Benoit Peloille, equity market strategist at Natixis. “Combining the
two funds would have allowed them to rapidly attain the
sufficient power to fight contagion. The rejection by  Germany 
complicates matters.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index declined 0.1 percent.
Germany’s DAX lost 0.6 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated
0.4 percent.  ‘No Change in Sequence’  Germany said it opposes any change in the agreed sequence
in which the the region’s bailout funds will be used. It stands
by the current agreement that the permanent European Stability
Mechanism will take over from the European Financial Stability
Facility by the middle of next year, a German government
official told reporters in Berlin today on condition of
anonymity because the negotiations are private.  The statement followed a report in the Financial Times that
said officials are negotiating a plan to run the EFSF even after
the ESM starts operations. The proposal is part of a bigger
rescue effort they will discuss at the EU summit in Brussels
tomorrow and Dec. 9. Enhancing International Monetary Fund’s
support is another measure being debated.  Fiscal Union  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will push for rewriting EU treaties to tighten
control of national budgets. This move won the backing of U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who urged governments to
work with central banks to erect a “stronger firewall” to end
the debt crisis.  At its meeting tomorrow, the  European Central Bank  will cut
its benchmark interest rate to 1 percent from 1.25 percent,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Germany sold 4.09 billion euros ($5.5 billion) of five-year
notes to yield 1.11 percent. The nation got bids for 8.67
billion euros. German bonds advanced after the auction.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  received parliamentary
approval for the 2012 budget, a financial plan that aims to
nearly halve the deficit shortfall from a debt writedown and
ensure Greece remains a member of the euro area.  A  gauge of European banks  retreated 0.5 percent. Monte
Paschi slipped 5.7 percent to 29.17 euro cents.  Banca Carige
SpA (CRG) , an Italian bank, slid 6.5 percent to 1.44 euros. Societe
Generale SA, France’s second-largest lender, fell 1.3 percent to
20 euros.  ICAP (IAP) , ING Groep  ICAP, the biggest broker of transactions among banks, fell
4.4 percent to 350.4 pence. The stock was cut to “equal
weight” from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  ING Groep, the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
dropped 4.7 percent to 6.01 euros. The company plans to take a
charge of as much as 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) as lower
 interest rates  and stock markets hurt a U.S. annuity business
the firm is winding down.  Metro slid 2.7 percent to 31 euros, extending yesterday’s
14 percent loss. The stock was cut to “sell” from “neutral”
at Citigroup Inc. The stock also was downgraded at banks
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. after Metro
yesterday  forecast  declines in sales and earnings this year.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the holding
company of British Airways and Spain’s Iberia, declined 1
percent to 152.7 pence as pilots at its Iberia unit planned to
go on strike later this month, Efe newswire reported.  Aviation Profits  Separately, IATA said the airline industry’s profits next
year will fall 49 percent, more than it had predicted
previously.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest
airline, declined 4.1 percent to 9.10 euros while  SAS AB (SAS) , the
Scandinavian flag carrier, slipped 0.5 percent to 9.20 kronor in
Stockholm.  Verbund AG (VER) , Austria’s biggest utility, climbed 3 percent to
19.57 euros. Morgan Stanley raised its shares to “overweight”
from “equal weight.”  Carillion Plc (CLLN) , a British construction and services company,
jumped 4.2 percent to 319.4 pence. The company said it expects
its debt to drop below 100 million pounds ($156 million) by end
of the year, beating its earlier target of 125 million pounds.
The stock was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Collins Stewart
Hawkpoint Plc.  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC) , the world’s second-biggest maker of
aircraft seats, added 2.8 percent to 62.99 euros. The stock was
raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at Exane  BNP Paribas. (BNP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  