-- 
European Stock Futures Gain on Summit Optimism; Banks May Move

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-12-07T07:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/european-stock-index-futures-gain-on-summit-optimism-banks-may-be-active.html
European  stock futures  rose on
speculation that euro-area leaders will agree on steps to
resolve the debt crisis at a summit this week and expand the
funds available for the bailout of indebted nations. Asian
stocks and U.S. index futures also advanced.  Banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and BNP Paribas SA may be
active.  Verbund AG (VER) , Austria’s biggest utility, may move after
Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation on the stock.  Carrefour
SA (CA)  may be active after a newspaper report that it plans an offer
for franchiser Guyenne and Gascogne SA.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for the
euro region, gained 0.9 percent to 2,383 at 7:02 a.m. in  London .
Futures on the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index climbed 0.7 percent. The
December contract the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.8
percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.3
percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.3 percent yesterday
after Standard & Poor’s put 15 euro-area nations on credit-
rating review. The gauge posted its biggest rally since November
2008 last week as central banks lowered the interest rate on
dollar funding and China reduced its reserve ratio for banks.  The Financial Times reported that Europe may combine
temporary and planned permanent rescue facilities to bolster its
bailout resources.  “S&P may have put most of the eurozone on the watch list
for a possible ratings downgrade, but with reports now emerging
that the EFSF could be almost doubled in size, the bulls are
once again back in the driving seat,” Terry Pratt,
institutional trader at IG Markets in Melbourne, wrote in a
note.  A German-French push for closer economic ties in  Europe  won
the backing of U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who
urged governments to work with central banks to erect a
“stronger firewall” to end the debt crisis. Geithner, speaking
in Berlin yesterday after talks with German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble, praised the commitment to fiscal programs
put in place by new governments in Spain, Italy and Greece, and
said he was “very encouraged” by recent efforts to buttress
the euro area.  The downgrade warnings came as German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy push for a rewrite
of the EU’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation in a
demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis. With the fate
of the currency shared by the 17 euro countries at risk, Merkel
and Sarkozy presented a common platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of
EU leaders in Brussels that aims to halt the crisis now in its
third year.  At its meeting tomorrow, the  European Central Bank  will cut
its benchmark  interest rate  to 1 percent from 1.25 percent,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  