-- 
Euro Weakens on Rating Concern Before ECB Meeting, EU Summit; Yen Advances

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-12-08T12:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/euro-maintains-advance-before-european-summit-central-bank-rate-decision.html
The euro fell the most in two weeks
against the yen on concern nations such as Germany and  France 
will lose their AAA credit ratings if European leaders fail to
agree a plan to curb the debt crisis this week.  The yen strengthened against all of its major counterparts
as speculation the euro-area crisis will slow global growth
spurred demand for the safety of  Japan ’s currency. The euro
approached a nine-month low versus the pound before the  European
Central Bank  announces its policy decision today and as regional
leaders gather in Brussels to seek a resolution to the two-year
old crisis. Australia’s dollar weakened after a report showed
employers cut jobs for the first time in three months.  “Sentiment has turned a little negative” for the euro,
said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London .
“There’s concern that we may see a perpetuation of the muddle-
along strategy from the European Union and the big landmark deal
will once again prove to be elusive.”  The euro fell 0.6 percent to 103.53 yen at 12:14 p.m., the
biggest intra-day decline since Nov. 23. The single currency
dropped 0.2 percent to $1.3385. It weakened 0.2 percent to 85.18
U.K. pence after slipping to 84.86 on Nov. 10, the lowest since
March 3. The yen gained 0.4 percent to 77.35 per dollar.  Rating Concern  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday placed the European Union’s AAA
long-term rating on “creditwatch negative” after a similar
action on 15 of the 17 euro members. The company said on Dec. 5
it may lower the ratings of  Germany  and 14 other members of the
euro due to “continuing disagreements” about how to tackle the
sovereign-debt crisis. S&P said the ratings may be cut depending
on the result of the two-day summit starting today.  ECB policy makers will cut the benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point to 1 percent today, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. They may also loosen
collateral criteria to give banks greater access to cash and
offer longer-term loans, said three euro-area officials with
knowledge of the deliberations. The  Bank of England  kept its key
rate at a record-low 0.5 percent today.  The yen advanced the most against the South African rand
and South Korean won as investors sought safer assets before
this week’s announcements.  “The yen has continued to trade with a firmer tone as
initial investor optimism heading into today’s ECB meeting and
tomorrow’s EU leaders’ summit is beginning to fade,”  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “The market is
growing increasingly tired of rumors regarding the latest
potential bailout package for the euro zone.”  Sarkozy, Merkel  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel this week proposed amending European treaties to
tighten rules on deficit spending and water down provisions
demanding investor losses. In a letter to European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy , the French and German leaders said
they want a decision at this week’s summit so the steps can be
ready by March 2012.  The euro may rebound against the dollar today even as the
ECB cuts borrowing costs because the market has priced in the
move, according to Morgan Stanley.  Investors should buy the euro on a so-called tactical basis
if the currency rises above $1.3490, analysts at the bank wrote
in an e-mailed report today. Investors should wait until after
the ECB announces its decision before purchasing the currency as
the central bank may cut  interest rates  by 50 basis points
instead of the consensus prediction of 25 basis points, the
analysts wrote.  Aussie Falls  The Australian dollar weakened from near a four-week high
versus the yen after the statistics bureau said the number of
people employed fell by 6,300 last month after rising by 16,800
the prior month. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 10,000 gain.  “Full-time jobs dropped a lot” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “This will trigger
some concerns over the jobs market in  Australia  and, of course,
the economy. The Aussie dropped.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.3 percent to 79.70 yen
after rising to 80.52 yen on Dec. 2, the strongest since Nov. 9.
It was little changed at $1.0295.  Japanese machinery orders, an indicator of  capital
spending , slipped 6.9 percent from a month earlier, the Cabinet
Office said today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was a 0.5 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  