-- 
Euro-Area Rescue Fund to Start Short-Term Debt Sales by End of This Month

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-12-07T16:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/euro-area-rescue-fund-to-start-short-term-debt-sales-by-end-of-this-month.html
The euro area’s rescue fund plans to
begin selling short-term debt by the end of the month to meet
its expanded role in tackling the region’s debt crisis.  The 440 billion-euro ($589 billion)  European Financial
Stability Facility  announced a funding program that will focus
on three-, six- and 12-month bills. The first auction is
expected to take place before year-end, the EFSF said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The Luxembourg-based EFSF gained the authority in October
to buy sovereign bonds on the primary and secondary markets,
offer credit lines to governments and grant aid to banks as the
region’s debt troubles spread. The EFSF’s sole role until then
had been to sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  “The launch of a short-term funding program is in line
with the enlarged scope of activity of the EFSF to use its new
instruments efficiently,” Klaus Regling, the facility’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “The bill program
will not substitute for the long-term bond program, but it will
add flexibility to it.”  The euro area is beefing up the EFSF in a bid to prevent
Spain and  Italy  from being engulfed by debt troubles that forced
 Greece  to seek an initial rescue in April 2010, pushed Ireland
and  Portugal  into aid programs over the ensuing year and led to
a second Greek bailout in late October. The larger EFSF role may
also help to relieve the  European Central Bank  of secondary-
market bond purchases undertaken over the past 19 months to
counter increases in borrowing costs.  AAA Rating  The EFSF is on the hook for most of the planned second aid
package for Greece of 130 billion euros. The first Greek rescue
of 110 billion euros was composed of loans directly from euro-
area governments and the  International Monetary Fund . Euro-area
leaders decided to create the EFSF a week after the first Greek
bailout in May 2010 in case other nations sharing the single
currency ran into funding troubles.  The AAA rated EFSF is providing 17.7 billion euros under
Ireland’s aid package of 67.5 billion euros and 26 billion euros
under Portugal’s rescue of 78 billion euros. The facility’s
funding strategy so far has been to sell “benchmark” bonds
with maturities of five or 10 years.  ‘Systemic Stresses’  In this context, the EFSF has sold a total of two five-year
bonds and two 10-year securities, all this year. The most recent
sale was on  Nov. 7 , when the EFSF issued a 3 billion-euro, 10-
year bond to raise money for Ireland. Its sales of benchmark
bonds are due to resume in 2012.  The EFSF’s bonds are on “CreditWatch negative” after
 Standard & Poor’s  put 15 euro-region nations that guarantee the
fund on review for downgrade, citing “systemic stresses.” Six
countries in the euro region still carry the top rating from
S&P:  Germany ,  France ,  Austria ,  Finland , Luxembourg and the
Netherlands.  The short-term debt program, which isn’t dependent on
specific aid requests, will enable the EFSF to gauge more
effectively the best timing for benchmark-bond sales, said Chief
Financial Officer Christophe Frankel. It will also allow the
facility to “be quick” should any request come for aid such as
sovereign-bond purchases or credit lines, he said.  “We know we can raise funds in the short-term market at
good conditions,” Frankel said in a telephone interview. “We
want to use this program to promote flexibility.”  ‘Minimize Risk’  In the event the EFSF offers assistance through sovereign-
bond purchases, the facility would sell debt with the same
maturity as the securities it buys in order to “minimize
risk,” he said.  The EFSF will probably announce in early January whether
auctions of bills will take place regularly, according to
Frankel, who said the facility has no target for what share of
its total issuance will be accounted for by the short-term
program.  “We need to know more about investor demand and wishes,”
he said, adding that the EFSF will likely decide “in coming
days” whether the first auction will be for three-, six- or 12-
month bills.  Regarding three-month and six-month debt, the EFSF could
decide to issue this by reopening 12-month bills or by selling
distinct securities with those maturities, according to Frankel.
Buyers of bills sold by the EFSF will be able to use them for
repurchase operations at the ECB, he said.  “By introducing this program, we will now provide our
investors with the opportunity of investing across the full
yield curve,” Frankel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  