-- 
Europe’s Real Puzzles Can’t Be Answered in a Crisis: Clive Crook

-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/europe-s-puzzles-can-t-be-answered-in-a-crisis-commentary-by-clive-crook.html
Financial markets will make an
instant judgment on this week’s summit of European Union
leaders, and it had better be favorable.  If the meeting stifles the recent panic and  Europe ’s bond
yields subside, well and good. If the leaders keep vacillating
or if the talks break down, the catastrophe that markets have
been fearing for months could be upon us.  Those are the stakes in the first instance. Let’s suppose
the best plausible case -- the one that markets seem to
anticipate. The leaders announce new commitments to fiscal
restraint combined with new arrangements for collective fiscal
defense. The  European Central Bank  pronounces itself impressed
and moves to backstop distressed public debt. This buys time and
staves off disaster.  Yet this would leave vitally important questions about
Europe’s future unanswered or even unaddressed. The depth of the
crisis and the ineptitude of the EU’s collective leadership --
if one can call it “leadership” -- have conflated three distinct
issues. Keep each separately in mind when asking, “Is this deal
of any use?”  The first is how to stabilize Europe’s economy. The second
is how to avoid a similar breakdown next time. Even more
important is a third question, one that Europe’s leaders
invariably ignore: how to secure the right of Europe’s citizens
to hold their governments to account.  The nuttiest aspect of the current talks has been Germany’s
insistence that the second question comes first. Conceivably, I
grant you, this could make sense. You might say, for instance,
that to lessen any future moral hazard,  Italy ’s debts should
never be underwritten by the EU as a whole. That idea would be
wrong, but it would at least be intelligible. And it would
answer questions one and two together: no bailouts, now or in
the future.  What’s unintelligible is to say, as Germany has up until
now, that it might be necessary to underwrite the debts of Italy
and other distressed countries -- but not until agreement has
been reached on far-reaching EU constitutional reform.  It’s as though critics of the U.S. response to the
financial crisis had said, you can have your Troubled Asset
Relief Program, a big fiscal stimulus and an enormous unorthodox
intervention by the  Federal Reserve  -- but not until we have
written a balanced-budget amendment into the Constitution. Let’s
talk about that for a while, spend a year or two getting it
drafted and ratified, and then we can deal with the financial
meltdown.  Putting logic and necessary haste aside, a further danger
in bundling stabilization and long-term reform together is that
both get compromised. Stabilization efforts are made to pay lip
service to moral-hazard concerns, so they are timid, opaque and
indecisive. At the same time, the scale of the emergency is a
brute fact that will oblige corners to be cut on long-term
fiscal reform. New rules amounting to little in practice are
hailed as binding and far-reaching.  Remember the EU’s vaunted Stability and Growth Pact of
1997, which supposedly put limits on public borrowing -- and
which  Germany , by the way, violated? The same syndrome is
evident today. Write a new rule now, worry about enforcing it
later. This has been the hallmark of EU governance.  In the current crisis, Europe has tried ineffectually to
support distressed sovereign borrowers through the European
Financial Stability Facility, and the ECB has bought public debt
on a small scale. In other words, the principles of no bailouts
and no central-bank financing of governments have already been
breached -- but too tentatively to make much difference. It is
the worst of both worlds. Markets are led to expect public
support (which creates moral hazard) and then the support is too
puny to succeed.  Effective curbs on future public borrowing are certainly
needed. That could hardly be clearer. But “tough” rules and
“automatic” sanctions will be no easier to design and enforce
than they have been in the past. Sanctions that might trigger a
financial crisis, or that might bite during an emergency rather
than long before, are obviously useless: however automatic they
might be by design, in those circumstances they will be waived,
and the markets will know it. The more this week’s agreement
rests on such devices, the less useful it will be.  This is a puzzle that can’t be solved under crisis
conditions. But once the danger subsides, I have a suggestion.
In the future, it would be better to make an actionable
(therefore credible) distinction between public debts that are
jointly backed by Europe’s governments and public debts that
aren’t. Markets need to believe that defaults on nonguaranteed
debt will be allowed to happen. Only then will they discipline
reckless borrowers by charging an interest-rate penalty.  To get the EU guarantee, a borrower should have to satisfy
a creditworthiness standard and pay an  insurance premium  to
other EU governments that increases according to its debt ratio.
An essential further ingredient is to strengthen Europe’s
banking system so that it could withstand a threatened default
on nonguaranteed debt. This is unlikely to be much discussed by
Europe’s leaders this week. Fiscally speaking, it is the most
important reform of all.  A structure like this would discourage excessive new
borrowing before it’s too late -- and without an EU technocrat
or even a qualified majority of EU leaders denying a sovereign
European government permission to borrow.  That is important because of the third thing I mentioned
earlier: democracy. In principle and even more in practice, the
EU has already departed from democratic values to an
extraordinary degree. Policy decisions across a wide span of
issues, by no means confined to development of the EU’s single
market, have migrated to Brussels. Yet lines of democratic
accountability still run mainly to national capitals. The EU has
a parliament and all the other institutions of genuine
democratic rule -- but the structure is hollow. It is a
dispensation that no American would recognize as democratic.  Europe’s “democratic deficit” is acknowledged to be a grave
problem not just by small-minded British Euroskeptics like
myself but also by many of those who want a  United States  of
Europe up there on the world stage alongside the  United States
of America . If democracy counts for anything, that deficit needs
to be closed, either by strengthening the European voter or by
diminishing the power of the European center. The deal in the
offing at this week’s EU summit threatens to do the opposite.  It’s difficult to exaggerate how much this matters in the
long run. The financial crisis has made plain how much Europeans
have to change before they see themselves as engaged in a shared
political enterprise. Far too much stress has already been
placed on an insecure constitutional foundation. One day,
something will break.  Whatever else happens this week, Europe’s leaders must
avoid adding to the load.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 