-- 
Teva’s Morning-After Pill May Become Over-the-Counter for All

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-12-07T15:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/teva-s-morning-after-pill-may-backed-over-the-counter-for-all.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
emergency contraceptive may be the first approved for over-the-
counter use by females of all ages if U.S. regulators today lift
restrictions.  Teva in February asked the  Food and Drug Administration  to
review rules that require the product, called Plan B One-Step,
be kept behind pharmacy counters and sold with a prescription to
girls younger than 17 years old. The so-called morning-after
pill reduces pregnancy risk if taken within three days of sex.  Supporters say putting the product on stores shelves, and
providing access without a doctor’s prescription to those
younger than 17, will allow women to get the pill when it’s most
needed. Foes say easing the rules may mean younger teenagers may
not receive needed counseling or testing for sexually
transmitted diseases.  “This means that all women will have timely access to this
safe backup method of contraception if they need it,” said Amy
Allina, a program director at the  National Women’s Health
Network  in  Washington . “We are extremely optimistic.”  If Teva gets approval, the company will start a marketing
campaign focused on the drug’s availability, said Amy Niemann,
vice president of Teva’s women’s health division. The ads will
tell people Plan B One-Step is not an abortion pill and is only
for use in emergencies, if a condom breaks, for example.  ‘Not a Health Product’  Donna Harrison of the  American Association of Pro-Life
Obstetricians and Gynecologists , based in Holland,  Michigan ,
said that along with concerns about testing and counseling, U.S.
officials should weigh whether predatory males may force minors
to use the product.  “This is not a health product,” Harrison said. “We are
isolating the women who need to see doctors most.”  Plan B One-Step is made with levongestrel, an ingredient
found in birth control pills. Side effects can include nausea,
dizziness, changes in menstrual periods and fatigue.  Sales of Plan B more than doubled when it became available
without prescription for women 18 and older in 2006, Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva said. If the FDA approves over-the-
counter use by all ages, competing products, including generic
brands and  Watson Pharmaceutical (WPI)  Inc.’s Ella, will remain behind
the pharmacy counter.  Teva investors have been “starved for good news
recently,” said Judson Clark, an analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri . An FDA decision in favor of wider
over-the-counter access may boost Teva’s shares, he said.  The company’s American depositary receipts were little
changed at $40.02 at 10:51 a.m. in  New York . Each receipt is
equal to one ordinary share. The receipts have declined 23
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  