-- 
Evraz, Polymetal Join FTSE 100 to Escape Russia Country Risk

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-12-07T20:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/evraz-polymetal-join-ftse-100-to-escape-russia-country-risk-1-.html
Evraz Plc  and  Polymetal International
Plc  will be the first Russian companies to join the U.K.
benchmark FTSE 100 Index, escaping rising country risks as Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  attempts to reclaim the Kremlin.  Polymetal, Evraz and  CRH Plc (CRH)  are being added to the
benchmark to replace  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) ,  Investec Plc (INVP)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ,
the index, a joint venture of the London Stock Exchange and the
Financial Times, said in a statement today. Polymetal and Evraz
became eligible for inclusion after moving their main listing to
London.  Evraz, part-owned by Russian billionaire and  Chelsea
football club  owner Roman Abramovich, becomes the first
steelmaker in the FTSE 100. Polymetal, a gold and silver
producer, dropped out of the MSCI Russia Index in favor of the
FTSE 100’s wider range of investors, including U.K. pension
funds.  “The Russian miners are sending a signal to investors:
‘Come on, treat me like a serious international company,’” said
 Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Moscow-based hedge
fund Verno Capital, which manages $175 million in Russia. “They
escape the bad bit of  emerging markets  -- weak institutions --
while keeping the good bit, which is growth.”  Putin’s United Russia on Dec. 4 had its biggest election
setback since it was created a decade ago, losing its super-
majority in the State Duma. About 1,000 people have been
detained in Russia protesting the election results, which
opposition groups and observers said was marred by violations.
Putin is seeking to return as president in March.  Escape Volatility  Polymetal and Evraz are seeking to escape volatility
associated with Russia and emerging markets, said Nikolay Sosnovskiy, a metals analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow.  Russian companies have traditionally traded at a 30 percent
to 40 percent discount to global peers because of investor
skepticism about corporate governance, Nash said. Admittance to
the FTSE 100 will hold them to stricter standards, he said.  Evraz’s price-to-earnings ratio is 7.98, compared with
12.67 for ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Polymetal, based in  St.
Petersburg , trades at more than 20 times earnings versus 34.48
for Randgold Resources Ltd., a member of FTSE 100.  “With a primary listing in  London , the companies get a
more diversified investor base, more liquidity and less
volatility, which results in a lower cost of capital for their
expansion,” Nash said.  Shares as ‘Currency’  London-traded shares are “more attractive for any
potential M&A target than global depositary receipts have been”
because they are more liquid, Evraz Chief Financial Officer
Giacomo Baizini said by e-mail.  “Our promotion to the FTSE 100 reflects the quality of our
business and high standards of corporate governance at our
company,” Polymetal Chief Executive Officer Vitaly Nesis said
in a statement. The company has several acquisition targets and
may use the London shares as “currency,” he said in an Oct. 13
interview.  The primary London listing will make equity-based
acquisitions easier, said Rob Edwards, chief metals analyst at
Renaissance Capital Ltd. Polymetal’s Russian shares and
depositary receipts suffered from “relative illiquidity” and
deals with them “took almost years to close,” Edwards said.  The change echoes the 1999 moves by  South African Breweries
Ltd.  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  of their headquarters and primary
listings to London from Johannesburg to attract global investors
and aid international expansion after the economy slowed in
post-apartheid  South Africa .  Political Unrest  “Political risks are clearly rising and have become an
important trend to watch,” Charles Seville, a credit analyst at
 Fitch Ratings , said Dec. 5. While United Russia’s support eroded
in the parliamentary election, the outcome of the presidential
election is “in little doubt.”  Putin stepped aside as president in 2008 in favor of  Dmitry
Medvedev , after serving the maximum two consecutive four-year
terms. The term will be lengthened to six years starting from
2012. Putin has said he may appoint Medvedev as his prime
minister after the March election.  Putin and Medvedev’s possible job-swap “could cause
political protests and unrest,” Evraz said in an October
 prospectus  for a share swap it used in moving its listing. Any
suspension of economic reforms or lack of consensus between the
president, government and powerful economic groups could cause
 Russia ’s investment climate to deteriorate, Evraz said.  Other Additions  Evraz was previously registered in Luxembourg and sold
depositary receipts in London in 2005. The company has spent
$7.8 billion to diversify beyond Russia since 2006, buying
assets in the U.S.,  Canada , South Africa and  China , according to
UralSib Financial Corp. That was the year Abramovich became the
steelmaker’s largest individual shareholder.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. , Russia’s largest gold
miner, plans to change its domicile to London via a share swap
and then seek inclusion in the FTSE 100, the company said last
month.  OAO Uralkali , Russia’s largest fertilizer producer by
market value, is also considering switching its main listing
from Moscow to London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  