-- 
Ex-Ahold Official Mark Kaiser Sentenced to 46 Months in Prison for Fraud

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-12-08T01:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ex-ahold-official-mark-kaiser-sentenced-to-46-months-in-prison-for-fraud.html
The ex-marketing chief of  Koninklijke
Ahold NV (AH) ’s former U.S. Foodservice unit, Mark Kaiser, was
sentenced to three years and 10 months in prison for  securities
fraud .  “The details are of serious fraud involving many different
aspects and activities involving hundreds of millions of
dollars,” U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said in court today
in  Manhattan  before imposing the sentence. “I really feel that
I must impose a sentence which gives due regard for the extent
of that criminal conduct.”  Kaiser pleaded guilty in August to one count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud in connection with a scheme to
inflate U.S. Foodservice’s financial results by about
$800 million from 2000 to 2003 by booking promotional rebates as
income. The higher profit earned Kaiser and others “substantial
year-end bonuses,” the prosecutors said.  The federal sentencing guidelines in his plea agreement
called for prison time from 46 months to 57 months. Dan Brown,
Kaiser’s lawyer, asked the judge to issue a probationary
sentence.  “I hope you will agree the past bad decisions that bring
me before you today are in my past,” Kaiser told the judge.  Kaiser was convicted in 2006. After that trial, Griesa
sentenced him to seven years in prison.  In 2010, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  threw out
his conviction and ordered a new trial because the lower-court
judge had allowed some improper evidence to come into the case.
Kaiser entered his plea on Aug. 15.  Ahold, the Amsterdam-based food company, sold U.S.
Foodservice in 2007 to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., and
Clayton Dubilier & Rice Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-00733, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at ‘   mhytha@bloomberg.net  