-- 
Blagojevich’s 14-Year Sentence Should Deter Corruption, Fitzgerald Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ex-illinois-governor-blagojevich-gets-14-year-sentence-in-corruption-case.html
Former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich ’s 14-year prison sentence should send the message
that the public and judges are fed up with the state’s history
of corruption, said the U.S. Attorney who prosecuted the case.  Prosecutors had asked James B. Zagel in Chicago to lock up
Blagojevich for 15 to 20 years, arguing it would deter future
wrongdoing in a state where four of the nine most recent
governors have been convicted for crimes committed before,
during or after they held office. The twice-elected Democrat’s
predecessor, Republican George Ryan, is serving a 6 1/2 year
federal prison sentence after being convicted by a jury in the
same courthouse in 2006.  “It is profoundly sad that we are here for the second time
in five years to discuss the conviction and sentencing of a
governor of  Illinois ,” U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald said at
a press conference yesterday after Zagel sentenced Blagojevich.
“This has to stop. To put it very, very simply: we don’t want
to be back here again.”  Blagojevich’s case began three years ago and featured two
separate trials over allegations that he sought to trade
official acts for campaign cash and other favors, including his
attempted sale of the U.S. Senate seat Barack Obama gave up when
he was elected president.  ‘Crime Spree’  Blagojevich led the fifth-most populous American state from
January 2003 until his impeachment and removal from office in
January 2009. He was arrested a month earlier for what Chicago
Fitzgerald then called “a political corruption crime spree.”  The ex-governor, 54, was found guilty on 17 counts in a
trial that ended in June. A previous jury had deadlocked on 23
of the 24 counts it considered, finding the ex-governor guilty
of lying to federal agents. Prosecutors dropped three counts
before the retrial.  “I accept the people’s verdict,” Blagojevich told the
judge before he was sentenced. “They’ve found me guilty. All I
can say is I’ve never wanted to hurt anyone.”  Attorneys for Blagojevich argued for leniency and mercy,
telling the judge it would be unfair to make their client pay
for the acts of those who came before him.  “There are sides to him that are not criminal, that are
good, that are decent,” defense lawyer  Aaron Goldstein  told the
court Dec. 6, citing initiatives by Blagojevich to create a
children’s health insurance program and give free public transit
rides to people age 65 and older.  ‘Incredibly Sorry’  In court yesterday, Blagojevich choked with emotion as he
made a 20-minute statement and apologized to “the people of
Illinois,” and to his family.  “I caused it all,” he said about his actions. “I’m not
blaming anybody. I was the governor and should have known
better. I am so incredibly sorry.”  “My life is in ruins,” Blagojevich said. “My political
career is over.”  The judge had earlier rejected arguments by defense
attorneys that Blagojevich was a follower and not a leader in
his criminal scheme.  “The governor was not marched along this path by his
staff,” Zagel said before he imposed the sentence. “He marched
them.”  The jury found the ex-governor guilty of 10 wire fraud
counts, two attempted extortion counts and two extortion
conspiracy counts. He was also convicted of solicitation of
bribery and two bribery conspiracy counts.  Blagojevich was ordered to report to prison Feb. 16.  ‘Much Too Late’  His contrition came “much too late,” said Andy Shaw,
president of the  Better Government Association , a Chicago-based
watchdog group. That remorse was insufficient to avoid the
longest sentence meted out to any politician in the state’s
history, he said.  “There will still be corruption. There will still be bad
behavior,” Shaw said in a courthouse lobby interview yesterday.
“But I’m an optimist and I believe that a lot of public
officials are going to think two times, three times or maybe 10
times before they engage in behavior that can be construed as
illegal.”  Chicago-Kent College of Law Professor Richard Kling, who
was in the courtroom for the sentence, later called the
punishment serious and said it might have been more severe had
the judge not credited the ex-governor’s show of remorse.  “For the first time, Mr. Blagojevich said, ‘OK, I’m
responsible. I apologize to the community,’” Kling said.  Campaign Contributions  At trial, jurors heard evidence that the ex-governor
attempted to barter Obama’s Senate seat for campaign
contributions; a Cabinet-level appointment in the incoming Obama
administration; an ambassadorship; and an appointment to lead a
nonprofit advocacy group.  In one recorded call, the governor said of the U.S. Senate
seat, “I’ve got this thing,” which he called “golden,”
according to court papers.  “I’m not just giving it up” for nothing, Blagojevich
said. “I’m not going to do it.”  The jury also heard evidence Blagojevich tried to extract a
$100,000 donation from a racetrack operator in exchange for
signing beneficial legislation and $25,000 from a hospital
executive by implying he’d might otherwise withhold a pediatric
Medicaid reimbursement rate increase.  Kipling Quote  Antoin “Tony” Rezko, a former fundraiser for Blagojevich
and for Obama, received a 10 1/2-year sentence from a different
 Chicago  federal judge on Nov. 22 for his role in a scheme to
take kickbacks from firms receiving investment business from the
state teachers’ pension system and from firms that could profit
from the awarding of hospital construction certificates.  “If you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those
two imposters just the same,” Blagojevich said, quoting writer
Rudyard Kipling, at a press conference after the sentencing.
Kipling’s poem ends with the lines, “Yours is the Earth and
everything that’s in it, and-which is more-you’ll be a Man, my
son!”  Blagojevich said he and his family would “keep fighting on
through this adversity.” He will turn 55 on Dec. 10.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 