-- 
Ex-Marvell Accountant Ng Pleads Guilty in Insider Probe

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-12-07T19:19:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ex-marvell-technology-accountant-stanley-ng-to-plead-guilty-judge-says.html
Stanley Ng, a former  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  accountant, pleaded guilty to his role in
an insider-trading scheme involving so-called expert networking
firms.  Ng today admitted passing information about Marvell’s
earnings in 2007 and 2008 to two members of an “investment
club” that prosecutors said was set up to trade illegal stock
tips. The government said Ng was recruited into the group by
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC who was convicted in June.  “I provided material, nonpublic information to Winifred
Jiau and Sonny Nguyen about Marvell’s quarterly financial
results before those results were made public,” Ng told U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in  Manhattan . “In exchange I
received similar stock tips from my co-conspirators.”  Ng pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and  wire fraud , punishable by as much as five
years in prison, according to Rakoff. A plea agreement between
Ng and the government states that federal sentencing guidelines
call for him to get six months to one year, Rakoff said.  Nguyen, a former employee in  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ’s finance
department, pleaded guilty in May and testified against Jiau.  Jiau was convicted of one count each of conspiracy and
securities fraud for passing earnings and other information
about Nvidia Corp. and Marvell to two hedge fund managers.  Fund Managers  They were Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP.  Rakoff in September sentenced Jiau to four years in prison.  Jurors at Jiau’s trial saw evidence that Barai’s fund
bought hundreds of thousands of shares of Marvell stock in May
2008 after obtaining information Jiau allegedly got from Ng.  Prosecutors showed the jury evidence that Jiau had worked
at Nvidia briefly in 2007. She befriended both Nguyen and Ng to
get the information she then sold to Barai and Freeman,
prosecutors said.  Ng was hired by Marvell in 2002 to be the company’s
Securities and Exchange Commission reporting manager, the
government said. He had access to company financial records and
regulatory filings before they became public, according to
prosecutors.  Ng remains free on a $50,000 bond secured by his home in
Cupertino,  California . He’s scheduled to be sentenced April 9.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  