-- 
Ex-Met Jose Reyes Joins Sliding Roof in Miami Marlins’ Offseason Makeover

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ex-met-jose-reyes-joins-sliding-roof-in-miami-marlins-offseason-makeover.html
The Miami Marlins have a new
shortstop, stadium, manager, reliever, uniform and name. Missing
is a guaranteed way to pay for all those upgrades.  Still showing one of  Major League Baseball ’s smallest
payrolls, the team that has finished last in National League
attendance for seven straight seasons as the  Florida Marlins 
announced its biggest on-field splurge this week at the sport’s
Winter Meetings in  Dallas .  The Marlins, who have spent an average of less than $41
million on player salaries the past five seasons, committed
almost $18 million annually to former New York Mets shortstop
 Jose Reyes  and $9 million to reliever Heath Bell. They also have
agreed to a free-agent deal with pitcher  Mark Buehrle  worth
$14.5 million annually, Fox Sports reported yesterday.  That’s in addition to the more than $20 million a year over
the next decade that ESPN said they had offered to first baseman
 Albert Pujols , a three-time NL Most Valuable Player.  “This is smoke and mirrors,” Wayne McDonnell, an
associate professor of sports management at  New York University ,
said from the meetings. “What we saw with the Marlins this past
week is a gross misappropriation of funds on ballplayers whose
return on investment could possibly be a negative in the years
to come.”  Team owner Jeffrey Loria said a new 37,000-seat ballpark in
downtown Miami with a retractable roof will almost double
attendance and fund the team’s resurgence.  Football Stadium  The Marlins drew 1.5 million fans in 2011 at Sun Life
Stadium in suburban Miami Gardens that it shared with the
 National Football League ’s Miami Dolphins. At one late August
game, a fan counted 347 people in the stands for the first pitch.  Loria told reporters at the Winter Meetings that he expects
attendance of 2.8 million this season.  “You have no idea how difficult it is every single day
watching the rain come,” said Loria, who bought the team in
2002. “We don’t have that issue any more. You have an air-
conditioned stadium with a roof.”  Shrinking the size of the potential sellout crowd also
drives demand, the owner said.  “When you have a ballpark that has 78,000 seats, there’s
no great demand, in the middle of nowhere in a football-
configured stadium,” Loria said. “But with a ballpark half
that size, a baseball-only ballpark, we can create a different
type of experience and we’ve seen it in our sales already.”  The Marlins say they expect to sell out every game at the
new ballpark, giving them the ability to rebuild a team that
went 72-90 and finished last in the NL East in 2011. They’re
already spending that anticipated windfall.  ‘Make Playoffs’  “Instead of waiting for it to sell out and then signing
players, the decision was made to improve the team and win on a
consistent basis and show fans that not only do we have a new
ballpark, but we’ve got a team that we expect to be competitive
and make the playoffs,” team President David Samson told
reporters.  The Marlins have been last in the major leagues in player
payroll in two of the past four seasons, with a low of $21.8
million in 2008. Their average payroll of $40.6 million the last
five seasons contrasts with the NL East-rival Mets’ average of
more than $131 million and the  New York Yankees ’ average of more
than $200 million.  In recent years, the Marlins have come to the Winter
Meetings to sell off players. Established as an expansion team
in 1993, the Marlins won World Series titles in 1997 and 2003 --
and then gutted the payroll each time.  Dismantle Champions  In 1998,  Florida  went 54-108, the first team in major
league history to lose 100 games the season after winning the
World Series. After defeating the Yankees for their second
championship in 2003, the Marlins traded away pitcher  Josh Beckett  and first baseman Carlos Delgado for younger, less
expensive players.  This year, the Marlins have been the biggest buyers at the
Winter Meetings, which end today.  “Now we’re able to explore some things we haven’t been
able to explore in the past,” said Larry Beinfest, Miami’s
president for baseball operations. “There’s no question the
payroll is going up, we have been revenue-challenged in the
past.”  McDonell, who created “The Business of Baseball” course
at NYU, said the Marlins needed to sign All-Stars “to appease a
fan base that has been alienated and disgruntled with how the
team has been run.”  Stadium Bonds  The city and county sold a combined $511.9 million in
revenue bonds in 2009 and 2010 to pay for the Marlins’ new
stadium and parking garages. The bonds, which are backed
primarily by tourism taxes, mature through 2049. A Miami-Dade
County stadium bond maturing in 2028 traded on Dec. 5 at an
average price of 105.03 cents on the dollar for an average yield
of 4.6 percent. That’s down from an average price of 108.9 cents
on the dollar on Nov. 17.  The Marlins haven’t announced a naming-rights deal for the
stadium, which is the subject of a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation. The SEC has given the city and county
until Jan. 6 to provide financial information on the bond sales
and records of campaign contributions from the Marlins to local
and state officials.  Loria said he isn’t concerned about the SEC probe.  “We will work with the SEC and help them in any way
possible,” he told reporters.  Reyes, 28, who last season became the first Mets player to
win a batting title, is the second free-agent All-Star to join
Miami this week. Bell, 34, saved 132 games for the  San Diego 
Padres the last three seasons.  Guillen New Manager  The Marlins signed manager Ozzie Guillen, who in 2005 led
the  Chicago White Sox  to their first  World Series  title in 88
years, in late September to a four-year, $10 million deal.  “Of the top five guys out there, we signed Bell, (it’s
reported) we signed Buehrle, we signed Reyes,” Guillen told
reporters yesterday. “Now everybody out there knows we are for
real.”  McDonnell said the Marlins may be back to selling players
at the Winter Meetings -- perhaps including Reyes and Bell -- in
the next few years if things don’t go well.  “It’s all about cost certainty, accountability and
responsibility,” he said. “They can’t sustain that business
model if they lose those fans as quickly as they win them back.
I think they’re being overtly aggressive, but it’s going to come
back and bite them in the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  