-- 
Ex-UBS Client Indicted for Hiding Accounts

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-12-07T16:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ex-ubs-client-zavieh-is-charged-with-hiding-accounts-from-u-s-tax-agency.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client, Amir Zavieh,
was indicted by a federal grand jury on a charge that he
defrauded the U.S. by hiding assets from the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service.  Zavieh, a  San Francisco  resident, conspired with five
others, according to an indictment in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida.
They included former UBS bankers Renzo Gadola, who was sentenced
last month to five years probation, and Martin Lack, who was
indicted Aug. 2 and is considered a fugitive.  Zavieh opened an undeclared account with UBS in 1989 and
transferred it in 2008 to a smaller Swiss cantonal bank after
Gadola said his records could be given to the IRS, according to
an indictment returned yesterday and filed with the court today.
UBS, the largest Swiss bank, handed over more than 4,700 secret
accounts in 2009 to resolve U.S. criminal and civil cases.  “At some point IF they come after me, I will fight it
tooth and nail,” Zavieh said in a June 2010 e-mail to Gadola
quoted in the indictment. “What is also interesting or perhaps
appalling is that the laws of a country and perhaps its
tradition is being broken to save a bank’s ass for selling out
its own clients who have been trusting and feeding them for
years!”  Taxpayers Charged  Zavieh, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Iran, is among more
than three dozen taxpayers charged in a U.S. crackdown on
offshore  tax evasion . Gadola and Lack are among 21 bankers,
lawyers and advisers charged. Lack was executive director of the
UBS North America International business until 2003, when he set
up an  asset management company  in Zurich, prosecutors said.  UBS was charged in 2009 with helping Americans hide assets
from the IRS. UBS avoided prosecution by admitting it fostered
tax evasion, paying $780 million and handing over data on 250
secret accounts. It later disclosed another 4,450 accounts.  Zavieh met in Zurich in 2009 with Gadola and a Swiss banker
referred to as “S.L.” to transfer his UBS account to a
cantonal bank, according to the indictment. While the indictment
doesn’t name the bank, it is  Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP) , according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Gadola, who pleaded guilty last December and cooperated in
the investigation, told prosecutors that the cantonal bank paid
“one-time commissions” to Lack and him for bringing in new
assets, according to a criminal complaint filed Nov. 10.  Miami Hotel  For each customer, the bank paid Gadola and Lack a
“percentage of the commissions the bank earned on accounts, a
percentage of custody fees the bank earned, and a percentage of
foreign exchange transactions,” according to the complaint.  Gadola was arrested on Nov. 7, 2010, after U.S. authorities
secretly recorded him in a Miami hotel talking to a client about
ways to hide money from the IRS. Within days, he helped record
phone calls with U.S. customers who held secret Swiss bank
accounts, according to prosecutors.  “As far as the IRS, I told you I don’t give a damn if they
come after me,” Zavieh was quoted in the indictment as saying.
“The account was f----- up by UBS. I have no liability and the
money belongs to the family and I have a lot of problems in  Iran 
because we’ve got property, so I can drag this for another ten
years, and by then my life may go off, I don’t know.”  Zavieh was charged on Nov. 10 on the IRS criminal complaint
and first appeared in federal court in San Francisco six days
later. His bail was set at $100,000. He faces as many as five
years in prison if convicted.  Undeclared Income  His UBS account had year-end balances of at least $900,000
from 1999 to 2008, according to the complaint. Over that period,
he earned at least $30,000 annually in undeclared interest
income, according to the complaint. He failed to file tax
returns from 1998 to 2006, and for 2008, the complaint said.  Zavieh’s attorney, Robert Bockelman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the indictment.  The case is USA v. Zavieh, 11-cr-60287, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 