-- 
Texas Formula One Race Back on Track After Ecclestone Paid, Promoters Say

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-12-07T18:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/texas-formula-one-race-back-on-track-after-ecclestone-paid-promoters-say.html
Plans to bring Formula One racing
back to the U.S. next year were revived after promoters of the
event set for Austin,  Texas , said they made a payment to  Bernie Ecclestone , the circuit’s chief executive officer.  Enrica Marenghi, Ecclestone’s personal assistant, said the
race organizers had “agreed to all the conditions” needed for
the event. The World Motor Sport Council separately affirmed its
2012 calendar today, according to a statement on the
Formula1.com website. The list includes a U.S. race in November.  Texas  taxpayer money was pledged for a $25 million payment
to Ecclestone’s company to support the Austin event, before
state Comptroller Susan Combs said Nov. 15 no advance payment
would be made, citing plans for a New Jersey race near  New York
City  in 2013. Track construction was held up because of delays
in the Formula One contract. No state funds will be spent before
the race, Brooke Botello, a Combs spokeswoman, said today.  “Ecclestone received his check,” Red McCombs, chairman
of McCombs Enterprises and a founding partner of the company
developing the Austin track, said today in a statement. The
promoters and Ecclestone’s Formula One Management Ltd. in  London 
haven’t made public the terms of their contract, said Jeff Hahn,
a spokesman for the Austin race organizers.  Combs will consider paying some promotional costs after the
Nov. 18 event, Hahn said in a telephone interview. Formula One
is the world’s richest car-racing series with annual revenue of
$1.1 billion and a television audience averaging 50 million for
each grand prix. The last Formula One race in the U.S. was held
in Indianapolis in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net 
Alex Duff in Madrid, Spain at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  