-- 
Exelon Picked Banker Shattuck as Chairman in Bid for Lower Price

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/exelon-picked-banker-shattuck-as-chairman-to-attain-better-price.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  set aside qualms about
naming  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) ’s Mayo Shattuck III
executive chairman after the companies merge because it
calculated the move would win it better terms for the
acquisition, according to an internal company document.  Exelon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  John Rowe  said
in a Jan. 19 letter to the board that the company should “take
some risk” by adding Shattuck, 57, the chairman and CEO of
Baltimore-based Constellation, to its leadership team.  The letter, which was filed to Maryland regulators and
obtained by Bloomberg News, was cited by  Electricite de France
SA (EDF)  in its Dec. 5 objection to the $7.9 billion merger. EDF is
the partner in Constellation’s five nuclear reactors.  Writing to the board of Chicago-based Exelon more than
three months before the deal was announced, Rowe recommended
Shattuck to the position while observing he was “controversial,
both in Maryland and in the industry,” and “more of an
investment banker than a utility executive.” The letter, an
exhibit in the state’s review of the merger, was originally
stamped “Confidential - Attorneys Eyes Only.”  Giving the executive chairman position to Constellation
“inevitably will result in both a higher probability of
completing a transaction and more favorable financial terms for
Exelon shareholders,” Rowe wrote.  ‘The Clear Message’  He cited two recent utility mergers to support his case,
noting that  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  paid a 6 percent premium to
acquire  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  after agreeing to allow Progress’s
CEO to run the combined company.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  offered “no
such top position” when buying Allegheny Energy Inc. and paid a
premium of about 32 percent, Rowe wrote.  “The clear message is that the risk of taking on Mr.
Shattuck is worthwhile, given Exelon’s control of the board and
that it would mean paying a lower premium to Constellation
shareholders,” EDF said in its Dec. 5 filing.  An Exelon spokesman declined to comment on the letter.  “EDF is going to be unharmed by the merger,” Paul
Elsberg, an Exelon spokesman, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The transaction will bring “significant benefits”
to customers of Baltimore’s utility, to the  Maryland  economy and
to both companies’ shareholders, he said.  Exelon’s $38.59-a-share all-stock bid to buy Constellation
was a 12.5 percent premium based on closing prices on April 27,
the day before the deal was announced. The offer is now worth
about $40.56 a share, based on yesterday’s closing price.  Maryland Opposition  Institutional Shareholder Services, the investor advisory
company, cited its approval of the premium in a Nov. 2 report
urging Constellation holders to support the merger.  The transaction has been approved by regulators in  Texas .
It’s facing more obstacles in Maryland, where it’s opposed by
Governor  Martin O’Malley , consumer advocates, organized labor
and EDF, the second-largest Constellation shareholder, according
to Bloomberg data.  Chris Crane, the president of Exelon, will take over as CEO
of the combined companies. Rowe, who will retire once the
takeover is complete, wrote in the letter that Exelon directors
would “maintain clear control” over the company’s management
and operations, accounting for 80 percent of the board compared
with Constellation’s 20 percent.  Shattuck’s role in the merged company, as well as his
ability to advocate for Constellation’s Baltimore Gas & Electric
utility, were criticized in EDF’s Dec. 5 filing.  Deutsche Bank Executive  Shattuck, who has headed Constellation since Nov. 1, 2001,
has a background in  investment banking  and was chairman of
Deutsche Bank AG’s Alex. Brown unit before joining the power
company. Shattuck failed in two prior attempts to sell
Constellation, first to NextEra Energy Inc. and then to Warren
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  The proposed executive chairman of the merged company
agreed to testify about the transaction during an 11-day hearing
conducted last month by the Maryland Public Service Commission
after the state of Maryland and Maryland Energy Administration
asked regulators to subpoena him.  Shattuck and Crane addressed leadership and other issues
raised by EDF in their testimony to the commission,  Lawrence McDonnell , a Constellation spokesman, said.  “There is an extensive public record on this,” McDonnell
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We are standing
behind the accuracy of our testimony.”  Regina Davis, a spokeswoman for the Maryland commission,
declined to comment about the letter.  Potential Merger Partners  Exelon had looked at “every regulated utility as a
possible merger partner,” including Progress Energy, Rowe said
in the letter. Regulated utilities, whose returns on equity are
guaranteed by state commissioners, are seen as more desirable by
investors.  The company concluded such a transaction would be “simply
too expensive,” Rowe said.  “No transaction is strategically or financially perfect,
but Constellation could fit nicely in a number of ways,” Rowe
wrote to his board. Constellation adds a regulated income stream
through its Baltimore utility, and would help Exelon through
earnings “challenges” in 2012 and 2013, Rowe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  