-- 
Mexican Authorities Foils Plan by Qaddafi’s Son To Sneak Into Country

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-07T16:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/mexico-foils-plan-by-qaddafi-s-son-to-enter-illegally-as-libya-pursues-him.html
Mexico has foiled a plot to smuggle
the son of former Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  into the
country and hide him in a safe house near the coastal resort of
Puerto Vallarta.  Interior Minister  Alejandro Poire  said an intelligence
operation was mounted after the government obtained information
in September that al-Saadi Qaddafi and members of his family
were using counterfeit documents to enter the country, open bank
accounts and purchase land near the Pacific Ocean resort.  Officials in November captured a Canadian, Danish and two
Mexican citizens that formed part of the international ring that
moved in private aircraft between the U.S.,  Canada , Kosovo and
several Middle Eastern countries, Poire said. The group’s
leader, a Canadian woman named Cynthia Vanier, was taken into
custody in Mexico City and one of the Mexican members was a U.S.
resident, he added.  “Preventing the entry of al-Saadi Qaddafi constitutes,
without a doubt, another sign that Mexican institutions have the
capacity to safeguard the national territory,” Poire told
reporters in  Mexico  City.  Poire did not say whether the nation’s drug cartels, which
in October were linked to an Iranian plot to assassinate  Saudi
Arabia ’s ambassador to the U.S., were involved.  Al-Saadi, the former dictator’s third son, fled to Niger’s
capital, Niamey, after his father lost control of Tripoli in
August. He is wanted by Libyan officials on suspicion of “armed
intimidation.”  Charlie Sheen ’s Getaway  Canada’s National Post reported  today  that Qaddafi had
planned to flee to Punta Mita, an exclusive resort near Puerto
Vallarta whose visitors include Hollywood celebrities  Kim Kardashian  and Charlie Sheen.  A Canadian company, Can/Aust Security and Investigations
International, had offered $1,000 per day to security
contractors to help them escort Qaddafi, his wife and children
to the resort, the Toronto-based newspaper said. The company’s
Chief Executive Officer, Gary Peters, told the Post that he was
involved in the plan, which was to be conducted with the support
of Mexican authorities.  Interpol issued an international arrest warrant for al-
Saadi on Sept. 29 at the request of the National Transitional
Council for allegedly “misappropriating properties through
force and armed intimidation” when he headed the Libyan
Football Federation. The police group, based in Lyon,  France ,
said that the 38-year-old should be located, arrested and handed
over to Libyan authorities.”  Al-Saadi Qaddafi is also subject to a United Nations travel
ban and asset freeze imposed in March because he was a commander
of military units allegedly involved in the repression of
demonstrations during  Libya ’s uprising.  Nick Kaufman, a lawyer for Qaddafi, said in an e-mail that
his client remains in Niger and will continue to respect UN
travel sanctions until a “competent” body lifts them and
authorities in the African nation return his passport. Kaufman
didn’t comment on the report in Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  