-- 
Mexican Peso Declines as Europe’s Debt Crisis Erodes Demand

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-12-07T22:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/mexico-peso-declines-for-first-day-in-three-on-europe-concern.html
Mexico ’s peso fell as demand for the
country’s higher-yielding assets declined after a German
official said  Europe ’s largest economy rejected combining euro-
area rescue funds.  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 13.5107 per  U.S. dollar  at
close in Mexico City, from 13.4823 yesterday. It has weakened
8.7 percent this year.  Germany will oppose any attempt to change plans for the
permanent European Stability Mechanism to take over from the
current rescue fund at an appointed time, a German official told
reporters in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations are private. The  Mexican peso  has declined 13
percent in the past six months, the worst performance among
Latin America’s major currencies.  “The correlation with the externals has been quite clear,
and that’s why the market would be willing to trade it in the
short-term,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford , Connecticut, said by phone.
“The Germans made some kind of negative comments. The whole
market is kind of reacting to that.”  Standard & Poor’s  said earlier this week that Germany and
France may be stripped of their top credit ratings, and today
put the European Union’s AAA rating on CreditWatch negative.  Mexico’s currency-exchange commission said Nov. 29 the
central bank will auction $400 million of its reserves daily at
a peso  exchange rate  at least 2 percent weaker than the previous
day’s level to arrest a slide in the currency.  Bond Auction  Mexico’s central bank said it didn’t sell dollars or
receive offers in the three auctions it held today.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 fell one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.53
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of
the security rose 0.14 centavo to 130.32 centavos per peso.  Mexico sold all of the 6.5 billion pesos ($481 million) of
28-day Cetes it offered at auction yesterday, according to the
central bank. The government sold all of the 7.5 billion pesos
of 91-day bills and all of the 8 billion pesos of 175-day Cetes,
the bank said yesterday on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  