-- 
MF Global Judge Tells Trustee to Disclose More on Firm’s Work for JPMorgan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-07T19:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/mf-global-judge-directs-trustee-to-disclose-more-on-jpmorgan.html
MF Global Inc.  brokerage trustee
James Giddens must disclose more details of his work for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP before a
judge determines whether he can handle the case disinterestedly.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in a court order today
told the trustee to say whether PwC or JPMorgan, agent for a
$300 million loan to MF Global’s parent, or any of the company’s
other lenders are currently clients of Giddens’s law firm,
 Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP , and if so, the fees billed or
collected.  Glenn, in  Manhattan , also wants to know whether any of the
law firm’s other current clients are creditors of the brokerage
and how much they have paid in fees. In addition, he asked
whether JPMorgan was a creditor of the brokerage, and whether
Giddens could sue the bank if necessary. The information must be
in the judge’s hands by 5 p.m. on Dec. 12, Glenn said.  “The status of an entity as a current client (as opposed
to a former client) can make an important difference in
evaluating conflicts and disinterestedness,” the judge said in
the order.  Glenn directed Giddens to disclose his business ties to New
York-based JPMorgan after two brokerage customers said the
trustee’s links to the parent company’s lender might influence
his treatment of the brokerage’s customers. Giddens’s initial
disclosure failed to give details of his firm’s current work for
JPMorgan, the judge said.  ‘Sparse’ Disclosures  The brokerage’s parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., is in a
separate court proceeding, also being handled by Glenn. The
parent and its brokerage have made “sparse” disclosures about
the facts leading to the companies’ collapse, the judge said.  Press reports have “raised questions” about whether funds
or property were transferred from the brokerage to JPMorgan
before the bankruptcies, Glenn said in explaining why he wants
more disclosure.  “We believe that HHR’s representation of the Trustee in
this matter is appropriate and there are already existing
procedures in place to deal with any apparent conflicts
concerning legal actions going forward,”  Kent Jarrell , a
Giddens spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will be
submitting answers to questions asked by the court.”  Account Transfers  Giddens, who is liquidating the brokerage, has transferred
about 38,000 commodity accounts to other firms, and said he
plans to sell 330 securities accounts. Three transfers of
collateral made and pending will give commodity customers about
$4 billion of their assets, according to court filings.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  