-- 
Obama Administration Keeps Limit on Teva Morning-After Pill

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-12-08T01:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/fda-rejects-over-the-counter-plan-b-birth-control-pill-for-girls-under-17.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
failed to win U.S. clearance for the first over-the-counter
emergency contraceptive after an Obama Cabinet member overruled
the head of the  Food and Drug Administration  on the issue.  Secretary of Health and Human Services  Kathleen Sebelius 
ordered  Margaret Hamburg , the FDA chief, to reject the
application by Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, citing potential
sales to girls under age 17. Hamburg, in a statement, said she
was ready to approve over-the-counter sales based on “well-
supported” and “science-based evidence.” The FDA said it’s
the first time the HHS has reversed one of its decisions.  The product, called Plan B One-Step, reduces pregnancy risk
if taken within three days of sex. As a result of Sebelius’s
order, it will continue to be kept behind pharmacy counters and
sold without prescription only to women 17 and older. Younger
girls may obtain the drug with a doctor’s order.  “It is commonly understood that there are significant
cognitive and behavioral differences between older adolescent
girls and the youngest girls of reproductive age, which I
believe are relevant to making this determination as to non-
prescription availability of this product for all ages,”
Sebelius  wrote  Hamburg in a memo today.  Representative Michael Burgess, a Texas Republican who
opposed approval of Plan B for over-the-counter use in women
under 17, said he was pleased by the decision, and called it a
political one by Democrats.  ‘Election-Year Decision’  “It’s a presidential election year,” Burgess said in a
telephone interview. “This is a striking departure from where
congressional Democrats and the administration has been in the
past. I think it’s the correct answer; it just wasn’t what I
expected today.”  Erin Shields, a spokeswoman for HHS, declined to comment on
whether the White House had a role in Sebelius’s ruling. Erica
Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, confirmed in an e-mail that it
was the first time the health department overruled the agency.  “Somebody should sue because this involvement is clearly
not a scientific decision,” said Aaron Gal, a Sanford Bernstein
analyst in New York with a “market perform” rating on Teva.
“The administration is taking a paternalistic approach.”  Gal estimated Plan B  sales (TEVA)  at $60 million annually. Teva
doesn’t specify revenue from the contraceptive, instead
reporting 2010 sales of $374 million for all its women’s health
products. Sales more than doubled when it became available
without prescription for women 18 and older in 2006, the company
has said.  Court Ruling  The decision follows by two years a federal court ruling
that age restrictions on the pill were arbitrary, based more on
political pressure than safety. On Dec. 13, the FDA is scheduled
to discuss its rulings involving emergency contraceptive
products in the Eastern District of New York federal court. The
civil case started with a 2001 petition by the New York-based
Center for Reproductive Rights.  “Now there is a renewed opening for the court to evaluate
whether what the FDA did was right,” said Amy Allina, a program
director at the National Women’s Health Network in  Washington ,
in an interview. “Right now we’re trying to make sure everybody
gets the word that the FDA scientists disagreed with this
decision.”  Teenage Pregnancy Costs  Teenage pregnancy and childbearing cost U.S. taxpayers an
estimated $10.9 billion in 2008, according to  report  released in
June by the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned
Pregnancy, a nonprofit advocacy group based in Washington and
chaired by former New Jersey Republican Governor Thomas Kean.
The report’s estimate includes the cost of U.S. and state health
and welfare programs, incarceration and lost  tax revenue  from
decreased spending and earnings, the group said in a  statement .  Teva said in a  statement  it will determine its next steps
when it receives official notification of the decision.  “We commend the FDA for making the recommendation to
approve providing women with increased over-the-counter
access,” the company said in the statement. “We are
disappointed that at this late date, the  Department of Health 
and Human Services has come to a different conclusion.”  Plan B One-Step is made with levongestrel, an ingredient
found in birth control pills, and is linked with side effects
that can include nausea, dizziness, changes in menstrual periods
and fatigue. Competing products include generic brands and
 Watson Pharmaceutical (WPI)  Inc.’s Ella.  Donna Harrison of the  American Association  of Pro-Life
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, based in Holland,  Michigan ,
said easing the rule would have denied teenagers access to
proper counseling or testing for sexually transmitted diseases.  Lowered Age  In 2009, when the FDA lowered the age for over-the-counter
use to 17 from 18, Republican senators wrote the agency asking
for data underlying the decision. The letter also suggested that
access to the drug at a young age could end up covering up
sexual abuse.  “This is not a health product,” Harrison said.  Nancy Stanwood, a gynecologist at the Yale School of
Medicine in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , said the ruling was “really
unfortunate.  ‘‘Younger women need emergency access because younger women
aren’t as effective at Plan A,’’ Stanwood said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘They might have a condom accident or forget to use
one.’’  The case is Tummino v. Torti, 05-CV-366, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  