-- 
FDIC Seeks Comment on Alternatives to Ratings for Grading Debt

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-12-07T18:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/fdic-weighs-methods-to-replace-ratings-in-valuing-bank-assets.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
is seeking comment on proposals for meeting a Dodd-Frank Act
requirement that banks use an alternative to credit ratings for
valuing debt in their trading books.  FDIC board members voted 3-0 at a meeting in  Washington 
today to propose three methods for replacing ratings in a
proposal devised with the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The proposals, which would affect
how much capital a bank has to reserve against potential losses,
would change valuation methods while maintaining ratios required
under existing international rules, the FDIC said.  “The agencies have developed credit ratings replacement
alternatives that use readily available and objective data,”
acting FDIC chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in a statement.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
called for federal agencies to find alternative measures of
creditworthiness after lawmakers faulted ratings firms such as
 Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’  Standard & Poor’s  unit over
grades on securitized debt before the subprime mortgage market
collapsed. The proposal approved today by the FDIC would affect
only assets in bank trading books.  For securitized products, the FDIC proposed that banks
assess how much capital they need to set aside based on the
capital required for the assets that underpin the security. They
must also take into account the order in which losses are
absorbed under the product’s structure, the FDIC said.  For sovereign and bank debt, the FDIC proposed use of a
classification system run by the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. And for non-financial
corporate debt that is publicly traded, the agency proposed
using a mixture of leverage ratios,  cash flow  and stock
volatility to determine how much capital to set aside.  ‘Select Few’  The rule would affect fewer than 20 banks, “a select few
of the largest institutions,” according to Bobby Bean, the
FDIC’s associate director in the division of risk management and
supervision. Those lenders have more than $10 billion in total
trading assets and liabilities or more than 10 percent of their
total assets in trading liabilities, Bean said.  Hugh Carney, senior counsel at the  American Bankers
Association  said the rule may affect smaller banks as well.  A stated goal of the FDIC is to eliminate the potential for
arbitrage between bank trading portfolios and lending books by
valuing assets using the same formula, something the agency
plans to address in future rulemakings. If the FDIC extends the
methods proposed today to lending assets, the rule would then
affect much smaller banks as well, Carney said in an interview.  “This proposal has implications far beyond its official
scope,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 