-- 
FedEx Said to Plan Order of 30 Wide-Body Boeing Freighters

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-12-08T21:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/fedex-said-to-plan-purchase-of-30-boeing-freighters.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  plans to buy about 30
 Boeing Co. (BA)  wide-body freighters to replace older, less fuel-
efficient jets, three people familiar with the matter said. The
planes would be valued at about $5.26 billion at list prices.  The order of Boeing 767s by the world’s biggest cargo
airline may be announced as soon as next week, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the details aren’t
public. Talks have ended with Airbus SAS, a Boeing competitor,
the person said.  New twin-engine jets would help  Memphis , Tennessee-based
FedEx shave fuel costs because its large planes now include some
Airbus A300 and A310 aircraft that are more than 25 years old.
FedEx’s fuel spending rose 40 percent in the three months ended
Aug. 31.  “There’s going to be some near-term cost savings,” said
 Kevin Sterling , an analyst with BB&T Capital Markets in
Richmond, Virginia. “Fuel is one that comes to mind right away,
operational costs, but also they’ll have a maintenance-free
holiday in the short-term period.”  A FedEx spokesman, Jim McCluskey, and a Boeing spokesman,
 Marc Birtel , declined to comment.  FedEx fell 2 percent to $82.47 at the close in  New York 
trading, while Boeing slid 0.6 percent to $70.17 as broad U.S.
indexes slumped.  767 Backlog  The 767 Freighter has a list  price  of $175.4 million,
though airline customers typically buy at a discount. The 767
backlog at the end of October was 46 planes, according to the
company’s website. Boeing is gradually replacing the jet with
the similar-sized 787 Dreamliner, which doesn’t yet have a cargo
variant.  A freighter order would help Boeing by keeping 767
production going before the planemaker starts to build U.S. Air
Force tankers based on the plane.  “The FedEx deal is somewhat smaller than we might have
considered possible,”  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co. analyst
in New York, said in a note to investors. “But it is a
significant boost to the 767 line.”  FedEx previously talked with Boeing and Airbus about an
order of about 50 freighters including the  Airbus A330 , people
familiar with the matter said in September. The order was pushed
back and FedEx cut its full-year profit forecast by 10 cents a
share that month.  ‘Things Are OK’  While the planned freighter order was necessary given
FedEx’s aging fleet, it may also indicate that the company
doesn’t expect a recession soon, according to Sterling, who
recommends buying the shares.  “It’s more kind of out of necessity, to get a younger
fleet, to get one that’s a little more efficient,” he said in a
telephone interview. “On the other hand, you’re not going to
spend $5 billion to have a bunch of planes sitting idle. So I
think in a roundabout way it does speak to, ‘at least they feel
that things are OK.’”  Boeing is also in talks with  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  about
an order for the planemaker’s new 737 MAX jet, three people
familiar with the matter said.  Boeing decided in July to upgrade the existing 737 with
more fuel-efficient engines rather than build an all-new
successor. The company isn’t taking firm orders yet because it’s
still completing planned adjustments, and performance guarantees
and pricing haven’t been set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  