-- 
Fernandez Must Stem Argentine Capital Flight, 25% Inflation in Second Term

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-07T03:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/fernandez-must-stem-argentine-capital-flight-25-inflation-in-second-term.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner must tackle decade-high capital flight and
one of the world’s highest inflation rates as she begins a
second term on Dec. 10 with the biggest mandate in four decades.  Fernandez was re-elected by a landslide on Oct. 23 after
leading  South America ’s second-biggest economy to a ninth year
of growth and cutting  unemployment  to a record low. The 58-year-
old lawyer kept policies introduced by her predecessor and late
husband,  Nestor Kirchner , using revenue from surging soybean
exports to boost  government spending  and fuel a consumer boom.  Still, with a weakening peso and living costs rising about
25 percent a year, Argentines pulled $18 billion out of the
economy in the first nine months of 2011, double the pace of a
year earlier, according to the central bank. Fernandez has
sought to stem the losses since her election by ordering some
companies to repatriate foreign investment and export revenue
and tightening controls over the foreign exchange market.  “Fernandez is facing a much more complicated panorama now
than when she took office for the first time,” said Juan Pablo Fuentes, a Latin America economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The government’s measures have made
people more nervous. There is a lack of confidence.”  To counter investor concerns over the possible impact of a
global slowdown, Fernandez has prodded companies such as
Volkswagen AG to boost their investments in the country and to
manufacture more of their goods locally.  ‘Redouble Our Efforts’  “During a period in which the world seems like it is
crumbling and is beaten down by speculation, we in Argentina
have come to insist that our vision is one of growth,”
Fernandez said in a Nov. 30  speech  at an aluminum plant in
 Buenos Aires province . “During these difficult times, we have
to redouble our efforts in every sector to protect what we have
achieved.”  In a move that helped rally the country’s bonds yesterday,
Fernandez named Finance Secretary Hernan Lorenzino to take
charge at the Economy Ministry, replacing  Amado Boudou , who will
become her vice-president. Lorenzino, 39, helped oversee a $12.9
billion debt restructuring last year and accompanied Fernandez
to a summit of G-20 leaders in  France  last month.  Lorenzino’s experience may help pave the way for
Argentina’s return to global credit markets for the first time
since defaulting on $95 billion of bonds in 2001, said Alberto
Bernal, head of fixed-income investments at Bulltick  Capital
Markets  in Miami.  Return to Markets  “There are more chances that Argentina will issue a bond
abroad because Lorenzino is more aware of the need to return to
the markets,” Bernal said.  Without access to global markets, the government has turned
to the national pensions agency for financing and tapped central
bank reserves, which dropped to $46.2 million yesterday from
$56.2 billion in January, to help pay its foreign debt.  Argentine dollar bonds surged after yesterday’s
announcement. The yield on the 2015 bond tumbled 51 basis
points, or 0.51 percentage point, to 10.4 percent, the biggest
decline in a month. The extra yield, or spread, that investors
demand to own Argentine debt over U.S. Treasuries tumbled 38
basis points, the most among major  emerging markets , according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The peso, down about 7 percent this
year, strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.2785 per dollar, while the
benchmark Merval stock index fell 0.93 percent to 2,615.58.  Spending Cuts  Lorenzino’s appointment means recent measures to contain
capital flight and rein in public spending through cuts in
energy and transportation subsidies may be extended, said  Carola Sandy , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .  “It’s a sign the economic policy of recent months will
continue,” Sandy said. “He gives continuity to Minister
Boudou’s policies.”  Under its 2012 budget proposal, the government plans to
turn this year’s estimated deficit of 0.6 percent of gross
domestic into a 0.2 percent surplus. This year’s shortfall will
be the first since 2009.  Economic growth averaging 5.6 percent a year since 2007
enabled Fernandez to cut unemployment to a record 7.2 percent
and reduce the  poverty rate , which peaked at more than 40
percent in 2001, to 20 percent, according to estimates by Buenos
Aires-based Consultora Equis.  Slower Growth  Next year, the global economic crisis and a slowdown in
 Brazil ,  Argentina ’s main trade partner, will cut growth to 4.3
percent from 7.5 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Some sectors are already showing signs of stalling.
Contracting demand for vehicles in Brazil, the main destination
for Argentine car shipments, led exports to slip 18 percent in
November from a year ago. Industrial production in October rose
4.1 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace in two years.  While slower growth may dent inflation that economists say
is more than double the official rate of 9.7 percent a year,
Fernandez will need to rein in pay increases and cut  expenditure 
to bring prices under control, said Daniel Chodos, a strategist
with Credit Suisse AG in New York.  “Limiting wage negotiations and cutting public spending,
will certainly help to ease inflationary pressures,” Chodos
said. “Slowing inflation is probably a top priority of the
government together with finding new sources of financing.”  Since Fernandez took office in December 2007, wages have
more than doubled, according to national statistics institute
data.  Voter Risks  While imposing pay restraints may eat into Fernandez’s
support among labor unions, her most recent measures risk
alienating a broader range of voters, said Mariel Fornoni,
director of Buenos Aires-based pollster Management & Fit.  About 41 percent of people surveyed by Management & Fit
rejected the elimination of energy subsidies while almost 70
percent opposed increased controls on the purchases of foreign
currencies. The poll of 1,500 people was conducted Nov. 3 to
Nov. 8 and has a margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  Still, after winning 54 percent of votes in the October
election -- the most since Juan Domingo Peron in 1973 --
Fernandez is in a position to press ahead with measures to fix
the economy, however unpopular they may be, Fornoni said.  “She has the political capital to do that now,” Fornoni
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  