-- 
Fighting Movie Piracy Seen Likely to Swamp U.S. Trade Agency

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/fighting-movie-piracy-seen-likely-to-swamp-u-s-trade-agency.html
A U.S. trade agency called on to
fight Internet piracy under a proposal circulating in Congress
may lack the money and staff needed to do the job.  The draft plan, released last week by 10 lawmakers from
both parties, would give the International Trade Commission new
powers against foreign websites accused of trafficking in
pirated content and counterfeit goods. The agency, created to
shield U.S. markets from unfair trade practices, doesn’t have
the resources for those added responsibilities, according to
lawyers who handle cases before the commission.  “The ITC cannot add many more proceedings to its already
crowded docket,” Smith Brittingham, a lawyer with Finnegan
Henderson in  Washington , said in an interview. “They’ve been
doing some studies on digital rights, but it is not the bread
and butter of the ITC’s current group of professionals.”  The proposal has emerged as an alternative to House and
Senate bills backed by Hollywood studios and the recording
industry, which seek a crackdown on online theft of movies and
music.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. said in a Nov. 15 letter
that those measures would create “new uncertain liabilities”
for Internet companies and threaten the growth of the technology
industry.  Under the House and Senate bills, introduced earlier this
year, the  Justice Department  would be allowed to seek court
orders requiring Internet-service providers,  search engines ,
payment processors and ad networks to block or cease business
with foreign websites linked to piracy.  Counterfeit Merchandise  The alternative proposal, which hasn’t been introduced as a
bill, would let U.S. intellectual-property holders petition the
commission to investigate foreign websites linked to piracy. The
agency could issue cease-and-desist orders against sites that
“primarily” and “willfully” engage in copyright infringement
or enable imports of counterfeit merchandise, according to the
proposal.  The commission has the power to block imports of products
found to infringe intellectual-property rights. It can also
propose tariffs to counter subsidized imports, and it
investigates trade-related issues for Congress and the
president.  Under the draft plan, cease-and-desist orders from the
agency against non-U.S. websites could be used to force
domestically based payment processors and Internet advertising
networks to stop providing services to such websites.  The proposal is backed by lawmakers including Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who has threatened to block the
previously introduced Senate version, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican.  New Judges  The proposal would add more work to an agency that is at
the center of patent battles over smartphone technology and is
investigating allegations of unfair trade practices by  China  in
the solar-panel industry. The commission, which has six
administrative law judges, had about 350 workers and a budget of
$84.8 million in fiscal 2011, according to its financial report.  To handle the duties envisioned by Wyden and Issa, the
agency would need at least two new administrative law judges and
support staff, as well as hearing rooms, said Paul Devinsky, a
patent lawyer with  McDermott Will & Emery  in Washington. It also
might have to expand its Office of Unfair Import Investigations,
which acts as a third party on behalf of the public in some
patent cases.  “You’re not going to see too many of these foreign
websites show up with lawyers,” Devinsky said. “Someone’s
going to have to stand up for the public interest to make sure
there’s no overreaching.”  ‘Useful Tool’  The Wyden-Issa draft proposal doesn’t address whether the
agency would receive additional funding for the new anti-piracy
role. Peg O’Laughlin, a commission spokeswoman, said the agency
had no comment on their proposal.  NetCoalition, a technology-industry group whose members
include Google,  Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , supports having the
trade commission handle copyright and trademark infringement
cases against foreign websites, Markham Erickson, the group’s
executive director, said in an interview.  “The ITC is a very useful tool in the efforts to crack
down on sites that are currently outside the jurisdiction of
U.S. courts,” said Erickson, whose Washington-based group
includes Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.
“That’s what ITC was designed to do.”  Google, which owns the world’s biggest Internet search
engine, is waiting to see the language in a future bill,
 Samantha Smith , a company spokeswoman said, declining to comment
further. Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, which operates
the world’s largest social network, didn’t immediately comment.  ‘Impractical’ for Artists  The latest proposal is “impractical for individual artists
and creators,” Sandra Aistars, executive director of the
Copyright Alliance, said in an e-mail. “They would have to
travel to Washington, hire an attorney specifically admitted to
practice before the ITC, and participate in a process that takes
on average 18 months to complete.”  The Washington-based alliance, whose members include
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and Viacom Inc.,
supports the current House and Senate versions of anti-piracy
legislation.  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, has said he plans a committee
vote before year-end on his version of the measure, which he
introduced in October. The legislation has more than two dozen
co-sponsors from both parties. His spokeswoman, Kim Smith Hicks,
declined to comment before the proposal from Wyden and Issa is
introduced as legislation.  Music Industry  The  Recording Industry Association of America  is awaiting
more information on the proposal, Cara Duckworth Weiblinger, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The Washington-based group’s
members include Warner Music Group Corp.,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony
Music Entertainment and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group .  Some parts of the proposal “might have value” and should
be offered as part of existing legislation “rather than
starting from scratch with a brand new bill in a different
committee’s jurisdiction that will take years to process,”
Duckworth said.  Howard Gantman, a spokesman for the  Motion Picture
Association  of America, declined to comment on the new proposal.
The Washington-based group has supported the current House and
Senate versions of the legislation.  Lyle Vander Schaaf, a patent lawyer with Brinks Hofer in
Washington who specializes in trade agency cases, said the
commission is better equipped to handle such complaints than
courts because of its efficiency and authority to police
imports, including electronic transmissions.  “I don’t think the cases will be so voluminous that they
expand beyond their capacity,” Vander Schaaf said in an
interview. “As long as they increase the budget, the commission
will find a way.”  The Senate bill is S. 968, and the House bill is H.R. 3261.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  