-- 
Former FDIC Chief Bair Calls for Stiffer Rules on Leverage

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 
2011-12-07T21:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/former-fdic-chief-bair-calls-for-stiffer-global-leverage-rules.html
Former Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , in testimony to U.S. lawmakers,
pushed for stiffer global limits on how much banks can borrow.  The leverage ratio adopted by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  needs to be increased, Bair told the Senate
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection.
She also urged regulators to consider “starting over” on the
language of the Volcker rule as the panel held a hearing today
in  Washington  on “Wall Street megabank risk.”  “Regulators’ primary focus should be constraining absolute
leverage through an international leverage ratio that is
significantly higher” than the Basel Committee’s proposed 3
percent standard, Bair said in her written testimony.  The European Union has wavered on implementing Basel’s
 leverage ratio , saying it needs to study the potential impact
before committing to it. The U.S. has had its own ratio for
about two decades, which would be closely matched by the new
Basel standard.  A Basel requirement exceeding 3 percent also would force
U.S. banks to boost capital or sell assets. Although the
leverage ratio sometimes refers to total assets over equity,
Basel and U.S. regulations flip the equation around, talking
about equity as a percentage of total assets.  Different Risks  The leverage ratio caps bank borrowing based on total
assets on the balance sheet, ignoring the riskiness of different
holdings. Standard  capital ratios  allow less capital to be held
against lower-risk assets, giving banks leeway that may allow
them to underestimate risk, as they did with mortgage securities
before the 2008 housing crisis.  Bair called for an international leverage ratio during the
Basel committee’s 2009 to 2010 discussions on new capital and
liquidity standards. The committee brings together regulators
and central bankers from 27 countries. Its rules aren’t binding
on member countries, which need to individually translate the
internationally agreed standards into their own regulatory
frameworks.  European banks (BEBANKS)  are in worse condition than U.S. peers
because capital regulation has been looser and banks more
leveraged, Bair said in her testimony. The European banking
system is “so fragile” that lenders facing sovereign bond
losses can’t raise capital from markets. The EU banks may have
to rely on help from the  European Central Bank , their
governments or the  International Monetary Fund , she said.  Options ‘Not Pretty’  “The choices in  Europe  are not pretty,” Bair said. “They
can let a good portion of their banking system fail, or they can
commit to massive financial assistance through a combination of
ECB bond buying and loans and guarantees from the IMF and
stronger euro zone countries. Frankly, I don’t know which is
worse.”  Bair also criticized the complexity of the rules drafted by
U.S. regulators to implement the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker rule.
The regulation aims to prevent banks from taking oversized risks
with their own capital through trading and investing in  hedge
funds .  Paul Volcker , the former Federal Reserve chairman who
conceived the idea, also has been critical of the proposed rules
for similar reasons.  “The regulators should think hard about starting over
again with a simple rule based on the underlying economics of
the transaction, not on its label or accounting treatment,”
Bair said. “If it makes money from the customer paying fees,
interest and commissions, it passes. If its profitability or
loss is based on market movements, it fails.”  ‘Personally Accountable’  The new rules also should make bank executives “personally
accountable” for monitoring compliance with the standards, Bair
said in her testimony.  Asked by members of the Senate subcommittee whether Dodd-
Frank had solved the too-big-to-fail issue, Bair said that the
authority given to the FDIC to take over and shut down big banks
will remove the government backing that the biggest firms have
enjoyed for decades. Without that implicit support, shareholders
of the banks should force them to break up, Bair said.  Simon Johnson , a finance professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology who also testified at the hearing,
countered Bair, noting that Wall Street executives are still
publicly saying they want to expand globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 