-- 
Fox Threatens to Withhold ‘Seven-Digit’ January Royalty Payment to Dodgers

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-08T00:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/fox-threatens-to-withhold-seven-digit-january-royalty-payment-to-dodgers.html
Fox Sports may withhold a January
royalty payment to the Los Angeles Dodgers in a dispute over
rights to televise the Major League Baseball team’s games, a
lawyer for the network said.  “We’re not going to be able to sit around and wait to see
whether we are being injured and then cough up a significant sum
of money,” the lawyer, Gregory W. Werkheiser, said at a court
hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware , where the Dodgers are in
bankruptcy. Werkheiser said the payment was at least in the
“seven digits” range.  The team and Fox Sports Net West 2 LLC are fighting over a
proposal to solicit bids for future TV rights. Fox Sports, a
unit of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , can broadcast games through
the 2013 season and has an exclusive right to negotiate a new
contract until December 2012, according to court records.  Fox opposes any early effort to garner competing bids for
TV rights, claiming that  Frank McCourt , the Dodgers’ owner, is
wrongly trying use bankruptcy to break the team’s contract with
Fox’s Prime Ticket unit.  The Dodgers are seeking to accelerate the bidding process
and start talking to potential TV-rights buyers now. The team
would begin by giving Fox 45 days to extend its contract. Should
those negotiations fail, the team would seek other offers,
according to court documents.  Sale Approval  Under an agreement between the Dodgers and  Major League
Baseball , no sale of the TV rights can go forward without
approval from MLB, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross and
whomever wins the bidding for the team.  At the beginning of the hearing, Gross approved the team’s
request for an additional six months to file its reorganization
plan. That plan, which would be based on a sale of the team, is
now due in April. This month Fox will try to persuade Gross to
throw out the bankruptcy case.  During the hearing today, David J. Teklits, a Fox attorney,
challenged the Dodgers’ claim that the broadcaster wouldn’t be
harmed financially by allowing the team to solicit bids for the
TV rights about a year early.  Teklits said the change amounts to a breach of the current
Fox contract, which would open the team to a large damages
claim. Timothy Coleman, the Dodgers’ financial adviser, said he
disagreed.  Cross-Examination  Teklits spent more than three hours cross-examining
Coleman, a senior managing director with Blackstone Group LP.  After Teklits repeatedly asked about Fox’s potential
breach-of-contract claim, the judge interrupted him to say that
the questions were repetitive. Gross also warned Teklits that if
he was trying to delay the hearing by keeping Coleman on the
stand, it would “work against your client.”  “We are going to end the hearing tomorrow at 5 p.m.,”
Gross said. “You are going over the same questions over and
over. If this is a delaying tactic, it is not going to work.”  Fox and the Dodgers are scheduled to return to court
tomorrow.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story,
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 