-- 
Franco-British Alarm of 1989 Comes True as Merkel Calls EU Shots

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-12-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/franco-british-alarm-of-1989-comes-true-as-merkel-drives-eu-crisis-plans.html
In 1989, France’s  Francois Mitterrand 
and Britain’s Margaret Thatcher maneuvered to block German
reunification. Their concerns that the expanded nation would
prove an irresistible force are now coming to pass.  As Europe’s financial crisis intensifies after two years 
and with 1.1 trillion euros ($1.5 trillion) of short- and long- 
term euro-area government debt due in 2012, German Chancellor 
Angela Merkel has forced French President Nicolas Sarkozy into 
retreat and left U.K. Premier  David Cameron  on the sidelines.  Berlin’s dominance has shaken the Franco-German equilibrium
at the heart of the post-World War II balance of power. Debt
contagion and slumping growth have driven French borrowing costs
to a euro-era record against  Germany . The result may be a remade
political map with even  Poland , invaded by  Adolf Hitler  in 1939,
calling for a stronger German role.  “We are an unwilling leader,” Wolfgang Ischinger, a
former German ambassador to Britain and the U.S. and now
chairman of the  Munich Security Conference , said in an
interview. “We have been trying for 50 years not to lead.
Germany will have to grow up now. It’s new and there will be a
learning curve and mistakes will be made.”  Merkel is heading into a European Union summit starting
tonight in Brussels with a debt-crisis blueprint that emphasizes
German priorities of more forceful policing of budgets and moves
toward a fiscal union with a minimal role for the  European
Central Bank . Sarkozy backed it and won concessions to water
down some German demands, while giving up  France ’s aim to bring
the ECB to the forefront of the fight.  ‘Rivals or Partners’  “What’s right on one side of the Rhine is right on the
other side of the Rhine,” Sarkozy said, referring to the 1,320
kilometer (820 mile) waterway that forms much of their border.
“History and geography have made France and Germany rivals or 
partners,” he said in a Dec. 1  speech  in Toulon, France.  The nations fought three wars between 1870 and 1945, and
after World War II, their leaders pushed European integration to
prevent a fourth from ever occurring.  The first step in creating today’s 27-nation EU was the
 European Coal and Steel Community , set up in 1951 to ensure
joint control of the resources of war and make armed conflict
“materially impossible,” according to Robert Schuman, the then
French foreign minister and an architect of European unity.  Yet four decades later, German unification being forged on
the Berlin Wall’s rubble was a bridge too far for Mitterrand and
Thatcher, according to a previously classified  letter  describing
a Jan. 20, 1990, meeting of the two leaders in Paris, written by
Thatcher’s private secretary, Charles Powell and posted on the
 Margaret Thatcher  Foundation’s  website .  Thatcher’s ‘Problem’  “This would confront us all with a major problem,”
Thatcher was quoted as saying. Mitterrand said West German
“agents” were agitating in the east for unity and “Germany
could if it wished achieve reunification, bring Austria into the
European Community and even regain other territories which it
had lost as a result of the war. They might make even more
ground than had Hitler.”  Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who guided the two Germanys to
unity, complained in his memoirs that Mitterrand played a
“double game” on unification and that the French leader felt
he didn’t need to express opposition in the belief that Soviet
leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  would never allow it to happen.  “I didn’t realize it at the time: Mitterrand and Margaret
Thatcher were betting that Gorbachev would never accept a united
Germany in NATO,” according to Kohl’s 2009 book, Vom Mauerfall
zur Wiedervereinigung (From the Fall of the Wall to
Reunification). “They totally deluded themselves.”  Mitterrand’s Concerns  Underscoring the intensity of Mitterrand’s doubts, the  memo 
quoted him saying the prospect of unity had turned Germans into
“the ‘bad’ Germans they used to be” and “they were behaving
with a certain brutality.”  Kohl did agree to give up the deutsche mark over public
opposition as France sought to contain Germany in a political
and monetary straitjacket. The Maastricht Treaty, two years
after German unity in 1992, mapped the path toward monetary
union. The euro was  established  in 1999 and bank notes and coins
came into circulation in 2002.  Mitterrand opposed the creation of a “mark zone,” Hubert Vedrine, his spokesman at the time of unification and
subsequently foreign minister, said in an interview.  German economic growth has picked up steam since 2009,
outpacing France. Germany, with a population of 82 million
compared with France’s 65 million, expanded 3.6 percent last
year compared with France’s 1.4 percent.  France ‘Marginalized’  “One of the most profound consequences of the euro crisis
is that France has almost been marginalized,” Gary Smith,
executive director of the  American Academy  in Berlin, said in an
interview. “The model of Franco-German balance of power has
become obsolete and Germany and others have to rethink the EU.”  The German ascent has sparked grumbling throughout  Europe 
and revived invective in countries such as  Greece  where some
politicians compared German demands for austerity to a Nazi
past.  “There’s a lot of resentment, just look at the swastika
caricatures in Greece,” said Ischinger, who was also a deputy
German foreign minister.  Sarkozy has been criticized by political opponents for
giving in to Merkel’s policies. “It’s Merkel who decides and
Sarkozy who follows,” said  Francois Hollande , the Socialist
Party presidential candidate who polls show would beat the
incumbent in France’s May 2012 elections.  Arnaud Montebourg, a Socialist lawmaker, said Merkel’s
policies were a “German diktat in the euro zone.”  The hand wringing may be most pronounced in Germany as
nationalist sentiment seeps into the political mainstream.  German Spoken  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc leader in parliament,
 Volker Kauder , hailed what he said is the new European
acceptance of the Chancellor’s debt-crisis prescriptions.  “All of a sudden, German is being spoken in Europe,”
Kauder said in a speech at a CDU party congress in Leipzig on
Nov. 15. “Not the language but in accepting the instruments
that  Angela Merkel  fought for so long -- and with success.”  That sparked a backlash with former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt saying such comments fuel doubts on the “reliability”
of German policies.  “Damaging German national muscle-flexing” has been a
characteristic of the Merkel coalition, Schmidt, 92, who led
West Germany from 1974 to 1982, said in a speech on Dec. 4 to
his opposition  Social Democratic Party  in Berlin.  Still, Merkel, 57, has leaned on Sarkozy, 56, to build 
bridges, even if he is becoming the junior partner.  “We went from Franco-German parity to a German
dominance,” France’s Vedrine said. “But this situation is
embarrassing Germany a little bit, it is seeking therefore the
Franco-German couple to shun any finger pointing.”  Sarkozy ‘Frantic’  Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said that Sarkozy
is “frantically” seeking to position himself as close to
Merkel as possible.  “The bond yield spread shows that markets understand what
we already knew politically: There’s no more equality between
Berlin and Paris,” Erixon said in an interview.  The terms of
Franco-German relations are now dictated by Germany.’’  The extra yield demanded to lend to AAA rated France for 10
years instead of Germany reached 200 basis points on Nov. 17,
the widest since 1990. The  risk premium  is now around 110 basis
points. French borrowing costs are about a full percentage point
above the top-rated U.K.  For her part, Merkel, in a speech to parliament in Berlin
on Dec. 2, rejected claims that Germany is dictating policy.  “It’s absurd to say that Germany wants to dominate Europe
in any way,” Merkel said.  Export Machine  Concerns of German hegemony come as the nation, the world’s
second-biggest exporter after  China , turns away from Europe as a
source of growth.  German exports in 2011 will probably rise 12 percent and
breach the 1 trillion euro level for the first time as demand
from emerging markets offsets waning sales in Europe, the BGA
Exporters and Wholesalers said on Nov. 29.  Porsche SE ’s biggest market is the U.S. China, its No. 2,
is about to overtake sales in America.  In contrast, French carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s home
market is its biggest, with 29 percent of its unit sales in the
first half of this year, compared with 12 percent in China and
none in the U.S.  Bernard de Montferrand, who served as French ambassador to
Germany from 2007 to 2011, said France has lost momentum and “a
great share of its competitiveness.”  ‘Universal Rule’  “Is Germany imposing its discipline on its partners?”
Montferrand said in a telephone interview. “So be it. Is
economic common sense a German product or a bad thing? No, it’s
a universal rule. And European nations, including France, had
departed from good management.”  The sea change from the French stance in the run-up to the
1990 German reunification is reflected elsewhere in Europe as
geopolitics take a back seat to solving the debt crisis. Take
Poland, where the German invasion in 1939 triggered the British
and French declaration of war against the Nazis.  As Germany reunified, Poland feared Kohl wouldn’t recognize
the Oder-Neisse Line -- the post-war border between Germany and
Poland -- and that Germany might make claims on its former
territories now part of Poland, including Silesia, Pomerania and
East Prussia. Kohl confirmed the Oder-Neisse line and formally
gave up any possibility of such claims in 1990.  Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski has urged Germany
to play a bigger role in saving the euro.  Polish Reversal  “I will probably be the first Polish foreign minister in
history to say this, but here it is: I fear German power less
than I am beginning to fear its inactivity,” Sikorski said in a
Nov. 28  speech  in Berlin. “You have become Europe’s
indispensable nation. You may not fail to lead: not dominate,
but to lead in reform.”  Russia  too, wants Germany to “take a leadership role in
Europe,” said Sergei Karaganov, head of the Moscow-based
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy.  “Despite our differences with the Europeans, the EU has
been the most comfortable partner for Russia in its centuries of
history,” Karaganov said in an interview. “Now, unless Germany
saves it, we will face a new threat from Europe as a factor of
instability.”  Horst Teltschik, who served as Kohl’s deputy chief of staff
and helped negotiate German unification, agrees.  “All EU states know that Germany is the strongest member
in the bloc,” he said in a telephone interview. “As a German,
I would never talk about a leadership role in the EU. Everybody
knows that. So there’s no need to talk about being the biggest
or the strongest or whatever. Germany just must do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  