-- 
French Banks’ Capital Gap Said to Have Shrunk in New Stress Test

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-12-08T09:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/french-banks-capital-gap-said-to-have-shrunk-in-new-stress-test.html
French lenders’ capital shortfall
shrank from the October estimate of 8.8 billion euros ($11.8
billion), the European banking regulator’s new test will show, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The test will reveal that their capital situation improved
thanks to profits in the third quarter, the person said,
declining to be identified because the results, to be released
later today, are not yet public. It will reflect efforts by BNP
Paribas SA, Groupe Credit Agricole,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
Groupe BPCE,  France ’s four biggest banks, to cut sovereign debt
holdings and other capital-sapping assets.  “French banks have published positive results, so their
capital situation is bound to have improved,” said Alex Koagne,
an analyst at Natixis SA in Paris. “Their real problem is
liquidity rather than solvency.”  The test results may do little to alleviate concern that
the banks still face funding constraints, which was among the
reasons for a  Standard & Poor’s  warning this week that France’s
AAA credit rating risks being downgraded, along with the debt of
14 other euro nations. S&P late yesterday placed ratings of BNP
Paribas, Societe Generale, Credit Agricole and BPCE on watch for
a possible downgrade.  The European Banking Authority will publish its review
today of how much capital the region’s lenders should raise to
absorb losses from euro-area bonds. The publication will
coincide with the start of a European Union summit in Brussels
to tackle the region’s sovereign-debt problems.  ‘Own Means’  The EBA estimated in October that the region’s financial
institutions need 106 billion euros to reach a 9 percent core
Tier 1 capital ratio by mid-2012, after marking their sovereign
bonds to market. Seventy banks were tested with data broken down
by country.  Europe ’s leaders demanded that the region’s banks
bolster capital to withstand losses after financial firms agreed
to write down Greek bonds.  BNP Paribas spokeswoman Carine Lauru reiterated that the
bank has no need to raise new capital, adding that it has raised
about a third of its 2012 medium-to-long-term funding needs.
BPCE’s spokesman Thierry Martinez declined to comment as did
Stephanie Ozenne, a spokeswoman at Credit Agricole. Societe
Generale spokeswoman Laetitia Maurel repeated the bank can meet
the capital target “through its own means.”  ‘Fashionable’ Criticism  BNP Paribas rose as much as 3.9 percent and traded 1.8
percent higher at 33.59 euros as of 10:20 a.m. in Paris. Societe
Generale gained as much as 2.1 percent and was down 2.5 percent
at 19.50 euros. Credit Agricole advanced as much as 2.2 percent
and was up 0.1 percent at 4.82 euros.  Before today, BNP Paribas  fell (BNP)  31 percent this year,
Societe Generale 50 percent and Credit Agricole 49 percent. That
compares with a 30 percent drop in the 46-company  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. (BEBANKS)   France’s four largest banks had cumulated net income of
2.43 billion euros in the third quarter, with all of them
remaining profitable even after absorbing about 4.3 billion
euros of pretax losses on their Greek sovereign-debt holdings.  “Questions about French banks’ health have become
fashionable in some financial centers,” Bank of France Governor
 Christian Noyer  said Dec. 6. “As their supervisor, I can tell
you that they’re solid.”  Still, the banks’ external debt amounts to about 104
percent of France’s gross domestic product, with about 60
percent being short-term, “implying sizable external
refinancing needs for the French banking sector in 2012,” S&P
estimated Dec. 5.  Liquidity Concerns  “Liquidity concerns and the weakening asset quality of
French banks’ securities and loan portfolios could, in our view,
increase the risk of the need for additional capital injections
by the state or similar interventions,” S&P said.  Eight European banks failed the official European Union
stress tests in July. The exercise was criticized for failing to
include writedowns on sovereign debt held to maturity.  In the latest round, European lenders were asked to raise
money on their own and only seek aid from national and European
authorities if their efforts fail. The updated figures take into
account sovereign holdings through the end of September, rather
than the estimates, which used June data.  Firms are trying to hit the 9 percent core capital target
by adjusting risk-weightings, limiting dividends, retaining
earnings, reducing loans and selling assets.  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, cut 8.3 billion euros
of Italian government debt from its banking-book holdings
between June and October, the bank said Nov. 3. It reduced its
total banking-book sovereign debt portfolio by 23 percent to
81.5 billion euros in the period.  No Dividend  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, cut its
banking-book sovereign holdings on  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain  to 3.4 billion euros at the end of October
from 5.6 billion euros in June, it said Nov. 8. The 147-year-old
firm also last month scrapped its 2011 dividend, the first time
it has done that since its 1987 privatization.  “The priority in these times of uncertainty is to enter
2012 with the maximum of force and muscles,” Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea , 48, told reporters on Nov. 8.  The no-dividend policy will help Societe Generale cut its
additional  capital requirements  to 2.1 billion euros from 3.3
billion euros estimated by the EBA in October, it said last
month. BNP Paribas will have to bolster its finances by 2.1
billion euros, BPCE by 3.4 billion euros and  Credit Agricole  has
no additional capital needs, the EBA’s October estimates showed.  Shrinking Assets  “Their capital needs should have fallen because they’ve
reduced their sovereign portfolios, and they’ve had retained
earnings,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in
Paris. “The challenge now is whether there will be a European
accord to buy sovereign debt on the secondary market.”  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale are racing to shrink their
balance sheets, with the two companies announcing in September
steps to trim a combined 300 billion euros of assets by 2013.  “The deleveraging is a response linked more to their
liquidity stress,” said  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets.  Societe Generale cut the liquidity needs of its corporate-
and investment-banking unit by 40 billion euros at the end of
September, it said last month. Societe Generale plans to raise
as much as 15 billion euros for its long-term funding next year
or about 50 percent less than this year.  BNP Paribas said it trimmed $20 billion of corporate- and
investment-banking U.S. dollar needs in the third quarter,
mostly through cuts in capital-markets businesses. It plans to
reduce an additional $20 billion in the current quarter from
capital-markets and financing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  