-- 
From Putin’s Project to a Sovereign Russia: Maxim Trudolubov

-- B y   M a x i m   T r u d o l u b o v
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/from-putin-s-project-to-a-sovereign-russia-commentary-by-maxim-trudolubov.html
Throngs of voters and protesters are
sending  Russia ’s leadership an unmistakable message: The country
needs to stop being Vladimir Putin’s business project and become
a nation.  The reaction to last weekend’s  fraud-tainted  parliamentary
elections has been like nothing I have seen since the early
1990s. A sanctioned rally in central Moscow attracted as many as
10,000 people to  protest  what they see as a stolen vote. The
Russian blogosphere and social networks are overflowing with
eyewitness  accounts  of fraud at polling stations, including
cases of hundreds of forged ballots stuffed into boxes. The work
of independent monitors, many of them young Russians who were
not interested in politics four years ago, suggests  United
Russia ’s dismal 49 percent share of the vote should have been a
still more dismal 33 percent. That compares with an official 64
percent in the 2007 elections.  Opposition parties have promised to take legal action, but
that is not expected to bring any tangible results. The
Kremlin’s control over the political system, which includes the
court system and the electoral commission, will probably remain
unchallenged for the foreseeable future. What happened is a
symbolic victory for all those who for the first time identified
themselves with their country and tried to influence national
affairs. For the first time in 20 years, voting was cool.  Painful Transition  Where have the Russians been for so long? Well, they have
been busy. Few societies have ever endured such a painful
transition from a patronizing totalitarian regime to
unregulated, cut-throat competition. Like a tsunami, the
economic liberalization begun 20 years ago wiped out personal
savings and destroyed jobs, careers and entire professions.  The economic revolution completely eclipsed the emergence
of the new political entity, the Russian Federation. All
political and historical soul-searching stopped. Res privata
supplanted res publica. People’s values changed. Sociological
studies show that levels of interpersonal trust collapsed as
everyone became engrossed in personal survival. By the mid-
2000s, Russians felt less connected to their country than
citizens of any other nation in the world: Researchers led by
 Vladimir Magun  of the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of
Sociology found that Russians’ alienation from their polity was
on a level with that of the Arab population of  Israel .  Individually, Russians have a lot to be proud of. The
country’s athletes, artists and scientists have gained global
renown. But the heroic collective spirit of Soviet times is long
gone. Team victories at international competitions are
increasingly rare, and Russia’s overall share of the world’s
scientific citations has been dwindling. The change is not just
about brain drain. It reflects a major shift from national
causes to individual success as a dominating value.  The Putin regime has consistently encouraged people to give
up their role in public affairs. Independent political parties
have been marginalized, party-building made prohibitively costly
and complicated, regional elections canceled, elected governors
and most mayors replaced with appointed officials. Putin’s
elite, bearing a strong resemblance to a monarch’s court, has
learned to use the political system to extract personal wealth,
which it deploys to consolidate power.  Outsiders, who include almost all Russians, have been kept
in check by a combination of luck and policy. Rapid economic
growth, fueled by high  oil prices , has allowed the government to
mollify the public with regular increases of pensions and wages
in the large state sector. Some have characterized that live-
and-let-live truce between an omnipotent elite and the majority
of the population as a sort of social contract, loyalty in
exchange for stability.  Incomplete Institutions  Whatever you call it, the deal has bought Putin a lot of
time at the top of Russian politics, which he has used to stave
off a transition from the state as master to the state as
servant. Twenty years after its emergence as an independent
state, Russia’s institutions remain incomplete. It has markets,
prices and working fiscal policies, but it lacks  law
enforcement , division of power and independent courts.  Although that may look like an unfinished project, it can
also be understood as an accomplished ideal. Call it Putin’s
project. He has adapted old Soviet structures to control and
redistribute assets. What outsiders call corruption, Putin sees
as a system of incentives. The ruling elite does not want a rule
of law, because life is good without it. You can grab property
and buy a needed court decision anytime you like. You don’t need
to worry about parliamentary scrutiny or pesky journalists.  The project works so well because the global financial
system allows its beneficiaries -- operators of state-owned
businesses, oligarchs and government officials -- to keep the
spoils in other countries that have the courts and property
rights Russia lacks. That is why most medium and large Russian
businesses are incorporated abroad. That is why a court battle
starring two of the country’s best-known businessmen,  Boris Berezovsky  and  Roman Abramovich , has been unfolding in  London ,
not in Moscow.  The project has even done some good for Russia as a whole.
It has boosted economic growth and kept the basic administrative
functions working, and some of the goodies have trickled down.
But it is not sustainable, and of course it is deeply unjust.  How, then, can Russia discard Putin’s project and become a
nation? That is the question at stake as Russians prepare to
choose their president in March. Putin wants to keep his grip on
power, but many in Russia seem to have other ideas. For the
first time in years, national matters have attracted people’s
attention. Some members of the population have remembered that
they are also citizens.  Russia’s national awakening is at a very early stage. For
now, it’s only a feeling of resentment that loosely unites
different groups of protesters. It will take a long time and a
lot of wisdom to get the unfinished project of a lawful and
prosperous Russia back on track.  (Maxim Trudolubov is editorial page editor of the newspaper
Vedomosti, based in Moscow. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:  trud@vedomosti.ru .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 