-- 
LG Chem Declines After Maeil Reports Battery Spinoff Plan

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-12-07T03:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/lg-chem-declines-after-maeil-reports-battery-spinoff-plan-1-.html
LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  fell the most in more
than six weeks in Seoul trading after Maeil Business newspaper
reported  South Korea ’s largest chemical company would spin off
its battery business in the first half of next year.  The stock declined as much as 7 percent to 323,500 won, the
most since Oct. 20, and traded at 329,000 won as of 11:59 a.m.
local time. The benchmark Kospi index gained 0.9 percent.  While the company has considered various options to boost
its competitiveness and ensure independent management in the
battery business, a decision for a spinoff hasn’t been taken, LG
Chem said today in a regulatory filing.  “Some shareholders seem to be worried that the core asset
is likely to be transferred to an affiliate when being spun
off,” said Yoo Young Kook, an analyst at KTB Securities Co. in
 Seoul , who has a buy recommendation on LG Chem. “I assume such
a possibility is very low, and the company’s comment shows a
spin-off is unlikely soon.”  As part of a management reshuffle at LG Group units on Dec.
2, LG Display Co. Chief Executive Officer Kwon Young Soo was
named to lead the chemicals company’s battery division. Kwon
will head, as a president, the business that makes batteries for
electric vehicles, mobile phones and  notebook computers  as well
as energy storage systems.  LG Chem plans to spend 2 trillion won ($1.8 billion) by
2013 to expand its electric-car battery capacity, the company
said in April. The company has signed supply accords with
carmakers including Ford Motor Co. and Renault SA, and aims to
capture 25 percent of the world’s electric-car battery market
within four years, it said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net 
Shinhye Kang at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 