-- 
Gap Confident of Weathering Fallout in ‘Tougher’ European Market

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-12-07T15:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/gap-confident-of-weathering-fallout-in-tougher-european-market.html
Gap Inc., (GPS)  the biggest U.S. apparel
chain, said it can weather the fallout from Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis as it seeks to generate 30 percent of sales outside
its home market by 2013.  “It’s a tougher market, there’s no doubt,” Sonia Syngal,
Gap’s managing director and senior vice president for Europe,
said today in an interview in Paris. “We are confident, based
on our history, that we can manage to work through,” she said.
Customers “come to us, particularly in tougher times.”  Gap is seeking to increase the proportion of revenue from
international markets and online to lessen its reliance on  North
America , which accounts for about 87 percent of sales, according
to Bloomberg data. The stock has fallen 15 percent this year.  Syngal, speaking in advance of the opening of the first
 Banana Republic  store in France, declined to comment on how Gap
is performing in Europe or what percentage of sales the retailer
is targeting in the region by 2013. She said only that Europe
will play “an important role” in the international goal.  The retailer plans to open more Banana Republic stores in
Paris and in provincial cities around France, though it has yet
to commit to any location, said Severine Cisinski, who runs the
San Francisco-based company’s unit in the country. Banana
Republic, which entered Europe in 2008, operates 600 outlets in
21 countries. The 1,482 square-meter (16,000 square foot) store
on the  Champs Elysees , which opens tomorrow, will be its 10th in
Europe. The others are in the U.K. and Italy.  Gap, which already operates stores in France under its
namesake brand, follows  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  in opening a
store on the Champs Elysees in the last month. The American
retailer also sells clothing under the Old Navy label.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  