-- 
Gates Working With China on Poverty, Hunger, Nuclear Power

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T15:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/gates-chinese-ministry-partnership-to-work-on-drugs-vaccines.html
Bill Gates , the world’s second-
richest man, said a new partnership with  China  will help
alleviate poverty and hunger globally, and that he’s working
separately to promote the nation’s adoption of more-advanced
nuclear power technology.  A partnership between the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
and China’s Ministry of Science and Technology announced Oct. 26
aims to start work “quickly,” Gates, the foundation’s co-
chairman and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  chairman, said at a briefing in
Beijing today. The two sides are still in talks on how to make
the accord “come to life,” he said.  The  partnership  aims to helping reduce hunger and poverty
in developing nations by funding research and development for
health and agriculture products. As part of the $300 million
project, the ministry will offer $2 for every dollar the Gates
foundation provides,  China Daily  reported in October.  “What we’ll be able to do, whether it’s with drugs, or new
vaccines or new seeds, or new diagnostics, in total, will
improve the world every bit as much as the digital revolution
has,” Gates said at the conference today.  For Gates, 56, today’s event was at least his third
philanthropic trip to China in 15 months. In June, he was in
Beijing to announce a global alliance for public health with the
Baidu Charitable Foundation run by Robin Li, who’s chief
executive officer of  Baidu Inc. , which runs China’s most popular
search engine. In September 2010, Gates visited Beijing with
 Warren Buffett  to meet 50 Chinese leaders in business and
philanthropy to discuss charitable giving.  Nuclear Power  On this trip, Gates said he also spoke to  China National
Nuclear Corp.  about a new technology he’s promoting for fourth-
generation nuclear reactors. The “traveling-wave reactor” was
developed by TerraPower, a company in which Gates is an
investor. These could operate without enrichment or reprocessing
for millennia, TerraPower says on its  website .  The “new approach” to nuclear power is still at an early
stage and its adoption won’t move fast, Gates said. Development
of the design may require investment of $1 billion in the next
five years, and the reactors will cost “billions” to build,
Gates said.  Yesterday, Gates held talks with Minister of Science and
Technology Wan Gang about cooperation in agriculture and health
care, Xinhua said, citing Wan.  Gates co-founded Microsoft, now the world’s largest
software maker, in 1975 after dropping out of  Harvard
University . He retired from active company management in 2008 to
run the Gates foundation, which he founded in 2000.  Gates was ranked the world’s second-richest man in March by
Forbes magazine, with a net worth of $56 billion.  Carlos Slim  of
 Mexico  topped the list with estimated assets of $74 billion,
according to Forbes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  