-- 
Gazprom Said to Stall on RWE Talks as German Power Falters

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-12-08T16:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/gazprom-said-to-stall-on-rwe-talks-as-german-power-falters.html
OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest
natural-gas exporter, is stalling on talks to create a European
power-plant venture with RWE AG because of deteriorating profits
in  Germany , two people familiar with the matter said.  Gazprom and RWE agreed last week to keep talks going for
several more months in a second extension since July, another
person said. The companies haven’t yet agreed on the assets and
need more time to monitor demand and margins in Germany, the
other people said, declining to be identified because the matter
is confidential.  “It’s difficult to see the strategic logic for Gazprom to
get involved in the German power business,” Derek Weaving, a
London-based utilities analyst at  Renaissance Capital , said by
e-mail. “The European power sector is highly competitive, with
even established national champions like EON AG reporting
mediocre profitability.”  Gazprom supplies about a quarter of  Europe ’s gas and the
company announced plans to negotiate its first generation
venture in western Europe with RWE in July, including coal- and
gas-fired plants in Germany, the U.K.,  Belgium  and the
Netherlands. RWE is looking at ways to mitigate the costs of
Germany’s decision to close all its nuclear reactors by 2022 and
has pledged to sell 11 billion euros ($15 billion) of assets.
The Essen-based utility raised 2.1 billion euros in a share sale
earlier this week.  Gazprom rose 1.6 percent to close at 177.41 rubles in
Moscow today, while the Micex Index gained 0.6 percent. RWE
declined 1 percent to 27.40 euros in  Frankfurt .  Price Mismatch  Gas-fired power generation, most interesting to Gazprom
because it can supply the fuel, has been unprofitable for the
entire year until the end of November, based on year-ahead
prices for electricity, fuel and carbon emission permits. The
spread turned positive for the first time on Dec. 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman at the German utility,
declined to comment on “ongoing talks.” The Gazprom and RWE
chief executive officers, Alexey Miller and Jurgen Grossman,
agreed to continue “consultations” on the creation of the
joint venture, the Moscow-based company said in a statement on
Nov. 30 after the two men met.  Gazprom and RWE agreed in October to extend the three-month
exclusive talks to the end of the year. For RWE, an agreement
with Gazprom may allow the company to negotiate a better deal on
the long-term gas supply contracts that are currently losing
money because their rates are linked to  oil prices  rather than
day-to-day gas prices in Europe.  ‘Creative Approach’  Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev 
said in September that the company may adopt a “creative”
approach on gas pricing after forming the power venture. The gas
pricing talks are part of the discussions on the power venture.
A deal with RWE could help the Russian gas export monopoly to
maintain its share in the European gas market, which slipped to
23 percent last year.  The Moscow-based gas exporter is also looking to invest in
other European countries such as Bulgaria and  Romania , Denis
Fedorov, head of the OOO Gazprom Energoholding electricity unit,
said in October.  Germany’s plans to develop renewable energy to replace
nuclear generation may also be an obstacle to the deal. The
German government wants to boost the share of renewable energy
to 35 percent of output in 2020 from 17 percent last year.  “Companies will struggle to recover the huge costs
associated with reducing  greenhouse gases  and increasing the
proportion of renewable energy,” Weaving said. “Expanding into
the German power sector may be good for Gazprom egos, but
doesn’t seem to offer any upside for shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  