-- 
GE Capital Decreases Reliance on Debt With Online Deposits

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-12-07T00:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ge-capital-decreases-reliance-on-debt-with-online-deposits-1-.html
General Electric Co.’s  finance unit (GE) 
said it plans to begin taking direct online deposits in the U.S.
next year, lessening its dependence on long-term bond markets.  The money will be accepted through websites affiliated with
GE Capital’s two banks in  Utah  and backed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., executives told investors at a meeting today in
Norwalk,  Connecticut . The initiative will begin in the first six
months of 2012.  Taking online deposits further strengthens the unit’s
liquidity after the financial crisis of 2008 left some investors
wary of banks and financial stocks. GE Capital relies on debt
for the bulk of its funding rather than deposits or trading as
conventional banks do.  “When we think about alternative funding, it’s about
deposits, it’s about securitization,” GE Treasurer Kathy Cassidy told investors.  Such funding increased to $95 billion last quarter, or
about 21 percent of the total, from  $62 billion  in 2008, as GE
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  reined in risk at  GE
Capital  and expanded manufacturing, which investors tend to
value more highly.  The online initiative will increase a U.S. deposit base
that has grown from about $1 billion in 2007 to about $23
billion through the third quarter, according to a presentation
on the company’s website. GE Capital’s long-term goal is funding
its Commercial Lending & Leasing Americas with deposits.  About 70 percent of GE Capital’s funding last quarter was
long-term bonds, down from 74 percent in 2008, Cassidy said.  ‘Pretty Strong’  In the past three years, the finance unit has wound down or
sold real estate assets and reined in some kinds of lending,
while focusing on businesses where it has identified a
competitive advantage, such as loans to midsize companies with
$10 million to $1 billion in revenue.  “Our business is really pretty strong,” GE Capital Chief
Executive Officer Mike Neal told investors today. “We’re in a
more competitive position than we’ve ever been.”  Profit at GE Capital Corp. should rise to  $6.3 billion  to
$6.5 billion this year, GE said.  While executives plan to resume a once-annual payment of a
portion of earnings to the parent company next year, they can’t
do so until the  Federal Reserve  approves.  The agency took over regulation of GE Capital in July from
the now-defunct Office of Thrift Supervision and is assessing
its lending model. How much executives disclose about the
process is limited by law.  Annual Payment  “It’s incredibly sensitive,” Neal said. “All I can tell
you is, we started with the Fed in July of this year. There’s a
lot of work that has to be done. We’re different than the
average bank. They’re getting to know us and we’re working
through a process.”  Investors have been eager to find out when GE Capital’s
payment, as much as 40 percent of its earnings prior to the
financial crisis, will resume. Some consider it an indicator of
renewed health and safety at the unit.  Executives plan to return to an annual disbursement rather
than a one-time payment, said Jeff Bornstein, GE Capital’s chief
financial officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  