-- 
General Electric Says India ‘Frustrating’ as Stalled Decisions Cost Money

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S a m   N a g a r a j a n
-- 
2011-12-08T11:14:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ge-finds-india-frustrating-after-singh-stalls-wal-mart-policy.html
Policy decisions in India are fraught
with “uncertainty and confusion,” resulting in frustration for
businesses operating in the country, John Flannery, chief
executive officer for  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s local unit, said.  Opposition parties and allies of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  this week forced him to suspend a decision he made Nov. 24
that would’ve allowed retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
 Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to open supermarkets in the world’s
second-most populous nation. Such flip-flops won’t prompt GE to
review its plans, Flannery said in an interview in his office in
Gurgaon near  New Delhi  yesterday.  “Uncertainty and confusion in business is a bad thing,”
Flannery said. “It was easier to operate in the country a year
ago than it is today. It is frustrating to look at unresolved
issues and know that they’re resolvable if you can get some
leadership and orientation around them.”  Singh’s failure to implement the first change to ownership
rules in more than five years has sparked concern that his
government is too weak to see through bills, including one that
proposes as much as 26 percent foreign direct investment in
pension funds. The Trinamool Congress, his biggest ally, has
vowed to block the legislation and a separate plan to allow
overseas carriers pick up stakes in local airlines.  Adjournments  The  Congress -led government’s legislative agenda has
stalled in the last year after a series of high-profile scandals
that led to the jailing of a former minister, bureaucrats and
company officials on graft charges related to the sale of
mobile-phone airwaves. The last major change to foreign direct
investment rules took place in 2006 when the cap on single-brand
retail was lifted to 51 percent.  Nine days of protests in parliament over the policy forced
repeated adjournments in the winter session that started Nov.
22. About 31 bills are waiting to be passed, including
legislation to create an anti-corruption agency with powers to
prosecute government officials. Last year’s winter sitting was
the least productive in 25 years.  The delay in government decisions is costing GE money as it
waits for the award of a contract from the  Indian Railways ,
Flannery said. GE is among four companies shortlisted for
supplying 800 electric locomotives and is one of two selected
for providing 1,000  diesel engines .  Bids Postponed  The nation’s cabinet allowed the Ministry of Railways to
invite bids for the high-speed engine project in February 2009
and preliminary bids were called for a year later. Final bids,
invited for submission by July 15, were postponed after the
railways formed a new panel to review cost. Bids for the diesel
locomotives were called for in March last year.  “We’ve waited patiently for a long time,” Flannery said.
“It’s not like you just flip a switch and start making a
thousand locomotives in  India . You have to have all sorts of
suppliers lined up for that,” he said, without elaborating on
the costs incurred.  GE plans to invest $200 million in an Indian manufacturing
plant near  Mumbai  to help make parts for power equipment,
Flannery said. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
announced plans in October to build $115 million of wind farms
along with  Greenko Group Plc .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan in New Delhi at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  