-- 
German Bunds Rise After Five-Year Note Sale; Italian, Spanish Bonds Fall

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T16:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/german-five-year-notes-decline-for-third-day-before-5-billion-euro-auction.html
German  bonds  gained, with five-year
yields falling to the lowest in two weeks, as demand rose at a
sale of the notes and an official said the nation rejects plans
to combine the current and permanent euro-area rescue funds.  Five-year  securities  snapped a two-day decline after
investors submitted bids for 2.1 times the 4.09 billion euros
($5.5 billion) of debt sold, up from 1.5 times at the previous
auction.  Portugal ’s bonds advanced for a fifth day as borrowing
costs fell at an auction of three-month bills. Italian and
Spanish bonds declined as the German official’s comments damped
optimism European leaders will agree on a plan to combat the
debt crisis at a summit this week.  “The auction was pretty good,” said  Huw Worthington , a
fixed-income strategist at  Barclays Capital  in London “It was
one of the best bid to covers we’ve seen in a long time, which
was what the market wanted to see.”  The German five-year  yield  fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.03 percent at 4:44 p.m. London time after
dropping to 1.01 percent, the lowest since Nov. 23. The 1.25
percent note due in October 2016 rose 0.36, or 3.60 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 101.03. Ten-year rates declined nine
basis points to 2.10 percent.  Investors submitted 8.67 billion euros of bids for the
five-year debt on offer, compared with the maximum sales target
of 5 billion euros. The average yield was 1.11 percent, versus
the record-low 1 percent at the prior auction on Nov. 2.  ‘Very Solid’  “Today’s five-year German auction received very solid
demand,” Annalisa Piazza, a strategist at Newedge Group in
 London , wrote in an e-mail. “Total bids were robust.”  Portuguese  10-year bonds  extended their winning streak to
the longest in three months after the nation sold three-month
bills at an average yield of 4.873 percent, down from 4.895
percent at a previous auction on Nov. 16.  The 10-year yield dropped 29 basis points to 12.94 percent,
after falling 82 basis points over the previous four days.  Italian and Spanish bonds declined after the German
official told reporters in Berlin that his nation is more
pessimistic of the outcome of the European Union leaders’ summit
beginning tomorrow in Brussels. It is already decided the
permanent European Stability Mechanism will take over from the
current rescue fund at an appointed time and  Germany  will oppose
any attempt to change the agreed sequence, the official said.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose 12 basis points to 5.99 percent,
and similar-maturity Spanish rates climbed 22 basis points to
5.43 percent.  ECB Meeting  The ECB will lower its benchmark rate by a quarter point to
1 percent, according to 53 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Two said the central bank will cut rates to 0.75
percent, and three estimate it will leave them at 1.25 percent.  The central bank unexpectedly lowered borrowing costs on
Nov. 3, saying the 17-nation euro-area economy will probably
suffer a “mild recession.”  “Markets are waiting to see if the  European Central Bank 
will be prepared to cut rates below 1 percent and we may get an
indication of that tomorrow,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  The central bank may also announce a range of measures to
stimulate bank lending, said three euro-area officials with
knowledge of policy makers’ deliberations.  Options on the table include loosening collateral criteria
so that institutions have more access to cheap ECB cash and
offering them longer-term loans to grease the flow of credit to
the economy, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a return of
7.3 percent this year, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Portuguese bonds have lost 25 percent over the same
period and Italian debt has fallen 4.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  