-- 
German Luxury Carmakers Limit Year-End Shutdowns as China Demand Holds Up

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-12-07T11:03:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/german-luxury-carmakers-limit-year-end-shutdowns-as-china-demand-holds-up.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,  Daimler
AG (DAI)  and Audi AG plan to limit holiday breaks for the second year
in a row as demand holds up for  luxury vehicles  in China.  BMW and Daimler’s  Mercedes-Benz  will shut most factories
for just one week between Christmas and New Year’s Day, while
Audi will close European plants for two weeks, the carmakers
said. The automakers lengthened year-end breaks for many  workers 
to as long as three weeks in 2009 due to sagging deliveries.  “Because of the positive sales development, we’ll only have
short factory breaks at the end of the year,” Martin
Steinlehner, a Daimler spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  The luxury-auto makers posted record November sales in
 China . Audi soared 69 percent,  BMW  rose 9.8 percent and Mercedes
gained 24 percent. The three are looking to the world’s biggest
car market to prop up deliveries as European demand sags on
concern over the region’s sovereign debt crisis. European sales
in October, the most recent data available, fell 1.4 percent.  German auto buyers in November waited on average 3.3 months
for delivery, down from 3.6 months in October, according to a
study from the Center for Automotive Research at the  University
of Duisburg-Essen . The German car market,  Europe ’s largest,
probably won’t grow next year as the debt crisis saps  consumer
confidence , auto-industry association VDA said last week.  The world’s three biggest luxury-car manufacturers are
still reporting sales increases thanks to China and the U.S. BMW
said today that global deliveries gained 6.4 percent last month,
while  Volkswagen  AG’s Audi surged 28 percent. Mercedes reported
Dec. 5 that sales climbed 8.3 percent in November.  Maintenance Work  Some BMW factories will be closed longer than one week for
needed maintenance work or to complete renovations for revamped
models, Jochen Frey, a company spokesman in Munich, said by
phone today. The plant in Rosslyn,  South Africa , will stop
producing for three weeks to prepare for the next generation of
the best-selling 3-Series, Frey said.  A factory in Dingolfing,  Germany , which assembles the 5-,
6- and 7-Series models, will be shut for two weeks, while the
Leipzig plant, where the 1-Series and X1 compact sport-utility
vehicles are produced, will halt for four weeks, he said. The
company will manufacture the i3 electric city car in Leipzig
from 2013. Both factories stayed open during the holidays last
year, BMW said at the time.  While most  Mercedes-Benz  factories will only halt assembly
lines between Christmas and New Year’s Day, the plant in
Sindelfingen, Germany, will close for a second week to prepare
for new models including the next-generation S-Class sedan,
Steinlehner said.  Audi will shut its four European factories from Dec. 26
through Jan. 6, the same as last year, to do required
maintenance work, Kathrin Feigl, a company spokeswoman, said
today in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  