-- 
German Stocks Retreat as Government Rejects Running Bailout Funds Together

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-12-07T17:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/german-stocks-advance-before-eu-summit-deutsche-bank-commerzbank-gain.html
German stocks (UKX)  declined before a
European Union summit this week as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government said it will prevent the euro area from running its
temporary rescue fund alongside its permanent bailout facility.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s largest retailer, retreated for a
second day after analysts downgraded the stock.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  fell 3.9 percent as the  International Air Transport
Association  reduced its forecast for airlines’ profit.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.6 percent to 5,994.73 at the close
in Frankfurt, having earlier climbed as much as 1.8 percent. The
benchmark measure retreated 1.3 percent yesterday as  Standard &
Poor’s  put 15 euro-area nations on watch for potential rating
downgrades. The broader HDAX Index also declined 0.6 percent
today.  “People are getting more pessimistic on the chance of a
European Union deal,” said Matthias Jasper, head of equities at
WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “It’s like flipping a coin these
days. Everything depends on the outcome of political talks.”  The German government will prevent the temporary  European
Financial Stability Facility  from continuing to operate when the
euro area sets up its permanent European Stability Mechanism
next year. A German official spoke to reporters in Berlin today
on condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.
The Financial Times reported after European markets closed
yesterday that the euro area may extend the operating life of
the EFSF, potentially increasing the funds available to the 17-
nation currency’s most-indebted members.  Geithner Backing  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday urged
policy makers to work with central banks to erect a “stronger
firewall” to end the crisis. He welcomed “progress toward a
fiscal compact for the euro zone,” echoing language used last
week by ECB President  Mario Draghi .  Metro  slipped 2.7 percent to 31 euros, extending its
biggest retreat since the company started trading in 1996.  Deutsche Bank downgraded the Dusseldorf-based retailer to
“hold” from “buy,” while Citigroup Inc. cut its rating to
“sell” from “neutral” and JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its
recommendation to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Metro 
forecast yesterday that sales and earnings will fall this year
following a weak start to the Christmas season.  Deutsche Lufthansa lost 3.9 percent to 9.12 euros, its
biggest drop in five weeks. IATA said the airline industry’s
profit will fall 49 percent in 2012, more than the trade body
previously predicted, as the sovereign-debt crisis in the euro
region hurts economic growth. Net income will drop to $3.5
billion this year from $6.9 billion this year.  Deutsche Boerse AG  sank 5.5 percent to 42.29 euros. The
operator of the  Frankfurt  exchange is considering an offer to
spin off part of the derivatives business as it seeks to
convince European Union antitrust regulators to approve a
proposed takeover of NYSE Euronext, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  