-- 
Germany Rejects Combining Euro-Zone Rescue Funds, Government Official Says

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-12-07T12:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/germany-won-t-agree-to-combine-euro-rescue-funds-government-official-says.html
Germany  rejected proposals to
combine the current and permanent euro-area rescue funds as
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said divisions may prevent
agreement on a debt-crisis strategy among all 27 European Union
states this week.  Germany will oppose any attempt to change an agreed
sequence, in which the permanent European Stability Mechanism
will take over from the current rescue fund at an appointed
time, a German official told reporters in Berlin today on
condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.  The rejection came amid divisions among the 27 European
Union member states on the latest bid to deliver the euro area
from its two-year-old crisis as the leaders head to a Dec. 8-9
summit in Brussels. A German-French push for closer economic
ties won the backing of U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who on a visit to  Europe  urged governments to work
with central banks to erect a “stronger firewall” to end the
debt crisis.  The German official said not all EU member states
appreciated the seriousness of the situation in light of
pressure to reach an agreement at the summit. Should the full EU
fail to reach consensus, the group of 17 states that share the
single currency must press ahead with EU treaty change alone if
necessary, the official said.  Euro Falls  The euro reversed earlier gains versus the dollar and the
yen after the official’s comments. The euro weakened 0.2 percent
to $1.3374 at 1:05 p.m. in  Frankfurt  after climbing as much as
0.5 percent. The single currency fell 0.1 percent to 104.06 yen.
The Japanese currency was little changed at 77.74 per dollar.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in Paris
two days ago that they had agreed to press fellow leaders to
back plans to bring in the 500 billion euro ($669 billion) ESM
in 2012, one year earlier than envisaged. Operating the ESM in
combination with the 440 billion-euro temporary fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, next year would
potentially boost Europe’s anti-crisis resources to 940 billion
euros, two people familiar with the discussions said in October.  The two leaders’ effort to win backing for EU treaty
changes designed to enforce stronger budget rules faced hurdles
from countries such as the U.K., which has said it will seek to
extract concessions. British Prime Minister  David Cameron  this
week said no powers would be ceded to the EU without a
referendum and pledged to “make sure Britain gets something”
in return for relenting to treaty changes.  Germany Opposes U.K.  Germany opposes U.K. efforts to win advantages on financial
regulation for any treaty backing, Financial Times Deutschland
reported today. Euro-area governments will push on in a separate
meeting on Dec. 9 and possibly through the weekend if a larger
compact doesn’t emerge, the newspaper said.  Meanwhile, Geithner’s comments backing the Merkel-Sarkozy
agenda were more upbeat than his recent remarks urging Europe to
move faster. In Europe in September, Geithner asked leaders to
set aside their differences to excise “catastrophic risks”
from markets, prompting European criticism of U.S. debt levels.  “This of course will take time” and “a very substantial
commitment and a sustained commitment of political will,” he
told reporters yesterday in Berlin. Financial crises are
resolved when governments and central banks create “conditions
that make it compelling for investors to take the risk involved
in lending to governments and to banks.”  ECB Bond Purchases  Geithner, who held talks with Sarkozy in Paris today after
meeting in Frankfurt yesterday with European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann,
declined to comment on speculation the ECB could step up bond
purchases. Draghi said last week that “other elements might
follow” if European leaders agree on a “new fiscal compact.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said earlier
yesterday that the  Standard & Poor’s  warning for 15 euro-area
governments, including AAA rated Germany and  France , will help
force leaders ratchet up efforts to resolve the crisis.  A day after Merkel and Sarkozy strengthened their push for
new rules to tighten euro-area economic cooperation, Schaeuble
called S&P’s warning the “best encouragement” to drive toward
a solution at the Brussels summit.  Geithner said that the International Monetary Fund can play
a helpful role in the crisis and that the U.S. will support its
efforts. U.S. officials have said that they don’t support new
taxpayer money being given to the IMF for the crisis.  The German official speaking today said EU leaders will
discuss the  International Monetary Fund ’s role in the debt
crisis, though may not take a final decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 