-- 
Euro Nations Lose One Nation by Biggest Plurality in Global Investor Poll

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-12-07T11:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/global-poll-predicts-one-nation-will-drop-euro.html
Most international investors predict
at least one nation will eventually dump the euro and they say
greater fiscal ties or a smaller currency area are the best
fixes for the region’s debt crisis, according to the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll.  As  Europe ’s leaders craft their fifth “comprehensive”
solution in 19 months, almost half the respondents in the poll
conducted Dec. 5-6 say one or more countries will leave the 17-
nation bloc within a year and almost a third more predict an
exit by the end of 2016. Thirty-seven percent say fiscal union
is the most effective remedy for the current turmoil, with 24
percent endorsing a shrinking of the euro’s membership.  The poll of 1,097 investors, traders and analysts who are
Bloomberg subscribers highlights the pressure on European policy
makers as they meet in Brussels this week to consider tougher
budget rules under a Dec. 5 threat by  Standard & Poor’s  to
downgrade 15 euro nations. The survey also validates European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s push for a “fiscal
compact,” with just 15 percent of respondents saying so-called
quantitative easing is the top measure for ending the turmoil.  “We’re by no means any closer to the semblance of a
solution to this crisis,” says poll respondent Jeremy Cook,
chief economist at the London-based currency exchange firm World
First U.K. Ltd. “I see a closer move to fiscal union in 2012
and in the longer term we need a United States of Europe.”  New Rules  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , the single currency’s guardians, this week
strengthened their push for new rules to tighten euro-area
economic cooperation, stopping short of a system in which the
region’s rich will channel cash to poorer states or issue joint
bonds. Instead, they backed automatic sanctions for countries
breaking budget rules and fast-tracking a permanent rescue fund
to next year.  Draghi, who will lead his second meeting of the ECB’s
policy-setting Governing Council tomorrow, said last week that
if fiscal links are strengthened then “other elements might
follow.” The comment was interpreted by investors as a signal
the ECB may buy more bonds. Investor approval for Draghi has
almost doubled since he took over the ECB on Nov. 1, rising to
63 percent, from 36 percent in September.  Italy’s bonds rose today amid speculation leaders will
bolster their bailout resources. The yield on Italy’s 10-year
debt fell 7 basis points to 5.8 percent as of 10:57 a.m. in
 London . German and Spanish bonds also rose, while France’s 10-
year was little changed. The euro fell for a fourth day against
the yen and slipped 0.1 percent against the dollar.  Against Austerity  As for other solutions, only 3 percent say boosting the
region’s bailout fund would end contagion. While 16 percent of
all those surveyed say they endorse more austerity, that option
was far more popular with respondents in the U.S., 26 percent,
than with Europeans, 8 percent. Conversely, 44 percent of
Europeans say a fiscal union is the way out of the crisis, while
32 percent of those in the U.S. and 33 percent of those in  Asia 
saying so. Three percent of all investors say additional help
from the  International Monetary Fund  would be effective.  Last week’s decision by six central banks to make it
cheaper for banks to borrow dollars is viewed by 88 percent of
those polled as only a “temporary palliative” that does
nothing to tackle the causes of the crisis, while 10 percent
describe it as a “turning point.”  Euro Disintegration  The policy debate is taking place as investors bet the
euro-area will eventually shed members. A total of 82 percent
anticipate contraction at some point, up from 79 percent in
September. Among U.S. respondents, just 6 percent say this will
never happen, compared with 22 percent of Europeans who say so.  Just over half say the euro area will eventually collapse,
though 41 percent say that will never occur. European investors
are more optimistic, with 51 percent saying disintegration will
never happen, compared with 32 percent of those in the U.S. and
38 percent of those in Asia. While respondents still see a
meltdown in Europe’s  banking system (BEFINC) , they differ on the timing
with 43 percent saying it would happen in the next 12 months,
down from 53 percent in September, and 25 percent saying it
would take place within two to five years, up from 18 percent.  Lehman Comparison  As to whether Europe’s problems will trigger a global
economic crash, about a quarter say this could occur by the end
of 2012, down from 37 percent in September. The majority of
respondents, 53 percent, say the chaos wouldn’t be as severe as
the aftermath of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.; 42 percent say the euro crisis will end up being worse
than that. Thirty-nine percent predict a credit-default-swap
crisis triggered by the European turmoil within the next year.  Investors are signaling growing concern the debt crisis is
spreading. Forty-one percent say  Italy  will default, up from 32
percent in September, and 40 percent say  Spain  will do so, also
compared with 32 percent in the previous poll.  As recently as May, only 16 percent predicted bankruptcy in
Italy, the region’s third-largest economy. What’s changed and
forced the yield on the nation’s 10-year bond above 7 percent
last month is concern in financial markets that the nation will
struggle to pay a 1.9 trillion euro debt, which exceeds that of
Spain,  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  combined.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is seeking 30 billion euros ($40
billion) in extra budget cuts and growth measures this week to
win back market support.  Greek Default  Those questioned are almost unanimous in saying Greece will
default -- as they have been in past polls -- while the number
of those predicting the same fate for Portugal rose to 63
percent from 56 percent. One-third forecast  Ireland  will be
unable to pay its bills, the lowest number since June 2010. Only
9 percent choose  France  and 4 percent pick the U.K. as likely
defaulters.  More than four-fifths of investors see the euro-area
economy deteriorating, with slightly more than half saying they
plan to cut exposure to the euro and its region’s debt in the
next six months. Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. have joined Draghi in warning the euro area faces
its second recession in three years as the debt woes undermine
confidence and force governments to cut budgets.  Fifty-three percent of poll respondents pick the European
Union as the worst investment opportunity over the next year,
more than four times the number that cited the U.S. Half predict
the  Euro Stoxx 50  index will be lower by the middle of 2012,
compared with 28 percent who say it will be higher.  Risk Exposure  “We’re not too long any exposure to European risk,” says
poll respondent Stephen Surpless, an investment manager at
Luxembourg-based Pacific Capital SARL. “It could get worse in
terms of economic impact.”  Despite the crisis, 44 percent of respondents say they are
more optimistic about Merkel’s policies as they affect her
nation’s investment climate, up from 35 percent in September; 53
percent say they are pessimistic, compared with 59 percent in
the previous poll. Sarkozy’s rating rose to 28 percent, the
highest since November 2010. Still, 67 percent of respondents
say they are pessimistic about the French president’s approach,
down from 71 percent.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s policies are viewed
positively by 49 percent, up from 44 percent three months ago.
Cameron is personally very popular, with 66 percent of investors
saying they have a favorable view, up from 63 percent in
September.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based Selzer & Co. and has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.0 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  