-- 
Global Airlines’ 2012 Profit Forecast Reduced by IATA on Euro Debt Crisis

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-12-07T15:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/global-airlines-2012-profit-forecast-reduced-by-iata-on-euro-debt-crisis.html
The  airline industry’s (DAL)  profit next
year will fall 49 percent, or $1.4 billion more than predicted
earlier, as the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  hurts economic
growth, the  International Air Transport Association  said.  Net income will drop to $3.5 billion in 2012 from
$6.9 billion this year, with the profit margin narrowing to
0.6 percent of sales from 1.2 percent, IATA Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Tyler  told reporters in Geneva. The trade group
forecast in September that global airline earnings in 2012 would
total $4.9 billion. The industry may be unprofitable next year
should the debt crisis “spiral out of control,” IATA said.  “In the past, whenever we’ve seen a small decline in
travel markets caused by an economic deterioration, it’s very
difficult for other markets to uncouple,” IATA Chief Economist
Brian Pearce said at the news conference. “Problems in Europe
are likely to affect the rest of the world.”  European Union leaders are scheduled to meet Dec. 8-9 in a
new push to stave off debt defaults by some governments in the
region. Even a “relatively benign outcome” to the crisis will
involve a short recession in Europe, IATA said in a statement
today. Airlines in the region may report “small” losses next
year, in contrast to North American and Asian carriers
maintaining or raising earnings, the association said.  Air France Forecast  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, predicted
in November that it will post a full-year loss as rising fuel
costs and a sluggish economy prevent it from breaking even.
Second-ranked  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  forecasts an operating-
profit decline for 2011 and said last month that it’s halting
all non-essential investments for six months.  Industry earnings will be helped by capacity cuts in  North
America (BUSAIRL)  that are “providing some protection to profitability,”
as well as by travel growth in  Asia , especially  China , IATA
said. In the event that the European debt crisis widens to hurt
banks and the rest of the global economy, carriers may post a
loss of $8.3 billion, it said.  In that worst-case scenario, cash reserves held by the
carriers would allow them to survive three months of sustained
losses, Pearce said in an interview.  “The average cash balance is about 20 percent of annual
costs and annual revenues, so if they’ve got negative revenues
and outflows, that would last a quarter,” Pearce said.  American Airlines   AMR Corp. (AMR) , the parent of American Airlines, filed for
bankruptcy Nov. 29 after Allied Pilots Association leaders
declined to send American’s last contract offer to members for a
vote. The airline, which was headed for a fourth consecutive
yearly loss, has said it has an $800 million annual labor cost
disadvantage to its peers.  Aviation is also struggling as governments see the industry
as a “soft target for new or increased taxation,” Tyler said
in a speech. The U.K. is sticking to plans to increase its tax
on commercial flights and start levying charges on  business jets 
in 2013, the Treasury said yesterday. Higher taxes are also
being imposed in  Germany ,  Austria  and the U.S., Tyler said.  “Understanding that aviation’s connectivity is the
lifeblood of the global economy should lead politicians to make
it as cost-efficient as possible,” Tyler said.  The regulatory environment would allow further
consolidation in Europe and  North America , Pearce said in the
interview, while acting to prevent mergers elsewhere.  Freight Fall  A slowing air-freight industry is also a bad sign for the
wider economy, with declines led by Asian exports, Pearce said.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Asia’s largest international
carrier, posted an 18 percent drop in cargo tonnage in October
caused by U.S. and European retailers ordering fewer goods for
the  Christmas shopping season . Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa
said on Nov. 22 that it may cut air-freight capacity by as much
as 30 percent in the first quarter of next year.  “Asia is the manufacturing center of the world, and demand
has slowed in Europe,” Pearce said. “By October, the freight
businesses had actually sunk by about 5 percent from the middle
of the year.”  The average price of oil in 2012 is likely to fall to $99 a
barrel from an estimated $112 this year, IATA said. Jet fuel and
labor are typically the largest costs at airlines. Passenger
traffic will probably rise by 4 percent, slower than the 4.6
percent growth previously estimated, while industry revenue will
increase 3.7 percent to $618 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Geneva via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  