-- 
GM Poised to Gain in China as Local Rivals Consolidate: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T23:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/gm-poised-to-gain-in-china-as-local-rivals-consolidate-cars.html
General Motors Co., which has sold
more vehicles than any other automaker so far this year, may be
poised for market share gains in China as a host of smaller,
local players struggle to survive.  With auto sales in China rising at the slowest pace in 13
years, pressure is building for smaller Chinese producers to
exit the industry, presenting an opportunity for foreign
carmakers such as  GM (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to extend gains in
China, according to Guotai Junan Securities Co.  “If the smaller Chinese carmakers get squeezed out because
of over-competition, it will be a plus for GM and other foreign
automakers because they’ll be able to swoop in and take over
those markets with cheaper models,” said Zhang Xin, an auto
analyst with Guotai Junan in Beijing.  GM, the biggest foreign automaker in China, illustrates the
widening  gap  between the large, established automakers and their
smaller, local rivals. The company this week reported November
sales in the country rose 20 percent, the fastest increase in 10
months, as lower prices drove up demand of its Wuling light
trucks. By comparison, Chery Automobile Co.’s car deliveries in
China tumbled 30 percent to 37,446 last month, according to the
nation’s Passenger Car Association.  Of 70 automakers tracked by the  China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers , the 15 largest producers accounted for
89 percent of total deliveries this year, with GM leading the
pack. It sold more than 7,000 automobiles a day in the country.
That’s left the remaining companies selling fewer than 10,000
units monthly, including 10 with zero sales all year, according
to the government-backed group.  China vs. U.S.  The rift may be accelerating because of a slowing market.
CAAM forecasts the number of vehicles delivered to Chinese
dealerships will rise between 3 percent to 5 percent this year,
after surging 32 percent in 2010. That would mark the first time
the Chinese market would expand at a slower pace than U.S.
light-vehicle retail sales, based on CAAM figures stretching
back to 1998.  For analysts such as Zhang at Guotai Junan,  China ’s slowing
market ripens it for acquisitions.  “Opportunities are popping up for consolidation as overall
growth slows and companies are being squeezed out by
competition,” Zhang said. “But a lot of factors need to be in
place for this to happen, including whether the degree of
complementary manufacturing capacity available and the
willingness to allow this on the local-government level.”  Case for Consolidation  The Chinese central government, which aims to have two to
three national automakers with annual sales of over 2 million
units and 4-to-5 companies with full-year deliveries of more
than 1 million vehicles by the start of 2012, is  encouraging 
domestic producers to merge.  The industry ministry identified the auto market as one of
the eight key sectors that need to be consolidated by 2015,
according to a meeting chaired by Minister Miao Wei in July.
Politics, though, may get in the way of such plans, according to
some analysts.  “Local governments are reluctant to let go of any
automakers given that car companies are engines for GDP
growth,” said Lin Huaibin, an analyst with IHS Global Insight
in  Shanghai .  Room to Grow  Still, auto industry consolidation is not unheard of in
China.  BYD Co. (1211) , a battery maker, began making cars in 2003 after
taking over Qinchuan Automobile Co. Zhejiang Geely Holdings
Group founder Li Shufu, who began his career making
refrigerators, bought his way into the car industry in 1997 by
investing in an automaker owned by a jail in Deyang, Sichuan
province.  China, whose automobile market has surged almost eightfold
in the past decade to more than 18 million units a year, still
has room to grow. Rural towns with few cars have kept the
country’s average vehicle ownership at about 60 vehicles per
1,000 people, less than half the world average, according to
CAAM. Annual vehicle sales could reach 30 million by 2020,
according to Xu Changming, research director at the State
Information Center.  Such untapped demand is driving investment.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
plans to open a 2-billion yuan ($315 million) plant in 2013 in
Xinjiang, a move the  provincial government  planning agency said
“filled a hole” in the region’s passenger-vehicle industry.
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s second-largest carmaker, is targeting
consumers in inland China for future growth, Kimiyasu Nakamura,
head of the company’s Dongfeng Motor Co. venture, said in
September.  For the domestic automakers, the intensifying competition
has led them to stepped up marketing. Geely sponsored the
Zhejiang Symphony Orchestra’s performances in September, while
Guangzhou Auto sent a fleet of 30 Trumpchi cars to be featured
in the movie “Racer Legend.”  “There’s been a lot of pressure on us on the pricing
side,” said Wu Song, general manager at China’s Guangzhou
Automobile Group Motor Co. “We want to beef up awareness of our
Trumpchi cars by sponsoring the movie to let people know more
about us.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  