-- 
Gokarn Signals RBI Will Refrain From Cutting Cash Reserve Ratio

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-12-07T18:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/gokarn-signals-rbi-will-refrain-from-cutting-cash-reserve-ratio.html
India ’s central bank will not
compromise on its fight against inflation to address a cash
deficit in the banking system, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn
said, indicating that policy makers will refrain from cutting
the amount lenders need to set aside as reserves.  “The  cash reserve ratio  is not just a liquidity tool but
also a monetary policy signal and we are, as of now, still in a
situation where inflationary pressures are high,” Gokarn said
in a speech to bankers in the eastern Indian city of Kolkata
yesterday. “While we want to address the liquidity situation we
don’t want to do it in a way that compromises our monetary
stance.”  India’s central bank has purchased 152 billion rupees
($2.94 billion) of  government bonds  in two operations since Nov.
24 to boost cash in the banking system. The target was to
purchase as much as 100 billion rupees in each auction. The next
open market operation is scheduled for today. Overnight rates
surged to a  three-year high  in intraday trading on Nov. 18.  “The use of these tactical measures like open market
operations is clearly the way we are going to go,” Gokarn said.  Wholesale price increases  have held above 9 percent for 11
months and the  finance ministry  increased its borrowing target
for the year through March by 13 percent to a record 4.7
trillion rupees.  India’s 10-year bond yields dropped to a two-month low on
Dec. 5 after the central bank said it will buy debt to ease a
cash shortage. The rate on the 8.79 percent bonds due November
2021 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.60
percent yesterday.  Rupee Decline  Cash availability with Indian lenders dropped after the
central bank bought rupees to stem the decline in the currency
and companies borrowed money to fund imports, Mahendra Jajoo,
the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income investments at Pramerica
Asset Managers, a unit of  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc. said on Dec. 1.  The rupee has lost 13.6 percent this year, making it  Asia ’s
worst performer in the period.  Banks borrowed 924.7 billion rupees on average a day from
the monetary authority in November, almost twice the amount
sought in October, indicating a shortage of cash. Overnight
rates surged to a three-year high of 9.1 percent in intraday
trading on Nov. 18.  Record Rate Increases  The pace of economic expansion is slowing after the central
bank raised  interest rates  by a record to tame the fastest
inflation among BRIC nations, which include Brazil, Russia and
 China . India’s GDP grew 6.9 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the weakest expansion since the second quarter of
2009.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation was 9.73
percent in October. By comparison, consumer prices rose 5.5
percent in China in the same month.  The  Reserve Bank , which has increased borrowing costs by
375 basis points in 13 moves since mid-March 2010, said Oct. 25
that the monetary tightening will moderate economic expansion
and help ease inflation, as it signaled a pause in the rate
increases.  The proportion of money that banks must set aside before
lending is now 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  