-- 
Google Says to Continue ‘Illegal Content’ Removal in India

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-12-07T12:31:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/google-india-says-will-continue-to-remove-illegal-content.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will “continue to
remove” in India content that is illegal or breaks the
company’s terms of service, the owner of the world’s most
popular search engine said, a day after a minister asked social
media operators to better manage content on their sites.  The  Internet company  said services such as YouTube and the
social networking site Google+ “help users to express
themselves and share different points of view,” according to an
e-mailed statement from the  Mountain View , California-based
company’s local unit.  India has stepped up scrutiny of Internet postings and
mobile communications after the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks that
left 166 dead, and bomb blasts in Mumbai and New Delhi this
year. Communications and Information Technology Minister Kapil Sibal yesterday said the government asked companies including
Google and Facebook Inc. to block offensive material, especially
content that could hurt religious sentiments of some Indians.  “The IT act gives the government some power by placing an
obligation on the websites to deal with defamatory material, so
there is a platform,”  Prashant Bhushan , a New Delhi-based
Supreme Court lawyer and a public interest litigator, said in a
telephone interview today. “But it cannot be done by the
government. It must be done by an independent authority.”  Religious Divide  India, home to more than 138 million Muslims among its
majority-Hindu population, will evolve stricter rules to ensure
religious sentiments aren’t hurt by Internet postings, Sibal
said, without elaborating. The government has held at least six
meetings since Sept. 5 with companies including Google and
Facebook, the minister said.  India’s Muslims, who make up about 13 percent of the
world’s most-populous country after  China , are the largest
religious minority that also includes Christians, Buddhists and
Jains among others. A sectarian divide has fueled decades of
violent riots in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Facebook’s number of active accounts in India jumped 37
percent to 38 million in the last six months, according to
 socialbakers.com , which tracks user data at the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company. That’s the third-highest behind the
156 million in the U.S. and 40.8 million in Indonesia.  Kumiko Hidaka, a spokeswoman at Facebook, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  South Korea  is also stepping up scrutiny of online media.
The Korea Communications Standards Commission has set up a new
media information monitoring team that will monitor and censor
social networking sites, mobile applications and online ads,
according to a Dec. 1 statement from the regulator.  ‘Free Society’  “We believe that access to information is the foundation
of a free society,” Google  India  Pvt. said in the statement.
“ Google Search  helps spread knowledge, enabling people to find
out about almost anything by typing a few words into a
computer.”  Google last month reported a 23 percent decline in the
number of times law-enforcement officials worldwide requested
content to be removed from its services in the first half, from
a year earlier. Still, the number of such requests more than
doubled in India, according to the data.  “Where content is illegal or breaks our terms of service
we will continue to remove it,” Google said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  