-- 
Greenpeace Breach of EDF Nuclear Sites ‘Unacceptable’

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-07T16:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/greenpeace-breach-of-edf-nuclear-sites-unacceptable-1-.html
Security at French nuclear
installations will be tightened after Greenpeace activists broke
into two Electricite de  France  SA atomic plants, Interior
Minister Claude Gueant said.  “This was not acceptable,” Gueant said today in
parliament. “Rules on the security of all sensitive
installations including nuclear will be reviewed.”  Greenpeace campaigners broke into the plants on Dec. 5 to
highlight what the environmental group said was a lack of
security. The intruders spent about four hours in the Nogent-
sur-Seine plant southeast of Paris and about 14 hours inside the
grounds of the Cruas installation, the organization has said.
EDF has confirmed the intrusions. A probe is ongoing, Gueant
said.  France’s nuclear regulator is carrying out safety checks at
atomic installations in France to determine whether they are
safe following the meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima station. The
audits are examining whether the sites are able to withstand
earthquakes, floods and loss of power and cooling systems.  Their scope should be widened to test for other risks such
as terrorist attacks, plane crashes and computer bugs,
Greenpeace said.  Fukushima Aftermath  “The police chose not to use force against the intruders
so as not to put lives in danger,” according to Gueant,
referring to the break-in at Nogent-sur-Seine. “The physical
integrity of the site was never threatened and no one was able
to penetrate into the area where nuclear energy is produced.”  Greenpeace and EDF have been in conflict for years over
France’s power production, more than three-quarters of which is
nuclear. Atomic safety has received more scrutiny in the
aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, with opposition parties in
France calling for some reactors to be shut down.  A surprise visit to EDF’s Paluel nuclear plant by the
atomic regulator last week uncovered safety shortcomings in an
exercise simulating the need to restart power during an
accident.  The exercise “didn’t comply with the expected exactness”
required for an accident procedure, the regulator said in a
document published on its  website . Procedural rules weren’t
clear in some cases and keys for some equipment were missing,
the regulator said in a letter to EDF asking for modifications.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net  