-- 
Gribkowsky Made Surprise Request for F-1 Sale Fees, Witness Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-12-07T11:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/gribkowsky-made-surprise-request-for-f-1-sale-fees-witness-says.html
Gerhard Gribkowsky, a former
 Bayerische Landesbank ’s management board member, made a last
minute request for extra fees in the 2005 sale of the lender’s
stake in the Formula One racing series, a witness said at
Gribkowsky’s fraud trial.  Gribkowsky, who was responsible for the lender’s investment
in the series, sought two extra payments as a “surprise and at
the last minute” during the 840 million-euro ($1.1 billion)
sale of BayernLB’s 47 percent Formula One stake to CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., Alexandra Irrgang, who worked on BayernLB’s team
overseeing the stake, told a court in Munich today.  Gribkowsky is being tried on charges he received $44
million in bribes to facilitate the sale. Formula One Chief
Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone , who is also being
investigated, had wanted Munich-based BayernLB to sell the stake
to private equity firm CVC, prosecutors said in the indictment.  Gribkowsky, the lender’s former chief risk officer, told
BayernLB’s management board that a failure to agree to the
payments might be a deal breaker.  The bank thought “the CVC offer was too good to be true
and we expected problems to surface at some point,” she said.  BayernLB’s management board didn’t inform the lender’s
supervisory board about the “high fees included in the sales
agreement,” Kurt Faltlhauser, the former supervisory board
head, told the court last month.  While BayernLB held the Formula One stake, “Ecclestone
wore us down in an extreme manner,” Irrgang said.  No ‘Alternative’  Ecclestone testified last month that he believed he had no
“alternative” to making payments to Gribkowsky as he feared
that the banker might disclose information to U.K. tax
authorities about the Bambino trust controlled by his then wife
that might be “very expensive” for him as he would have to
provide evidence that he wasn’t in control of the trust.  The Bambino trust has told the court the $25 million
transactions -- payments to four racing teams -- went to
compensate valid claims and were legitimate, Gribkowsky’s lawyer
Rainer Bruessow has said, adding that the allegations will
collapse.  CVC had no knowledge of any payment to Gribkowsky, the
company has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  