-- 
Libor for Three-Month Dollar Loans Climbs to Highest Level Since July 2009

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-12-07T15:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/libor-for-three-month-dollars-advances-to-highest-level-since-july-2009.html
The  rate  at which London-based banks
say they can borrow for three months in dollars rose to the
highest level in almost 2 1/2 years as the euro region’s
sovereign debt crisis intensifies.  The  London interbank offered rate , or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans climbed to 0.54000 percent, from 0.53775
percent yesterday, data from the British Bankers’ Association
showed. That’s the highest level since July 6, 2009, exceeding
the previous high of 0.53925 percent reached June 17, 2010. The
dollar Libor-OIS spread, a measure of bank reluctance to lend,
widened.  French banks have led the increase in Libor amid concern
they may need additional capital as the debt crisis weighs on
the values of their government bond holdings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank submitted the highest rate today among the contributing
panel of 18 lenders, at 0.5950 percent, the same as yesterday.
HSBC Holdings Plc posted the lowest, unchanged at 0.340 percent.  “The upward pressure on dollar Libor comes predominately
from the scramble for funding by European banks,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in  London . “There are concerns about the euro-zone debt crisis
and the uncertainty over European bank portfolio holdings of
sovereign debt.”  The European Central Bank said demand for three-month
dollar loans surged after it almost halved the cost of the funds
in a concerted action with five other central banks including
the U.S. Federal Reserve.  ECB Dollar Lending  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will lend $50.7 billion to
34 euro-area banks tomorrow for 84 days at a fixed rate of 0.59
percent. That compares with the $395 million lent in the last
three-month offering on Nov. 9 at a rate of 1.09 percent. The
ECB doesn’t disclose the identity of the banks it lends to.  “Today’s take-up at the ECB tender exceeded some
expectations,” Lloyds’ Wand said. “It’s cheaper now to go
through the central bank route” for dollar funding. “The
trade-off between cost and stigma attached is less as well.
Libor may stay elevated in the near-term because there’s still
an underlying funding demand for dollars.”  Libor, calculated by Thomson Reuters Corp., represents the
average of the collected figures from the panel, removing the
highest and lowest four quotes and dividing by the remaining 10.
The resulting benchmark determines  interest rates  on an
estimated $360 trillion of financial instruments around the
world, according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  Eurodollar Futures  Implied rates on eurodollar futures expiring in December
are predicting three-month dollar Libor will rise to 0.5525
percent by Dec. 19, Bloomberg data show.  Standard & Poor’s  said this week that a sample of 53 large
euro-area banks from 12 countries shows that they face a record
205 billion euros ($275 billion) in bond maturities in the first
quarter, more than twice the amount that came due in each of the
third and fourth quarters.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  left the contributing panel on Dec. 2,
 Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the BBA, said.  “Membership of the contributor panels is entirely
voluntary,” he said today in an interview. He declined to
comment on why the bank left.  The Libor-OIS spread widened to 44.7 basis points at 3:33
p.m. London time, from 44.5 basis points yesterday.  The  TED spread , or the difference between what lenders and
the U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to
53.49 basis points from 53.77 basis points yesterday.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, declined to 110 basis
points under Euribor after the  European Central Bank  said demand
for three-month dollar loans jumped. The cost was 119 basis
points under Euribor yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  