-- 
Iceland Halts Tightening Cycle as EU Crisis Clouds Outlook

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T13:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/iceland-halts-tightening-cycle-on-eu-crisis.html
Iceland’s  central bank  kept interest
rates unchanged as market turmoil triggered by  Europe ’s
worsening debt crisis prompted policy makers to shelve a
tightening cycle.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was left at 4.75
percent, Sedlabanki said today in Reykjavik, after last month
raising rates for a second time since August. A separate report
showed the economy expanded at the fastest pace in more than
four years in the three months through September, according to
quarterly data.  The bank said the decision to halt its tightening cycle was
taken because “in the near term, the current level seems
broadly appropriate in light of the economic outlook and
potential international headwinds,” according to the
statement.”  The central bank, known locally as Sedlabanki, is trying to
ease  capital controls , in place since the end of 2008, without
triggering a krona slump that risks fueling inflation. At the
same time, policy makers need to protect the economy from the
fallout of the euro crisis, which threatens to drag down global
growth and leave export-reliant nations like Iceland struggling
to sell their goods and services.  “Looking further ahead, it will be necessary to withdraw
the current degree of monetary accommodation as the recovery
progresses and the slack in the economy disappear,” the central
bank said.  Economic Rebound  Iceland’s economy grew at the fastest pace since the second
quarter of 2007 in the three months through September, the
statistics office said today. Gross domestic product expanded a
quarterly 4.7 percent, after shrinking 3.6 percent in the
previous period, the office said. The rebound was driven by a
6.8 percent increase in exports, while household spending grew
1.1 percent.  The central bank will probably deploy policy to protect the
island’s recovery.  “We expect the bank’s  interest rates  to remain unchanged
throughout next year,” Ingolfur Bender, an economist at
Islandsbanki hf, said in a note before the rate decision. In
2013, the central bank is likely to “implement gradual
tightening as the slack disappears and the economy approaches
equilibrium.”  The krona pared gains against the dollar to trade little
changed as of 1:24 p.m. in Reykjavik, after having gained 0.6
percent before the rate decision.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August. The Washington-based fund expects Iceland’s economy to
grow faster than the average for the euro area this year and
next. It costs less to insure against an Icelandic sovereign
default than it does to hedge against a  credit event  in Europe’s
single currency bloc, debt derivatives show.  Iceland’s $12 billion economy will grow 2.5 percent this
year and next, the IMF said in September. The euro area, by
comparison, will grow 1.6 percent this year and 1.1 percent in
2012, the fund estimates.  Iceland’s currency has slipped 3.4 percent against the euro
this year, while inflation has hovered at about 5 percent since
July. The bank targets 2.5 percent price growth.  Iceland started European Union accession talks last year
and the government has said it targets euro adoption as soon as
possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 