-- 
Microsoft Says Windows 8 Test Version Expected in February

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-12-07T03:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/microsoft-says-first-windows-8-test-version-expected-in-february.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will release the
first broadly available test version of Windows 8 -- a new
iteration of its flagship operating system -- in late February,
Vice President Antoine Leblond said at a conference.  The company also plans to open a new application store for
Windows at the same time, Leblond said. Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft released a developer preview of the software and
gave an initial look at the app store in September. Leblond, who
oversees Windows Web Services, spoke today at an event in San
Francisco.  Microsoft is rushing to complete Windows 8 to give it an
operating system capable of running thinner, lighter tablet
machines that can rival  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. Many consumers are
shunning Windows-based notebooks in favor of tablet-style
machines.  App developers will be key to Microsoft’s effort because
new Windows machines based on chip technology from  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  won’t be able to run older Windows programs.  To attract programmers, Microsoft will offer the most
successful app builders a bigger cut of sales than Apple does.
Developers will start out getting a 70 percent share -- the same
rate as Apple’s -- while Microsoft keeps the rest. After an app
brings in $25,000, the developer gets to keep an 80 percent
share.  Paid and Free  Paid apps will be priced from $1.49 to $999.99, Leblond
said. The store also will offer free software. During the so-
called beta test period, developers will only be able to submit
free apps and only by invitation.  Microsoft today demonstrated applications from  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   The new operating system will be the first Windows for
personal computers that can run on ARM-based chips, in addition
to the  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  processors
that have worked with previous editions of Windows.  The test version is a key step on the way to refining the
program for final release, which analysts expect in the latter
part of next year.  Microsoft didn’t provide any information on the release
date for the final version of Windows 8. The company has said
over the past several years that its goal is to release a new
version of Windows about every three years. The last one went on
sale in October 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  