-- 
LightSquared Says Tests Show GPS Devices Work With Network

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-12-07T20:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/lightsquared-says-tests-show-gps-devices-work-with-its-network.html
Tests show that global-positioning
devices from three makers won’t be disrupted by the wireless
network proposed by Philip Falcone’s LightSquared, Chief
Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  said.  Preliminary results from an Alcatel-Lucent lab demonstrate
the GPS devices surpass performance standards, Ahuja said today
at a news conference in Washington. The closely held companies
supplying GPS devices for testing were Javad GNSS, PCTel and
Partron, according to a LightSquared statement.  The findings prove that LightSquared “is well on its way”
to demonstrating that GPS interference concerns are resolved,
the Reston, Virginia-based company said in the statement. Makers
and users of GPS devices say LightSquared may disrupt navigation
by aircraft, boats, tractors and automobiles, and the Federal
Communications Commission is weighing the application.  “The results announced today do not address proven
interference to hundreds of thousands of existing high-precision
GPS receivers in a wide variety of critical uses,” Jim Kirkland, general counsel of  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , a maker of
GPS equipment, said in an e-mailed statement. LightSquared’s
tests are “simply one input” along with government-sponsored
analyses, Kirkland said.  Tractors, Jetliners  Trimble is a member of the  Coalition to Save Our GPS ,
formed to oppose LightSquared’s plans. The group lists members
including package shippers  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS) , GPS-unit maker  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) , farm-gear maker  Deere & Co. (DE) 
and the Air Transport Association with members  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  and AMR Corp.’s American Airlines.  LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, plans to offer high-speed wireless
Internet service to as many as 260 million people on airwaves
formerly reserved mainly for satellites.  U.S. officials are weighing data gathered in separate tests
and haven’t stated a timeline for determining whether
LightSquared may cause unacceptable interference, Moira Vahey, a
spokeswoman for the National Telecommunications & Information
Administration, said in an e-mail.  LightSquared is to face another round of tests on whether
it interferes with high-precision GPS devices, according to a
plan laid out by Vahey’s agency, which is part of the Commerce
Department and helping to guide the U.S. response to the
company’s proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  