-- 
Tax Inflow Shows Consumers in U.S. May Spend More Than Estimated: Economy

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-07T18:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/income-gains-reflected-in-u-s-taxes-may-boost-consumer-spending-economy.html
Rising tax receipts show household
incomes in the U.S. are growing faster than currently estimated,
and by enough to sustain  consumer spending , according to
economists like Joe LaVorgna.  Tax revenue from employee pay was up 4.8 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier after adjusting for changes in
withholding rates over the past few years, said LaVorgna, who is
the chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New
York. By contrast, the Commerce Department’s figures show  wages
and salaries  climbed 2.9 percent over the same period.  Taxes more accurately reflect the state of the job market
because they are not subject to revision and workers don’t pay
the  Internal Revenue Service  on “phantom” wages, LaVorgna said
in a note to clients yesterday. The revenue numbers also mean
the latest readings on savings are too low, eliminating another
obstacle to a pickup in household purchases, he said.  “People say consumer spending can’t be sustained because
the savings rate is falling, but they have it wrong,” LaVorgna,
a former economist at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said
in an interview yesterday. “Since we know income is
understated, by default the savings rate is understated. The
consumer is going to stay sustainably stronger than what I think
the consensus believes.”  The  savings rate  was 3.5 percent in October compared with
5.3 percent a year earlier, according to figures from the
Commerce Department. It sank to an almost four-year low 3.3
percent in September.  Shares Drop  Stocks were little changed today, erasing earlier declines,
as retailers and financial companies rallied and European
officials weighed measures to ease the debt crisis ahead of a
summit this week. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  dropped 0.1 percent
to 1,256.75 at 1:11 p.m. in  New York .  German industrial production rose more than economists
forecast in October as factories weathered the debt turmoil that
hurt output in other countries across the region and threatens
to trigger a recession. Production climbed 0.8 percent from
September, when it dropped 2.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. Separate reports showed industrial output
declined in the U.K.,  Italy  and  Norway .  China ’s Commerce Ministry said today that rising costs and
a slowdown in overseas demand may put “severe” pressure on its
exports next year. Higher wages, along with a jump in land and
raw-materials prices and a stronger yuan are restraining
shipments, the Commerce Ministry said. While China can achieve
export gains as long as  Europe ’s crisis doesn’t deepen, it will
need to focus on strengthening links with  emerging markets , Wang
Shouwen, head of the foreign trade department, said at a
briefing in Beijing.  Payroll Revisions  Revisions to the monthly U.S. payroll counts are another
sign the American job market is stronger than the initial data
suggest, LaVorgna said. In the five months to October, payrolls
have been revised up by an average 49,000 a month from their
initial readings, he said.  Additionally, a divergence between the two surveys
conducted by the Labor Department to calculate the jobless rate
and payrolls indicates employment may be stronger, LaVorgna
said. Figures from the survey of  households  show the economy has
created 1.28 million jobs in the past four months, more than
twice the 534,000 registered in the separate count of employers.  His calculations show that as of the third quarter, the
level of wages and salaries is understated by almost $125
billion, a “substantial” difference, LaVorgna wrote in the
research note. Over an entire year, that is “worth nearly two
percentage points on the saving rate,” he said.  Finding Income  “It’s clear that consumers have dug into their savings to
finance consumption, but I don’t think they’ve dug as deep as
the data suggest,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .
“Typically, when the numbers get revised, the government finds
more income than has been reported. Down the road, I think we’ll
look back and find households had more income than we think they
do now.”  Consumer spending  grew at a 2.3 percent rate in the third
quarter after increasing at a 0.7 percent pace in the prior
period and 2.1 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to data from the Commerce Department.  Since then, reports indicate the gains are continuing this
quarter. Retail sales in October rose 0.5 percent after a 1.1
percent increase the prior month that was the best reading since
February, the Commerce Department said on Nov. 15.  Retail Sales  Purchases at  Saks Inc. (SKS) , the luxury department store based
in New York, increased 9.3 percent in November from the same
month last year, exceeding the estimate of 5.9 percent, the
company said in a statement Dec. 1.  “What you saw on Black Friday is people were excited
early,” Steve Sadove, chief executive officer of Saks, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview, referring to the day after the
Thanksgiving holiday, which traditionally kicks off the holiday
spending period.  Auto sales  rose to a 13.6 million unit annual pace in
November, up from a 13.2 million rate the prior month and the
highest level since August 2009, according to industry data.  Taking into account the better-than-forecast sales figures,
the economy is growing at about a 3 percent annual rate this
quarter from a previously projected 2.5 percent pace, according
to a forecast by  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. Gross domestic product rose at
a 2 percent rate last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  