-- 
India Halts Wal-Mart Entry Amid Protests

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-12-07T14:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/india-suspends-plan-to-allow-foreign-retailers-as-protests-undermine-singh.html
India  suspended its decision to allow
overseas retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open
supermarkets, dealing a blow to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
efforts to boost foreign investment and end a policy paralysis.  The government reversed its decision amid protests by the
opposition and its allies that forced repeated adjournments of
parliament for the last two weeks. Both houses resumed today
with 10 days left of a crucial session when the government is
looking to pass laws including one setting up an anti-graft
body.  “This is political suicide on the part of the Congress
government,” said Surjit Singh Bhalla, chairman of New Delhi-
based Oxus Fund Management. “The only conclusion one can draw
is that this government has lost any moral authority to lead. It
is completely inexplicable.”  The move underscores the failure of Singh’s government to
implement economic changes sought by business leaders halfway
through its second term. The government faced resistance to its
decision to allow foreign direct investment in multibrand retail
from two coalition partners, opposition parties and traders, who
say the move will wipe out the jobs of small shopkeepers.  Shares Drop  Shares of  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the country’s
largest retailer, rose 6.3 percent to 198.1 rupees at close in
Mumbai. They fell as much as 6.1 percent earlier.  Shoppers Stop
Ltd. (SHOP)  declined 4.9 percent to 349.65 rupees. The benchmark BSE
India Sensitive Index advanced 0.4 percent.  The major impact on stocks “happened on Monday because,
over the weekend, everyone already knew this is going to be
suspended,” Gautam Duggad, a Mumbai-based analyst with
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt., said in a telephone interview.  Arti Singh, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart in India, and Mohan
Shukla, director of corporate affairs for Carrefour SA in India,
did not answer calls to their mobile phones.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told parliament today the
decision is suspended until a consensus is reached. Harsh
Mariwala, president of the Federation of Indian Chambers of
Commerce, said in a statement today the decision was “deeply
disappointing” and “highly regressive.”  ‘Confusion in Business’  “Uncertainty and confusion in business is a bad thing,”
John Flannery, chief executive officer at General Electric Co.’s
Indian unit, said in an interview today. “It was easier to
operate in the country a year ago than it is today. It is
frustrating to look at unresolved issues and know that they’re
resolvable if you can get some leadership and orientation around
them.”  In an attempt to kick start an  economy  that expanded at the
slowest pace in two years in the quarter ended Sept. 30, Singh
had approved overseas companies including  Carrefour (CA)  and  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  to own as much as 51 percent of retailers selling more than
one brand, adding riders to benefit the local economy.  Singh and Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  say the proposals
to allow foreign investment in India’s retail sector would check
inflation above 9 percent by reducing the amount of farm produce
that currently rots before it can be sold and bring better
prices for farmers.  The government changed course after Singh’s two biggest
allies, Trinamool Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam,
opposed the policy arguing the move would lead to job losses and
hurt small shopkeepers. The main federal opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party  was also against the steps for the same reasons.  ‘Reform is Over’  “It is very clear now that the reform process is over
until we have a new government, a new prime minister,” said
Laveesh Bhandari, a director of Indicus Analytics, an economics
research firm in  New Delhi . “The government is so weak they
will give up on anything.”  Facing at least five regional elections next year,
including one in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most populous state, the
government may refrain from taking controversial decisions in
the run up to the contests, Bhandari said.  Rahul Gandhi , widely
expected to lead the ruling party into the 2014 election, may
take on a more prominent role campaigning for these states.  The U-turn on retail may allow the government to pass
legislation this parliamentary session that will create a new
anti-graft agency with enhanced powers, a demand of activists
behind nationwide protests that swept the country in August.  Anna Hazare , a social activist who went on a 13-day hunger
strike that month, has vowed to resume his rallies if the
government fails to pass the bill in the parliamentary session
that ends Dec. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  