-- 
German Factories Weather Debt Turmoil Hurting Region: Economy

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-07T12:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/industrial-production-in-germany-advanced-more-than-forecast-in-october.html
German  industrial production  rose
more than economists forecast in October as factories weathered
debt turmoil that hurt output in other countries across the
region and threatens to push it into a recession.  Production  climbed 0.8 percent from September, when it
dropped 2.8 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent increase, according to the
median of 33 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Separate
reports showed industrial output declined in the U.K., Italy and
Norway.  Europe ’s two-year-old debt crisis has damped demand for
German goods, increasing the chance that the economy will
contract. Still,  factory orders  rebounded 5.2 percent in
October, the ministry said yesterday, and  business confidence 
and  hiring  increased in November, suggesting domestic
consumption may help  Germany  weather the downturn.  “Germany may just be escaping economic contraction in the
fourth quarter,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “Despite the intensification of the
European market-confidence crisis, Germany is once more dodging
the trend.”  U.K. manufacturing output  fell 0.7 percent in October, more
than double the 0.3 percent median forecast of 21 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. Italian industrial production dropped
0.9 percent, while in  Norway  it slumped by 1.8 percent from
September.  Investment Goods  In Germany, production of investment goods rose 2.2 percent
in October from the previous month, when it fell 4.5 percent,
today’s report showed. Energy output advanced 1.1 percent while
construction activity increased 0.4 percent.  “After two straight declines, industrial production saw a
certain recovery in October,” the Economy Ministry said in a
statement. “In view of the restrained development of industrial
and construction orders, output should remain muted in coming
months.”  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate 
by a quarter percentage point on Nov. 3, saying the 17-nation
euro region is moving toward a “mild recession.” The
Frankfurt-based central bank may pare its key rate further
tomorrow to 1 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said yesterday it
is “more cautious” on 2012 as the euro region’s debt crisis
curbs orders.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company,
forecast stagnant profit for next year as sales growth moderates
and the global economy cools.  Global Demand  “Production will fall in the fourth quarter from the
third,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Demand for German goods has weakened globally, not
just as a result of the euro region’s debt crisis.”  China sees an increase in domestic costs and a slowdown in
overseas demand putting “severe” pressure on its exports next
year. While the nation can achieve export gains as long as
Europe’s crisis doesn’t deepen, it will need to focus on
strengthening links with  emerging markets , Wang Shouwen, head of
the foreign trade department, said at a briefing in Beijing
today.  The euro area’s  gross domestic product  still rose 0.2
percent in the three months through September, the European
Union’s statistics office said yesterday, confirming a Nov. 15
estimate. German GDP rose 0.5 percent in the third quarter, up
from a 0.3 percent gain in the previous three months.  Australian Growth  A separate report today showed Australia’s economy grew
faster than estimated last quarter on  consumer spending  and
mining-driven investment. Gross domestic product rose 1 percent
in the three months ended Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4
percent the prior quarter, the fastest pace in four years. The
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for 0.8
percent growth.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Daimler AG and Audi AG plan to
limit holiday breaks for the second year in a row as demand
holds up for  luxury vehicles  in  China . BMW and Daimler’s
Mercedes-Benz will shut most factories for just one week between
Christmas and New Year’s Day, while Audi will close European
plants for two weeks, the carmakers said today.  German consumer spending may also help shield the economy
from faltering exports. Domestic demand is improving as
households expect an increase in income prompted by “the
currently very favorable employment environment,” the
Bundesbank said Nov. 21 in its monthly report. German retail
sales rose 0.7 percent in October, more than economists
forecast.  Consumer borrowing in the U.S. probably rose by $7 billion
in October, compared with a $7.4 billion jump the previous
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the  Federal Reserve  releases the
figures today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  