-- 
ING Takes Charge of Up to $1.5 Billion on U.S. Annuities

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-12-07T17:12:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/ing-to-take-fourth-quarter-charge-of-up-to-1-5-billion-on-u-s-annuities.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, is taking a charge of as much as 1.1
billion euros ($1.5 billion) as lower  interest rates  and stock
markets hurt a U.S. annuity business the firm is winding down.  The shares fell the most in two weeks in Amsterdam trading.
ING updated its assumptions about the business to reflect market
conditions and the behavior of about 500,000 annuity holders,
who are retaining their contracts for longer than expected,
Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said today.  The company, which continues to prepare initial public
offerings for its insurance units, said the charge has no
material impact on the results of ING Bank or ING Insurance
EurAsia. ING plans to provide a contingent funding facility of
about 1.1 billion euros to its U.S. insurance business to ensure
compliance with regulatory requirements.  “This is part of the preparation for the initial public
offering of the U.S. insurance business,” said  Tom Muller , an
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers in Amsterdam, who advises
investors to “hold’” the shares. “Market circumstances
haven’t improved, interest rates are far too low for insurers,
and mortality tables are revised as life expectancy increases.”  ING dropped 29.6 cents, or 4.7 percent, to 6.01 euros in
Amsterdam today, after earlier sliding as much as 8.2 percent.
The company has a market value of 23 billion euros.  ‘Very Annoying’  Closed variable annuities tie payouts from life insurance
retirement contracts to the performance of an investment
portfolio. ING won’t “rule out” selling the closed block of
business, which has an account value of $45 billion, Hommen said
on a conference call.  “It is very annoying to announce this kind of news,” said
Hommen, adding that ING is running off the book after stopping
sales in 2009. The charge, to be taken in the fourth quarter,
will be at least 900 million euros, ING said.  ING said it also conducted a review of the policyholder
behavior assumptions for its variable annuity business in  Japan ,
which resulted in “non-material adjustments.”  Today’s announcement doesn’t change ING’s plan for the sale
of the insurance units, Hommen said today. The firm has to
divest the operations before the end of 2013 as a condition of
European Union approval for a taxpayer-funded bailout in 2008
and 2009.  “At this moment our best guess is still that we will be
tracking the plan we’ve set, so no delays, no change,” he told
analysts on a conference call. ING will give an update on its
plans at an investor event in January, Hommen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  