-- 
Linkers Show Inflation Set to Slow Even With GDP Booming: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-12-08T03:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/linkers-show-inflation-set-to-slow-even-with-gdp-booming-australia-credit.html
Investors expect Australian inflation
will slow, allowing the  Reserve Bank  to keep cutting  interest
rates  as unemployment rises, even with the economy expanding at
the fastest pace in four years, government bond yields indicate.  The gap between rates on five-year government notes and
inflation-linked debt show traders expect a 2.29 percent annual
increase in consumer prices through 2016, at the lower end of
the RBA target. The jobless rate rose last month as employers
unexpectedly cut positions, according to government data that
followed a report yesterday showing gross domestic product
growth in the past two quarters was the strongest since 2007.  Benchmark 10-year yields have dropped 33 basis points since
Sept. 30 to 3.89 percent, set for the longest run of quarterly
declines since 1998 following the Asian financial crisis, as
concerns mount that Europe’s debt turmoil will damage global
trade. Australian bonds are the second-best developed-world
performers this year, Bloomberg data show. A pipeline of
resource projects has cushioned a slump in services and
 manufacturing  hit by the Aussie dollar’s climb to a record.  “The high currency and a small increase in unemployment
may mean modest fourth-quarter inflation and that would give the
RBA room to cut rates further,” said  Peter Jolly , head of
market research at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  “While there
are large risks to growth ahead, the economy has been quite
strong and growth will continue to recover into the New Year
provided Europe’s issues don’t become aggravated.”  Rate Bets  Traders are betting the central bank will cut rates by as
much as 1.25 percentage points within 12 months, the largest
expected declines across the developed world, Credit Suisse
Group AG indexes show.  Yesterday’s data from the statistics bureau in Sydney
showed the only Group-of-10 economy to avoid a recession during
the global credit crisis was well placed before Europe’s
financial turmoil intensified.  GDP grew 1 percent last quarter and a revised 1.4 percent
three months earlier, the fastest six-month gain since March
2007.  Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said the GDP report reflects
“a very good economic story for  Australia ,” in a Bloomberg
News interview. Private business investment is driving growth
and incomes are rising in the context of low unemployment “and
inflation that’s contained,” she said yesterday.  Australia’s  jobless rate  rose to 5.3 percent from 5.2
percent, the statistics bureau said today, after matching a
more-than-two-year low of 4.9 percent in March and April.  Employment Drops  The number of people employed fell by 6,300 after a revised
increase of 16,800 in October, the statistics bureau said. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for
a 10,000 advance.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered rates this week
in the first consecutive cuts since 2009 to boost demand after
 consumer confidence  deteriorated this half with purchasing
manager surveys indicating manufacturing, construction and
services are contracting.  Investors increased bets for a 50-basis-point cut at the
next policy meeting Feb. 7, interbank futures showed today. The
contracts indicate a better than 50 percent chance the central
bank will lower its benchmark to 3 percent, matching the least
since 1960, by June.  The RBA, which considered raising rates as recently as
August to head off inflation, said Dec. 6 that consumer-price
growth will likely remain within the bank’s target range of 2
percent to 3 percent in 2012 and 2013.  Inflation Slowing  The five-year breakeven rate dropped to 2.18 percentage
points last month, the lowest level since at least 2009, after
reaching a peak of 3.14 points in May. Annual inflation was 3.5
percent in the third quarter, slowing from 3.6 percent, the
government reported in October.  Australian inflation-linked notes returned 17 percent to
investors this year, including reinvested interest, heading for
the best annual performance in data stretching back to 1997,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The securities have
climbed the most across 18 markets tracked by Merrill Lynch.  Rising exports and A$456 billion ($467 billion) of planned
mining and energy projects helped spur the local currency to
$1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since it was freely floated in
1983.  Europe’s troubles have weighed on the so-called Aussie in
recent months. The world’s fifth most-traded currency has fallen
about 7 percent since its peak on concern Greece would default
and trigger a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Ratings at Risk  Germany and  France  risk losing their AAA credit ratings in
a review of 15 euro nations,  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 5 as
the region struggles to lower budget deficits with unemployment
near 10 percent.  Yesterday’s report showed Australia’s economy expanded 2.5
percent in the third quarter from a  year earlier , faster than
the 1.9 percent increase predicted by economists. Mining
increased 3.7 percent, adding 0.3 percentage point, it showed.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and its demand
for  iron ore , coal and energy drove the nation’s terms of trade
-- a measure of export prices relative to import prices -- to a
record this year.  In Western Australia, the nation’s main center for iron
ore, employers added 11,600 jobs compared with 2,800 positions
in New South Wales. Overall, the number of full-time jobs
plunged by 39,900 in November and part-time employment rose by
33,600, data today showed.  Multi-Speed Economy  The two reports highlighted what the RBA has called a
multi-speed economy, with Western Australia leading growth while
the two most-populous regions -- New South Wales and Victoria,
contributed almost nothing to last quarter’s expansion.  Government bonds  in Australia returned 13.4 percent this
year, including reinvested interest, behind only the U.K. among
26 markets tracked by the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Australian
sovereign debt is heading for its biggest gains since 2008.  Australia’s longer-maturity securities are likely to
perform better than peers as the government funding arm halts
issuance after tomorrow, UBS AG said. The Australian Office of
Financial Management  said  Nov. 29 that it won’t hold bond
tenders from Dec. 10 to Jan. 31.  “For the next two months Australian bonds will outperform
the rest of the world,” said  Matthew Johnson , an interest-rate
strategist at UBS AG in a briefing in Sydney today. “There will
be a supply drought.”  Low Yields Predicted  The sovereign  bond market  is benefiting from Australia
being “one of the strongest AAA-rated countries,” and the risk
in 2012 is that bond yields will remain low, he said.  The premium investors demand to hold Australian corporate
bonds instead of government debt increased 36 basis points over
the past month to 281 yesterday, and touched the widest since
July 2009 at 286 last week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  “The first RBA interest-rate decision of the New Year
should extend the period of rate cuts,” said  Paul Brennan , a
senior economist at Citigroup in Sydney. “Further insuring the
economic expansion against downside risks from  Europe  now that
partial domestic indicators for the fourth quarter are showing
some moderation is the path of least regret, particularly as
early calculations suggest inflation will be extremely soft in
the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  