-- 
Insurers Offer Better Commercial Property Loan Terms Than Banks

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-12-07T14:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/insurers-offer-better-commercial-property-loan-terms-than-banks.html
Insurance companies are offering the
best terms on senior commercial real estate loans as banks halt
or scale back lending, a study by real-estate adviser  CBRE Group
Inc. (CBG)  showed.  Insurers are prepared to provide loans for as much as 69
percent of a property’s value, compared with an overall average
of 66 percent. The  interest rate  charged by insurers is 20 to 30
basis points lower than the average,  CBRE said . A basis point is
0.01 of a percentage point.  “Most of their loans are larger in size than the market
average, issued against best-quality real estate in terms of
location and covenant strength,” Natale Giostra, CBRE’s
European head of debt advising, said in a statement.  Insurers may represent 20 percent of U.K. businesses
generating new loans for commercial real estate in the coming
years, he said. Ten companies, including  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Axa SA (CS) ,
Canada Life Group,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Plc (PRU) , accounted
for 14 percent this year, CBRE calculated.  Europe ’s real estate lending market is dominated by banks,
which have also conducted just one significant sale of
securitized mortgage-backed bonds since 2007. Proposed changes
to European insurance investment rules, known as Solvency II,
will make real estate lending more attractive compared with
buying properties.  Europe’s banks cut back on lending after incurring 525
billion euros ($701 billion) of losses since the third quarter
of 2007, following the financial crisis and ensuing property
slump, according to Bloomberg calculations.  An overhaul of bank capital rules by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, known as Basel III, requires traditional
lenders to strengthen their balance sheets. That will prompt
them to sell loans and foreclosed properties.  France ’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and Eurohypo AG, Frankfurt-
based  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s real estate arm, have halted new lending
in the past two months, CBRE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 