-- 
Mitsui O.S.K. Surges as Tanker Deal May Signal End to Shipping Price Wars

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-12-07T08:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/mitsui-o-s-k-jumps-as-tanker-deal-may-signal-end-to-shipping-price-wars.html
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. ,  Japan ’s
largest sea-cargo carrier by market value, jumped the most in
three years after a tanker deal added to signs that shipping
companies are cooperating to ease overcapacity and revive rates.  The shipping line climbed 11 percent to 288 yen at the
close of trading in  Tokyo , the largest gain on the  Nikkei 225
Stock Average. (NKY)  Rivals  Nippon Yusen KK (9101)  and  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha
Ltd. (9107)  were the next two biggest climbers with increases of more
than 7 percent. All three companies are based in Tokyo.  Mitsui and partners including A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S said
yesterday they will pool about 50 very large crude carriers to
cut costs and boost utilization. The deal, following a tie-up
last week between container lines Mediterranean Shipping Co. and
CMA CGM SA, has sparked hopes that carriers may halt price wars
that have caused industrywide losses, said Masaharu Hirokane, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Many investors are starting to expect a fundamental
realignment of the industry,” he said. “Shipping companies
need to keep making reforms to overcome the current market
difficulties.”  In  Hong Kong ,  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  and China Shipping
Container Lines Co. both gained 11 percent. China Shipping
Development Co. rose 7 percent and Orient Overseas International
Ltd. climbed 9.8 percent.  Mitsui-Maersk Pool  The Mitsui-Maersk pool, which also includes Samco
Shipholding Pte and Ocean Tankers (Pte) Holdings Ltd., will
begin operations Feb. 1, the companies said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Mitsui  will contribute about 10 very large crude carriers
that are unprofitable because they are operating in the single-
voyage market and without longer-duration charters, said Hayato
Mochizuki, a general manager of its crude-oil tanker group.  This is the first time Mitsui, which has a fleet of about
40 VLCCs, has placed any of the vessels in a pool. VLCCs carry
about a fifth of the world’s crude.  Copenhagen-based Maersk will be the largest contributor to
the pool, with about 20 VLCCs joining by the end of 2012, said
Klaus Rud Sejling, chief commercial officer at Maersk Tankers.
The size of the pool will help the lines win more charters as
they will have more capacity and greater flexibility, he said.  The shipping lines are cooperating as they contend with
oil-tanker returns that are at the lowest levels in more than a
decade. Rates have slumped as the fleet is expanding more
quickly than demand to haul crude after owners ordered too many
vessels.  The Mitsui-Maersk pool will come to 50 VLCCs by the end of
2012, with an average vessel age of three years, according to
the companies. They will combine fleets and jointly market their
services through offices in Copenhagen,  New York  and  Singapore .  Slow-Steaming  All vessels will reduce their speeds, known in the industry
as slow steaming, to better manage overcapacity within the
global fleet of about 600 VLCCs, Sejling said. Lower speeds
increase the amount of time needed to complete a voyage,
effectively curbing the supply of ships.  Earnings from VLCCS, each able to haul about 2 million
barrels of crude, averaged as low as $1,000 a day in September
as a glut of new ships entered service. Rates averaged $20,000
for the week ended Dec. 2, according to Braemar Shipping
Services Plc in London.  Annual returns will average $19,000 a day in 2011 and
$15,000 a day for the following two years, less than half of the
$34,500 new tankers need to break even, Pareto Securities AS
said in a report in October. Earnings for the vessels peaked in
2004 at $97,000 and were at $93,000 four years later, falling to
$19,000 by 2011, according to the Oslo-based investment bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  