-- 
LivingSocial Is Said to Get Funding Valuing It at $6 Billion

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-12-08T00:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/livingsocial-said-to-receive-funding-valuing-coupon-website-at-6-billion.html
LivingSocial.com, the online-coupon
provider that competes with  Groupon Inc ., lined up $400 million
in funding that gives it a valuation of about $6 billion,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The company has already sold $176 million of the total,
Washington-based LivingSocial said in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The funding will be a mix of
equity and debt, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the figure hasn’t been disclosed. The investment will
come from both existing and new backers, the person said.  LivingSocial, which was in talks with banks earlier this
year about raising $1 billion in an initial public offering,
shifted plans after other Internet companies faced turbulent
debuts in the public markets. Groupon, which has a market
capitalization of $13.6 billion, has seen its shares dip as much
as 24 percent below its IPO price last month. The stock is now
trading at 5.8 percent more than its initial price.  As LivingSocial grows and expands into new cities, it
requires funds to hire and train more salespeople, said A.B. Mendez, a social-media analyst at WJB Capital in  New York .  “LivingSocial has made the claim that they have a human
sales representative on the ground in every city where they have
a daily-deal presence,” Mendez said. “In theory,
LivingSocial’s model is as human-capital intensive, if not more,
than Groupon.”  Fueling Expansion  Executives and backers have discussed a round of funding
valuing the company at $6 billion since September. LivingSocial
plans to use the new investment to fuel operations and
expansion, said the person familiar with the matter.  The company has almost doubled in value since April, when
it raised $400 million at a valuation of $3.5 billion, two
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. With the
$400 million in funding unveiled today, LivingSocial has
received a total of $1.03 billion from investors, including
Grotech Ventures, Institutional Venture Partners, T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. and e-commerce site  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   LivingSocial delivers daily discounts on restaurants,
hotels, events, and other goods and services. The daily-deal
market may generate $4.17 billion in U.S. sales in 2015,
compared with $1.97 billion this year, according to research
firm BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly, Virginia.  U.S. consumers will spend $80 million to $100 million on
daily-deal gifts between Thanksgiving and Christmas, estimates
 Yipit , a website that aggregates offers from a range of
companies. That amount is up from $15 million to $20 million
during the same period a year ago, Yipit said.  Other technology companies are pushing ahead with their
IPOs, even if valuations are coming down.  Zynga Inc. , which
earlier expected to be valued at as much as $10 billion in its
IPO, now aims to sell shares at a valuation of up to $7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  