-- 
J.C. Penney CEO Says Martha Stewart Deal Is ‘Transformational’

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/j-c-penney-buys-martha-stewart-living-stake-in-plan-to-open-mini-stores.html
J.C. Penney Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson  said a partnership with  Martha Stewart
Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  “will be transformational” for the
department store chain.  J.C. Penney agreed to acquire a 17 percent stake in the
housewares brand for $38.5 million, or $3.50 a share, according
to a joint statement yesterday. The Plano, Texas-based
department store chain is seeking to revive sales with new mini
stores dedicated to the  Martha Stewart  Living brand.  Founder Martha Stewart will “have extraordinary creative
freedom to do the best work of her life,” Johnson said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It would be wrong for J.C.
Penney to exert a lot of influence on the design of the product,
because that is what makes her unique.”  The agreement marks Johnson’s first strategic move since
becoming CEO in November after running  Apple Inc.’s  retail
operations. Johnson, who helped introduce Apple’s big-city
stores, is seeking to revive sales after the department-store
chain last month posted its first quarterly loss in two years as
shoppers delayed purchases.  “It’s definitely outside the box of what they’ve
historically done,” Liz Dunn, at analyst at Macquarie Group in
New York, said in an interview. “It’s certainly interesting and
points to a strategy with the new management of kind of going
after different brands and better products.”  J.C. Penney will also obtain two seats on the Martha
Stewart Living board.  Martha Stewart Living surged 33 percent to $4.16 yesterday
in New York. J.C. Penney  advanced (JCP)  0.6 percent to $33.51.  10-Year Agreement  Martha Stewart Living, which is based in New York, will
gain more than $200 million in revenue from the 10-year
agreement, according to the statement. The owner of the namesake
magazine and TV show is trying to boost sales growth after three
years of falling revenue, and had hired Blackstone Group LP this
year to help review proposals from potential investors. The
partnership with J.C. Penney ends New York-based Blackstone’s
role advising Martha Stewart.  The mini stores, which will sell home and lifestyle
merchandise, are scheduled to begin opening in J.C. Penney
stores in February 2013. The stores will have trained sales
associates who can provide “educational tips.” The two
companies will also develop and introduce an e-commerce site.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , which in 2007 began selling an exclusive
Martha Stewart line of home goods, said yesterday that it is now
reviewing that agreement “in light of the proliferation of
Martha Stewart-branded product in the marketplace.”  Bed and Bath  No decisions have been made and “Martha Stewart products
in categories such as cookware, kitchen utensils, bed and bath
will continue to be sold exclusively at Macy’s until further
notice,” Cincinnati-based Macy’s said in an e-mailed statement.  Johnson said he hoped Macy’s would continue its
relationship with Martha Stewart Living.  Since his appointment in June, Johnson has brought in
Michael Francis, a former colleague at  Target Corp. (TGT) , to head
marketing efforts. Last month, he also announced the appointment
of two former Apple executives as chief operating officer and
chief talent officer.  J.C. Penney reported a net loss of $143 million, or 67
cents a share, in the fiscal third quarter ended Oct. 29
compared with profit of $44 million, or 19 cents, a year
earlier, according to a statement Nov. 14. The company had last
reported a loss in the quarter ended August 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  