-- 
Asian Stocks Fall on Japan Machinery Data, Ahead of European Debt Summit

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-08T11:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/japanese-futures-little-changed-before-summit-australian-shares-decline.html
Asian  stocks (MXAPJ)  dropped ahead of a
European summit on the region’s sovereign debt crisis, and after
economic data from  Japan  and Australia signaled the global
economy is slowing.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. , the operator of the power plant
at the center of the biggest nuclear disaster in 25 years, sank
11 percent after the Mainichi newspaper reported it may be
effectively nationalized.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , a home appliances
maker that gets more than a fifth of its revenue from  Europe ,
fell 1.3 percent in Seoul.  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , Singapore’s
second-biggest real-estate company, led declines among the
city’s property developers after the government imposed extra
taxes on purchases of residential property.  “As the European meetings get closer investors have turned
cautious,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $24 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “There’s been a switch from a feeling
that we were going to get some visibility on the situation to a
cooler stance, where people are in a wait-and-see mood.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.5 percent to 117.56 as
of 8:28 p.m. in Tokyo. All but one of 10 industry groups on the
measure dropped, with more than twice as many stocks falling as
rising.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  retreated 0.7 percent
after machinery orders fell 6.9 percent in October from
September, missing the median forecast of a 0.5 percent gain by
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index fell 0.3 percent as the
nation’s employers cut 6,300 workers in November from the
previous month, missing the 10,000 extra jobs forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 22 economists.  Interest Rates   New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index dropped 0.4 percent after the
central bank left interest rates at a record low of 2.5 percent
today and cut its economic growth predictions. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  declined 0.4 percent as the central bank refrained
from raising borrowing costs for a sixth straight month amid a
global slowdown.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.7 percent,
while Singapore’s Straits Times Index lost 2 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 0.3 percent by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 and a 12 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.7 times
for the S&P 500 and 10.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  Pressure Intensifies  LG Electronics fell 1.3 percent to 74,000 won in Seoul,
while  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an owner of ports in Germany,
Italy and Spain, retreated 0.4 percent to HK$68 in Hong Kong.  Pressure on Europe’s leaders to halt the spread of the
region’s debt crisis at a summit in Brussels this week
intensified as the European Union had its AAA long-term rating
put on “creditwatch negative” by S&P following a similar
action on 15 euro-area governments.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy are expected to argue for rewriting European
Union treaties to tighten control of national budgets at the
meeting of euro zone leaders tonight and tomorrow.  “Investors can’t buy or sell until they see the results of
the European meetings,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees
about $600 million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “Stocks have been rising on expectations the European Union
and the  European Central Bank  may take some action, but now
investors need to see whether the results meet or beat
expectations.”  Tepco Action  Tokyo Electric Power, known as Tepco, dropped 11 percent to
244 yen after the Mainichi newspaper said the government’s
Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund may buy preferred
shares worth at least 1 trillion yen ($12.9 billion) from the
utility by next summer, without saying where the information
came from. Most of Tokyo Electric’s management will be replaced,
the report said.  City Developments sank 8.3 percent to S$9.19 in Singapore,
the second-biggest drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after
Tepco.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , an operator in residential and
commercial properties, dropped 7.3 percent to S$2.42. Keppel
Land Ltd., the real-estate unit of Keppel Corp., retreated 8
percent to S$2.42.  Singapore developers declined after the government required
foreigners and corporate entities to pay an additional 10
percent stamp duty when they buy homes in the city. Permanent
residents purchasing a second home as well as citizens buying
their third residential property also need to pay an additional
tax of 3 percent, the government said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  