-- 
Japanese Stocks Gain on Optimism Europe Will Act to Stem Crisis

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-07T06:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/japanese-stocks-gain-on-optimism-europe-will-act-to-stem-crisis-at-summit.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, sending the
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  to a one-month high, on speculation
European leaders will step up efforts to fight the debt crisis
at a summit tomorrow as 15 euro nations face the threat of
rating downgrades.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which depends on Europe for 20 percent of its
sales, gained 5.9 percent.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. , operator of
the world’s largest merchant fleet, soared 11 percent after
saying it plans to form a global pool of oil tankers with four
other companies. Meiji Holdings Co. rebounded 5.1 percent after
plunging yesterday on a report radioactive cesium was found in
its powdered milk.  “Even when there’s more bad news from Europe, there’s a
feeling that prices have hit bottom,” said Toshio Sumitani, a
strategist at Tokai  Tokyo  Research Center. “There’s more
confidence in Europe’s efforts to solve its problems and
investors are also starting to focus on the U.S.’s unexpected
strength.”  The Nikkei 225 rose 1.7 percent to 8,722.17 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, its highest since Nov. 9. The gauge has risen
almost 7 percent in the past seven trading days as the  Federal
Reserve  and five other central banks cut the cost of borrowing
dollars for European banks and  China  lowered lending curbs. The
broader Topix advanced 1.6 percent to 749.63 today.  Japanese  stocks (TPX)  extended gains after the yen depreciated to
as low as 104.39 against the euro today in Tokyo, compared with
103.97 at the close yesterday. A weaker yen boosts Japanese
companies’ overseas income when repatriated.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  added 0.6
percent. The gauge gained 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday. The
 U.S. economy  is showing signs of recovery, with a Dec. 2 report
that joblessness fell to a two-year low of 8.6 percent.  Brussels Summit  Exporters gained on optimism European leaders will act to
tackle the region’s debt. Sony gained 5.9 percent to 1,452 yen.
 Ricoh Co. , an office-equipment and camera maker that gets more
than 20 percent of its revenue in Europe, climbed 3.4 percent to
699 yen.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Standard &
Poor’s move yesterday to place 15 euro nations, including
Germany and France, on review for possible downgrades will help
force European leaders to ratchet up efforts to resolve the debt
crisis at their summit in Brussels on Dec. 8-9. The ratings
company said cuts would depend on the meeting’s outcome.  Bailout Fund Threatened  Standard & Poor’s  also said yesterday the European
Financial Stability Facility may lose its top  credit rating  if
any of its guarantors have their debt grade reduced.  The Financial Times reported euro leaders are weighing
doubling the amount of the rescue package. Negotiators are
considering allowing the euro zone’s existing 440 billion euro
($590 billion) bailout fund to continue running when a new 500
billion euro facility comes into force in mid-2012, according to
the report.  “There is an expectation in the market that Europe will
advance measures to overcome the debt issues,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“While there’s a sense of expectation in the market, investors
still want to see the results of meetings this week of the
European Union and  European Central Bank .”  Shipping Stocks Advance  Mitsui O.S.K.  soared 11 percent to 288 yen after saying it
will jointly operate 50  oil tankers  with partners to cut costs.
Industry returns are at the lowest levels in more than a decade
as fleets expand faster than demand to transport crude.  Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
jumped 7.9 percent to 192 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., the
third biggest, soared 7.3 percent to 147 yen. The  Topix industry
group  tracking shipping lines, which has dropped by about half
this year, today advanced the most among the index’s 33 groups.  Dairy-product maker Meiji gained 5.1 percent to 3,175 yen
after saying small traces of radioactivity in its products posed
no health risks. The stock dropped 9.7 percent yesterday after
 Kyodo News  reported cesium was found in its powdered milk after
the meltdowns at the Fukushima nuclear power plant.  Among companies that fell, Olympus Corp. declined the most
in the Nikkei 225, falling 5.2 percent to 1,128 yen after the
Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday put the scandal-hit endoscope
maker on an investigation watch list, suggesting the company is
at risk of delisting even if it produces an earnings report by
the Dec. 14 deadline.  -- With assistance from Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo.
Editors: Jim Powell, Jason Clenfield.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  