-- 
JBS May Sell U.S. Plants, Offices to Reduce Debt

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-12-07T18:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/jbs-may-sell-u-s-plants-offices-to-reduce-debt-correct-.html
(Corrects story originally published on Nov. 16 to remove
reference to office location in second paragraph.)  JBS SA (JBSS3) , which became the world’s
biggest beef producer through 10 acquisitions since 2008, said
it’s not interested in bidding on plants being divested by  BRF -
Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3)  and may instead sell U.S. assets to cut debt.  JBS, based in Sao Paulo, may sell idled plants in the U.S.
and office buildings that previously belonged to Pilgrim’s
Pride, Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista told analysts
today on an earnings conference call. JBS doesn’t expect the
divestments to be “material,” Batista said.  JBS, also the world’s second-largest poultry producer and
the U.S.’s biggest pork company, is seeking to reduce debt after
net debt rose in the third quarter to four times earnings before
interest, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, from 2.9
times in the year-earlier period.  The company closed 10 plants in  Brazil  between August and
September, including four leather plants, three slaughterhouses
and three deboning plants, it said Nov. 14.  Brazil’s regulator, known as Cade, ordered  Brasil Foods  in
July to sell some assets and stop using certain brands to gain
approval for its $3.8 billion acquisition of Sadia SA. It has to
sell 10 food-processing plants, 12 other brands, eight
distribution centers and four pork and chicken slaughterhouses.  Pilgrim’s Pride Losses  JBS  said Nov. 14 it had a third-quarter net loss of 67.5
million reais ($38.2 million), or 2 centavos a share, compared
with a profit of 143.4 million reais, or 6 centavos, in the same
period a year ago. Analysts forecast a gain of 4 centavos a
share, excluding some items, according to the average of four
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  JBS missed analysts’ estimates because of losses at its
Pilgrim’s Pride unit and a weaker Brazilian real that boosted
the value of its foreign debt in local currency terms. Pilgrim’s
is not likely to become profitable this quarter, Batista said.  Brazil’s real slumped 17 percent in the quarter, the worst
performer against the dollar of the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  JBS rose 5.4 percent to 5.69 reais at 5:08 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  