-- 
Jefferson Airplane Bandmates Teach Guitar to Rock Star Wannabes

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/jefferson-airplane-bandmates-teach-guitar-to-rock-wannabes-at-ohio-ranch.html
Bob Doherty,  NBC Universal ’s vice
president of broadcast operations, still goes to camp at the age
of 56.  His playground is the 120-acre  Fur Peace Ranch  in southeast
 Ohio , where guitarists of all stripes come to learn from masters
such as Jefferson Airplane and Hot Tuna bandmates Jack Casady
and Jorma Kaukonen.  Doherty was intimidated the first time he visited the Fur
Peace guitar camp in 2000, but it has become a big part of his
life. He’s been there 32 times -- more than any other student --
and now plays mandolin, ukulele and lap steel guitar, as well as
the folk variety.  “They’re like family now -- the students, the instructors,
the staff,” Doherty said. “I learn something new every time I
go.”  Fur Peace, opened by Kaukonen and his wife, Vanessa, in
1998, isn’t a fantasy camp for fans who want to hang out with
their rock heroes. It’s an intense workshop for guitarists who
want to improve their craft by working with some of the best in
the business.  “These guys take music seriously,” said Marjorie Thompson,
a student-turned-instructor at Fur Peace who also oversees the
undergraduate biology department at  Brown University  in
Providence,  Rhode Island . “You leave your obligations at home
and immerse yourself.”  Joplin Poster  Students perform as well as learn at Fur Peace, whose
$1,350 tuition covers all meals, workshops, cabin accommodations
and concerts during their four-day visit. (You can stay outside
the ranch on your own dime. I roomed at Ohio University Inn in
 Athens , about 10 miles away.)  Each Sunday, campers get a chance to show off their stuff
at the main concert hall, part of a complex that includes a
dining room, two classrooms and a library decorated with posters
of the Jefferson Airplane,  Janis Joplin  and other 1960s musical
icons.  One afternoon I heard songs ranging from Mason Williams’s
instrumental “Classical Gas” to the bluesy “Mustang Sally.”  Joella Walker, who works for a financial adviser in
Atlanta, played Hot Tuna’s “A Little Faster” on her Fender bass
guitar for an audience that included her tutor Casady.  “Secretly, I’ve always wanted to be a rock and roll star,”
said Walker, 39, the only female student at the ranch during my
visit.  Hot Tuna  Casady, whose eyebrows arched and dipped along with the
driving melody, was impressed with her performance.  “She did great,” said the 67-year-old bassist, who will be
appearing with Hot Tuna on Dec. 9-10 at  New York ’s  Beacon
Theatre .  Howard Monaghan, a public-relations executive from New York
who has been to the ranch six times, wasn’t so smooth during his
one and only time on stage.  “Just before I started, I lost it,” the 49-year-old
recalled. “My hands wouldn’t work. I stumbled through and
everybody came up after and said, ‘You did a great job.’ They’re
all supportive and non-competitive.”  When I was there, Kaukonen gave advanced lessons in finger-
picking in the library while next door former “Saturday Night
Live” bandleader G.E. Smith was banging out electric guitar
riffs.  Lester Levy, a mediator/arbitrator from  San Francisco ,
brushes up on his guitar playing several times a year at Fur
Peace. His daughter Jane, a 21-year-old actress who stars on the
ABC sitcom “ Suburgatory ,” recently gave the place
a plug during an appearance on “ Jimmy Kimmel Live! ”  “He goes three times a year,” she told Kimmel. “He’s like a
6-year-old about it!”  Guest Teachers  Fur Peace tries to match groups with similar skill and
interest levels.  “We want everyone on the same page ability-wise, so we
divide classes into four levels,” Kaukonen, 70, said.  In addition to guitarists Kaukonen, Casady and Smith, the
ranch features guest instructors such as mandolin virtuoso Barry
Mitterhoff and singer/songwriter Chris Smither.  “I try to take one concept and hammer that in during the
weekend,” Casady said. “If a student’s tone is tinny because
he’s hitting with the tips of his fingers, I tell him to use
more meat on the string. At the end, he can walk away with one
thing he can solidly work on.”  (James M. Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 jclash@explorers.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 