-- 
Jive IPO Gets Boost Following Billion-Dollar Cloud Deals: Tech

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/jive-ipo-gets-boost-following-billion-dollar-cloud-deals-tech.html
Jive Software Inc.  has every reason
to lift its initial public offering price after billion-dollar
cloud-computing acquisitions led by SAP AG and Oracle Corp.  Jive, a social-networking software maker, said last week it
aims to raise as much as $117 million in an IPO that would value
it at up to $573 million. That was before  SAP’s (SAP)  agreement Dec. 3
to buy SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion, or 52 percent more
than its value before the offer. Six weeks earlier, rival Oracle
snagged RightNow Technologies Inc. for $1.5 billion.  SAP is paying 11.7 times SuccessFactors’ sales over the
past 12 months. At a similar ratio, Jive would be valued at more
than $800 million. Software makers are paying up for targets
that charge fees to access applications online, rather than
licensing programs for desktops. Jive’s IPO may get a boost as
investors try to benefit from a shift to cloud services, a
market that Gartner Inc. says may reach $148.8 billion in 2014.  “Everybody is looking around and saying, ‘Where can I play
that trend?’” said Jeff Richards, a partner at GGV Capital in
 Menlo Park , California, which was a venture investor in
 SuccessFactors. (SFSF)  “Jive has achieved some scale and is an up-and-
coming area.”  Cloud Shift  Jive’s software lets company employees collaborate on
projects and communicate with customers. The company counts
NetApp Inc., Avon Products Inc., Yum! Brands Inc. and Nike Inc.
among its clients. Revenue has  surged  in the past three years as
workers seek the kind of social-networking features they get
from Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. for corporate use.  Some of the world’s biggest technology companies, including
Microsoft Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and International Business
Machines Corp., are moving to the so-called cloud, where
customers can save money by renting software delivered over the
Web and accessing it anywhere, instead of installing it on their
own machines. The global market for cloud services was about
$68.3 billion in 2010, according to Gartner.  Jive began offering its product on a subscription basis
starting in 2007. The company lets customers install software on
their own premises or have it hosted offsite. In its prospectus,
the company said that its subscription model “provides
financial visibility through renewable revenues and cash
flows.”  Jive, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , plans to sell 8.33
million shares for $8 to $10 apiece, with stockholders offering
an additional 3.37 million shares, according to the Nov. 30
filing. The final pricing is expected on Dec. 13.  If Jive were to seek a valuation of $800 million, it would
have to sell shares at about $14 apiece.  Crop of IPOs  At least three other U.S. companies that sell software as a
service have registered for IPOs since August. ExactTarget Inc.,
a provider of e-mail marketing services, filed in November,
three months after rival Eloqua Ltd. Bazaarvoice Inc., whose
software helps companies communicate with their customers,
announced IPO plans in August.  SuccessFactors, which makes software used to manage
employee performance, has more than 3,500 customers and 15
million subscribers in 168 countries.  Jive’s  sales  in the nine months through September climbed
73 percent from the same period a year earlier to $54.8 million.  Still, like SuccessFactors, Jive is losing money as it
invests in growth. Sales and marketing costs rose 55 percent in
the first three quarters from a year earlier, and the company’s
net loss almost doubled to $38.1 million.  Tolerating Losses  Investors will put up with losses as long as Jive and other
cloud companies keep expanding and meet analysts’ revenue
predictions, said Brenon Daly, an analyst at research firm The
451 Group in  San Francisco .  Responsys Inc. , a provider of
marketing software, forecast fourth-quarter sales last month
that trailed estimates, pushing the stock down 24 percent the
next day.  “The investment community is saying, ‘We will help
underwrite your business with the understanding that you’re
going to make all your numbers,’” Daly said.  Ana Andreescu, a spokeswoman for Jive, declined to comment,
citing the pre-IPO quiet period.  The global market for social customer-relationship
management software, where Jive competes with companies such as
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , will jump to $1 billion in 2012 from $625
million last year, according to  Gartner . Other rivals include
software giants Microsoft and IBM, as well as Lithium
Technologies Inc., a startup based in Emeryville, California.  ‘Very Nice Exits’  Sequoia Capital , which profited earlier this year from
 Linkedin Corp.’s  IPO, stands to benefit the most if Jive’s value
rises. The Menlo Park-based venture firm paid $57 million for a
stake that would be worth about $170 million at the high end of
the expected offering. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers paid $40
million for a stake worth about $67 million at that price.  The acquisitions by  Oracle (ORCL)  and SAP, the largest maker of
business-management software, may also help other cloud-based
startups fetch higher prices, said Kris Duggan, chief executive
officer of business-software startup Badgeville Inc., also based
in Menlo Park. Until recently, Salesforce was the only acquirer,
he said.  “People thought for a long time Salesforce.com was the
only game in town,” Duggan said. “Now it’s everybody. You can
create some very nice exits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  