-- 
JPMorgan’s Investment Bank Revenue ‘Flat,’ Chief Dimon Says

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-12-07T18:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/jpmorgan-s-dimon-says-quarter-s-investment-bank-revenue-flat-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, will have “essentially flat” investment
bank revenue this quarter excluding accounting adjustments,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon .  The comparison is to this year’s third quarter, said
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-based firm.
That period was the worst for trading and investment-banking
revenue at the biggest Wall Street firms since the depths of the
financial crisis in 2008, excluding accounting gains.  Dimon’s remarks in a presentation today show U.S.
investment banks still face pressure as corporations delay
raising capital and investors sell riskier assets amid concern
that the  U.S. economy  is weakening and  Europe ’s debt crisis may
spread. JPMorgan’s private-equity unit also expects to post a
“modest loss” in this year’s fourth quarter, Dimon wrote in
the presentation.  The company’s investment bank generated about $4.5 billion
in revenue during the third quarter after backing out a $1.9
billion gain in debt-valuation adjustments. Dimon excluded that
accounting effect in forecasting the unit’s revenue in the
 presentation  at a New York investor conference sponsored by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Debt Ceiling  Revenue at the investment-banking unit has slid this year
from $8.2 billion in the first quarter as concerns mounted in
the third quarter that  Greece  would default and U.S. lawmakers
would fail to raise the debt ceiling. JPMorgan told investors in
October that the division will face similar market conditions
for the rest of the year.  The unit’s long-term prospects show promise, Dimon said in
the presentation. Global credit needs may expand by about $160
trillion over the next 10 years and worldwide investment demand
may increase from 20 percent of gross domestic product in 2010
to 25 percent by 2030, according to the presentation.  JPMorgan climbed 1.7 percent to $33.80 at 1:22 p.m. in New
York, making it the day’s  biggest gainer (INDU)  in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average.  The bank has a “battleship”  balance sheet (JPM) , and by next
year can meet proposed international capital standards that take
full effect in 2019, if the board wants to meet them early,
Dimon said in the presentation. Dimon has previously referred to
JPMorgan as having a “fortress” balance sheet to tout the
bank’s overall financial health. The company is the largest and
most profitable U.S. bank and was among the only major U.S.
lenders to remain profitable throughout the recession.  ‘We’re Sorry’  JPMorgan may buy back an additional $950 million in stock
approved as part of a $15 billion capital-distribution program
by the  Federal Reserve , according to the presentation. The
allowance “represents a reallocation of previously approved
capacity” from the Fed’s 2011 capital tests, he wrote.  The bank completed its $8 billion stock-repurchase plan
approved by the Fed in March after buying back $4.4 billion of
common equity in the third quarter, for which Dimon apologized.  “We spent a whole $8 billion buying back stock,” he said
in an Oct. 13 conference call with analysts. “And yes, it would
have been wiser to wait. We’re sorry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  