-- 
JPMorgan Has About $100 Billion of Notional GIIPS Derivatives

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-12-07T20:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/jpmorgan-has-about-100-billion-of-notional-giips-derivatives.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
derivatives dealer among U.S. banks, has bought and sold
notional credit derivatives on about $100 billion of sovereign
and non-sovereign debt in the five troubled European nations,
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said today.  The bank had about $13.9 billion of mark-to-market
derivative exposure as of Nov. 17, offset by $6.3 billion of
collateral, Dimon said at an investor conference in New York.
JPMorgan would likely have a direct loss of about $3 billion if
a “disaster” occurred in the region’s debt crisis, he said.  “I get asked the question with derivatives of $14 billion,
people say ‘my God, that’s your net because you have huge long
and short,’ and we do. It’s maybe $100 billion by $100 billion,
I forgot the exact number,” Dimon said.  The disclosure is the first by a major U.S. bank regarding
the notional derivatives it bought and sold on the region as
investors seek to judge banks’ risks linked to the European debt
crisis. Banks provide their global notional  credit derivatives 
bought and sold, and have begun providing net exposure figures
to  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland, Portugal and  Spain , sometimes called
the GIIPS.  Dimon said the bank doesn’t net its derivative exposure
across counterparties, so it would not sell protection on
Italian debt to one bank and buy credit-default swaps on Italian
debt from another and consider those exposures offsetting.  “The default of a counterparty is not going to sink our
hedges,” Dimon said. “We don’t have a lot of wrong-way risk.”  Counterparties  Credit derivatives counterparties are primarily outside the
GIIPS and are either investment-grade or are supported by
collateral arrangements, according to a presentation from the
bank. Dimon also said all the firm’s hedging was done with
counterparties outside the five countries.  As of Sept. 30, JPMorgan said worldwide it had sold $3.13
trillion of credit-derivative protection and purchased $3.07
trillion, up from $2.75 trillion sold and $2.72 trillion bought
at the end of 2010, filings show. The firm was the largest
dealer of credit derivatives among U.S. banks in the second
quarter, according to data from the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  