-- 
Juventus Targets Chelsea Defender David Luiz, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-07T10:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/juventus-targets-chelsea-defender-david-luiz-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with links to the Web.  Juventus Wants Luiz  Juventus is set to bid 15 million pounds ($23.4 million)
for Chelsea defender  David Luiz , about 9 million pounds less
than the Blues paid for the Brazilian in January,  the Mirror
reported.   Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas plans to sell several
players in next month’s transfer window and to acquire a new
midfielder, the newspaper said.  Juventus also wants to sign center-back Alex from Chelsea
for about 2 million pounds, the Mirror added.  McEachran Loan  Chelsea will allow midfielder Josh McEachran to join Bolton
on loan to smooth negotiations over a January move for Trotters
center-back  Gary Cahill ,  according to the Sun .  The Blues face competition from Tottenham for Cahill, who
is out of contract at the end of the season, the newspaper said.  Tevez Negotiations  AC Milan is prepared to pay all of  Carlos Tevez ’s 200,000
pounds-a-week wages to facilitate a loan move for the Manchester
City striker,  the Mirror said .  Milan wants to take Tevez on loan until the end of the
season and then negotiate a fee for a permanent deal, the
newspaper reported. City want a guarantee the Rossoneri will buy
the Argentine, the Mirror said.  ‘Croatian Messi’  Man. City officials yesterday held talks with the
representatives of 17-year-old Mateo Kovacic, dubbed the
‘Croatian Lionel Messi,’ the Sun reported.  The Dinamo Zagreb midfielder is also wanted by Arsenal,
Tottenham and Manchester United, the newspaper said.  Blackburn Sales  Blackburn will try to sell fringe players including Vince Grella, Keith Andrews and Michel Salgado to give manager Steve Kean more funds to make new signings,  the Mirror reported .  The trio earn a combined 100,000 pounds a week, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 