-- 
Karzai Calls Shrine Bomb ‘Declaration of Enmity’ From Pakistani Terrorists

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-12-07T21:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/karzai-calls-shrine-bomb-declaration-of-enmity-from-pakistani-terrorists.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  called
the bombing at a Shiite Muslim shrine in Kabul a “declaration
of enmity” by a Pakistani extremist group, escalating tensions
with the nation’s eastern neighbor.  “The responsibility for this attack hostile to mankind and
Islam was claimed by Lashkar-e-Jhangvi based in  Pakistan ,”
Karzai said in a e-mailed statement yesterday. “Afghanistan
takes this very seriously” and “we will fully follow up with
Pakistan.”  A suicide bomber detonated an explosive vest at the gate of
the Abul Fazl shrine in Kabul Dec. 6, killing 56 people and
wounding almost 150, Ghulam Sakhi Kargar, spokesman for public
health ministry, said by phone yesterday.  Afghan Islamic Press, a  news agency  in the Pakistani
provincial capital of  Peshawar , said it received a phone call
from Lashkar-e-Jhangvi claiming responsibility for the Kabul
attack. Karzai did not indicate that he had information beyond
that claim.  Lashkar is an organization of Islam’s Sunni Deobandi sect
and has conducted scores of bombings and shootings against
minority Shiites in Pakistan. The U.S. State Department in 2003
listed it as a terrorist group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda
and was involved with the 2002 kidnapping-murder of Wall Street
Journal correspondent Daniel Pearl in Pakistan.  The 300-strong, violent anti-Shiite group was formed in
1996 by veterans of the war against the Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan, with support from Pakistan’s Inter-Services
Intelligence agency, said a senior U.S. intelligence official
who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly. It has never before launched an
attack outside Pakistan, the official added.  Pakistan Support  “The group officially is banned in Pakistan but it has a
long history of receiving support from Pakistan’s Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate,” wrote retired Defense Intelligence
Agency analyst John F. McCreary in his Dec. 6 NightWatch
newsletter. “LeJ has never had a presence in  Afghanistan , but
it obviously has sympathetic organized groups of Afghans willing
to work as its agents.”  Relations between the two countries are already strained by
the alleged aid from Pakistan’s spy agency to militants fighting
in Afghanistan, including the Taliban and the Haqqani network.
The bombings followed by a day an international conference on
Afghanistan’s future, which Pakistan boycotted after a border
clash with U.S. forces that left 24 Pakistani soldiers dead.  Other Bombings  Karzai canceled plans to visit the U.K. yesterday,
returning home following three bombings that targeted worshipers
observing a Shiite Muslim holiday and sparked fears of sectarian
violence. Bombs also exploded at Shiite observances of the
Ashura holiday in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif, killing
four, and the southern city of Kandahar, which claimed no lives.  Afghanistan has largely avoided the violence between Sunnis
and Shiites that have been part of the struggles in Pakistan and
 Iraq .  “The significance of the attacks is that they occurred in
three of the most important towns in Afghanistan and from south
to north,” McCreary said. “The message is that determined
groups can attack anywhere with impunity in Afghanistan.”  Karzai yesterday visited wounded at the Emergency Hospital
for Victim of War in Kabul. He called the attacks a
“declaration of enmity against the people of Afghanistan and
Islam,” according to the e-mail from his office.  The attacks, which were condemned by the Taliban, raise the
risk that sectarian bloodshed may be exported to Afghanistan by
Pakistan-based groups, the Austin, Texas risk analysis company
Stratfor said, as the U.S.-led coalition plans for a 2014
pullout.  ‘Screaming and Crying’  The Kabul attack targeted worshipers who had gathered for
Ashura, which marks the death 14 centuries ago of a Muslim
leader, Imam Hussein, the prophet Muhammad’s grandson. In
 Washington , State Department spokesman Mark Toner said one
private American citizen, whose name was not made public, was
among the dead.  “Before I arrived at the gate, there was a huge explosion
and I fell down,” said Shuja Ahmad, 35, a government employee
who had come to the mosque for Ashura prayers. “I saw people
running, screaming and crying and saw bodies everywhere.”  Afghanistan’s main militant movement, the Taliban, arrested
or killed thousands of Shiites in Mazar-e-Sharif and other
cities during the Taliban regime in the 1990s. Still, those
attacks didn’t include bombings of religious ceremonies, and
inciting a Shiite backlash now, amid the Taliban’s fight against
U.S.-led forces, “does not fit into their strategy,” Stratfor
said in an e-mailed analysis.  Taliban Denial  Zabihullah Mujahed, a Taliban spokesman, denied in an e-
mail that his group was responsible for the attacks, saying that
“the brutal incidents that happened in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif
are against Islamic law and humanity.” His e-mail said that
“the foreigners want civilians to hate the Taliban more and
more.”  The attacks increase concerns of a more complex civil war
in Afghanistan as the U.S.-led coalition hands over security to
the Afghan army and police. A second round of formal transfers
of security responsibility is under way in provinces and
districts throughout the country. Those transfers are due to be
completed by the end of 2014, when a limited U.S. force is to
remain to support Afghan government security.  The top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, General
John Allen, has privately recommended delaying new American
troop withdrawals planned by the Obama administration until
2014, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  In the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif, a bomb attached to
a bicycle exploded as people walked across a street to attend an
Ashura ceremony, said Sherjan Durani, a spokesman for the Balkh
province government. Four people were killed and 21 wounded,
Durani said.  A bomb that was placed on a parked motorcycle in the
southern city of Kandahar exploded without killing anyone, said
Zalmai Ayoubi, a spokesman for the province.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  