-- 
Thailand Stocks: Kasikornbank, Pylon, Quality Houses, Sri Trang

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-12-07T10:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/kasikornbank-krungthai-ptt-exploration-thai-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Thailand  trading. (SET)  Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Bangkok.  The SET Index rose for a seventh day, climbing 1.6 percent
to 1,046.73, the longest winning streak since the eight-day
rally through July 25.  Rubber producers:  Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl (STA)  ,
Thailand’s biggest publicly traded rubber producer, increased
3.7 percent to 19.4 baht, the highest close since Oct. 28.  Thai
Rubber Latex Corp. (Thailand) Pcl (TRUBB)   advanced 1.8
percent to 3.42 baht.  Rubber futures in Tokyo advanced to a one-month high on
speculation that oil will extend a rally on concern that supply
from the  Middle East  may be interrupted, boosting the cost of
making synthetic products used in tires.  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK)  , the country’s third-largest
lender by assets, gained 1.6 percent to 124 baht, the highest
close since Nov. 8. Kasikornbank’s long-term counterparty credit
rating was raised to BBB+ from BBB by  Standard & Poor’s .  Pylon Pcl (PYLON)  , an engineering services company,
jumped 4.8 percent to 3.50 baht, the most since Aug. 11. The
company won nine contracts valued at a total of 143.6 million
baht ($4.7 million), it said in a regulatory filing.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  , the nation’s
only publicly traded oil explorer, climbed 2.7 percent to 169
baht, the highest since Sept. 1. Crude oil rose for a fourth day
in New York on speculation European leaders will agree steps to
ease the debt crisis at a summit tomorrow, and on signs the
region may suspend imports of Iranian crude.  Quality Houses Pcl (QH)  , a property developer, dropped
1.9 percent to 1.57 baht, halting a three-day, 16 percent rally.
Quality Houses has received no contact from Siam Cement Pcl,
which was reported to have shown interest in buying the
company’s stake in Home Product Center Pcl, it said in
regulatory filing. Quality Houses owns 17 percent of Home
Product, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home Product (HMPRO TB), a retailer of home improvement
hardware, rose 0.9 percent to 11.4 baht.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  