-- 
Kesa Electricals Reports First-Half Loss as All Units Worsen

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-12-07T09:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/kesa-electricals-reports-first-half-loss-as-all-units-worsen-1-.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) , the European
electronics retailer that’s selling its U.K. Comet chain,
reported a first-half loss after sales deteriorated in all its
main divisions, and said market conditions remain “tough.”  The adjusted pretax loss was 13.6 million euros ($18
million) in the six months through Oct. 31 compared with a 25
million-euro profit a year earlier, London-based Kesa said today
in a statement. The dividend was held at 2.25 cents a share.  Kesa agreed last month to offload its money-losing Comet
unit to focus on markets such as  France , where the consumer-
electronics market declined more than 5 percent in the first
half. Sales at the French Darty chain, which will represent more
than two-thirds of the group total after Comet is sold, fell 2.4
percent as the unit increased its leading share of the market.  “Kesa is a pure play on the European consumer, and France
in particular,”  Kate Calvert , an analyst at  Seymour Pierce  said
in a report. “The European financial crisis and the
implementation of austerity packages across its markets means
consumer demand has already started to weaken.”  Kesa fell 4.2 percent to 78.2 pence at 9 a.m. in  London 
trading. The shares have fallen 51 percent this year, about the
same as U.K.-based competitor Dixons Retail Plc.  Comet Sale  The sale of Comet to investment firm OpCapita LLP will go
ahead as planned on Feb. 3, subject to shareholder approval,
Chairman David Newlands said on a conference call. OpCapita has
an agreement for the 40 million-pound asset-backed lending
facility needed to complete the deal, he said.  Finance Director Dominic Platt said there will be no
further cash contribution to OpCapita to supplement its working
capital. The retailer is paying the investment firm 50 million
pounds ($78 million) to take on the 248-store chain.  Comet’s loss widened to 25.7 million euros in the first
half, from 6.4 million euros a year earlier, Kesa said.  So-called retail profit at the French Darty chain fell 27
percent to 43.5 million euros. Promotions are increasing, though
the situation is “manageable,” Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin said on the conference call.  Profit on the same basis at Kesa’s other established-
markets unit, which includes BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, fell
to 3.7 million euros from 4.7 million euros last year. The loss
at the developing-markets division, which includes Darty Italy,
 Turkey  and  Spain , widened to 22.1 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  