-- 
KGHM Climbs From 2-Month Low as Slump on Quadra Deal ‘Overdone’

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-12-07T10:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/kghm-climbs-from-2-month-low-as-slump-on-quadra-deal-overdone-.html
KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper
miner with the largest European output, rebounded from a two-
month low as Societe Generale SA said a selloff on a deal to buy
Canada’s  Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. (QUX)  was “overdone.”  KGHM rallied as much as 3.9 percent and traded 2.6 percent
higher to 125.4 zloty at 10:47 a.m. in Warsaw, valuing the
Lubin, southern Poland-based producer at 25.1 billion zloty
($7.5 billion). The shares slumped 8 percent yesterday after
announcing a deal to buy Quadra for C$2.87 billion ($2.84
billion) as  Poland ’s sole copper producer seeks to cut
production costs and raise output.  The stock drop reflected “a fear that the deal will drain
the company’s cash and significantly lower dividend prospects,”
Leszek Iwaszko, a Warsaw-based analyst at Societe Generale wrote
in a note to clients today. “This is overdone in view of the
balance of deal strengths and weaknesses.”  Three-month delivery copper rose as much as 1.5 percent to
$7,950 per metric ton in  London  on speculation European Union
leaders will step up efforts to contain the sovereign-debt
crisis, boosting the demand outlook for base metals.  Quadra’s purchase is set to be KGHM’s second takeover
outside Poland in almost two years and the largest overseas
acquisition by a Polish company. KGHM will pay C$15 a share, a
41 percent premium to Quadra’s 20-day volume-weighted average
price, the Vancouver-based company said yesterday. The
transaction, expected to close in the first quarter, will be
funded using existing cash on hand.  The deal will give KGHM access to “attractive resources in
the areas of low geopolitical risk” and creates long-term
potential to lower costs of production, according to  Societe
Generale . The offered price is “materially below” the average
price projection of C$18.15 per Quadra share based on research
notes from 13 analysts as shown in a Bloomberg consensus, the
bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  