-- 
Napa Turns `12 Days of Christmas’ Into $1,000 Star Chefs Feast

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/napa-turns-12-days-of-christmas-into-1-000-star-chefs-feast-for-charity.html
The  Meadowood Napa Valley , a luxury
resort with three Michelin stars, has more than leaping lords
planned for its culinary “Twelve Days of Christmas.”  For the fourth year, Meadowood’s festival is offering a
dozen meals from top international chefs and giving some of the
proceeds to  Share Our Strength , a Washington-based charity that
fights childhood hunger.  The 2010 menu included Wagyu beef from Masaharu Morimoto,
seared scallops from Marcus Samuelsson and rib of beef from
April Bloomfield.  “We want the event to be to food what the  Sundance 
Festival is to film,” Christopher Kostow, Meadowood’s executive
chef, said by phone. He plans to serve a meal including truffle-
glazed veal shank on Dec. 17. “No chef has ever turned us down,
and that’s amazing.”  Winemaker Antonio Buchanan of TBG Inc., a marketing firm in
 San Francisco  and  New York  that he founded with his wife, said
the couple bought four tickets to the $990-per-person charity
event this year after attending three dinners in 2010.  “It’s heaven for a foodie and wine lover,” Buchanan said
by phone. “How often do you get to experience these great chefs
and wineries, and at the same time get to do something for the
betterment of kids.”  Meadowood, located on a 250-acre estate in St. Helena,
 California , started the “Twelve Days” festival in the early
1990s as a banquet-style celebration by founding partner H.
William Harlan. It was discontinued a few years later and then
returned when Kostow, who earned his first Michelin star before
he turned 30, became executive chef.  Regional Menus  This year, Kostow said he assembled a group of chefs to
prepare dishes representing different regions of the world. The
meals will be paired with wines from local vintners.  Tonight, Chicago-based master chef Curtis Duffy, who was
the first chef de cuisine at  Chicago ’s Alinea, will serve a two-
layered dish featuring Alaskan king crab, with calamansi and
pickled cucumbers.  Shin Takagi, executive chef of Zeniya in Kanazawa,  Japan ,
takes over the kitchen Thursday, followed by Sean Brock, the
executive chef at Husk and McCrady’s in Charleston,  South
Carolina , on Friday. On Saturday the kitchen belongs to Mark
Gold, who oversees the menu at Eva in  Los Angeles .  Enrique Olvera from Mexico City’s  Pujol  will serve a
multicourse meal on Dec. 16 along with wines from  Gargiulo
Vineyards  in Oakville, California.  Red-Legged Partridge  Michelin-starred chef George Mendes of New York’s Aldea
gets the honor of serving the partridge, a Scottish red-legged
version, at his Dec. 13 dinner. The main course will come with
cabbage, and the meal will be paired with  Hunnicutt wines .  “I was attracted to the event because Share Our Strength
is a great charity I support, and it was an opportunity to take
my cuisine to Napa,” said Mendes, a Mediterranean specialist.  Share Our Strength will receive 20 percent of the revenue
from each ticket sold. Since its inception, the event has raised
$120,000 for the organization.  (The “Twelve Days of Christmas” charity dinners at
Meadowood Napa Valley, 900 Meadowood Lane in  St. Helena ,
California, runs through Dec. 17. Tickets begin at $990 on
weekdays and $1,065 on weekends. Information: +1-800-458-8080 or
 http://www.meadowood.com/events .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 