-- 
NBA Players, Owners Ratify Deal

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T23:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/nba-finishes-terms-of-10-year-labor-deal-in-time-for-training-camps-start.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players ratified a 10-year labor agreement, allowing
training-camp openings and player signings starting tomorrow.  Approval by team owners and the National Basketball Players
Association was announced today at a news conference in New York.
Each team will play 66 games starting with five on Dec. 25. The
normal 82-game season was to have begun Nov. 1.  The two sides agreed in principle to the new contract on
Nov. 26, and today’s ratification officially ends a lockout that
lasted 161 days.  The league has permitted players to begin working out at
team facilities and having contact with the clubs since last
week. Preseason practice officially begins tomorrow, when
signings can start at 2 p.m. New York time. Trades can also take
place.  Among the unrestricted free agents on the market are Tyson Chandler,  David West , Shane Battier, Kris Humphries, Caron Butler, Nene,  Jason Richardson  and  Glen Davis . Forward Battier
said today in a post on Twitter that he was signing with the
 Miami Heat .  All-Stars Chris Paul of the  New Orleans Hornets  and  Dwight Howard  of the Orlando Magic both will be free agents after the
2011-12 season, meaning their teams may look to work trades
before then if re-signing isn’t possible.  Revenue Split  Under the labor deal, which also settles multiple lawsuits,
players will receive 51.2 percent of basketball-related income
this season. Future splits run from 49 percent and 51 percent,
depending on whether the league falls short of projections or
exceeds them. Last season the league reported about $4.3 billion
in revenue, with players receiving 57 percent of basketball-
related income.  The package also calls for increased minimum payments for
appearances on behalf of teams’ commercial sponsors and an
increased per diem for meal expenses, which will be fixed at
$120 a day. It was $102 a day when the last agreement began in
2005.  New anti-doping provisions include offseason testing for
performance-enhancing drugs beginning with the 2012-13 season.
Players may not be tested on game days and the number of tests
for any given player will be limited so that “a majority of
players will receive no more than four tests throughout the
course of the entire year,” according to a letter to the
players sent by the union yesterday.  HGH Testing  A joint management-player committee will study the
possibility of implementing testing for human growth hormone, a
muscle-building substance banned in Olympic sports.  Both the  National Football League  and  Major League Baseball 
included provisions in their new labor contracts to test for HGH.
The NFL included HGH blood testing as part of an August labor
contract though the NFL Players Association has delayed its
implementation while disputing the program details.  The two sides will also form a committee to study workplace
rules that will consider increasing the minimum number of days
off, offseason access to team facilities and limiting two-a-day
practices during training camps.  The lockout was the fourth-longest work stoppage in major
U.S. team sports history, behind a 310-day lockout in the
 National Hockey League  in 2004-05, a 232-day baseball players
strike in 1994, and the NBA’s 1998-99 lockout, which lasted 204
days and led to a 50-game season that began in February 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 