-- 
Nigeria’s Trade Surplus Widens in Third Quarter on Oil

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-12-07T17:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/nigeria-s-trade-surplus-widens-in-third-quarter-on-oil-1-.html
The  trade surplus  in  Nigeria ,
 Africa ’s biggest oil producer, widened to 989 billion naira
($6.1 billion) in the third quarter compared with the previous
three months as oil exports climbed, the statistics agency said.  The surplus increased nearly threefold from 248.5 billion
naira, while the value of exports, led by oil, rose 8.4 percent
to 3.87 trillion naira, the Abuja-based National Bureau of
Statistics said in a  statement  published on its website today.
Oil shipments, representing 95 percent of total exports, rose 23
percent to 3.69 trillion naira from the previous quarter, the
agency said.  The trade data shows a surge in import demand in the first
nine months of this year, compared with the same period last
year, “which likely explains the significant downward pressure
on foreign-exchange reserves,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-
based economist at  Renaissance Capital , said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Imports into Africa’s most-populous country and top oil
producer jumped 91 percent to 9.3 trillion naira from January to
September, compared with the same period last year, according to
the statement. Total trade declined 2 percent to 6.75 trillion
naira because of the decline in imports, the agency said.  The Nigerian central bank has been struggling to build the
country’s reserves, which stood at $33 billion on Dec. 2, about
the same level as the previous year, according to  data  from the
Abuja-based bank. Nigeria’s benchmark Bonny Light crude has
risen 17 percent this year.  The West African country imports most of its fuel products
because of a lack of refining capacity, helping meet foreign-
currency demand with twice-weekly auctions.  The naira declined 0.1 percent to 161.7 per dollar on the
interbank market today, the weakest since Oct. 21 on a closing
basis, as of 3:20 p.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency retreated after the central bank failed
to meet demand for U.S. dollars at two straight auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  