-- 
Norway’s Assurances on Eksportfinans Debt Make Headway With S&P

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-12-08T09:26:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/norway-s-assurances-on-eksportfinans-debt-make-headway-with-s-p.html
Norway’s assurances that creditors at
Eksportfinans ASA don’t face a default as the unit is wound down
show the government is committed to averting a  credit event ,
 Standard & Poor’s  said.  “We are listening carefully to what the owners say and
what kind of commitment the owners are willing to make, relative
to the company,” Per Tornqvist, a credit analyst at S&P, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We see that the government has
a strong incentive to act in the best interest of the company in
order to achieve its own interest.”  S&P cut Eksportfinans five levels to BBB+ on Nov. 25, three
days after the state-backed lender was slashed seven steps to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service. The downgrades followed the
government’s decision to dismantle the state-backed unit after
rejecting its pleas to waive capital rules. S&P said then it was
investigating whether Eksportfinans’s euro medium-term note
program already was in default, and warned more downgrades may
come. The cuts sent tremors through credit markets as far as
 Asia  as investors balked at the changed status of their bonds.  Since then, the government has defended its move as
necessary to safeguard the country’s export industry and argued
the lender, which was created in 1962 to support Norwegian sales
abroad, still has the backing to honor all its debt obligations.  ‘Strong, Solid’  Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske said on Dec. 6 that
Eksportfinans is “strong, solid and an important tool for the
Norwegian government in ensuring the export industry’s good
financing.” Asked whether there may be a default, Giske said
“that is not up to me to decide. I don’t think the downgrade is
justified.”  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the Norwegian
government. DNB ASA, Norway’s biggest bank, holds 40 percent,
while 23.21 percent is held by  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest
Nordic lender.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  “The fact that Standard & Poor’s in particular addressed
the event of a default issue has of course created a lot of work
because the implications of that would be dramatic,” Geir Bergvoll, chairman of Eksportfinans, said by phone. “We are not
able to see that, say we are in such a situation, that an event
of default could be clear. Eksportfinans is, whether you go into
the liquidity position or into the solidity position, absolutely
100 percent rock solid.”  ‘Not Simple’  S&P said last month the CreditWatch negative on
Eksportfinans’s BBB+ rating will be resolved after a review of
“the consequences of the government action to end the most
important part of Eksportfinans’ business on the creditors’
position.”  The status of the EMTN program “is a technicality and not
simple,” Tornqvist said in the interview. “Our own lawyers
came to the conclusion that, in spite of the company statement
that they are not in breach right now, that this is not an
evident conclusion. And that means we need to flag it, which we
do through a CreditWatch action. The CreditWatch action may end
up with the conclusion that ‘ok, fine, we affirm the rating and
there is an outlook.’”  The downgrades sent yields on Eksportfinans’ benchmark 4.75
percent 1 billion-euro note due June 2013 surging to a record
high of 9.58 percent on Nov. 30, up from 1.66 percent on Nov.
21. Yields on debt sold by DNB, 34 percent owned by the
Norwegian government, and state-backed, AAA rated Kommunalbanken
AS also rose.  Samurai Bonds  DNB Bank delayed the sale of the 20 billion yen ($258
million) in Samurai bonds planned for today, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified as the information is private. Daiwa Securities Group
Inc., Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc. were
hired to arrange the deal, according to a Nov. 22 filing with
 Japan ’s finance ministry.  “My immediate take is that this is linked to the debacle
around Eksportfinans,” said Jonas Shum, a credit analyst at SEB
Merchant Banking in Oslo.  Japanese investors hold more than 1 trillion yen of
Eksportfinans debt, including its Samurai and Uridashi notes,
according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Norway, which boasts a $560 billion sovereign-wealth fund
built from its oil income, is unlikely to let the lender default
given the potential fallout of such a credit event, said Paal Ringholm, chief bond analyst at First Securities ASA. “They
have strong incentives to prevent a default and they do have the
tools to prevent one,” he said in a Dec. 6 interview.  Eksportfinans Bonds  The yield on Eksportfinans’ benchmark 4.75 percent note
eased today to 6.43 percent at 9:44 a.m. local time today, the
lowest since Moody’s Nov. 22 downgrade.  Eksportfinans has taken legal advice from two separate
English law firms, Martine Mills Hagen, head of funding at the
lender, said on a Nov. 28 conference call with investors.
“Having considered their advice, we don’t believe that there’s
an event of default,” she said.  Eksportfinans was one of  Norway ’s biggest issuers of bonds
to foreigners. The government’s decision to wind down the unit
affects bond holdings worth about $35 billion.  “We have already factored in an anticipation that, subject
to the EMTN clause, we are looking at a BBB+ rating, and that is
a high rating,” Tornqvist said. “That rating is built on an
expectation that the owners, including the Norwegian government,
have a self-interest in preserving the economic value of the
company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  