-- 
Norway Derides Default Risk at Eksportfinans

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-12-07T07:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/norway-derides-default-risk-at-eksportfinans.html
Norway ’s government signaled it sees
little risk of  Eksportfinans ASA  defaulting on its obligations
even after the state-backed lender was downgraded to junk in
response to last month’s decision to wind down the unit.  Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske said Eksportfinans
is “strong, solid and an important tool for the Norwegian
government in ensuring the export industry’s good financing,”
in reply to Bloomberg questions in Oslo yesterday. Asked whether
there may be a default, Giske said “that is not up to me to
decide. I don’t think the downgrade is justified.”  Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 22 cut Eksportfinans
seven levels to Ba1 four days after the government said it will
dismantle the unit because it was in breach of capital rules
limiting loans to single industries. The move disrupted credit
markets as far as  Japan  as bondholders learned that securities
they thought were backed by a AAA sovereign were no longer
investment grade. Still, Norway is unlikely to let the lender
default given the potential fallout of such a  credit event , said
Paal Ringholm, chief bond analyst at First Securities ASA in
Oslo.  “They have strong incentives to prevent a default and they
do have the tools to prevent one,” Ringholm said in an
interview yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  warned on Nov. 25 that Eksportfinans’s
euro medium-term note program may already be in default. S&P cut
the lender five steps to BBB+.  Legal Advice  Eksportfinans has taken legal advice from two separate
English law firms, Martine Mills Hagen, head of funding at the
lender, said on a Nov. 28 conference call with investors.
“Having considered their advice, we don’t believe that there’s
an event of default,” she said.  Eksportfinans, which was set up in 1962 to support
Norwegian exporters, was one of the Nordic country’s biggest
issuers of bonds to foreigners. The government’s decision to
wind down the unit affects debt investors holding $35 billion.  The yield on Eksportfinans’ benchmark 4.75 percent 1
billion-euro note due June 2013 surged to a record high of 9.58
percent on Nov. 30, up from 1.66 percent on Nov. 21. The yield
was at 6.80 percent today, according to Bloomberg composite
prices. The likelihood the government won’t allow a default may
make the bonds an attractive buy, according to Ringholm.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  “I don’t say there aren’t any risk factors but especially
for long-term investors I see a buying opportunity,” he said.  Eksportfinans is 40 percent owned by DNB ASA, Norway’s
biggest bank, 23.21 percent by  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest
Nordic lender, and 8.09 percent by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen. Other owners include a number of smaller Norwegian
banks as well as BNP Paribas SA, which holds 0.03 percent. The
Norwegian government holds 15 percent.  Yields on bonds from DNB, which is 34 percent owned by the
government, also rose after the downgrades. The yield on its
benchmark 4.5 percent 2014 note jumped about 0.66 percentage
point in the week Eksportfinans was downgraded, to 3.16 percent.
The yield on AAA rated Kommunalbanken AB’s $1 billion bond due
in October 2014 has also risen.  “The potential negative outcome of Eksportfinans would
have negative effects for funding costs of Kommunalbanken and
potentially also DNB,” Ringholm said. “It is rational for
Norway, for the government, to ensure that no large default will
happen.”  Uncoordinated Decision  Giske faces criticism over his ministry’s decision not to
inform Eksportfinans’s other owners of the wind-down plan. Geir Bergvoll, Eksportfinans chairman, said he wasn’t told until
about an hour before Giske and Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg
held a press conference on Nov. 18 announcing the move.  “This was a government decision and we had to inform all
actors at the same time to ensure the field of competition being
just,” Giske said.  “That we were working on a government solution, and that
that was one of the options, and a very likely one, that was
known a long time before the announcement so it was up to all
actors to decide what to do and how they would prepare for the
situation that a government solution would be the end result. I
don’t think they were surprised,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  