-- 
NRC to Increase Oversight of Duke Energy’s Oconee Plant

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-07T17:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/nrc-to-increase-oversight-of-duke-energy-s-oconee-plant-1-.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission said it will increase inspections at  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ’s Oconee power plant after finding a flaw deemed to be of
“substantial safety significance.”  Faulty circuit breakers may have prevented a back-up
shutdown system from operating during fires or storms when other
ways to cool the reactors weren’t available, the NRC said today
in a statement.  “The facility was vulnerable to core damage if an accident
involving a series of unlikely events occurred,” the NRC said
in the statement.  The NRC is weighing rules to upgrade safety at 104
commercial U.S. reactors following meltdowns and radiation leaks
at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant caused by
an earthquake and tsunami in March.  A priority for the agency is identifying declines in power-
plant performance, such as errors at FirstEnergy Corp.’s Perry
plant near  Cleveland  and Nebraska Public Power District’s Cooper
plant near Omaha that almost exposed workers to significant
doses of radiation, NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  told reporters
yesterday.  Workers at the three-reactor Oconee plant, about 30 miles
(48 kilometers) west of Greenville,  South Carolina , detected the
electrical breaker failure June 2, and the NRC held a meeting
Nov. 16 on the issue, according to the agency. Oconee can
generate enough electricity for about 1.9 million homes,
according to Duke Energy’s  website .  Prompt Action  The company “took prompt action to replace the breakers
with fuses that were extensively tested and qualified prior to
installing them,” Duke Energy spokeswoman Sandra Magee said
today in a phone interview. The back-up shutdown system hasn’t
been needed since the plant started operating in 1973, she said.  Public safety wasn’t jeopardized because the plant didn’t
have an emergency that required the back-up, the NRC said in its
statement. The agency is seeking more information “to determine
whether the breaker problem represents a current performance
issue,” according to the NRC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  