-- 
Nunavut Region to Boost Renewable Power to Offset Climate Change

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/nunavut-region-to-boost-renewable-power-to-offset-climate-change.html
Nunavut,  Canada ’s northernmost
territory, is studying ways to boost its use of hydroelectric,
wind and solar power to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels
and mitigate climate change, Premier Eva Aariak said.  The territory, about the same size as neighboring
Greenland, has “abundant” renewable resources, including
summer days with 24 hours of sunlight, said Aariak, in an
interview yesterday. The government may consider feed-in tariffs
and other mechanisms to promote the use of alternative energies,
she said.  Nunavut, with a population of 33,000, is one of the world’s
most thinly populated regions and relies primarily on  diesel
fuel  to run generators and heat homes. Using renewable energy
sources would reduce the need for fossil fuel shipments that
must come from southern Canada by plane or boat because there
are no roads or rail links to the region.  “It’s important for Nunavut to look at innovative ways
into other sources of energy,” said Aariak, 56, who was elected
leader in 2008. “Right now, we are at the research and study
stage,” which includes studying construction of a hydroelectric
power plant near the capital of Iqaluit, which hosted finance
ministers from the Group of Seven nations in February, 2010.  While focusing on renewable energy to meet local demand,
Nunavut may ultimately become an exporter of fossil fuels. The
Arctic, including sections controlled by Canada, may hold 90
billion barrels of oil, more than the proven reserves of
Nigeria, Kazakhstan and  Mexico  combined, and enough to supply
the U.S. for more than a decade, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said
in 2008.  ‘Strong Growth’  The value of the territory’s petroleum reserves may be as
high as C$3 trillion, the Nunavut government has said. Nunavut’s
economy of about C$1.2 billion grew 11 percent last year and
will post “strong growth again” this year, Aariak said. Growth
will average 5 percent over the next four years as mining
projects, tourism and the fishing industry boost employment, she
said.  At the same time, the climate  of the Arctic territory,
which is home to polar bears, musk-oxen and caribou, is among
the fastest-changing in the world with warmer summers and
thinner ice, Aariak said.  “ Climate change  is very much upon us,” said Aariak. “It
is affecting our hunters, the animals, the thinning of the ice
is a big concern, as well as erosion from permafrost melting.”  The region is warming about twice as fast as the global
average, according to the UN’s  Intergovernmental Panel  on
Climate Change. Negotiators from 191 nations meeting in Durban,
 South Africa  are struggling to agree on how to reduce global
greenhouse gas emissions. Canada’s Environment Minister Peter Kent has said the country will not extend its commitment under
the  Kyoto Protocol .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  