-- 
Deutsche Bank Mail Bomb in Germany Triggers Alert to New York Banks, Firms

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-12-07T22:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/nypd-on-alert-after-deutsche-bank-package-.html
New York  police increased patrols at
Deutsche Bank AG locations in the city and alerted an umbrella
group for financial institutions and companies after the bank
received an explosive device at its offices in  Germany .  New York Police Department spokesman  Paul Browne  said today
in an interview that it advised Shield, a security program for
private firms in New York, to be “extra careful” of similar
suspicious packages received by mail.  The device was addressed and mailed to Deutsche Bank Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Ackermann in Frankfurt, the police
department said. The package was detected by X-ray technology
inside the bank’s mailroom and didn’t detonate, police said.  “The FBI’s Joint Terrorist  Task Force  is working with
German authorities to assess the incident in Frankfurt and any
potential threat to facilities or people here,” said James Margolin, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
New York. The task force is an agency that includes New York
police and FBI agents, as well as other local, state and federal
law enforcement groups. “There is no specific threat to New
York associated with the incident at this time.”  An executive at one of the largest U.S. banks said
authorities had asked Wall Street firms to put their mailrooms
on alert for suspicious packages.  Banks receive death threats and warnings about letter bombs
and toxins such as anthrax almost every week, the person said,
speaking on condition of anonymity because the firm doesn’t want
to attract additional threats.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  confirmed reports that it had received a
“suspicious package” addressed to Ackermann.  “The relevant internal departments subsequently alerted
the police, who have now taken over the investigation,”
bank spokesman Armin Niedermeier said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at   dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358
or  dscheer@bloomberg.net . 