-- 
NYSE Retail Order Program May Spur Sub-Penny Quotes, Knight Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-12-07T20:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/nyse-retail-order-program-may-spur-sub-penny-quotes-knight-says.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , one of the
main market makers on the New York Stock Exchange, said an NYSE
plan to offer retail investors better prices than those
available to others could disrupt trading by dismantling a ban
on quote increments of less than 1 cent.  NYSE  proposed  a one-year program in October to attract
orders from so-called equity wholesalers, firms such as  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Citadel LLC and Citigroup Inc. that execute trades within their
own walls. Offering individuals better prices may result in sub-
penny quotes on exchanges, requiring technology upgrades and
changes to trading rules, said Leonard Amoruso, Knight’s general
counsel. Such quotes are banned by regulators.  NYSE is trying to capture orders that otherwise would be
traded off exchange by financial companies in a process known as
internalization. It’s seeking to persuade brokers that execute
buy and sell requests themselves, often at slightly better
prices than are available publicly, to send orders they don’t
trade to NYSE instead of other securities firms or dark pools.  “If the underlying request is to move to sub-penny
quoting, we certainly have a fair amount of concerns,”  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based Amoruso said in a phone interview. The
SEC set the minimum price variation for quotes at one cent in
2005 and rules such as the obligations of brokers holding
customer orders and the fees that exchanges charge are “keyed
off the one-penny increment,” he said.  The pilot program, which would allow retail customers to
buy shares at least a 10th of a cent lower than the best offer
price or sell slightly higher than the best bid, would probably
be copied by other exchanges and dark pools, Amoruso said. The
NYSE program would save retail brokers at least 50 cents on a
500-share order.  Market Model  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission must approve
the program before it can go into effect.  “If the commission were inclined to move in this
direction, it is very likely that all market centers, lit and
dark, would immediately seek similar relief so as to keep the
competitive landscape on a level playing field,” Knight’s
Amoruso told the SEC in a Nov. 28  letter  about sub-penny
quoting. “To proceed in any other manner would be tantamount to
conveying to the NYSE a pricing convention monopoly.”  NYSE’s program wouldn’t compel the SEC to lift its ban on
sub-penny quotes in all circumstances, said Joseph Mecane, co-
head of U.S. listings and cash execution at  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   “We’re not requesting a blanket sub-penny exemption,” he
said. NYSE asked the SEC if it could offer the type of price
improvement that wholesalers, which include Knight, provide to
individual customers, he said. “The question becomes, what type
of programs would they be accepting sub-penny quotes for?”  Individual Share  About 10 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from
individual traders, Mecane said in a phone interview. Discount
and other brokers that cater to those clients often turn to
wholesalers for orders that can be traded at the market’s
prevailing price.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  sent 99 percent of its
orders to UBS in the second quarter.  TD Ameritrade (AMTD)  Holding Corp.
 sent  74 percent of its market orders in NYSE-listed stocks to
Citadel and 21 percent to UBS in the third quarter.  Orders from investors are attractive to market makers and
asset managers because the senders, unlike professional traders,
aren’t expected to know more about short-term price movements
than the firm they’re trading with. Soliciting the orders could
lure more trading to NYSE, Mecane said.  NYSE Euronext executives have argued that the increase in
orders traded away from exchanges erodes the ability of buyers
and sellers to interact and yield prices that are deemed
reliable. About  30 percent  of equities trading takes place over-
the-counter, with those transactions based on prices established
on exchanges, according to data from Bats Global Markets Inc.  Liquidity Providers  The program would create two categories of brokers: retail
member organizations and retail liquidity providers. Orders from
a firm in the first group or a broker acting on its behalf could
trade against hidden orders at the exchange intended only for
retail clients. The firm would be paid for submitting orders,
while approved providers of liquidity who supply quotes for
retail transactions would pay a fee when they buy or sell.  The pricing reverses the traditional fee structure on the
biggest U.S. exchanges, which normally pay firms adding
liquidity and charge as much as 30 cents per 100 shares for
those trading against existing orders. Exchanges pocket the
difference. The 30-cent cap was set by the SEC.  NYSE’s designated market makers, which include units of
Barclays Plc, Getco LLC, Knight and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
along with the exchange’s so-called supplemental liquidity
providers, such as automated firms Virtu Financial LLC and
Hudson River Trading LLC, could supply orders for retail brokers
through the program. Mutual funds and other investors could
furnish orders for individual traders, although their fee would
be higher than what NYSE’s liquidity providers pay.  Small Benefit  TD Ameritrade, whose client accounts total $405 billion,
said it supported NYSE’s program even as it urged an overhaul to
give traders more shares instead of marginally better prices.
More shares at the best public bid or offer could yield a better
average price for retail trades than multiple transactions at
different levels, Christopher Nagy, managing director of order
strategy at the Omaha, Nebraska-based company, said in a Nov. 30
 letter  to the SEC.  The program would bring more orders to NYSE without
displaying them publicly or making them accessible to everyone.
Executives from Themis Trading LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said
on the company’s  blog  in October that NYSE’s proposal may be a
“Trojan horse” intended to force the SEC to reassess the
internalization of orders by wholesalers. The adoption of hidden
trade requests runs counter to statements by NYSE officials that
publicly displayed orders are better for markets, Themis said.  The program, which will also apply to stocks traded on NYSE
Amex, is meant to fit into the current “ecosystem” that allows
prices to be improved for individual investors, Mecane said. The
exchange’s plan to do this also doesn’t try to cut wholesalers
out of the execution business, he said.  Second-Tier Flow  “There’s an opportunity for this program to get some of
the second-tier retail flow,” Mecane said. “There are a lot of
relationships and routing already in place. It’s designed to be
complementary to the business models of the wholesalers.”  While NYSE and Amex can’t provide the “same level of
customization and service that a bilateral negotiation” between
a retail broker and wholesaler can offer, the program allows
more market makers and liquidity providers to get a shot at
orders they wouldn’t otherwise see, Mecane said. That
competition, based on the ability to differentiate between
customers, would benefit individual investors, he said.  Michael Stewart, head of global equities at UBS, told the
SEC in a Nov. 30  letter  the Zurich-based bank supported NYSE’s
plan to permit firms to offer prices only to specific client
segments such as retail brokers. This currently isn’t allowed on
exchanges. Dark pools should also be able to segment clients and
accept sub-penny orders to level the playing field between
exchanges and broker-run venues, he said.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief executive Officer and President
 Robert Greifeld  said at a Goldman Sachs investor conference
today that his company supports NYSE’s program.  “Anything that will get the SEC to allow more segmented
pricing would be a good thing for us,” he said. Nasdaq, based
in New York, has tried to draw more retail orders to its
exchange through pricing and trading requirements, he said.  Kevin Cronin, global head of equity trading at Atlanta-
based mutual fund firm Invesco Ltd., said the price improvement
NYSE’s program would offer isn’t significant while the
“collateral games” that could result from firms trading ahead
of mutual funds and brokers would hurt investors.  “It makes some of us scratch our heads and say, ‘Guys,
what problem are we trying to solve?’” Cronin said at an
Investment Company Institute conference yesterday in  New York .  Reject It  CFA Institute , a trade group that represents investment
analysts and managers, said the SEC should reject NYSE’s
proposal because it harms investors placing limit orders, or
requests to buy shares at no more than a specified price or sell
at no less than a certain level. The new orders for retail
investors would trade before those requests are filled, it said.  “Sub-penny executions, in this case in the order of $0.001
per share, offer little economic benefit to the end investor
compared with the cost incurred by market participants posting
limit orders who lose an opportunity to trade,” CFA wrote in a
Nov. 30  letter  to the SEC. “This opportunity cost is compounded
by the subsequent disincentive to post limit orders.”  Hudson River Trading said the SEC should adopt a rule that
tests price improvement across multiple exchanges instead of one
that applies only on NYSE. Regulators should also examine
whether differences in trading rules across exchanges and
alternative venues should be more similar, the New York-based
automated trading firm said in a Nov. 30  letter .  Investing Subset  NYSE’s request for an exemption from the sub-penny trading
prohibition “would allow a subset of the investing public to
benefit from those better prices and deny that benefit to other
investors,” Suhas Daftuar, managing director at Hudson River
Trading, wrote. While the program may produce more competition
to improve prices for retail investors, doing so “would seem to
be materially unfair discrimination against some exchange
members,” he said.  NYSE’s proposal is meant to fit into the current trading
structure and doesn’t seek to remedy all the concerns and
trading rules questioned by respondents, Mecane said.  “There are still a lot of very legitimate market structure
debates out there,” he said. “It shouldn’t warrant holding up
our program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 