-- 
Obama Opposes Linking Pipeline to Payroll Cut

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-07T21:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/obama-opposes-linking-pipeline-to-payroll-cut.html
President  Barack Obama  said he would
reject any effort by congressional Republicans to tie
accelerated U.S. approval of the Keystone XL pipeline to
extending a cut in the payroll tax.  The payroll tax cut “shouldn’t be held hostage” by any
other issue, including approval of the proposed  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  oil pipeline from  Canada  to the U.S., Obama said after
meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper at the White
House.  Political considerations played no part in the
administration’s delay of a decision on the pipeline until early
2013, after the elections for president and Congress, Obama
said.  “This is a big project with big consequences,” he said.
The environmental impact of building the pipeline must be
“properly understood.”  Legislation backed by House Republicans would require the
U.S. make a decision on the Keystone project in as little as
seven months and give authority over it to the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission . The State Department has jurisdiction
over the project because the pipeline crosses an international
border.  Republican leaders are considering including expedited
approval of the pipeline in legislation extending a cut in the
payroll tax, which is set to expire at the end of the year. The
tax measure is a top priority for Obama and Republican
lawmakers, who have objected to Democratic proposals to raise
taxes on the wealthiest Americans to replace the lost revenue.  ‘Extraneous Issues’  If the payroll tax cut “is attached to a whole bunch of
extraneous issues,” then “it’s not something I’m going to
accept,” Obama said, adding that he doesn’t expect the
provision to survive congressional negotiations.  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  said Republicans
are ready for a battle over the provision.  “We are working on a bill to stop a tax hike, protect
Social Security, reform unemployment insurance and create
jobs,”  Brendan Buck , the Ohio Republican’s press secretary,
said in an e-mailed statement. “If President Obama threatens to
veto it over a provision that creates American jobs, that’s a
fight we’re ready to have.”  Canadian Crude  The $7 billion, 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) Keystone
pipeline would carry Canadian tar-sands crude through the Great
Plains to the  Gulf of Mexico .  The State Department, which had planned to make a decision
on the project by the end of the year, said on Nov. 10 it will
delay its decision until early 2013 to consider alternative
routes.  The pipeline would carry as many as 700,000 barrels a day
of heavy crude across parts of Montana,  South Dakota , Nebraska,
Kansas,  Oklahoma  and  Texas . Its original proposed path would
take it over an ecologically sensitive area in Nebraska that
also supplies drinking water sources to 1.5 million people.
TransCanada has reached agreement with Nebraska officials to
move the route away from environmentally sensitive areas.  Obama and Harper announced the two nations have agreed on
steps to speed up the flow of goods and people across the border
while also enhancing security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  