-- 
Obama and Harper Agree on Perimeter Security Accords to Increase Trade

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-12-07T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/obama-and-harper-agree-on-perimeter-security-accords-to-increase-trade.html
President  Barack Obama  and Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  agreed to take steps to speed the
flow of goods and people across the border while enhancing
security and harmonizing regulation, in a bid to counter
weakening trade ties between the two countries.  The pact, announced by Obama and Harper following a meeting
in  Washington , moves the two countries toward a “perimeter”
security system that lays out plans to inspect more cargo and
travelers before they arrive in North America.  Canada  and the
U.S. will also seek to streamline and align regulations on some
goods.  “Moving security to the perimeter of our continent will
transform our border and create jobs and growth in Canada by
improving the flow of goods and people between our two
countries,” Harper said in a statement. “These agreements
represent the most significant step forward in Canada-U.S.
cooperation since the North American Free Trade  Agreement. ”  The Canada-U.S. trade relationship has struggled under the
impact of tighter border security following the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, as well as the emergence of  China  as a
competitor and slowing global growth. The share of Canada’s
shipments to the U.S. has been declining since 2000,  a trend 
that accelerated as the global recession curbed demand for
Canadian exports.  The two countries agreed on 29 initiatives to harmonize
regulation as a “first step” toward new regulatory
cooperation, focused on agriculture and food, transportation,
health products and the environment.  Autos and Rails  Auto producers and rail companies will benefit from efforts
to harmonize vehicle safety standards, the Canadian government
said in a background document released in Ottawa. Other steps
will include developing a common naming system for meat cuts,
aligning regulations for pesticides and harmonizing rules in the
pharmaceuticals industry.  “This announcement is not about a common border, it is
about an integrated economy and our shared vision for good jobs,
increased investment and a higher standard of living,” Jayson Myers, chief executive of the Canadian Manufacturers and
Exporters, said in a statement.  Border regulations cost Canadian businesses about C$16
billion ($15.8 billion) annually, the Canadian government said.  The accord comes after Obama announced last month he would
delay until 2013 a decision on the $7 billion, 1,661-mile
(2,673-kilometer) Keystone XL  pipeline , proposed by TransCanada
Corp. Approval of the pipeline, which would carry Canadian oil-
sands crude through the Great Plains to the  Gulf of Mexico , is a
“no-brainer,” Harper said in a Sept. 21 interview with
Bloomberg.  Canada Irked  The Keystone delay is the latest of several U.S. moves that
have irked Canada. Canada objected to “Buy American”
provisions in the Obama administration’s $447 billion jobs bill
that was blocked by Republicans in Congress, as well as the
restoration of a $5.50 fee on Canadian travelers arriving in the
U.S. by plane or ship.  The two countries have agreed to coordinate their systems
for screening cargo so goods entering either nation only have to
be cleared once. They plan to integrate passenger baggage
screening systems, meaning Canada will have to adopt the U.S.
system for detecting explosives. In exchange, U.S. authorities
will lift the requirement that baggage be re-screened when
travelers switch to connecting flights in the U.S.  Expanding NEXUS  They also agreed to expand a program called  NEXUS  that
allows frequent travelers to pass more quickly through customs.
Canada will expand NEXUS lanes and booths at several border
crossings, including Windsor, Ontario-Detroit. There will be
“significant” investments in physical infrastructure at
various border points, the documents say.  Canada and the U.S. will develop coordinated entry-and-exit
systems, so the record of land entry by individuals into one
country can be used to track the exit from another. Canada will
adopt the U.S. exit system, under which airlines must share
their passenger manifests on outbound international flights.  Canada will also beef up practices to identify potential
terrorist threats before they reach  North America , in part by
increasing screening of travelers to Canada, and sharing
information on high risk inbound travelers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ,
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 