-- 
Crude Oil Futures Decline on Concern EU Summit May Not Resolve Debt Crisis

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-12-07T12:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/oil-rises-for-a-fourth-day-on-iran-ban-speculation-u-s-stockpile-decline.html
Oil fell, snapping three days of
gains on concern that the European Union’s debt crisis may not
be resolved by the group’s summit this week.  Crude retreated as much as 0.4 percent as the dollar gained
against the euro after a German government official said
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is more pessimistic of the
outcome of an EU leaders’ summit in Brussels beginning tomorrow.
The dollar rose as much as 0.3 percent against the euro, making
it more expensive for holders of the European currency to
purchase dollar-commodities such as oil.  “Investors are not convinced that the upcoming EU summit
will address the sovereign debt issue and they feel that the
struggling continent will show a drop in demand,” said Glen Ward, head of retail derivatives at London Capital Group Ltd.  Crude for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $101.03 a barrel, down 25 cents, at 12:54 p.m.
London time after falling as much as 42 cents to $100.86.
Yesterday, the contract added 29 cents to $101.28, the highest
settlement since Nov. 16. Prices are up 11 percent this year
after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was down 50 cents at $110.31 a barrel.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $9.28 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate. The spread reached a record
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  EU Summit  The euro reversed earlier gains against the dollar after
 Germany  rejected proposals to combine the current and permanent
euro-area rescue funds as Merkel’s government said it was more
pessimistic on the summit’s outcome.  Oil rose earlier after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in Paris he’s encouraged by the progress that
euro-area governments were making on ending the region’s
sovereign debt crisis and is confident they will succeed.
Geithner endorsed the idea of a “fiscal compact” between euro
countries. He spoke to reporters after meeting with French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin .  The European summit is “crucial,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in London, said in an e-mail. “It’s the
last chance to convince markets the crisis can be contained by
radical measures and tight budget controls.”  Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in OPEC, boosted output
last month to the highest in more than three decades to meet
demand, Ali al-Naimi, the nation’s oil minister, said yesterday
in Durban. OPEC’s 12 members are due to meet Dec. 14 in Vienna.  Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey predicted that the
Energy Department will say today crude stockpiles in the U.S.
dropped 1.25 million barrels last week, based on the  median
estimate  of 12 forecasts.  Gasoline  inventories may have risen
875,000 barrels and distillate supplies probably climbed 1.15
million, the survey showed. Yesterday’s report from the
industry-funded API showed gasoline stockpiles increased 5.97
million barrels and distillates gained 1.68 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  