-- 
Oil Declines for First Day in Four as Inventories of Crude and Fuels Rise

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-07T20:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/oil-declines-in-new-york-as-german-official-rejects-combining-rescue-funds.html
Oil fell for the first time in four
days in  New York  after the U.S. Energy Department reported that
crude and fuel inventories climbed as imports surged.  Futures dropped 0.8 percent after the government said crude
 stockpiles  rose 1.34 million barrels to 336.1 million last week
and imports reached a 10-week high. Oil also decreased after a
German official raised doubts that there will be an agreement on
easing Europe’s debt crisis this week.  “There were many bearish aspects to today’s report,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “Crude stocks were able to
build in the face of a significant gain in refinery runs because
of the gain in imports.”  Crude oil for January delivery fell 79 cents to settle at
$100.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
up 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement dropped $1.28, or 1.2
percent, to end the session at $109.53 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Imports of crude oil  rose 375,000 barrels to 9.44 million
barrels a day in the week ended Dec. 2, the highest level since
September, department data show.  Fuel imports  advanced 345,000
barrels a day to 2.65 million, the most since June.  Refineries operated  at 87.7 percent of capacity, up 3.1
percentage points from the prior week and the highest level
since September, the report showed. It was the biggest one-week
gain since June.  Today’s Situation  Crude oil supplies were forecast to fall 1.25 million
barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The market hasn’t moved much on inventories recently but
that’s not the case today,” said David McAlvany, chief
executive officer of McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,
 Colorado .  Gasoline supplies  rose 5.15 million barrels to 215 million
last week, the highest level since July 29, the report showed.
Demand for the motor fuel dropped 2.2 percent to 8.57 million
barrels a day, the lowest rate since October.  “Gasoline demand remains very weak,” Kilduff said. “With
demand at this level, it’s hard to see prices breach overhead
resistance at $102 a barrel.”  Gasoline for January delivery dropped 5.85 cents, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $2.5869 a gallon in New York.  Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that include
heating oil and diesel, climbed 2.53 million barrels to 141
million. Production of the fuels rose 205,000 barrels to 5.03
million barrels a day last week,  the highest level  since the
data began in 1982.  ‘Knee-Jerk Reaction’  “There was a substantial knee-jerk reaction to the
inventory data,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam
Mesh Trading Group in New York. “We’re waiting for a decision
out of  Europe , and that could be the big market mover.”  Futures fell earlier as  Germany  rejected proposals to
combine the current and permanent euro-area rescue funds and
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said it was more
pessimistic on the meeting’s outcome.  Germany will oppose any attempt to change a sequence in
which the permanent European Stability Mechanism will take over
from the current rescue fund at an appointed time, a German
official told reporters in Berlin today on condition of
anonymity because the negotiations are private.  ‘Seesawing’ Market  “The market is seesawing today after the reports seeping
out of Germany that an agreement is unlikely,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The Saudis appear to be pumping more
than 10 million barrels of oil, which is a huge amount.”  Saudi Arabia , which holds the world’s biggest crude
reserves, extracted more than 10 million barrels of oil a day in
November and may do so again in December, Ali al-Naimi, the
nation’s oil minister, said yesterday in Durban,  South Africa .
That’s the highest level in more than three decades.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 635,330
contracts as of 3:05 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 446,498
contracts yesterday, 32 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  