-- 
Olympus Seeks Outside Help to Chart Management Revamp as Director Quits

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-12-07T09:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/olympus-seeks-outside-help-to-chart-management-revamp-as-director-quits.html
Olympus Corp . President Shuichi
Takayama acknowledged  Michael Woodford , the chief executive
officer he helped fire, for exposing a cover-up of losses at the
camera maker and announced a probe of about 70 executives that
may have been involved.  Committees set up by the company will report next month on
current and former executives as well as outside auditors,
Takayama said. A separate group will advise on revamping
management, and shareholders will vote on a new board at a
meeting in late February at the earliest, Takayama told
reporters in Tokyo today.  Takayama is struggling to regain investor trust in Olympus
after admitting that the company lied to investors and auditors
about $1.5 billion of losses and as a fourth director quit over
the scandal. Shareholders may vote to reinstate Woodford, who
was dismissed Oct. 14 by a unanimous board vote as Olympus’s
first foreign CEO after he challenged the company’s accounting,
Takayama said.  “Woodford did have a dogmatic style, but he also shed
light on the issue, and that is something not one of us could
do,” Takayama said. “He deserves recognition for doing that.”  Olympus executives had previously asserted that Woodford
was fired over a clash of management style.  An independent probe of Olympus’s accounting released
yesterday found the 92-year-old company’s senior management was
“rotten to the core” and called for all executives involved in
hiding losses to be removed. The board didn’t carry out its
oversight and the company’s culture created “yes men” who
failed to stop managers from spending 135 billion yen ($1.7
billion) covering up losses, according to the report.  May Press Charges  The company may press criminal charges against those
involved in wrongdoing, Takayama said. The company would also
decide on whether to take action against auditors at KPMG LLP
and Ernst & Young LLP’s Japanese affiliates by Jan. 17, Takayama
said.  The managers involved with trying to conceal losses weren’t
motivated by personal greed, Takayama said today. The executives
were instead trying to maintain profit levels on the company’s
books, he said.  Olympus plans to release first-half earnings by the Dec. 14
deadline set by the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange to avoid automatic
delisting. The company has shed more than half its market value
since Woodford was fired. The TSE said yesterday Olympus remains
at risk of being removed from the bourse depending on the scale
of the restatement of results.  Olympus fell as much as 9.2 percent to 1,081 yen, the first
drop in seven days, before trading at 1,128 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo.  ‘Severe’ Capital Effect  The earnings restatement dating back to 2007 will probably
have a “severe” effect on Olympus’s capital, Takayama said.
The company, which plans to file the revisions Dec. 14, may
eventually form alliances with other companies to help bolster
its balance sheet, he said.  Olympus booked 168 billion yen of goodwill at the time of
the 2008 purchase of Gyrus Group Plc. The company added 41
billion yen of goodwill when it bought back preferred shares of
Gyrus from its financial advisers, it said in October.  Olympus inflated fees paid to financial advisers and
overpaid for companies it acquired to increase goodwill on its
books, according to the panel report yesterday.  Hisashi Mori, a former executive vice president, and Hideo Yamada, a company auditor, planned to write down the value of
the goodwill over years, the report said.  Makoto Nakatsuka became the fourth director at Olympus to
stand down over the company’s decades-old cover-up of losses,
the company said today.  At least six executives including former chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa colluded in cover-ups that started in 1998 when they
sought to sidestep mark-to-market accounting rules introduced in
2000, according to findings released yesterday from the
monthlong probe commissioned by Olympus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  