-- 
Hong Kong to Loosen Grip on Property if Prices Extend Decline, Tsang Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-12-08T08:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/hong-kong-to-loosen-grip-on-property-if-prices-extend-decline-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong  will ease some of its
property-cooling measures if  home prices  extend their decline
amid Europe’s worsening credit crisis and a global economic
slowdown, the city’s financial secretary said.  Housing prices are “slowly coming down,” and that “will
continue for a bit and hopefully we will be able to achieve a
soft landing,” John Tsang, Hong Kong’s top financial official,
said in an interview in Johannesburg Dec. 6. “When the
environment trends downwards, we will surely take
countercyclical measures to deal with that.”  Prices dropped to a six-month-low in November and
transactions slumped as the threat of a recession dents buyer
confidence. The government imposed additional taxes last year
and tightened access to mortgages four times since 2009 after
prices jumped 70 percent, underpinned by record-low  interest
rates  and an influx of wealthy Chinese buyers.  “Hong Kong is almost confirmed to go into a downward price
correction channel into 2012,” said Lee Wee Liat, a property
analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “When prices
start to come down, the job of the government is no longer to
keep being hawkish on tightening policy, rather it should think
about cushioning the decline that could hurt the real economy.”  Lee expects residential property prices will fall as much
as 15 percent by the end of 2012. Barclays Capital Research
forecasts the drop could be as much as 30 percent by 2013,
according to  Andrew Lawrence , a Hong Kong-based analyst.  Timing Policy Changes  The Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s
seven-largest builders, fell 0.2 percent at the close in Hong
Kong. Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the biggest developer, rose
0.7 percent to HK$99.70, while Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., the
second largest, declined 1.1 percent to HK$90.60.  Tsang said the timing of any loosening of the property
measures was uncertain. “Timing is a judgment call that I will
have to make nearer the time,” he said.  Hong Kong may review special stamp duties imposed on some
home sales in November last year earlier than the scheduled 24
months if needed,  Eva Cheng , secretary for transport and housing,
told reporters in Hong Kong today in comments broadcast by  Cable
Television .  Asia  may continue to see capital outflows if the European
crisis deepens as banks will repatriate funds from the Asian
region, the Manila-based Asian Development Bank’s Iwan Azis said
Dec. 6. Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has declined 17
percent this year, while the Hang Seng Property Index, which
tracks the city’s seven-biggest developers, is down 23 percent.  Market Disruption  “The problems are rising in Europe and America, and many
of those companies need some of the liquidity to assist them to
get over the bump,” Tsang said. “We are mindful if the money
were to leave in a disorderly way, this could disrupt the
market.”  Hong Kong narrowly skirted a recession in the third quarter
with 0.1 percent  growth  from the previous three months, as low
unemployment and tourists from  China  boosted consumption while
 Europe ’s crisis dragged on exports.  Recession is “possible” for Hong Kong on a “worsening of
exports,” Tsang said. Still, “exports is the only sector which
is hurting, but everything else is really strong,” he added.
Overseas shipments from the city fell 1 percent, seasonally
adjusted, in the three months ending October from the previous
period, according to the government’s data.  Tsang’s signal the government is prepared to loosen
property curbs contrasts with new measures announced by the
 Singapore  government, which said yesterday it is imposing
additional taxes on private residential property purchases to
curb excessive investment.  Singapore’s Measures  The city-state has been attempting to rein in prices since
2009, when the government barred interest-only loans for some
housing projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb
interest payments for apartments still being built.  Home  prices  in Singapore are 13 percent above the high seen
in the second quarter of 1996 and 16 percent higher than the
“more recent peak” in the second quarter of 2008, the
government said.  Tsang’s comments echo those of Chief Executive  Donald Tsang ,
who said last month that the city may see “a couple of quarters
of bad times” as Europe’s debt crisis roils global markets.
Growth may slow to 2 percent in 2012, down from the official
estimate of 5 percent this year, Donald Tsang said.  The rising risk in the global economy will create pressure
on Hong Kong’s labor market, with a quarter of it related to the
export industry,  John Tsang  said  Nov. 20 . The city’s
unemployment rate rose to 3.3 percent in the three months ended
October, the first time in six months.  Home prices dropped 3.5 percent from the peak in June,
according to an index compiled by the Centaline Property Agency
Ltd., the city’s largest closely held property broker. The  value
of home sales  slumped 40 percent in November from a year earlier,
according to the  Land Registry .  The government’s property curbs have achieved their
“desired effect,” Victor Lui, an  executive director  at Sun
Hung Kai, said at a media briefing after the developer’s annual
general meeting in Hong Kong today. Short-term speculative
buyers are almost “all gone from the market,” Lui said.  The city’s government pledged in October to build
subsidized homes and ensure supply of land for private housing,
after it imposed stamp duties on homes sold within two years
from the date of purchase in 2010 and raised down-payments for
some homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  