-- 
Too-Big-To-Fail Banks Back on Senate Agenda

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/too-big-to-fail-is-back-on-senate-agenda-with-megabank-hearing.html
Too-big-to-fail banks are back on the
U.S. Senate’s agenda.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat who co-wrote a
proposal last year to limit the size of banks, plans to hold a
hearing today on “new oversight authority to shield Main Street
from  Wall Street  megabank risk,” according to a statement from
his office. Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair , who has said that governments around the world are
propping up a bloated financial system, will be a witness.  Last year’s Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC authority to close
large failing financial firms, and Federal Reserve officials say
new rules will force the biggest banks to boost capital, making
failure less likely.  “For too long, Wall Street has been permitted to operate
in the dark, putting our economy at risk and leaving taxpayers
on the hook,” Brown said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The  hearing  will be held by the Senate Subcommittee on
Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection, which Brown
heads. Other witnesses include  Phillip Swagel , a former
assistant secretary at the U.S. Treasury Department who’s now a
professor at the University of Maryland, and  Simon Johnson , a
former chief economist at the  International Monetary Fund ,
according to Brown’s office.  Brown said the Fed failed to answer questions he posed in
August about  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion investment in
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  The Fed
responded last week, saying it couldn’t provide “confidential
supervisory information,” according to Brown.  ‘Financial Stability’  Regulators typically withhold details on bank exams and
emergency loans, saying such disclosures may increase the risk
of bank runs.  More disclosure about the supervision of banks would be
“in the interest of protecting financial stability,” Brown
said in the statement. “Inconsistent capital planning has
plagued bank regulators in the past.”  Barbara Hagenbaugh, a Fed spokeswoman, didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages left after regular business hours yesterday.  Brown, 59, cited a Bloomberg Markets magazine article last
week detailing how the largest U.S. banks benefited from $1.2
trillion of secret Fed loans. Last week, U.S. Representative
Elijah Cummings of Maryland cited the article when calling for
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to testify about the central bank’s
lending programs. Cummings is the top Democrat on the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Biggest Banks  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America got
almost $300 billion of secret Fed loans, based on their combined
peak borrowings. Bloomberg News calculated those numbers based
on an examination of 29,000 pages of Fed documents obtained
under the Freedom of Information Act and central bank records of
more than 21,000 transactions.  Bernanke yesterday released a staff memo asserting that the
loans weren’t secret because the existence and overall size of
the lending programs were made public. Terms of the loans and
the names of the borrowers weren’t disclosed until the Fed was
forced to release them by Dodd-Frank and court orders upholding
Freedom of Information Act requests from Bloomberg News.  In April 2010, Brown co-sponsored a measure with then-
Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat, that would have forced
the six biggest U.S. banks to shrink. The Obama administration
opposed the legislation. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and White House economic adviser Lawrence H. Summers visited
lawmakers to urge its defeat, according to Kaufman. The so-
called Brown-Kaufman amendment failed, with 60 senators voting
against it.  “Senator Brown still believes Brown-Kaufman provided
important tools to prevent ‘too-big-to-fail,’” Meghan Dubyak, a
spokeswoman for Brown, said in an e-mail. “He is examining a
variety of ways to address ‘too-big-to-fail’ and expects to make
his proposals public soon.” 