-- 
OpenTable Shares Signaling Anxiety Over New Competitors: Retail

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/opentable-shares-signaling-anxiety-over-new-competitors-retail.html
OpenTable Inc. (OPEN) , the restaurant-
reservation service that went public during the worst of the
recession and saw its market value triple by the end of 2010, is
reeling as investors lose their appetite for the stock.  The company’s shares have tumbled 67 percent from a record
$115.62 in April amid a continued slow economy, a sluggish
effort to enter the European market, and domestic competition
from newer, cheaper services such as Livebookings Ltd. Google
Inc., which recently purchased restaurant guide Zagat Survey
LLC, is also casting a shadow over OpenTable’s shares.  “Expectations have come down materially,” said  Clayton Moran , a  Delray Beach , Florida-based analyst at Benchmark Co.
who has a hold rating on the shares. “Growth has now
decelerated, and you’ve had these added competitive concerns.”  Shares of San Francisco-based OpenTable, which went public
in May 2009 at $20, trade at 46 times earnings, even after the
stock’s recent declines. That’s a higher valuation than 96
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares are at an
especially “lofty” valuation considering that the company
hasn’t yet proved it has a plan to maintain its market
leadership, said Justin Patterson, an analyst at Morgan Keegan &
Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Online Reservation Market  The company dominates the market for reservations in the
U.S., with more than 16,000 restaurant subscribers, and may
reach 20,000 in 2012, Moran said. Eatery owners pay for
 OpenTable ’s computer system, which lets them manage table
inventory and maintain a profile of customers who have dined
there, on top of other fees.  Those owners include A.J. Gilbert, who runs  San Francisco ’s
 Luna Park , a restaurant serving modern American food that costs
about $20 for a dinner entree. He estimates that OpenTable
brings in about 60 percent of his restaurant’s reservations.
Those bookings come at a price. Gilbert paid $2,351 on his last
monthly OpenTable bill.  “The market is ready for some price competition,” he said.
“OpenTable has kind of stumbled into this monopoly. They
support their product really well. They’re just really
expensive.”  Well, not really, according to Matthew Roberts, chief
executive officer of OpenTable. For every $1 OpenTable charged
in fees for logged reservations, diners spent an average of $43
in  North America  last year, he said.  Considering Alternatives  That argument is hard to make to restaurants trying to
shave costs in challenging economic times. One alternative may
be  Livebookings , Europe’s largest online restaurant-reservation
provider, which started a free service in the U.S. last month
that lets restaurants enable online reservations on their own
websites and Facebook pages.  OpenTable estimates it has signed up 64 percent of
reservation-taking restaurants in San Francisco. The company may
be hitting a wall in pushing beyond that level in the city, as
well as in its other key markets such as  New York ,  Washington 
and  Chicago , Patterson said.  Roberts disagrees. “We’re not seeing that we’re running
into any kind of wall relative to growth,” he said last month
on Bloomberg Television. The company estimates it has signed on
37 percent of the 35,000 reservation-taking restaurants it has
identified as its potential market in North America.  The Google Question  The question is, what will Google do? Its September
 takeover (GOOG)  of  Zagat , the review service known for its burgundy-
colored restaurant guides, has already contributed to
OpenTable’s share price decline. If Google decides to use Zagat
to start a restaurant-booking service, OpenTable would face
competition from the world’s largest Internet-search provider.  As it stands now, the company benefits from Google. In
August, OpenTable said that 5 percent to 10 percent of traffic
on its site comes from  Mountain View , California-based Google
and other affiliates, including Zagat and Yelp Inc.  “If we were to get any sense that Google was going to
remove the uncertainty of it potentially doing reservations
directly, it would help the stock,” Moran said.  In the meantime, a sluggish economy isn’t helping
OpenTable’s prospects. An  unemployment rate  hovering around 8.6
percent means people may choose to dine out less, weighing on
revenue. Last year, 48 percent of OpenTable’s sales came from
fees it charged restaurants for seating each individual diner.  The company increased revenue just 1.7 percent in this
year’s second quarter from the prior period, and sales were also
little changed sequentially in the third quarter. Revenue will
rise 7 percent to $36.7 million in the last three months of this
year compared with the third quarter, according to the average
analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. By comparison, OpenTable
sales jumped 25 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the
previous period.  New Cities  The company needs to find new business in cities such as
 Dallas  where it hasn’t yet established itself, Patterson said.
International expansion has also taken longer than expected,
Moran said. The company hasn’t identified what the next growth
driver will be if the effort doesn’t turn around, he said.  Livebookings is its largest rival, with about 9,000
restaurant subscribers, mostly in  Europe , while OpenTable logged
7,629 in its international markets, including  Germany ,  Japan  and
the U.K., in the third quarter.  OpenTable  bought  its way into the European market in 2010
with the acquisition of Toptable.com, a restaurant-reservation
service then based in  London , for $55 million. The company is
making Toptable’s  website  more user-friendly and expects it to
start generating more growth in the U.K. in the second half of
2012, Roberts said.  “There’s nothing that we’ve learned that indicates London
should be any different than  Manhattan  or San Francisco,”
Roberts said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  