-- 
Dodgers Seek Court OK for Sale Terms Including Secret Accord on TV Rights

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T15:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/los-angeles-dodgers-file-settlement-agreement-with-major-league-baseball.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  asked a judge
to approve a settlement with Major League Baseball that includes
a secret provision binding MLB to specific rules for approving a
new television-rights contract.  The settlement requires team owner  Frank McCourt  to sell
the bankrupt franchise and gives the Dodgers freedom to seek
bids for a new TV-rights deal over opposition from the current
contract holder, Fox Sports, according to a filing yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “MLB has agreed how MLB rules, regulations and practices
will be applied to certain media rights transactions,” the
Dodgers said in the filing.  A confidential section of the settlement spells out how MLB
will decide whether to approve a new TV contract, the team said
in court papers.  Today, the Dodgers and Fox Sports Net West 2 LLC will be in
court to fight over a proposal to solicit bids for those future
television rights. Fox Sports, a unit of New York-based  News
Corp. (NWSA) , can broadcast games through the 2013 season and has an
exclusive right to negotiate a new contract until December,
2012, according to court records.  Fox opposes any early effort to garner bids for TV rights,
claiming McCourt is wrongly trying use bankruptcy to break the
team’s contract with Fox’s Prime Ticket unit.  Bidding Process  The Dodgers want to accelerate the bidding process by
giving Fox 45 days to extend its contract. Should those
negotiations fail, the team would seek other offers, according
to court documents.  Under the Dodgers’ deal with MLB, no sale of the TV rights
can go forward without approval from MLB, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Kevin Gross and whoever wins the bidding for the team.  The sale of the team won’t include the surrounding land and
parking lots, which are also owned by McCourt, according to
yesterday’s filing.  The Dodgers and  Major League Baseball  want to have initial
bids for the team submitted before Jan. 13 and complete an
auction for the team no later than April 1. The sale should be
finished April 30, according to the filing.  “The agreement is a ‘win-win’ not only for the debtors and
MLB but for all parties in interest in these bankruptcy cases,”
the team said in the filing.  Team Price  The Dodgers may sell for a record $1 billion, sports
bankers including Gordon Saint-Denis, president of Katonah, New
York-based Major League Sports Consulting LLC, said after the
team entered bankruptcy on June 27. Forbes magazine values the
Dodgers at $800 million, the third-highest in baseball after the
 New York Yankees  and  Boston Red Sox .  MLB Commissioner Bud Selig said in June that a 17-year TV-
rights deal between the Dodgers and Fox Sports, which McCourt
valued at about $3 billion, would harm the franchise in the long
term and rejected the proposal. The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy
a week later, listing assets of $370.6 million and debt of
$643.9 million as of June 30.  The case is In re  Los Angeles  Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  -- Editors: Fred Strasser,  Andrew Dunn   To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net 
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  