-- 
Osborne Says Euro Crisis ‘Significant’ Risk to U.K., Urges Fix

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-12-07T17:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/osborne-says-euro-crisis-significant-risk-to-u-k-urges-fix.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  urged European leaders to stem the region’s worsening
debt crisis, saying the turmoil posed a “very significant”
danger to Britain’s already downgraded economic forecasts.  Speaking to lawmakers in London today, Osborne said banks
across the world are facing “very stressed” funding conditions
as the crisis saps the confidence of investors  “It would make life a lot easier for British banks if the
crisis was resolved in the sense that people had confidence that
there were a set of solutions that were going to work, even if
they didn’t produce results overnight,” Osborne told
Parliament’s Treasury Committee. He called for “a path that
gives confidence to investors to purchase the debt of euro-zone
countries or provide unsecured lending to euro-zone banks.”  Osborne made his comments as Prime Minister  David Cameron 
prepares to join fellow EU leaders at a crisis-fighting summit
this week. Cameron earlier today pledged to use negotiations
over how to overhaul EU rules to win back powers from Brussels.  “The biggest shot in the arm the British economy could
have this autumn is the resolution of the euro crisis,” Osborne
said. “If the euro zone deteriorates that will have a very
significant impact on the economy.”  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicted last week
Britain will grow 0.9 percent this year, not the 1.7 percent
seen in March, and by 0.7 percent in 2012 instead of 2.5
percent.  The fiscal watchdog also estimated the 2008 financial
crisis and the ensuing recession inflicted far more damage than
previously thought, meaning potential output in 2016 is probably
13 percent lower than was forecast before the crisis.  “The financial crisis has had a bigger impact than has
been previously calculated by everyone and that is causing a
more prolonged recovery than anyone would have hoped, but I have
not seen any evidence that there is a permanent, forever damage
to the British economy,” Osborne said.  Cameron is facing growing pressure to use any new EU-wide
treaty to recover powers ceded to the bloc. A quarter of his
Conservative Party lawmakers voted in favor of a referendum on
British membership of the EU in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  