-- 
Total Said to Consider Chesapeake’s $2.14 Billion Ohio Shale

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-12-07T16:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/total-said-to-weigh-buying-chesapeake-s-2-14-billion-ohio-stake.html
Total SA (FP) , France’s largest oil and
gas producer, may buy a stake in  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s
holdings in Ohio’s Utica shale, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  Total is considering the acquisition, the person said,
declining to be named before a final decision is made.
Chesapeake said on Nov. 3 it had signed a letter of intent with
an unidentified international  oil company  for a $2.14 billion
deal to sell 25 percent of 570,000 acres of Ohio’s Utica shale.  Pumping gas trapped in shale rocks has made the U.S. into
the world’s largest gas producer, attracting investment from
international  oil companies  such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  The Utica shale contains oil as well as natural
gas, which may boost the fields’ profitability after gas prices
fell 75 percent from their 2008 peak.  “The shale gas revolution has played out so successfully
that it’s killed prices, so majors are looking for more oil
plays,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie Capital
Europe Ltd. in London. “It’s a big move for Total into the
U.S.”  Total rose 0.4 percent in Paris trading. Chesapeake fell
1.3 percent as of 11:36 a.m. in New York.  Total spokesman Florent Segura said the company is looking
at opportunities in shale worldwide, declining to comment on
particular areas. Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, said
in an e-mail that the company wouldn’t comment. The Chesapeake
CEO last month declined to rule out Total as the buyer.  Future Drilling  A transaction would give Oklahoma-City based Chesapeake
$640 million in cash and $1.5 billion toward the cost of future
drilling. The company sold $750 million worth of preferred
shares in its Utica subsidiary to private investors this week.  The deal would add to Total’s shale assets after buying a
stake in Cheapeake’s Barnett Shale field in Texas last year and
advancing unconventional gas projects in Algeria, Argentina,
Australia, Canada, Denmark and Poland. Total said in October it
may work with China Petrochemical Corp. to explore shale in the
country consuming the most energy in the world.  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, owns drilling rights
for a total of about 1.5 million net acres in the Utica, which
stretches from  Ohio  to Canada. The formation may hold as much as
5.5 billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion cubic feet of gas
in Ohio, according to the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  