-- 
Hotel Lenders Shun Foreclosures as $17.5 Billion in U.S. Loans Come Due

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/hotel-lenders-shun-foreclosures-as-17-5-billion-in-u-s-loans-come-due.html
As $17.5 billion in securitized loans
backed by U.S. hotels come due in the next two years, lenders
are doing more to avoid foreclosure on lodging properties than
on any other type of commercial real estate.  Workout agreements have been reached on 53 percent of
distressed hotel loans since the start of 2008, the highest
among six commercial-property categories, according to data from
Real Capital Analytics Inc. in  New York .  Special servicers, who negotiate with landlords on behalf
of investors in commercial mortgage-backed securities, typically
install a receiver or hire a broker to sell an office, apartment
or industrial building with multiyear leases. Hotel rooms, on
the other hand, rent by the night, and contracts with such
operators as  Marriott International Inc.  may be terminated if a
property is repossessed, making it harder to run or market.  Hotels are “operating assets where income goes up and down
overnight,” said Rick Kirkbride, chairman of the resort,
restaurant and recreation practice group at law firm  Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP  in Los Angeles. “Servicers do
drag their feet with them a lot more because they aren’t sure
what to do.”  Among hotel loans being worked out is $1.44 billion in
financing backed by 355 La Quinta Inns & Suites owned by a unit
of New York-based Blackstone Group LP. It will mature on July 9,
2012, after three one-year extensions, according to  Standard &
Poor’s . The loan was transferred in September to the special
servicer, Bank of America Corp., after the borrower requested
modification.  ‘Performing Strongly’  “La Quinta is performing strongly and has over seven times
 cash flow  to interest expense,”  Peter Rose , a Blackstone
spokesman, said in October. “Special servicing is a routine
precondition to requesting an extension and we have done this in
over a dozen other similar situations.”  The loan was sent to special servicing to allow time to
work on the borrower’s request to modify or extend the loan, S&P
said. Blackstone indicated that, under existing market
conditions, it’s unlikely to get refinancing for the $2.93
billion loan balance by July, according to S&P.  Special servicers try to avoid taking over properties like
Blackstone’s La Quinta hotels. The 53 percent workout rate for
hotels compares with 45 percent for apartments, 37 percent for
retail properties and 29 percent for industrial, according to
Real Capital. The remaining hotels either have been taken over
by lenders or their owners continue to negotiate with servicers.  No Easy Solution  “We work long and hard to not take title to hospitality
assets because it’s not an easy solution to operate,” Tom
Nealon, vice chairman of LNR Asset Services, the special-
servicing unit of LNR Property Corp., said in October at an
 Urban Land Institute  conference in Los Angeles. With “office
and other properties that are not as labor-intensive, the
marketability is better,” he said.  Loans totaling $978 million backed by the Kyo-Ya hotel
portfolio, which includes six luxury properties in Hawaii and
California and is owned by New York-based investment firm
Cerberus Capital Management LP, were transferred to a special
servicer in April because the borrower was unable to pay off the
debt by its July maturity, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The servicer,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  agreed in July to a
standstill in exchange for the borrower’s admission of default,
Morningstar said. Conditions of the forbearance agreement
included making a $77.2 million payment and promising that all
future excess cash flow will be applied to the loan principal.
The primary mortgage was extended until July 2013.  Loan Extensions  “Having some type of extension on an existing loan already
in place, rather than a foreclosure or REO situation, is more
likely in hospitality than in other commercial sectors,” Stacey
Berger, executive vice president at Midland Loan Services Inc.,
said in October. REO refers to real estate owned by lenders
following a foreclosure.  A loan with an original balance of $425 million and backed
by luxury hotels owned by Beanie Babies creator H. Ty Warner --
including Four Seasons Hotel New York,  San Ysidro Ranch  and  Las
Ventanas Al Paraiso  -- was transferred in October 2009 to a
special servicer, Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC.  In May 2010, Berkadia agreed to a maturity extension until
January 2011, which included a principal payment of $25 million,
and later approved another extension until January 2012,
according to Morningstar. The second extension included an
additional $10 million principal payment.  ‘Make It Work’  “With portfolios of assets of big hotels, you often have
institutional or Wall Street-backed borrowers who can come up
with more money and a business loan and, given time, we can make
it work,” said Andrew Hundertmark, senior vice president at
 CWCapital Asset Management LLC . “With $5 million and under,
you’re often dealing with less sophisticated, less financially
secure borrowers. Those assets tend to be sold as notes or REO
more often than larger deals.”  Hotels were among the first real estate categories to
recover following the recession that ended in 2009, aided by a
rebound in business travel and tourism. Lending to U.S. lodging
properties increased fivefold in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the biggest gain of any real estate asset class, the
 Mortgage Bankers Association   reported Nov. 3 .  High-end hotels in such major U.S. cities as New York,
 Boston  and  San Francisco  have fared best during the recovery.
The occupancy rate was 71 percent for the highest-priced segment
of the lodging market this year through October, compared with
62 percent for all U.S. hotels, according to  Smith Travel
Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Sluggish Recovery  Wall Street banks have arranged $27.2 billion in bonds
linked to skyscraper, shopping mall, hotel and other commercial
property loans this year, compared with $11.5 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales plummeted from a
record $232 billion in 2007. Lenders pulled back from making new
loans to package into securities in July as European debt woes
roiled credit markets, making it harder for borrowers with debt
coming due to refinance.  Hotel foreclosures may accelerate amid a sluggish economic
recovery. In the last two months of this year, $5.52 billion in
loans backed by hotels are maturing, followed by $9.11 billion
next year and $2.9 billion in 2013, according to New York-based
data provider Trepp LLC.  Federal Reserve policy makers are forecasting “moderate”
growth for the  U.S. economy  that won’t push unemployment below 8
percent until 2013 at the earliest. The jobless rate was 8.6
percent in November and had been at least 9 percent in all but
two months since May 2009.  ‘Catastrophic Problem’  The surge of commercial mortgage-backed securities needing
replacement debt “is going to be a close to catastrophic
problem,” Robert Sonnenblick, chairman of hotel developer
Sonnenblick Development LLC, said at the Bloomberg Commercial
Real Estate Summit in New York on Nov. 9. “The end result of
all of this is you’re going to see a huge increase of hotel
foreclosures.”  Not all hotel owners with debt problems have received
forbearance.  Innkeepers USA Trust , which owns hotels in 20 U.S.
states and the  District of Columbia , including Residence Inns by
Marriott and Hampton Inns, was acquired in October by Cerberus
Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  after filing for
 bankruptcy protection  in July 2010.  Foreclosures are most likely outside of major metropolitan
areas, where smaller loans often are backed by family-owned
hotels.  “In secondary and tertiary markets, the owners themselves
don’t have any real equity left at all,” said Kirkbride of  Paul
Hastings . “There, it’s much more likely that they’ll have to
let these assets go.”  Schrager Purchases  In larger cities, few foreclosures and more loan workouts
mean a dearth of buying opportunities.  Ian Schrager , the pioneer
of the boutique hotel concept, this year agreed to buy two
development sites in  New York City  because he doesn’t expect
existing properties to come up for sale at reasonable prices in
the near future.  “Having gone through three or four bad cycles, other than
in the early ’90s I haven’t seen an avalanche of foreclosures
then, and I don’t expect to this time,” Schrager said in an
interview. “Hotels are operating businesses and the only reason
a bank will take on such an asset is if they’re dealing with
someone less than forthright. So in isolated areas we may see
foreclosures, but not on a whole.”  Kirkbride said he expects few hotel foreclosures in the
coming year.  “It would be better for the economy, and for the hotel
sector specifically, if more hotels would wash their way through
the system and be sold at the true, current, fair-market
value,” he said. “But I don’t see that happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  