-- 
House Republicans Push for Tax Holiday in Year-End Plan

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-12-07T20:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/house-republicans-push-to-include-tax-holiday-in-year-end-plan.html
House Republicans  are pushing to
include a temporary tax holiday on offshore corporate profits in
a year-end legislative package that also would contain an
extension of the payroll tax cut.  House leaders have been “very encouraging” and are
“taking a serious look at including it in a year-end package,”
Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, said in a
telephone press conference today.  Brady is a sponsor of legislation that would create a
temporary tax holiday, allowing U.S. multinational corporations
to bring home offshore earnings at a 5.25 percent tax rate, an
85 percent discount from the 35 percent top corporate rate.  The measure remains a long shot, facing Republican
resistance as well as strong Democratic opposition.
Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican and ally of
House Speaker  John Boehner , said today after meeting with
Boehner that repatriation won’t be in the year-end legislation.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, opposes a stand-alone tax holiday and some
multinational companies haven’t embraced the concept.  “Repatriation, singularly, is not helpful,” Wayne
Monfries, chief tax officer of Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike
Inc., said today at a briefing sponsored by the RATE Coalition,
a group of companies lobbying for lower corporate tax rates. “I
think we have to have corporate  tax reform , and repatriation
should be part of corporate tax reform.”  ‘Pressure Is Building’  Brady and others say a one-time tax holiday would act as a
private-sector stimulus and encourage companies to invest money
in the U.S. instead of offshore. They view a year-end tax
package as a good vehicle for the proposal.  “The clock is ticking and pressure is building for these
companies to deploy this income overseas,” Brady said. “We’re
losing out on hundreds of billions in investment.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, said
that in the absence of a more comprehensive overhaul of the tax
code, a repatriation holiday would be acceptable.  “If it’s a one-time” holiday, “it’s best in a year-end
package,” Issa said as he left a party meeting today.  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat who
sits on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said today
that it would be difficult for lawmakers to advance a  tax code 
rewrite if repatriation is taken off the table.  ‘Short-Term Bonanza’  “If you give up now and accept what might be a short-term
bonanza or holiday, it’s going to be far harder to get tax
reform,” he said.  One of the arguments made by critics of a tax holiday is
that it is projected to cost the  U.S. Treasury  $78.7 billion in
forgone revenue over 10 years. Congressional Democrats say
companies used money from a 2004 repatriation effort for stock
buybacks and dividend payments and in some cases cut jobs.  The  WIN America Campaign , a coalition of companies that
back a tax holiday, says U.S. businesses are holding more than
$1 trillion overseas, much of which could be deployed in the
U.S. if it could be brought home at a lower rate. The group’s
members include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   In addition, 52 of 87 Republicans elected to the House in
November 2010 released a letter Dec. 5 urging House Republican
leaders “to consider repatriation  tax policy , this session, to
stimulate the economy and get Americans back to work.”  Camp’s Support  The White House opposes a stand-alone repatriation
proposal.  Camp has said he would support a repatriation proposal as
part of a comprehensive tax overhaul.  He has rolled out pieces of a tax overhaul plan, including
a shift to a territorial system under which 95 percent of U.S.
companies’ overseas earnings would be exempt from taxation. His
proposal would make U.S. companies subject to a 5.25 percent tax
rate on overseas profits over eight years, regardless of whether
they bring the money to the U.S.  Brady said a tax holiday wouldn’t eliminate money Camp
would need for his plan.  “I don’t see it as a conflict,” Brady said. The pool of
offshore capital “is replenishing itself at remarkable speed.”  The Senate’s No. 2 Democrat,  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois ,
said today that he has gone “back and forth” on repatriation.  “I’m troubled by the notion that these corporations could
bring back substantial profits, get preferable tax treatment and
not create jobs in America,” Durbin said. “That’s been my
hang-up. We tried it once, and that’s exactly what they did.
They took it in dividends, and they took it in bonuses and
didn’t create jobs in this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  