-- 
Pakistan President Zardari Stable After Dubai Hospital Tests

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-12-07T20:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/pakistan-president-zardari-is-in-dubai-for-medical-tests-on-heart-ailment.html
Pakistan ’s President Asif Ali Zardari
was stable in a Dubai hospital after undergoing medical tests
linked to a previously diagnosed cardiovascular condition.  “After the initial medical tests in Dubai, doctors found
him to be in a stable condition,” a statement from the office
of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said today. “The president
will remain under observation and return to resume his normal
functions as advised by the doctors.”  Zardari, the widower of former premier Benazir Bhutto and
head of the ruling Pakistan People’s Party, received treatment
for a heart condition while living in exile in  New York  in 2004.
Zardari’s office said in a statement a report by U.S.-based
Foreign Policy magazine that he may resign from his office on
health grounds is  “speculative and imaginary.”  Gilani’s office issued its statement after Bhutto’s son and
political heir Bilawal Bhutto met with the prime minister in
Islamabad today.  Last week, Zardari announced plans to address a joint
session of parliament amid allegations that his former
ambassador to the U.S.,  Husain Haqqani , sought  Washington ’s help
in heading off a feared military coup, following the May killing
of  Osama bin Laden  by U.S. forces near Islamabad.  The U.S. has “no concerns” about a potential military
coup in Pakistan, State Department spokesman Mark Toner told
reporters today at a briefing in Washington.  “Our belief is that it’s completely health-related,”
Toner said of Zardari’s trip to Dubai.  Court Order  Haqqani was forced to resign by Gilani and Pakistan’s
Supreme Court last week barred the former envoy from leaving the
country as it investigates the claims against him. The court
asked Zardari and the military leadership to submit replies on
the issue.  A Pakistani-American businessman, Mansoor Ijaz, has alleged
he helped Haqqani deliver a message from Zardari to the then-
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen.
Haqqani denies the allegations. Pakistan’s military was
embarrassed by the raid that killed  bin Laden , which was carried
out without its knowledge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  