-- 
Papademos Gets Parliament’s Approval for Budget, Winning Austerity Mandate

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-12-07T00:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/papademos-gets-parliament-s-approval-for-budget-winning-austerity-mandate.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
received parliamentary approval for the 2012 budget, a financial
plan that aims to almost halve the deficit shortfall from a debt
writedown and ensure Greece remains a member of the euro area.  A total of 258 lawmakers in the 300-strong chamber backed
the confidence motion with 41 against, Parliament Speaker
Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on state-run
Vouli TV today. A total of 299 deputies voted in the poll.  “The economic crisis in our country is not a passing
storm,” Papademos told lawmakers before the vote. “It will be
lasting because it’s the result of imbalances which swelled over
a number of years. They are the result of accumulated mistakes
and political shortcomings.”  The 2012 fiscal plan, which forecasts a  deficit  of 5.4
percent of gross domestic product and a fifth year of
contraction, is designed to regain the confidence of creditors
and secure resumption of international financing for Greece.
 Standard & Poor’s  yesterday warned it may downgrade 15 euro-area
governments on lack of decisive action to tackle the region’s
debt crisis, days before European leaders meet at a Dec. 8-9
summit in Brussels.  Euro Rules  Papademos, appointed on Nov. 11 as head of an interim
government backed by three of the five Greek parliamentary
parties, is racing against a three-month deadline to secure the
loans and avert a collapse of the economy.  He has so far convinced EU peers to release an 8 billion-
euro loan, halted last month by German Chancellor Angela Merkel
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  after former Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said he planned a referendum on the terms of a
second bailout, roiling markets and placing  Greece ’s commitment
to the euro in question.  “Greece is and will remain a member of a united  Europe  and
the euro area,” said Papademos, a former European Central Bank
vice president. “However, membership of the euro means abiding
by rules and obligations.”  Pension and wage cuts, higher taxes and a debt swap that
will slash interest costs will help narrow the deficit to 5.4
percent of GDP next year from 9 percent this year, and generate
a primary surplus of 2.4 billion euros, or 1.1 percent of GDP,
compared with a primary deficit of 3.9 billion euros this year.  Gross domestic product will shrink 2.8 percent next year
after contracting 5.5 percent in 2011.  Debt Swap  Papademos’s focus now shifts to the second rescue package
and a debt writedown that must be completed by early next year.
Talks with representatives of private creditors will be held on
the terms of the swap in  Athens  next week, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said.  The budget includes a debt-swap scenario that sees interest
repayments at 12.8 billion euros in 2012, compared with 16.4
billion euros this year, or falling to 6 percent of GDP from 7.5
percent this year. The debt-swap plan aims to slice 100 billion
euros off the 2011 debt burden of 350 billion euros.  Pensions, Wages  Greece plans to pay lenders 50 cents for each euro the
government borrowed under the terms of the bailout plan agreed
to at the Oct. 26 summit. Its 4 percent notes due in August 2013
now trade at 30 cents.  Fitch Ratings  says the agreement with
creditors would amount to a “default event” if implemented,
while the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association  says
it won’t trigger credit-default swaps.  The deficit will also narrow thanks to measures already
approved by lawmakers in October, including cuts in public
sector wages and pensions, a plan to put 30,000 public sector
workers in a labor reserve on reduced pay and a property tax
levied on Greeks’ electricity bills.  Revenue for the central government, which doesn’t include
local government, social security funds and state-owned
companies, will increase 8.3 percent to 59 billion euros.
Spending will fall 6.5 percent to 73 billion euros, 5 billion
euros lower than it would be without the debt swap.  Debt as a proportion of GDP will fall to 145.5 percent in
2012 from 161.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  