-- 
Peru Likely to Maintain Key Rate as Inflation Outweighs Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/peru-likely-to-maintain-key-rate-as-inflation-outweighs-slowdown-concerns.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a seventh month
today on expectations slower growth will bring the inflation
rate down from a 31-month high.  Policy makers will leave the  overnight rate  at 4.25
percent, according to all 18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The seven-member board, led by central bank President Julio Velarde, will announce its decision at about 6 p.m. local time.  Annual inflation that reached a two-year high of 4.64
percent in November leaves little room for rate cuts to arrest a
slowdown in investment that may worsen next year as social
unrest thwarts mining investment, said Alejandro Arreaza, an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc.  “Though there are some downside risks for growth both from
the domestic and external side, high inflation will keep the
central bank from moving to more loose monetary policy,”
Arreaza said in a phone interview from  New York .  Peru’s outlook for growth, already weak since President
Ollanta Humala took office June 5, deteriorated further after
protesters caused  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  to halt a $4.8 billion
expansion last month, said Ruben Loaiza, chief executive officer
of AFP Prima, Peru’s biggest private pension fund.  “We saw 2012 as a year when investment could recover but
these recent events makes one wonder if that will be the case,”
Loaiza said in a Dec. 3 interview.  The government declared a state of emergency Dec. 4 to end
local protests against the copper and gold mine that would be
Peru’s largest-ever investment project.  Business Confidence  Though Humala has tried to allay concerns he would reverse
economic policies that have fueled the fastest growth in  Latin
America  over the past decade, business confidence remains below
pre-election levels, said Arreaza.  Peru’s decision to leave rates unchanged contrasts with
 Brazil , which has cut borrowing costs three times since August.
Policy makers in Mexico and  Chile  have signaled they may do the
same as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to damp Latin America’s
commodity-dependent growth.  The sol rose to 2.6960 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday, its
highest level since April 2008, as investors bet the economy
will withstand the global slowdown and the central bank will
take measures to prevent swings in the currency. The yield on
Peru’s benchmark sol-denominated bond due August 2020 has
remained unchanged over the past month at 5.70 percent while the
 Lima General Index (IGBVL)  of stocks has gained 3.7 percent.  Growth Slowing  Peru’s economy has already showed signs of slowing in
recent months. Annual private investment growth eased to 8.5
percent in the third quarter, down from 16 percent in the
previous three months, the central bank said on Nov. 25. Import
and export growth eased in October while expansion in credit was
the slowest in a year on weaker demand for business loans.  Gross domestic product will rise almost 7 percent this
year, before growth slows to 5 percent to 6 percent in 2012,
according to Finance Minister Miguel Castilla. The government
may expand a $3 billion spending program to offset a
“prolonged” global slowdown, he said in a Dec. 3 interview.
GDP climbed 8.8 percent last year, the second fastest pace in 16
years.  The central bank increased its benchmark rate five times
between January and May, pushing it to a two-year high, to
contain inflation expectations. The bank has kept rates on hold
since June.  “The pause was initially due to concern that the political
context affecting demand and also because of the international
situation,” Velarde said in a Dec. 2 interview.  “Looking ahead, we don’t see any demand-related pressures
nor any of these pressures from food” that would cause
inflation to accelerate, he said. Inflation expectations are
“well anchored” in the 1 percent to 3 percent range, he added.  Interest rates may remain on hold until inflation slows or
 Europe ’s debt crisis has a clearer impact on the domestic
economy, Arreaza said.  “The central bank’s pause will last longer than at first
thought,” said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru
in  Lima . “It will have room to lower rates when inflation
returns to the target range in the second half of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 