-- 
Petrobras Misses 2011 Production Goal, Plans More Drilling

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-12-07T17:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/petrobras-will-miss-2011-oil-production-target-on-safety-work.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will miss its
crude production target this year because of safety work at some
fields and delays in the arrival of offshore rigs, as Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer steps up drilling for next year.  Petrobras, as the company is known, won’t achieve average
output of 2.1 million barrels a day this year, Chief Executive
Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said in an interview in Doha, Qatar,
today. The company, which is based in  Rio de Janeiro , is likely to
pump 2.08 million barrels a day in December, he said.  “We have more unplanned stoppage for maintenance than we had
last year, and this was the result of rising standards for
inspections,” Gabrielli said at the World Petroleum Congress in
the Qatari capital. “We have some problems in delays of drilling
ships and reservoir behavior in two fields.”  Petrobras is developing the western hemisphere’s largest oil
discoveries in three decades.  Brazil  plans to get production to 6
million barrels a day by the end of the decade.  International  oil companies  need access to new crude and
natural-gas deposits to meet global demand, which is expected to
grow over the next two decades, according to BP Plc CEO  Robert Dudley , Royal Dutch Shell Plc head  Peter Voser  and Exxon Mobil
Corp. CEO Rex Tillerson, all of whom were also in Doha this week
for the congress. Producers are accessing hard-to-produce
resources like Brazil’s crude, which is buried deep under the sea.  Adding Rigs  Petrobras will add 13 drilling rigs off Brazil next year as
it works toward having 37 platforms operating by 2015. It has 23
rigs capable of drilling at depths of more than 2,000 meters
(6,562 feet), Gabrielli said.  In the  Gulf of Mexico , where Petrobras operates the Cascade
and Chinook fields, the company expects to install a production
ship by the end of the first quarter, Gabrielli said. That will
allow production to grow to 45,000 barrels a day, with an eventual
capacity of about 120,000 barrels.  The cost of tapping Brazil’s new crude deposits will average
less than $43 a barrel between now and 2035, Gabrielli told
reporters in a separate press conference today. The wells are
performing better than expected and most are pumping at least
20,000 barrels a day, he said.  Billions in Debt  To finance its exploration and production plan through 2015,
Petrobras needs to sell between $67 billion and $91 billion in
debt, Gabrielli said. If Brent crude prices are higher than the
range of $80 to $95 a barrel that Petrobras used as a basis for
the plan, the company would need to sell less debt because it will
have more income from oil sales, he said.  “We are expecting a higher price than that for 2012,” he
said, without giving an estimate. About $30 billion of the bond
sales will go to paying debt that is maturing. He declined to
comment on when the company may sell additional debt or which
currency it will choose.  Petrobras this month sold its first bonds denominated in
euros and pounds. The bond pricing is in line with the company’s
borrowing costs for U.S. dollar-denominated bonds, the CEO said.  “This shows we can tap those markets even though we are at
the height of the crisis in  Europe ,” he said. Most of the
company’s debt will continue to be issued in dollars, and
Petrobras will evaluate more debt sales in that currency,
Brazilian reais, euros and pounds, Gabrielli said.  Petrobras expects gasoline imports to rise next year to
between 37,000 and 45,000 barrels per day, he said.  The company is building five new refineries to meet domestic
demand, with a goal of boosting production capacity to 3.2 million
barrels a day in 2020 from 1.9 million barrels now.  “We have a very big increase in projection for gasoline
imports next year,” Gabrielli said. The increase is due to a 43
percent growth rate in domestic gasoline consumption and declining
production of ethanol, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Doha at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 