-- 
Pfizer Wins FDA Panel’s Backing for Kidney-Cancer Treatment Axitinib

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T21:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/pfizer-wins-fda-panel-s-backing-for-kidney-cancer-treatment-axitinib.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, won a U.S. panel’s backing for an experimental
medicine for advanced kidney cancer in patients who have failed
prior treatments.  The benefits of the drug, known as axitinib, outweigh its
risks, 13 outside advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration 
said today in a unanimous vote in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . The
FDA isn’t required to follow advisory panels’ recommendations.  The medicine from New York-based Pfizer may compete with
 Aveo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO) ’s tivozanib, a kidney-cancer drug in
late-stage clinical trials. Both treatments block receptors in
the body thought to play a role in spreading tumors. Kidney
cancer affects  296,000  people in the U.S., according to the
 American Cancer Society .  “It met the regulatory bar” for approval “and offers an
important or useful alternative” to approved treatments, said
 Wyndham Wilson , the panel chairman, who is chief of lymphoma
therapeutics at the National Cancer Institute’s Center for
 Cancer Research , in Rockville, Maryland.  Pfizer gained 1.2 percent to $20.47 at the close in New
York. The shares have increased 17 percent this year.  Sales of axitinib, if approved, may reach $576 million in
2014, according to the average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Pfizer is seeking to sell the treatment
under the name Inlyta.  Additional Options  “We are pleased with the panel’s recommendation in support
of axitinib for the treatment of previously treated advanced
renal cell carcinoma, as additional therapeutic options are
still needed for this patient population,” Mace Rothenberg,
senior vice president of clinical development and medical
affairs at Pfizer, said in an e-mail after the vote.  FDA staff reviewers questioned the significance of efficacy
data in a trial that compared axitinib with kidney-cancer drug
Nexavar from German drugmaker  Bayer AG . In the study of 723
patients who had failed one prior therapy, those treated with
axitinib lived a median of 6.7 months before their tumors got
worse, two months longer than those who received Nexavar, agency
staff said in a Dec. 5  report .  That two-month benefit was “driven by a subset of patients
that is likely to be scarce in the  United States ,” the
reviewers said.  Previous Treatments  Axitinib was most effective in people previously treated
with cytokines, immune-boosting drugs that aren’t as widely used
as newer therapies such Pfizer’s Sutent. Patients in the
cytokine group who received axitinib lived a median of 5.6
months longer without tumor progression than those in that group
who were treated with Nexavar, agency reviewers said.  Axitinib’s benefits were “meager” in the larger group of
patients treated previously with Sutent, delaying tumor growth
just 1.4 months longer than Nexavar did, according to the
report.  The FDA’s concerns about axitinib may have “positive
implications” for the competing drug being developed by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Aveo, said Thomas Wei, an analyst
at Jefferies & Co. in  New York .  “We remain bullish on the prospects for tivozanib to
become the standard of care in the first-line treatment of renal
cell carcinoma,” Wei said Dec. 5 in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Silver Spring, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 