-- 
Philippine Peso Climbs on Europe Debt Plan Hopes; Bonds Advance

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-12-07T09:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/philippine-peso-climbs-on-europe-debt-plan-hopes-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso rose from a one-
week low on speculation the prospect of sovereign-rating
downgrades will galvanize European leaders to resolve the
region’s debt crisis.  Government bonds  advanced.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
European leaders will ratchet up efforts to end their two-year
old crisis at a Dec. 8-9 summit. Philippine President  Benigno
Aquino  said yesterday the government will boost spending next
year and the central bank may cut  interest rates  to support
economic growth amid a slump in exports.  “The market is hoping they will come up with some concrete
plans to resolve the Europe debt crisis,” said Catherine Bautista, a senior trader of sovereign bonds in Manila at Union
Bank of the Philippines. “It may be too soon to expect a
resolution this year given the complexity of the problem.”  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 43.278 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
reached 43.460 yesterday, the weakest since Nov. 29.  S&P put 15 euro-area nations, including Germany and France,
on review for possible downgrade this week and said yesterday a
European Union bailout fund may lose its top credit rating if
any of the six guarantors lose their AAA grade.  The Philippine government has curbed spending this year to
win a ratings upgrade, narrowing its  budget deficit  to 74.3
billion pesos ($1.7 billion) in the first 10 months of the year
from 270 billion pesos a year earlier.  Exports  fell 27 percent
in September, the worst performance since April 2009.  Bonds rose for a second day after central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said yesterday policy makers are “open to
possible easing” in early 2012 as economic growth and inflation
decelerate. Consumer  prices  climbed 4.8 percent in November from
a year earlier, versus 5.2 percent in October, the government
said yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent notes maturing
in January 2018 dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.86 percent, according to Tradition Financial
Services. That’s the lowest closing level since Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  