-- 
Pimco’s ‘Go-Anywhere’ Funds Veer Off-Course

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/pimco-leads-go-anywhere-funds-veering-off-course-as-rates-fall.html
Pimco Unconstrained Bond Fund (PUBAX)  and
other “go-anywhere” bond funds created during the 2008 credit
crisis went mostly to the wrong places in 2011 after missing a
rally in Treasuries and buying riskier assets that lost ground.  Funds that  Morningstar Inc.  calls “non-traditional”
declined an average of 1.8 percent this year through Dec. 5
while the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index gained 7
percent, the Chicago-based research firm said. The $15.5 billion
Pimco Unconstrained Bond Fund, the biggest such fund, has lost
0.1 percent this year and the $13.5 billion JP Morgan Strategic
Income Opportunities Fund, the second-biggest, fell 0.5 percent.  Pacific Investment Management Co.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
rival firms have collectively amassed more than $50 billion
since 2009 in such funds, attracting investors with the promise
of bond selection unconstrained by maturities, credit quality or
region, and the ability to protect against rising  interest
rates . This year, Europe’s debt crisis drove investors worldwide
to the safety of U.S. Treasuries, pushing down interest rates
and hurting managers who expected rates to climb.  “Sometimes the future takes a turn that is surprising to
even the smartest among us,” Jeff Tjornehoj, an analyst with
Denver-based Lipper, said in a telephone interview. “Investing
in Treasuries wasn’t how these guys expected to make a living.”  ’Dangerous’ Treasuries  William Eigen, who runs the JP Morgan fund, said that while
he is disappointed with his “flat” performance this year, he
isn’t unhappy with the choices he made.  “I don’t regret not owning Treasuries because they were
dangerous,” Eigen, who has managed the  JP Morgan Strategic
Income Opportunities Fund (JSOAX)  since its inception in 2008, said in a
telephone interview from Boston. “In fixed income you need to
be looking at alternatives.”  So-called “go-anywhere” bond funds were created during
the 2007-2008 financial crisis, spurred by the decline in
interest rates to near zero and a widespread belief that an
inevitable increase in rates would hurt traditional funds, said
 Eric Jacobson , Morningstar’s director of fixed-income research.
Bond prices fall as interest rates climb.  “There was a fear that even good funds would get whacked
at some point,” Jacobson said in a telephone interview.  Attracting $55 Billion  The premise helped the non-traditional funds attract $9.2
billion in 2009, $27.6 billion in 2010 and $13.7 billion in the
first seven months of this year, according to Morningstar. In
2010, Eigen’s fund, Pimco Unconstrained and the $6.5 billion
 Eaton Vance Global Macro Absolute Return Fund (EIGMX)  were among the 10-
best selling bond funds in the U.S., Morningstar data show.  By the end of October, the non-traditional funds had $55
billion in assets, up from $2.8 billion at the end of 2008.
Investors pulled almost $4 billion from non-traditional bond
funds in the three months ended Oct. 31, after performance this
year trailed the  bond market .  If rates rise or even level off in 2012, bond funds with
more flexibility should have an edge, said Greg Lavine, who owns
Eigen’s fund.  “We aren’t in love with the performance lately, but funds
like this have a purpose,” said Lavine, an adviser with Altfest
Personal  Wealth Management  in  New York , which manages $800
million.  The flexible funds can buy a wide range of fixed-income
assets both in the U.S. and around the world and, like  hedge
funds , they have the freedom to short securities. The funds
returned an average of 19 percent in 2009, as riskier assets
such as  junk bonds  and emerging market bonds rallied, said
Jacobson. They gained 5.1 percent in 2010, compared with 6.5
percent for the Barclays Aggregate.  This year the funds didn’t participate in the Treasury
rally. Treasuries returned 8.9 percent through Dec. 5, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Treasury Master Index.  Pimco Unconstrained  In an August interview posted on Pimco’s website, Chris Dialynas, manager of Pimco Unconstrained, said his fund was
positioned to offer “marginal exposure to overall interest-rate
risk.” The Pimco Unconstrained Fund can have a duration of as
low as minus three years, meaning the fund can benefit if
interest rates rise. The fund’s duration was 2.5 years at the
end of October.  Duration measures a bond’s sensitivity to changes in rates.  The non-traditional funds have an average duration of about
1 year, compared with 5 years for the Barclays Aggregate Index,
according to Morningstar. Treasuries represent 35 percent of the
index, according to Vanguard Group Inc.  Pimco Unconstrained had 32 percent of its assets in
mortgages, 21 percent in investment grade credit and 28 percent
in  emerging markets  at the end of October, according to
information posted on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s
website. The fund had 21 percent in Treasuries, which was more
than offset by hedges in the swap and futures markets.  Emerging-Market Bonds  Dialynas, who declined to comment for this story, has said
this year that he likes Asian currencies, bonds in selected
emerging markets and mortgages, while avoiding  Europe . The fund
fell 0.1 percent through Dec. 5.  While losing out on the rally in Treasuries, investments
the group of funds made in markets such as junk bonds and
emerging market currencies haven’t worked out as well.  High-yield bonds,  33 percent of Eigen’s portfolio at the
end of October,  returned 3.1 percent this year through Dec. 5,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index.  The managers of Pimco Unconstrained and Eaton Vance Global
Macro said in their third-quarter reports that declines in some
currencies, including the  Mexican peso , hurt performance. The
peso fell 16 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the quarter,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Speed Bump’  Michael Cirami, a co-manager of Eaton Vance Global Macro,
said he is convinced his fund’s holdings in emerging market
bonds and currencies will pay off. Emerging market economies
have better growth prospects and stronger finances than
economies in the developed world, which are plagued by heavy
debt burdens, he said.  “We view 2011 as a speed bump in a trend that will
continue for a number of years,” Cirami, 35, said in an
interview in the firm’s  Boston ’s office.  Cirami, who joined Eaton Vance in 2003, has worked on the
fund since 2008. The fund, down 0.1 percent this year, had 60
percent of its assets in foreign sovereign bonds and 8.2 percent
in Treasuries at the end of the third quarter.  In retrospect, said Cirami, while it would have been nice
to own more Treasuries, the risk-reward trade-off on the
investment was unattractive.  Favoring Junk Bonds  “We like to have a position where we can lose a little and
make a lot,” he said. “Treasuries were the exact opposite of
that trade.”  Forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg expect the yield on the
10-year Treasury note to reach 2.73 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012, up from 2.08 percent as of Dec. 6.  Eigen favors junk bonds because their yields imply too
gloomy a view of the economy and potential default rates. Using
the same logic, he is selling protection on distressed
companies, betting that the market is overly fearful of defaults
over the next 18 months.  “Our economy is healing, not getting worse,” he said.  High yield, high-risk debt is likely to return 13.6 percent
in 2012 as corporate balance sheets are in “pristine shape”
and defaults stay low, according to a report by New York-based
Morgan Stanley.  The jobless rate in the U.S. fell to 8.6 percent in
November, the lowest since March 2009. Car sales for the month
were the best since August 2009.  Short Treasuries  Eigen said he will continue to avoid Treasuries because
they are yielding less than the rate of inflation. The yield on
the five-year U.S. Treasury note is below 1 percent, according
to data compiled Bloomberg. Consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in
the 12 months ended Oct. 31.  “I would own Treasuries if I were getting paid to own
them,” Eigen said. “At these levels it makes no sense.” The
fund currently has a “slight” short position in Treasuries, he
said.  Eigen, 43, spent 12 years as a bond manager at  Fidelity
Investments  in Boston, before joining JP Morgan’s hedge fund
operation, Highbridge Capital Management, in 2005.  The ‘go anywhere’ funds got popular because they promised
protection in the event of rising interest rates, said
Morningstar’s Jacobson.  “The managers avoided rate risk, but they took on credit
risk by buying foreign bonds and high yield bonds,” said
Jacobson. “It just illustrates that there is no free lunch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  