-- 
Police Probing News Corp. Settlement With Clifford, Brooks Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-12-07T19:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/police-probing-news-corp-settlement-with-clifford-brooks-says.html
British police investigating illegal
activities at News Corp.’s now defunct News of the World
newspaper are reviewing the tabloid’s 2010 settlement of a phone
hacking case brought by publicist  Max Clifford .  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, told lawmakers in a letter released today
that the settlement was part of the police probe.  “I am still being investigated by the police,” Brooks,
who was arrested in July, wrote in a letter to Parliament’s
Culture Committee. “One of the matters being investigated is
the Max Clifford settlement, and I was questioned by the police
on this issue in July.”  Brooks resigned as News International CEO shortly after
revelations in July that the paper had hacked into the phone of
a murdered school girl. Clifford was one of the first phone-
hacking victims to reach a settlement with the company over
allegations reporters illegally accessed voice-mail messages for
stories.  Under the settlement, Clifford agreed to work with the
paper for two years on a 200,000 pound-a-year ($314,000)
retainer, Linklaters LLP, a U.K. law firm representing  News
Corp .’s Management and Standards Committee, said in a separate
letter to the committee also released today. His costs of
283,000 pounds, plus  sales tax , were also met. Linklaters said
it had given all the documents to the police, who were concerned
that releasing too much information might prejudice further
inquiries.  Coulson Case  Separately,  Andy Coulson , the ex-News of the World editor
who resigned in January as U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
press chief, told a judge today that News Corp. should pay his
legal bills in a case over phone hacking.  Coulson, who was also arrested in July, sued the company on
Sept. 22 over claims it breached his severance agreement by
refusing to pay his legal costs.  London  police investigating phone hacking today also
arrested a 41-year-old man in connection with the probe. The
unidentified man was detained on suspicion of conspiring to
intercept voice-mail messages and “perverting the course of
justice,” the  Metropolitan Police  said today in a statement.
The man was  Glenn Mulcaire , the private detective at the center
of the phone-hacking scandal,  Sky News  reported.  Police have made 16 arrests this year as part of the
Operation Weeting phone-hacking probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 