-- 
Polish Central Bank Leaves Main Rate at Highest Since 2009 on Weaker Zloty

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-12-07T18:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/polish-central-bank-leaves-main-rate-at-highest-since-2009-on-weaker-zloty.html
Poland ’s central bank left its main
interest rate unchanged at the highest level in almost three
years to help defend the zloty and contain inflation that’s
exceeded the official target for 13 months.  The Narodowy Bank Polski left the  benchmark seven-day
interest rate  at 4.5 percent for a sixth month, the highest
since January 2009, matching the forecast of all 32 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers raised borrowing costs by a total of 1
percentage point this year to tame inflation and have reaffirmed
plans to hold rates flat after price growth accelerated. Since
the last increase in June, the zloty has shed 12 percent against
the euro as investors shun emerging-market assets, pushing up
import costs and helping keep inflation above the central bank’s
2.5 percent target.  “The chances for rate movements either way haven’t changed
since the previous meeting,”  Marek Belka , the bank’s Governor,
told a news conference in Warsaw today. “Economic slowdown in
the euro region and a weaker zloty offset each other as far as
the impact on inflation goes.”  The regulator’s rate-setting board left borrowing costs
unchanged when it last met on Nov. 9, citing a “volatile”
zloty and expectations of a “milder” economic slowdown than
the neighboring euro region.  Foreign-Currency Sales  The zloty, the sixth-worst performer since July among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, was little changed at 4.4676
per euro at 5:30 p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on  the government’s
10-year bond  fell 0.2 percentage point to 5.86 percent.  Sales of foreign currency during the last two months have
made the zloty more stable than the Czech koruna, Belka said,
promising to continue the policy of “intervening” to calm the
market, without setting a specific exchange-rate target.  The zloty is the main risk to bringing inflation within the
bank’s target, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement. A
“gradual reduction in the growth of domestic demand amid a
tightening of fiscal policy” will help curb price pressures, it
added.  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier in
October after a 3.9 percent increase in September.  Core
inflation , which strips out volatile food and fuel prices,
accelerated to 2.8 percent from a year ago in October from 2.6
percent the previous month.  Slower Growth  The central bank last month cut its 2012 economic-growth
forecast to 3.1 percent from 3.2 percent. Gross domestic product
grew 4.3 percent from a year earlier in the third quarter, more
than economists forecast, bolstering projections for full-year
expansion of 4 percent or more, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said
Dec. 2.  Growth next year may depend on progress in solving the debt
crisis in the euro region, which “is already in a mild
recession,” according to a report last week by the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Poland’s
economy, the only one in EU to dodge recession in 2009, may slow
to 2.5 percent next year, the government estimates.  Forward-rate agreements used to speculate on changes in
borrowing costs indicate a quarter-point rate cut in six months,
while the median estimate of 29 economists in a Bloomberg survey
suggests a reduction of that size by March. Still, some predict
an increase, should the euro region’s crisis lead to further
zloty depreciation and inflation.  Loans, Input Prices  Corporate loans grew 13.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, accelerating from a 13 percent increase the previous
month, according to central bank data.  Upward pressure on manufacturers’ input prices “remained
stubbornly high” in November, even as demand weakened, HSBC
Holdings said Dec. 1. The  producer price index , an early
indication of inflationary trends, has risen for four
consecutive months, reaching 8.5 percent in October.  “With a weaker zloty and an increase in energy and diesel
prices, the inflation rate will decline at a slower pace,”
Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank Pocztowy, said in a note
to clients. “Potentially worse inflation perspectives may mean
 interest rates  remain unchanged throughout 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  