-- 
China Bank Crisis Led by Debt Seen by 61% in Global Poll

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-12-08T05:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/poll-investors-predict-china-bank-crisis.html
Most global investors predict  China 
will face a banking crisis within the next five years, paring
their appetite for the nation’s shares and eroding confidence in
its leadership, a Bloomberg Global Poll indicated.  Sixty-one percent of respondents said they anticipate a
crash in the financial industry by late 2016, and only 10
percent were confident China’s banks will escape trouble,
according to the quarterly poll of 1,097 investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers conducted Dec. 5-6.  Evidence of slowing growth in China -- including the
weakest  manufacturing  performance in more than two years,
falling home sales and ebbing export growth -- has stoked
concern that non-performing loans will climb in the world’s
second-largest economy. The risk is a legacy of a record 17.6
trillion-yuan ($2.8 trillion) lending boom unleashed by Premier
Wen Jiabao in 2009-2010 amid the global recession.  “The deep-seated misallocation of resources, particularly
in the real estate and banking sectors, will lead to a
combination of political and economic instability,” says Lance Depew, managing director of UPI Management LLC in Santa Barbara,
 California , and a participant in the poll. “I expect further
macroeconomic weakness and sub-par returns in the stock market
for the foreseeable future.”  Stocks Slide  The  MSCI China/Financials Index  of shares has tumbled 22
percent this year, underperforming the broader MSCI China Index
of equities, which is down 17 percent.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) 
has declined 32 percent and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  30 percent,
contributing the most to the financial index’s losses.  Enthusiasm for Chinese stocks has flagged among Bloomberg
users. In the latest poll, 21 percent called China one of the
best places to invest over the next year. That was less than
half the 44 percent who named China in an October 2009 Bloomberg
survey.  Thirty-five percent of respondents said they expect China’s
economic growth to slow to less than 5 percent from the 9.1
percent year-on-year pace recorded in the third quarter. Thirty-
one percent anticipated “serious political or economic
instability that stalls growth.” American investors were the
most pessimistic, with 40 percent expecting a Chinese crisis.  A plurality of 46 percent of investors described the
Chinese economy as “deteriorating” -- up from 38 percent in
September -- compared with 40 percent who said it was
“stable.”  Goldman’s Outlook  The skepticism contrasts with the outlook of economists
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and the  International Monetary
Fund , who predict China will avoid a growth slump while defusing
inflation. Goldman Sachs, in a Dec. 1 report, projected the
nation’s gross domestic product will rise 8.6 percent next year
and 8.7 percent in 2013.  A relatively low central government debt burden gives
Premier Wen Jiabao’s administration the fiscal wherewithal to
address a jump in non-performing loans. The IMF estimates the
government’s gross debt-to-GDP ratio at 27 percent this year,
compared with 100 percent for the U.S. and 233 percent in  Japan .  The  World Bank  said last month that while China faces the
risk of a “strong” impact from a real-estate correction, it
has “ample” scope to cushion its economy. Policy makers have
begun responding to the signs of a weakening outlook, with the
People’s Bank of China last week lowering banks’ reserve
requirements for the first time since 2008 to encourage lending.  Best in Class  “China, simply put, is the best managed major economy on
the planet,” said Anthony Stephens, an equity trader with
Standard Chartered Bank in  Hong Kong  and a survey participant.  Most investors in the poll don’t anticipate China’s
relative economic performance translating into broader influence
that would displace the U.S. as the world’s preeminent
superpower.  Forty-one percent of poll respondents said that the U.S.
would remain militarily dominant even as the Chinese economy
eventually overtakes it in size. An additional 27 percent said
China would “never surpass” the U.S. as the top global force.
Only 25 percent agreed that China would “inevitably replace”
it as the No. 1 superpower.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has sought to
enhance the U.S.’s stature in Asia this year, an initiative
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has described as a “pivot”
toward the region after a decade of American focus on war in the
 Middle East . As part of the approach, the administration is
seeking a free-trade agreement with Pacific nations including
Malaysia, Vietnam and  Singapore , and last month enhanced its
security ties with  Australia .  U.S. in  Asia   Global investors are skeptical of the U.S. effort,
highlighted when Obama hosted the annual 21-nation Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit in Honolulu last month and attended
an East Asia Summit in Bali,  Indonesia . Fifty-six percent said
the campaign “will not enhance U.S. influence and end up
antagonizing China,” compared with 30 percent who expect it to
serve as an “effective counterweight” to Chinese power.  “China’s rising power and the  United States ’ traditional
role are increasingly coming into conflict in the region,” said
Michael Swaine, author of “America’s Challenge: Engaging A
Rising China in the 21st Century” and a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “These two
countries have very different views on what sustains prosperity
and stability.”  Leadership Assessment  Investors this year have become less enamored of Chinese
President  Hu Jintao , with 47 percent saying they were optimistic
about his leadership, compared with 38 percent who described
themselves as pessimistic. In January, Bloomberg customers
favored Hu by a 60 percent to 30 percent margin.  China is in the midst of a planned leadership shift that
will culminate late next year with the 18th Communist Party
Congress. The conclave, which occurs every five years, is likely
to tap Vice President  Xi Jinping  as China’s next president and
 Li Keqiang , currently vice premier, as prime minister.  Ahead of that comes an annual conference by top government
officials this month that may affirm the shift to stimulus
already telegraphed by last week’s bank reserve-ratio cut.
Goldman analysts also predict an endorsement of “structural” tax
cuts in the wake of rapid gains in fiscal revenue.  Global investors are confident the new team will continue
the shift toward private enterprise devised in the late 1970s by
Deng Xiaoping. In the poll, 49 percent of Bloomberg customers
said the Chinese leadership will move toward free markets, while
37 percent forecast a tightening of state control over the
economy. Asian investors were most upbeat, with 55 percent
anticipating further opening.  Next Administration  Among the tasks that may face the next government is
clearing any wreckage left from a surge in non-performing loans.
The IMF, in its first formal evaluation of China’s financial
system Nov. 15, called for further moves toward a “market-based
financial system,” including upgraded bank  risk-management
systems and additional skilled personnel for the central bank
and regulatory agencies.  “Many government liabilities are hiding in the banking
system,” says Yin-Chen Chang, a consulting associate at
Waterland Securities in Taipei,  Taiwan .  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
Des Moines, Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.0 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  