-- 
Putin Aide’s Wife Helped Buy Corus Stock Via Trust, Usmanov Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-07T13:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/putin-aide-s-wife-helped-buy-corus-stock-via-trust-usmanov-says.html
Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ,
an investor in Facebook Inc., said a trust for the wife of one
of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s deputies helped him buy stock
in  Corus Group (TATA) , a British steelmaker now part of Tata Steel.  The trust for Olga Shuvalova, wife of First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov , was a partner while the billionaire
invested in Corus from 2003 to 2005, Usmanov said. Shuvalov was
an economic aide to then-President Putin at the time.  “I had three co-investors,” Usmanov said in a phone
interview, commenting on a report by  Barron’s  published Dec. 3.
“The trust, in which Igor Shuvalov’s wife was beneficial
holder, was one of them.”  The billionaire’s Gallagher Holdings spent about $300
million buying 13.4 percent of Corus, according to a filing to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2004.  Shuvalova’s trust invested $50 million in the deal, while
Vasily Anisimov, a co-owner in Usmanov’s Metalloinvest iron-ore
producer, provided about $100 million, the billionaire said. A
Russian bank put up $50 million and Usmanov invested the
remaining $119 million, he said.  “The deal was done in accordance with all laws,” Usmanov
said.  Gallagher sold out of Corus in 2005. “I made about $1
billion of profit on the investments, including that made in
Corus,” he said without elaborating. “Fifteen percent of the
profit was shared with co-investors.”  All financial deals that Shuvalov and his family are
involved with were declared officially, and the information is
public and transparent, Shuvalov’s press service said.  Shuvalov earned 15 million rubles ($480,000) last year,
according to his declaration, while his wife, Olga, disclosed
373 million rubles of income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  