-- 
Qantas Says Asia Demand Rising

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-12-07T01:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/qantas-says-asia-demand-rising.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
biggest carrier, said  travel demand  in  Asia  is rising as the
company continues talks to establish a new airline based in
Singapore or Malaysia.  The growth is helping to limit the impact of stalling
travel to traditional international destinations such as  Europe ,
Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce told a conference in Sydney
today.  Qantas wants to start the new airline next year with a base
in either Kuala Lumpur or Singapore offering flights from
southeast Asia that reach China and Australia. The company may
also increase cooperation with  Malaysian Airline System Bhd (MAS)  as
it tries to drive new passenger growth and turn around A$200
million ($205 million) in annual losses from international
operations.  “We’re seeing the rapid rise of  emerging markets  in
Asia,” Joyce said today. “A cornerstone of our international
strategy is to tap into the forecast growth in the intra Asia
travel sector at the premium end of the market.”  Joyce grounded most of his fleet on Oct. 29, ahead of a
planned lockout of long-haul pilots, engineers and baggage
handlers, who are campaigning for job-security measures in their
contracts.  The grounding triggered intervention by the government,
which sought an end to the dispute and resumption of
negotiations. The nation’s labor regulator is now holding
arbitration between Qantas and the three unions after those
talks failed.  The company last week forecast first-half profit that beat
analyst estimates, saying bookings had rebounded from strikes
that forced the Sydney-based company to cancel flights,
stranding 80,000 passengers in October. Qantas predicted
earnings before tax and items of as much as A$190 million for
the six months ending Dec. 31, with the labor dispute costing
A$194 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  