-- 
Raiffeisen Owner RZB Seeks Permits to Fill EBA Capital Gap

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-12-07T16:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/raiffeisen-owner-rzb-seeks-approval-for-measures-to-fill-3-4-billion-gap.html
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG , the majority owner of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , is
seeking shareholder permission to fill a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.4
billion) capital gap by selling new shares and other securities.  RZB, which is unlisted and  controlled by eight regional
Austrian cooperative banks , scheduled a shareholder meeting for
Dec. 28 by publishing the invitation in  Austria ’s official
gazette. It could issue as many as 3 million new shares in RZB,
or half of the outstanding, and sell non-voting securities known
as participation capital, according to the  agenda .  RZB, whose main asset is a 79 percent stake in eastern
 Europe ’s third-biggest lender Raiffeisen, needs the extra
capital to meet the 9 percent minimum ratio defined by the
European Banking Authority. Raiffeisen said Nov. 24 that it and
RZB were working on about 20 measures to fill the gap without
seeking state aid or selling new shares in the listed business.
The measures include reducing assets, retaining earnings and
creating capital.  Raiffeisen’s shares rose 3.5 percent to 21.33 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Vienna, making the lender the
third best performer in the 46-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index (BEBANKS) , which was 0.4 percent lower.  ‘Self-Help’  “We believe Raiffeisen has more self-help options than the
market realizes,” said Daniele Brupbacher, an analyst at UBS AG
with a “neutral” rating on the stock. “Delivering in these
areas is positive in my opinion.”  New capital could be created by swapping 500 million euros
to 1 billion euros of non-voting capital currently issued by
both Raiffeisen and RZB into new stock, Raiffeisen said Nov. 24.
The new shares RZB is requesting could be sold against cash or
contribution-in-kind, which would make that swap possible under
Austrian share law. Raiffeisen hasn’t elaborated on other
options to create new capital.  There is no price quote for RZB’s unlisted shares. Hypo NOe
Gruppe Bank AG in October sold a 1.17 percent stake in RZB to
other RZB shareholders for an undisclosed price. Austrian
newspaper  Der Standard  reported that it agreed to sell the stake
for 105 million euros, or 1,470 euros per RZB share.  The new non-voting capital RZB is seeking will be used
mainly to buy minority stakes in Raiffeisen’s Hungarian, Czech
and Slovak units, RZB said. Several of the regional banks that
own RZB also hold minority stakes in those three units. Buying
them out will boost RZB’s capital under the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision ’s new rules and also help the regional
banks’ own capital requirements.  RZB owners including Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberoesterreich
AG and Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederoesterreich-Wien AG hold about
30 percent of  Hungary ’s Raiffeisen Bank Zrt., 49 percent of
Czech Raiffeisenbank AS and 34 percent of  Tatra Banka AS (TAT)  in
Slovakia, according to company reports and the Austrian company
register.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  