-- 
Rajat Gupta Lawsuit Dismissal Opposed by Goldman Investor

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-12-07T23:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/rajat-gupta-lawsuit-dismissal-opposed-by-goldman-investor-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  investor
James Mercer, in a lawsuit against former board member  Rajat Gupta  in which the bank is a “nominal plaintiff,” filed court
papers opposing a motion by the defendant to dismiss the case.  In the lawsuit, Mercer alleged Gupta disclosed confidential
bank information to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam,
the hedge-fund manager who was later convicted of insider
trading. Gupta has been charged by federal prosecutors in
connection with the Rajaratnam probe.  “Gupta did not provide confidential information about the
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Raj Rajaratnam without purpose,”
Mercer said in the filing today in  Manhattan  federal court. “He
did it for pecuniary gain.”  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
filing.  In March, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
started administrative proceedings against Gupta over claims of
 securities fraud . Mercer sued in June, seeking to recover short-
swing profits generated by Galleon trades in Goldman Sachs
stock. Short-swing profits are profits made by an insider on the
purchase and sale, within six months, of company stock.  Legal Beneficiary  Mercer claimed that Gupta, who as a Goldman Sachs director
is considered a company insider, should be deemed the legal
beneficiary of the Galleon trades. Gupta was alleged by the SEC
to have given Rajaratnam tips about Goldman Sachs’s quarterly
financial results before they were made public.  In seeking to dismiss Mercer’s suit in November, Gupta
said, “the complaint’s allegations are all about tipping and
not about trading by Mr. Gupta. The complaint fails to allege a
purchase or sale by Mr. Gupta of even a single share of Goldman
Sachs stock.”  Mercer countered today that Gupta, by owning Goldman Sachs
shares, benefited from Rajaratnam’s trades.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
filing.  Mercer contacted Goldman Sachs after the SEC proceedings
began in March and demanded that it initiate legal action
against Gupta, according to court papers.  Goldman Sachs was made a nominal plaintiff because it’s the
statutory beneficiary of any illegal profits from trades
prompted by Gupta’s tips, Mercer argued in his complaint. He
also claimed that Gupta benefited from the illegal trades as an
investor in Rajaratnam’s funds.  Gupta was indicted by a federal grand jury in October on
five counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud.  Rajaratnam was convicted on  insider-trading  charges and is
serving an 11-year prison sentence in Ayer,  Massachusetts .  The case is Mercer v. Gupta, 11-3828, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 