-- 
Rand Declines Most in Two Weeks Versus Dollar on European Summit Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-12-07T14:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/rand-declines-most-in-two-weeks-versus-dollar-on-european-summit-concern.html
The rand declined the most in two
weeks against the dollar as concern European leaders will
struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis damped demand for
emerging-market currencies.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated 0.9 percent weaker to
8.0971 at 4:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, the biggest drop on a
closing basis since Nov. 23. Against the euro, it slipped 0.6
percent to 10.8158.  Germany rejects proposals to combine the current and
permanent euro-area rescue funds, a government official said
today in Berlin on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations are private, a day before the beginning of a two-
day European Union summit. Currencies from Russia, India and
Brazil declined versus the dollar, while the euro weakened
against 11 of its 16 major counterparts.  “There is a tremendous amount of uncertainty ahead of the
EU summit,”  George Glynos , managing director at Econometrix
Treasury Management in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Some
people in the market are putting a lot of faith in EU policy
makers but their track record is shocking. They’ve disappointed
the markets more than they’ve impressed.”  Standard & Poor’s warning this week on the debt ratings of
15 euro-area governments will spur leaders to ratchet up efforts
tomorrow, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
yesterday. The  European Central Bank  is forecast to cut  interest
rates  tomorrow.  “Cautious trade is typical ahead of major events - and we
have two of these -- the ECB tomorrow and then the EU summit,”
John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  The rand stayed weaker after retail sales rose at a slower
pace of 7.4 percent in October, compared with 7.7 percent the
previous month, as a pickup in inflation undermined  consumer
spending .  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 declined for a
third day, driving the yield up three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.91 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  