-- 
Trapped by $50,000 Degree in Low-Paying Job Is Increasing Lament

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/trapped-by-50-000-degree-in-low-paying-job-is-increasing-lament.html
Laura Sayer, unsure of what she
wanted to do after graduating from college in 2006, figured a
master’s degree was “a safe bet.”  With $5,000 in undergraduate loans from her time at the
University of Cincinnati, Sayer was set back $50,000 more after
completing the  Interdisciplinary Master’s Program in Humanities
and Social Thought  at  New York  University. The 27-year-old now
makes about $45,000 a year as an administrative assistant for a
nonprofit group, a job that didn’t require her advanced degree.  More people are losing the same gamble as a 33 percent jump
in  U.S. graduate school enrollment  in the past decade, coupled
with an 80 percent surge in tuition and required fees, runs
headlong into a weaker job market. Universities are fueling the
trend by offering more one- and two-year programs in areas from
environmental science to sports management that rarely come with
financial aid other than the option for loans.  “Students need to be more skeptical that the income, debt
and job-placement statistics that they’re being shown about
graduate schools may not reflect individual experiences,” said
 Mark Kantrowitz , publisher of  FinAid.org , a website with
educational-lending information. “It’s like the advertisements
on TV for weight-loss programs: the results are not typical.”  About one-third of people with master’s degrees make less
money on average than a typical bachelor’s degree holder, said
Stephen J. Rose, a labor economist with Georgetown University’s
 Center on Education and the Workforce , citing U.S. Census data.  ‘Making Mistakes’  “Some people are making mistakes and other people are just
making choices that this is what they want to do,” Rose said.
“In this bad environment, many people with master’s degrees are
employed but in relatively low-paying positions.”  Students who attend professional schools, such as for law,
medicine and business, accumulate even more debt.  Medical school
graduates  have a mean indebtedness of $161,290, up 55 percent
since 2002, not adjusted for inflation, according to the
Association of American Medical Colleges. Average tuition and
fees for private law schools have jumped 73 percent since 1999
to $35,743 in 2009, an American Bar Association survey shows.  The median tuition and fees for an MBA at a private school
has gained 66 percent from 2001-2002 to $49,500 for 2010-2011,
according to a survey by the Association to Advance Collegiate
Schools of Business.  Men with master’s degrees make an average of $14,500 more a
year than those without the degrees, and for women it’s about
$10,000, according to Rose’s analysis of Census data. Advanced
degrees in computers, engineering, business and nursing lead to
the highest salaries. Master’s degrees in education, fine arts,
teaching and liberal arts fare the worst.  Trapped for Decades  Gerrald Ellis, 28, took about $160,000 in federal loans to
attend Fordham Law School, and then spent a year searching for a
job. He eventually found work at a four-lawyer firm in  White
Plains , New York, doing consumer protection work.  Because his student debt is so high compared to his salary,
Ellis said he expects to qualify for a plan that would let him
pay 15 percent of his salary for 25 years, and whatever debt is
left after that is forgiven.  “I’m trapped for at least two decades,” said Ellis, who
lives in Harlem with a classmate who also borrowed more than
$100,000. “The debt has an impact on everything, where I decide
to live, what job I take. I can’t even imagine having kids with
this kind of debt burden. Multiply that by a whole generation.”  Change in Law  After a change in federal law in 2006, graduate students
became eligible to borrow federally backed loans that covered
the full cost to complete their degrees, while undergraduates
are limited to $27,000 over four years, according to Kantrowitz.  The number of students enrolled in graduate schools,
excluding law and medicine, totaled 1.7 million last year, a 33
percent jump from 2000, according to  data  from the Council of
Graduate Schools, which represents more than 500 universities.  Federal and private  student loans  outstanding for graduate
and undergraduate education is approaching $1 trillion, and
surpassed  U.S. credit-card debt  in June 2010 for the first time,
said Kantrowitz, who analyzed federal loan data and modeled
private student-loan volumes. Defaults are at their  highest
since fiscal 1997 , according to the Education Department.  Of the $93 billion in total federal and private education
loan debt in 2007-2008, the most recent federal data available,
about 30 percent was for graduate and professional debt,
Kantrowitz said.  Pathway to Success  The predicaments of people like Sayer and Ellis have become
a rallying cry for Occupy Wall Street protesters, and students
at schools from  City University  of New York to the  University of
California  system demonstrated last month against tuition
increases.  President  Barack Obama  in October announced rules to lower
the burden for some with federal loans and met this week with a
dozen heads of public and private universities about ways to
curb rising education costs.  Debra Stewart , president of the Washington-based Council of
Graduate Schools, said advanced schooling is still the “pathway
to success in the modern economy.”  “The more education you have, the more highly regarded you
are going to be in the workplace,” she said.  Well before the economic recession and tuition increases
made students evaluate whether to invest in graduate school,
universities had expanded their master’s degree offerings over
the past 15 years.  Expanded Offerings  Robert Manuel, dean of  Georgetown’s School of Continuing
Studies , said a master’s degree from his program is worth the
debt. His school offers six master’s of professional studies
degrees, including in sports and real-estate management, and has
about 980 students.  “I see the impact and I see the transformation that
happens in these students as they go through the program,”
Manuel said in an interview. “It’s worth every dollar.”  The cost to complete the degrees is about $40,000, which
includes tuition, fees and estimated living expenses, said Stacy
Kerr, a spokeswoman for Washington-based  Georgetown University .
Students take one to five years to finish, depending on their
personal situations. About half take loans, with annual average
borrowing of about $21,000, she said.  Nearby George Washington University has expanded programs
at its  Graduate School of Political Management , offering degrees
in legislative affairs, political management and strategic
public relations. Enrollment has doubled since its founding in
1995 to about 250 full-time students, paying roughly $53,000 for
their degree including living expenses, said Dennis Johnson, the
acting  executive director .  Career Prospects  Evening classes are aimed at students with day jobs and
they leave with contacts among the faculty, many of whom work in
the field and can help alumni land jobs, he said.  “I’m very much sold that this is a good idea,” Johnson
said.  Sayer, the NYU graduate, said while she learned critical-
thinking skills, her career prospects won’t allow her to pay off
her debt anytime soon.  “Even if I didn’t know what field it would lead me to, I
thought it would be worthwhile for my professional career,”
said Sayer, who lives in the Crown Heights neighborhood of
 Brooklyn  with two roommates.  Many of the students who enroll in the master’s of “Social
Thought” program directly from college do so with an eye toward
a Ph.D., said  John Beckman , an NYU spokesman.  “The numbers have shown, and will continue to show, over
time that an investment in an advanced degree will yield better
career prospects and income,” Beckman said.  Game Show Winnings  The decision to go to graduate school was easy for Zach
Safford, who finished  Williams College  in  Massachusetts  in 2009
with no debt.  The 24-year-old recently completed a master’s in design
ethnography at the  University of Dundee  in  Scotland  for about
$18,000 and found work immediately doing qualitative research
for a company in New York.  He said he paid for the degree with $25,000 won on the
television game show Jeopardy!  “If I had to borrow, it would have certainly been a much
more complicated decision,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  