-- 
Treasuries Snap Two-Day Loss as Rates Showing Banks Are Reluctant to Lend

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-07T06:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/treasuries-hold-two-day-decline-on-speculation-euro-summit-to-curb-crisis.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day loss as
money-market rates suggest banks are the most reluctant to lend
in 30 months before European leaders meet tomorrow to address
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The difference between the three-month  London  interbank
offered rate and the overnight index swap widened to 44 basis
points. The spread, which increases as banks become less willing
to lend to each other, was the most since June 2009. Demand for
safety has made Treasuries the best performing bonds in the past
six months as Europe’s fiscal woes threatened to curb global
economic growth.  “There’s a chance that yields will decline again,” said
Takuya Yamamoto, an investor at Diam Co. in  Tokyo , which manages
the equivalent of $127.4 billion. “It’s very difficult to solve
the European problem.”  U.S. 10-year rates held at 2.09 percent as of 6:53 a.m. in
London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due in November 2021 changed hands at 99 6/32. The
yield increased six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, over
the past two days.  Japan ’s 10-year rate was little changed at 1.045 percent.
It has declined from 1.09 percent on Dec. 1, which was the
highest since July.  Treasuries due in 10 years and longer returned 20 percent
in the past six months, the most among 144 bond indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Benchmark 10-year yields touched a record low of 1.67
percent on Sept. 23.  Spurred by S&P  Volatility in the market has declined since the start of
November, Merrill Lynch’s  Move  index shows. The gauge dropped to
93 yesterday, the least since August. The index measures price
swings in U.S. government securities based on options.  Treasuries fell yesterday on speculation the European
summit starting in Brussels tomorrow will succeed in quelling
the crisis.  Thirty-year bonds led the decline yesterday as German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called a downgrade warning
for 15 euro-area governments from Standard & Poor’s the “best
encouragement” to drive toward a solution at the meeting. U.S.
debt securities extended their slide after the Financial Times
reported that European policy makers are considering doubling
the amount of the regional rescue package.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s weekly Treasury client  survey  showed
the number of wagers on a decline in U.S. government securities
among the bank’s investors exceeded bets for a gain for the
first time since Sept. 12. Wagers on a drop increased to 17
percent on Dec. 5 from 11 percent on Nov. 28, while bets on an
advance decreased to 13 percent from 19 percent, according to a
report from analysts led by Terry Belton, global head of fixed-
income and foreign-exchange research.  Survival in Doubt  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cited doubts about the survival of  Europe ’s monetary union as
the main risk to the world economy in a report last week.  The Treasuries rally is about to end, judging by the banks
and securities companies surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ten-year
rates will advance to 2.42 percent by June 30, the responses
show, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  “The  U.S. economy  will grow gradually,” said Kei Katayama, leader of the foreign fixed-income group in Tokyo at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees the
equivalent of $63.8 billion including  Asia ’s second-biggest bond
fund. “Yields will eventually go up, recognizing that the U.S.
economy is not so bad.”  Unemployment, Confidence  The number of Americans claiming  unemployment benefits  for
the first time probably fell to 395,000 last week from 402,000,
according to the median prediction of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the report tomorrow. The U.S. jobless rate fell
to 8.6 percent, the lowest level since March 2009, the Labor
Department reported Dec. 2.  A Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment rose to 65.8 in December from 64.1 in November, a
separate surveyed shows before the Dec. 9 report.  The  Federal Reserve  is replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries its holdings with longer-term debt to keep
rates down and foster growth, in a plan it announced in
September. The central bank is scheduled to sell as much as $1.5
billion of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities maturing from
2012 to 2014 today as part of the program, according to its
 website.   Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond  fund (PTTRX)  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said he has a “risk off”
view ahead of the European summit.  “EU plan appears to kick the can for another 3-6 months,”
Gross wrote on Twitter yesterday. “It’s a never-ending story.”  Gross, who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , increased
Treasury holdings in his $241 billion Total Return Fund to 19
percent of assets in October from 16 percent in September,
according to the Pimco  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  