-- 
Democrats United on Payroll Tax Cut to Pressure House Leaders

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/reid-senate-will-stay-at-work-for-payroll-tax-cut.html
Congressional Democrats seek to use
their unified support of a  payroll   tax cut  for employees to
pressure Republican leaders into reaching a deal on an extension
before the tax break expires Dec. 31.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said
yesterday that the party’s lawmakers and President  Barack Obama ’s administration are “all singing from the same hymnal
like never before” in backing an extension of the payroll tax
cut to prevent a tax increase for the middle class in 2012.  That contrasts, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
yesterday, to the difficulties House Speaker  John Boehner  faces
in cobbling together consensus on continuing the tax cut among
his Republican ranks.  Meetings among Democrats on the issue “are just a
pleasure,” Schumer told reporters.  That hasn’t been the case other times over the past year
when Democrats agreed to fiscal deals that included provisions
they didn’t like. These included extensions of the 2001 and 2003
tax cuts for all income brackets and agreements on annual
funding for government operations and increasing the debt
ceiling.  With 23 days before the 2 percentage point cut in the
 payroll tax  expires, Democrats say they are determined to avoid
being outmaneuvered again.  ‘Sub-Optimal’  “I’m hopeful that people are not going to be in a position
to jump at something that’s sub-optimal,” said Representative
 Earl Blumenauer , an Oregon Democrat who sits on the Ways and
Means Committee. Democrats are in a “strong position, and I
would hope people would be clear and firm.”  Reid said yesterday he will keep the Senate in session
through the upcoming holidays if an agreement on the tax cuts
isn’t reached. President Barack Obama told Reid and other
Democratic leaders at the White House yesterday that he would
postpone his holiday vacation to  Hawaii  if there isn’t a deal,
Reid said.  Obama’s tone hardened yesterday as he said he would reject
any effort by congressional Republicans to tie extension of the
tax cut to accelerated approval of the Keystone XL pipeline that
would run from  Canada  to the U.S. House Republican leaders have
considered such linkage to gain support within their caucus for
the payroll tax legislation.  The tax cut “shouldn’t be held hostage” by any other
issue, Obama said yesterday after meeting with Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper , who supports the pipeline. “This is a
big project with big consequences.”  Boehner is expected to meet with  House Republicans  today to
determine the level of support for a payroll tax cut extension.
He encountered opposition from a bloc of Republicans, including
Representative Jeff Flake of  Arizona , at a meeting on Dec. 2.  Unemployment Issue  Freshman Representative Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina
Republican, said he was “wanting to get to yes” on a the tax
cut extension. Leaders could secure his vote with language that
rewrites the system for unemployment compensation, he said.  “At least with the group of incorrigibles that I hang out
with, they’re waiting on the details,” Gowdy said. “They’d
actually like to be able to support it. The question is: Are
there enough systemic reforms and other things so that we can go
back to our districts and say, on balance, this is better than
what it could be?”  Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat,
said it would be difficult to overhaul  unemployment insurance 
before the end of the year.  Negotiation Position  Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican, said
his party’s leaders are trying to gather enough support within
their caucus so they don’t have to rely on Democratic votes to
pass a payroll tax cut extension. If Republicans, who number 242
in the House, can find the 218 votes needed to ensure chamber
passage, they will be better positioned for negotiations with
the Senate on the final version of a bill, LaTourette said.  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the Democratic
whip, said yesterday that Republicans haven’t approached him
about delivering votes.  If Boehner can rally his members, Durbin said Republicans
shouldn’t pass a bill next week and adjourn for the rest of the
year with the expectation that the Senate would agree to the
House measure at the last minute.  ‘Toss A Bill’  “If anyone has a notion in the House that they can toss a
bill at us and leave town, they’re sadly mistaken,” Durbin
said.  The 12.4 percent payroll tax that funds Social Security is
evenly split between employers and employees. The portion paid
by workers was lowered to 4.2 percent in 2011 as the employer
portion remained at 6.2 percent. Unless Congress acts, workers
in 2012 would again face a payroll tax of 6.2 percent of their
wages up to $110,100.  Senate Democrats may face a test of their unity on the
issue as soon as today in a procedural vote on legislation
proposed by Robert Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat. His bill
would lower the payroll tax paid by workers to 3.1 percent and
cover the $185 billion cost in part by imposing a 1.9 percent
surtax on income exceeding $1 million.  Democrats Jon Tester of  Montana ,  Joe Manchin  of  West
Virginia  and Independent Bernie Sanders of  Vermont  opposed an
earlier Democratic bill with a surtax that was blocked in the
Senate last week.  Economists such as  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics Inc.
have predicted U.S. gross domestic product would shrink half of
one percentage point next year if the payroll tax cut isn’t
extended or expanded.  Other Deadlines  Lawmakers also may attach to the tax cut extension a
provision to avoid cuts to physician reimbursements by Medicare
scheduled to take effect Jan. 1. Durbin, though, said it would
be difficult to reach a deal on the issue if Republicans
continue to oppose a surtax on annual income exceeding $1
million.  “That takes a lot of money off the table,” Durbin said.  Lawmakers can’t cover the cost of the physician cuts
through spending cuts alone, Durbin said.  “We’re not returning to those thrilling months of this
last year where” Republicans “were dreaming up billions of
dollars in spending cuts,” Durbin said. “That is a
nonstarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  