-- 
Republicans Seeking Jewish Support Say Obama Undermines Israel Security

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-12-08T17:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/republicans-attack-obama-israel-policy-in-fight-for-jewish-vote.html
President  Barack Obama ’s policies
toward Israel are under attack from Republican presidential
candidates, who accuse him of undermining security in the Middle
East and pursuing an “appeasement” policy.  Addressing a Republican Jewish group in Washington
yesterday, the candidates said Obama has coddled Iran,
emboldened terrorist groups and bestowed more sympathy on
Palestinians than Israelis.  “This one-sided, continuing pressure that says it’s always
the Israelis’ fault no matter how bad the other side is has got
to stop,” said former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose
support in the polls is surging.  Obama had a terse response today when asked at a White
House news conference about the appeasement charge. “Ask Osama bin Laden and the 22 out of 30 top al Qaeda leaders who’ve been
taken off the field whether I engage in appeasement,” he said,
referring to U.S. operations under his watch that included the
killing of bin Laden in May.  Gingrich and five other Republican presidential candidates
addressed the Republican Jewish Coalition at a daylong forum
hosted by the group in Washington.  Jewish Voters  The Republican candidates have attempted to make  Israel  an
issue in the 2012 campaign as they jockey for support of Jewish
voters who traditionally have backed Democrats overwhelmingly.
In speech after speech, candidates lambasted Obama’s foreign
policy and questioned his support for Israel.  Gingrich called for the overthrow of Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, saying
the U.S. should push for regime change in Iran and Syria. He
vowed to move the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to
 Jerusalem , a sensitive topic in peace talks between Israelis and
Palestinians. And, if elected, he promised to appoint John Bolton, former U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , as
secretary of state, prompting wild applause from the standing-
room-only audience.  His closest rival, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, told the several hundred activists that
Ahmadinejad should be “indicted for the crime of incitement to
genocide.”  ‘Regime Change’  “Ultimately, regime change is what’s going to be
necessary” in  Iran , Romney said, standing at a podium placed on
a raised platform with a decal of the presidential seal.  Romney and Gingrich have called on Obama to fire the U.S.
ambassador to  Belgium , Howard Gutman, a Jew and the son of
Holocaust survivors, after the diplomat said recently that some
anti-Semitism stemmed from Israeli-Palestinian tensions.  Republican hopeful Jon Huntsman Jr., a former ambassador to
 China  under Obama, said the comments reflected deeper anti-
Israel attitudes within the Obama administration.  “These aren’t speeches that are cooked up at the local
level and at the embassy,” Huntsman said. “They go high up
within the State Department.”  The White House and its Democratic allies moved quickly
yesterday to parry the attacks.  Obama aides highlighted public support for the
administration from Israeli leaders, pointing to positive
comments from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak .  Military Aid  “We have raised U.S. military assistance to unprecedented
levels, sending Israel the largest-ever security assistance
funding in 2010,” Democratic National Committee Chairwoman
 Debbie Wasserman Schultz  told reporters on a conference call.  Bill Burton , a former Obama aide now leading independent
fund-raising efforts for his re-election, accused Romney and
Gingrich of continuing to “play politics with false attacks on
the president.”  “President Obama has consistently fought for a secure
Israel and peace in the  Middle East ,” he said in a statement.  With the election in mind, Democrats are also increasing
their outreach campaign to Jewish voters. Obama aides plan
private briefings today on a range of topics followed by a
Hanukkah party at the White House for Jewish leaders. Next week,
Obama plans to address several thousand North American Jews at
an annual conference of the Union of Reform Judaism.  2008 Results  Obama won election in 2008 with 78 percent support from
Jewish voters, according to national exit polls.  The Republican goal is to win increased support from Jewish
Democrats and independents to help the party carry swing states,
including Florida.  According to the National Jewish Democratic Council, a 10
percent decline in Jewish support for the party could shift the
vote by 98,000 in  Florida , 35,000 in  Pennsylvania , 18,000 in
 Ohio  and 8,500 in  Nevada , states targeted as battlegrounds in
the 2012 presidential election.  At a fundraiser in New York on Nov. 30, Obama called Israel
one of the most important allies of the U.S.  “I try not to pat myself too much on the back, but this
administration has done more in terms of the security of the
state of Israel than any previous administration,” Obama said
at the home of Jack Rosen, chairman of the American Jewish
Congress and a member of the executive committee of the American
Israel Public Affairs Committee.  At yesterday’s forum, Republicans questioned Obama’s
assertion. Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum compared
Obama’s policies in the Middle East to actions taken by  England 
before World War II to try to avert the conflict.  ‘Nothing But Appeasement’  “For every thug and hooligan, for every radical Islamist,
he has had nothing but appeasement,” said Santorum.  Romney also accused Obama of adopting “a course of
appeasement” that has weakened the U.S. military and caused the
nation to shirk commitments to allies and aid enemies.  If elected, Romney vowed to make a visit to Israel his
first foreign trip.  “I want the world to know that the bonds that exist
between Israel and the  United States  are unshakeable,” he said.  Romney called Obama “timid and weak” in responding to the
threat of a nuclear-armed Iran, said he has insulted Netanyahu
and his administration has proposed Israel adopt “indefensible
borders.”  “President Obama has immeasurably set back the prospect of
peace in the Middle East,” he said.  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, working to undo damage caused by
saying he would reduce Israeli foreign aid “to zero,” pledged
to increase all forms of “strategic, defensive aid” to the
country.  Minnesota Congresswoman  Michele Bachmann , an advocate of
federal spending cuts, stressed the importance of American
foreign aid. “Today more than ever, Israel requires the
necessary aid that the United States gives,” she said.  The coalition didn’t invite Representative Ron Paul of
Texas to the forum, citing his “misguided and extreme views.”
In candidate debates, Paul has argued that the U.S. should have
less involvement in Israeli affairs and criticized foreign aid
to the country.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at  or  llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  