-- 
Retired New York Workers Sue Over Health-Care Cost Boost

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-07T21:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/retired-new-york-workers-sue-over-health-care-cost-boost-1-.html
The largest group representing
retired  New York  public employees sued the state and Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  over an increase in their health-care costs.  Retired Public Employees Association Inc.  filed the suit
today in New York’s trial-level Supreme Court in  Albany , the
state capital. The group is seeking a declaration that
implementation of the increase violates civil-service law and
the state and U.S. constitutions.  The association says it advocates for about 40,000 retired
state and local government employees. It’s not a union, and its
members aren’t represented at the bargaining table, according to
Executive Director Alan Dorn.  “We can’t negotiate,” Dorn said in an interview before
the suit was filed. “We’re not involved in the changes and we
don’t get to say anything.”  Patricia Hite, of the state Civil Service Department, which
is also a defendant in the case, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  Josh Vlasto , a spokesman
for Cuomo, didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  Starting Oct. 1, mid- to lower-pay grade individual
retirees enrolled in the Empire Plan, one of New York’s most
popular employee health-care programs, began paying 12 percent
of the plan’s costs, up from 10 percent, according to an
emergency rule promulgated by the government. Those retirees’
dependents now pick up 27 percent of the plan’s costs, up from
25 percent, under the rule.  The changes save the state $19.8 million through the rest
of the fiscal year, Morris Peters, a spokesman for the state
Budget Division, said before the suit was filed. The fiscal year
ends March 31. The savings double in the first full fiscal year
and continue to grow as health-care costs rise, Peters said.  The case is Retired Public Employees Association Inc. v.
Cuomo, 7586-11, New York State  Supreme Court , County of Albany.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 