-- 
Roche, Novartis Cancer Drugs Delay Progression of Breast Tumors

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/roche-novartis-cancer-drugs-delay-progression-of-breast-tumors.html
Drugs from  Roche Holding AG  and
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  that target different molecular drivers of  breast
cancer  slowed tumor progression in separate studies that doctors
say will change the way they care for patients.  Research released yesterday at the San Antonio Breast
Cancer Symposium should alter the care of 80 percent of women
with advanced tumors, said Jose Baselga, chief of oncology at
 Massachusetts General Hospital . Breast cancer is  diagnosed  in
more than 230,000 women in the U.S. each year, making it the
most common tumor type, and kills almost 40,000.  Roche’s experimental drug pertuzumab delayed progression of
metastatic cancer fueled by the HER2 protein for an extra 6.1
months when it was added to standard treatment with the
company’s Herceptin and chemotherapy. Novartis’ Afinitor,
approved for kidney and pancreatic cancer, slowed progression an
additional 4.2 months when added to hormone treatment in women
with treatment-resistant tumors driven by estrogen.  “These are two new therapies, targeted therapies, that
will change the standard of care for women with metastatic
disease,” Baselga, the lead author of both studies, said in a
telephone interview. “They are elegant, they are hypothesis-
driven and they are working through well-known mechanisms.”  The studies were funded by Roche and Novartis, both based
in  Basel ,  Switzerland . The results were simultaneously published
in the  New England Journal of Medicine . Roche requested U.S.
approval of pertuzumab based on the findings this week and
Novartis plans to file for expanded clearance for Afinitor by
the end of the year.  Cancer Targets  About 25 percent of breast cancers are driven by HER2, a
protein that tells malignant cells to grow and spread throughout
the body. Roche’s Herceptin, the first medicine approved to
directly target HER2 positive cancers, blocks its receptors on
the outside of the cell. Pertuzumab stops the protein from
joining with HER3 and squelching an even stronger growth signal.  Afinitor was given to women with tumors fueled by estrogen,
rather than HER2. While  estrogen-blocking treatment  is used
first, the cancer sometimes resumes growing. Afinitor blocks a
different pathway, known as mTor, that spurs the growth.  “We’re beginning to see the promise of looking at tumors
on the molecular level,” said  Jennifer Litton , an oncologist at
the University of Texas’s MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston,
in an interview. “Now that we have the ability and it’s
financially reasonable, we are dissecting the tumors’ molecular
weaknesses and targeting them with smart bombs, and we’re
beginning to see improved outcomes as a result.”  Earlier Treatment  Treating the right patients even earlier with the targeted
“smart drugs” may cure more women or make metastatic breast
cancer a chronic and controllable disease, she said. Currently,
breast cancer is considered incurable once it has spread, and
treatment is designed to prolong survival.  Neither drug has yet shown longer survival for women with
metastatic breast cancer, though the early results appear
promising, particularly for pertuzumab, the researchers said.  “These progression-free survival data for pertuzumab are
clearly a measure of a direct treatment effect,” said Sandra Horning, Roche’s head of global oncology development, in a
telephone interview. “We believe the magnitude is clinically
meaningful.”  Roche’s application with the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  is strong, with evidence the drug benefits women
at different stages, she said. It also has a positive safety
profile, with little increased risk of serious side effects when
the drug was added to other treatments, she said.  Drug Costs  One of the biggest drawbacks for combining cancer drugs is
the expense, doctors said. Novartis’ Afinitor costs $6,500 to
$7,000 for a 28-day supply. Roche’s Genentech unit sells
Herceptin for $4,500 a month. The company hasn’t set a price for
pertuzumab, Krysta Pellegrino, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “The main issue for the world is cost,” said Edith Perez,
deputy director of the Mayo Clinic’s cancer center in
Jacksonville,  Florida , in an interview. “I hope pertuzumab is
priced at a level that would allow prompt incorporation into the
treatment regimen so patients can benefit.”  The FDA last month revoked approval of Roche’s Avastin for
metastatic breast cancer after studies failed to prove it
lengthened life. The medicine, with $6.2 billion in 2010  sales (ROG) ,
was initially shown to slow the worsening of breast cancer. The
benefit didn’t translate into longer life and the drug had
serious side effects, the FDA said.  A third study presented at the meeting showed adding
Avastin to Herceptin and chemotherapy for women with recurring
HER2 positive tumors didn’t significantly delay progression of
the disease. Additional work is under way to determine what
genetic factors in a tumor may make it most susceptible to
Avastin, the researchers said.  ‘Cleopatra’ Study  The pertuzumab study, dubbed Cleopatra, shows using two
drugs to block HER2 are better than one, said  Harold Burstein , a
breast oncologist at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston . The
cancer resumed growing after 18.5 months in women getting all
three drugs, compared with 12.4 months for those who didn’t get
pertuzumab in the study involving 808 patients.  “It’s great to see such a dramatic improvement in
progression free survival with hardly any toxicity, and an
emerging signal of a survival advantage,” Burstein said in an
interview. “Everyone expects FDA will approve pertuzumab on
this data and it will become a widely used treatment option.”  Novartis Data  The Novartis study known as Bolero-2 found breast tumors
resumed growing after an average of 7.4 months for those given
Afinitor plus  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Aromasin, compared with 3.2 months
for women on Aromasin alone. All of the women had previously
seen their disease worsen while they were taking other drugs to
blunt hormones that signal the cancerous cells to grow.  The study was originally halted in July because of the
benefit and an earlier analysis was presented at a European
cancer conference in September. Women getting Afinitor had more
side effects, including sores in the mouth that can make it hard
to eat and problems with lung function.  “In spite of the toxicity, this is the first time that we
see such a degree of delay of tumor progression in women with
refractory estrogen receptor positive breast cancer,” said  Mayo
Clinic ’s Perez, who served as head of the independent panel
monitoring the trial. “This should serve as a guide to change
standards of care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  