-- 
Romney Feeling Gingrich Heat Predicts Slog to Nomination

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-07T21:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/romney-feeling-gingrich-heat-predicts-long-slog-to-nomination.html
Mitt Romney , responding to a growing
challenge from  Newt Gingrich  in the Republican presidential
race, said he is ready to draw distinctions with Gingrich as he
makes “closing arguments” to voters resisting his candidacy.  Romney, who has spent most of the year at or near the top
of polling of the contest yet has been unable to lock up a
majority, said he doesn’t expect to secure the nomination
quickly and is signaling a more aggressive media and retail
politicking offensive beginning this month.  “We’re making our closing arguments -- you’ll see me
campaigning aggressively,” the former Massachusetts governor
told reporters in Paradise Valley, Arizona, yesterday where he
stopped for the endorsement of former Vice President Dan Quayle
and attended a fundraiser.  “This will probably take longer than a week or two to sort
out,” Romney said. “My expectation is that this is going to be
a campaign that’s going to go on for a while, and I expect to
win it.”  Romney’s push comes as Gingrich has surged past him in
polls. A Washington Post-ABC News  poll  conducted Nov. 30 to Dec.
4 showed Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, ahead in  Iowa ,
where caucuses start the nominating process on Jan. 3.  Gingrich, whose campaign was near collapse a few months
ago, drew 33 percent support from likely caucus participants in
the poll, compared with 18 percent for Romney and Texas
Representative Ron Paul.  Targeting Gingrich  Romney, who has focused most of his campaign attacks on
President  Barack Obama , sounded a more confrontational tone
toward Gingrich yesterday, calling him a career politician and
“insider,” and promising to be “loud and clear” in
highlighting the contrasts between himself and the former
Georgia congressman.  “Speaker Gingrich is a friend,” Romney told Fox’s Neil Cavuto in an interview. “I respect him, but we have very
different life experiences, and if the American people believe
that what we need is someone who’s spent the last 40 years or so
in  Washington , D.C., working as an insider, why he’s the right
guy. America needs a leader right now -- not so much someone
who’s an insider.”  One place Romney won’t be making that case is at a debate
scheduled Dec. 27 in  New York City  to be moderated by  Donald Trump , the real estate developer and reality-show host. Romney
said he spoke with Trump by telephone to reject his invitation,
which Gingrich and Texas Governor Rick Perry have accepted.  Calendar Is Set  “We’ve already set our calendar in December, and I
communicated to Mr. Trump that that schedule is completed,”
Romney said.  Today, Romney spoke at a candidate forum hosted by the
Republican Jewish Coalition in Washington.  “President Obama has immeasurably set back the prospect of
peace in the  Middle East ,” Romney said, by nor being more
supportive of  Israel .  Nearly all of the Republican candidates have attempted to
make Israel an issue in the 2012 campaign. Obama has said his
administration has done more for Israel’s security than any of
his predecessors.  Quayle’s Support  Quayle’s endorsement -- the latest in high-profile nods
Romney’s campaign has rolled out from elected Republicans or
party veterans -- showcases the base of support he has built as
Gingrich seeks to grow his.  Quayle, who served as vice president under  George H.W. Bush 
from 1989 until 1993, offers Romney the stamp of a Republican
administration of the past with less of the baggage associated
with the more recent Bush presidency.  Former President  George W. Bush , a  Texas  Republican, is
regarded with suspicion by some fiscal conservatives who believe
he presided over a dramatic  expansion  of government, including
the addition of an unfunded prescription drug benefit to
Medicare, and unpopular with some independent voters who
associate him with the war in  Iraq .  Quayle said he is backing Romney in part because he is the
most electable of the Republicans running.  ‘Best Hope’  “He is our best hope to change the direction of America,
and after he hopefully wins the primary -- which I’m very
confident that he will do -- he’ll bring the party together,”
Quayle told about 150 Romney supporters in the driveway of an
inn in the Phoenix suburb where he lives. “He’ll reach out to
disaffected Democrats, to independents.”  Romney visited the elder Bush in Texas last week.  “Where Romney is in trouble is with those people who liked
the first President Bush and liked Quayle,” said Bruce Merrill,
a pollster with the Morrison Institute for Public Policy at
 Arizona  State University. “Republicans, particularly the Tea
Partiers and the right wing, are not coming around to Romney.”  While Merrill said there’s no evidence that endorsements
such as Quayle’s have much impact, Romney has made them key to a
campaign strategy that is relying heavily on surrogates to
trumpet his message and woo voters who have resisted being drawn
into his camp. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican
who flirted this year with his own run and is popular among
fiscal conservatives, has also endorsed Romney and is scheduled
to campaign for him tomorrow in Iowa.  Romney’s campaign today announced he will visit the state
the next day, hosting a town hall meeting in  Cedar Rapids  on
Dec. 9. He also will participate in a televised presidential
debate Dec. 10 in  Des Moines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Paradise Valley , Arizona at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  