-- 
Romney-Gingrich Rival Campaigns Woo Lobbyists to Help Pay Bills

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/romney-gingrich-rival-campaigns-count-on-early-investments-from-lobbyists.html
Republican presidential front-runners
courting an anti-Washington mood among their primary voters are
counting on Washington lobbyists to pay their bills.  Tonight, the hosts at a $1,000-a-head event for  Newt Gingrich , being held two blocks from the White House, include
former Louisiana Representative Robert Livingston, Kenneth Kies,
a leading tax lobbyist, and Clint Robinson,  Research In Motion (RIMM) ’s
vice president of government relations, according to a copy of
the invitation.  The three are among more than 60 lobbyists raising money
for Gingrich and Republican rivals  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Perry ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Together, they
represent almost 500 companies, associations and interest groups
that will be affected by the next president’s policies;  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  alone has six of its outside lobbyists
raising money for Republican candidates.  “The clients are the ones who are winning here,” said
 Craig Holman , who presses for stricter campaign finance laws at
 Public Citizen , an advocacy group based in Washington.  Elite Class  Lobbyist fundraisers are an elite class of donors because
they use their influence with friends and clients to drive
donations to a candidate. Overall, registered lobbyists and
others working for policy groups or law firms that lobby donated
more than $500,000 through Sept. 30 to candidates running for
president, with Romney taking in $206,550, more than anyone
else, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group.  While President Barack Obama’s campaign doesn’t accept
contributions from registered lobbyists, he has taken in $84,459
from non-registered employees at firms that lobby.   Former House Speaker Gingrich is in need of fundraising
help after vaulting to the lead in national polls. At the end of
the third quarter, he had raised $2.9 million, compared with
$17.2 million for Texas Governor Perry and $32.6 million for
former Massachusetts Governor Romney. Gingrich also had $1.2
million in debt.  Occidental Grill  The event at the Occidental Grill & Seafood restaurant on
Pennsylvania Avenue tonight had 16 hosts as of last week.
Livingston, who at one point in 1998 was slated to succeed
Gingrich as House speaker, counts Verizon among the clients who
have paid his firm $6.5 million so far this year.  Livingston said his motivation to help Gingrich raise money
isn’t about business. “I have eight grandkids and I want them
to grow up in a decent, healthy, wonderful country,” he said.  Lobbyists Sam Geduldig and Drew Maloney are among the more
than 75 hosts who agreed to raise at least $1,000 for Romney as
part of a Dec. 14 “young professionals” event featuring
Romney’s son, Tagg. Individual tickets are going for $100.  And Dirk Van Dongen and Jade West of the National
Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, which has spent $319,646
to lobby this year, have helped Perry ease into  Washington , with
a meet-and-greet in October and a Sept. 27 $1,000-a-head kickoff
fundraiser for which hosts raised at least $10,000.  “You use your personal time to do it,” Van Dongen,
president of the association, said in an interview. “You tend
to support a candidate because you have a relationship to begin
with or there’s something about the candidate from a policy or
ideological point of view with which you more highly identify.”  Bundler Disclosure  When lobbyists bundle donations through events or phone
solicitations that add up to more than $16,000, campaigns are
required to disclose their names and amounts raised, though only
on a quarterly basis. As of Sept. 30, Romney listed eight
lobbyists -- including Maloney -- who had raised almost $1
million combined. Perry listed one, Dan Brouillette, who had
brought in $77,000. Gingrich had none.  Romney acted early to line up top Washington fundraisers.
Spencer Zwick, Romney’s national fundraising chairman, invited
lobbyist Rick Hohlt to meet him for drinks in March 2010 at the
Willard Hotel.  “He just wanted to tell me about the campaign and, ‘Would
I be interested in helping?’” Hohlt, who runs his own firm,
said in an interview. “It’s one thing if the guy just walks
onto the field. It’s another thing saying, ‘Why don’t you play
with us and here’s why.’”  GE to  Pfizer (PFE)   The lobbyist-bundlers represent clients big and small, from
 Indian tribes  to General Electric Co. and drugmaker Pfizer Inc.
The health-care and financial industries are represented by the
biggest proportion of the group, followed by energy, technology
and telecommunications, according to records filed with
Congress.  The Republican presidential candidates benefiting from
their fundraising have all pledged to repeal new regulations to
rein in the financial industry and to do away with the health-
care law that expanded insurance coverage.  Verizon, which has spent $12.3 million through Sept. 30 on
lobbying, pushed to weaken Internet rules proposed by Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  Stakes are High  “There’s a lot at stake in the White House race this year
in a way that is different from what was at stake in the past,”
said Anthony Corrado, a campaign finance expert at Colby College
in Waterville,  Maine . “That’s stimulating much more fundraising
activity out of interests who are concerned about the direction
of government policy.”  Spokesmen for Fairfield, Connecticut-based  GE (GE)  and New York-
based Verizon and Pfizer all said that the partisan political
activity of their outside lobbyists had nothing to do with them.  “We don’t know who they are, we don’t know what they’re
doing and it’s not an issue we pay attention to,” said Edward McFadden, a Verizon spokesman.  Even so, such activity helps a lobbyist’s client roster,
said  Rogan Kersh , a public policy professor at  New York
University .  “Bundling checks or other high-profile fundraising can
earn invitations to White House parties, occasional meet-and
greets with presidents or top staffers,” Kersh said. “That
appearance of proximity can carry great weight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  