-- 
Rowdy Bar, Moody Ballads Add Charm to Broadway-Bound ‘Once’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-12-07T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/rowdy-bar-brooding-ballads-fuel-charming-once-jeremy-gerard.html
A fine party is underway when you
enter the  New York Theatre Workshop  to see “Once.” Feel free
to join in.  The bar onstage is open for business and patrons on
guitars, fiddles, drums and accordion are outdoing one another
with anthems to the woeful miseries of love soured.  None is more scorching than “Leave,” a cri de coeur
delivered by a strumming singer who takes over center stage.  A young woman approaches, asking if he has written this
wrenching tune.  Soon we’re in a music shop (suggested merely by rolling an
upright piano into the middle of the open pub setting). After a
bit of Mendelssohn to prove her chops, Girl -- as she’s called
-- has begun playing a melody snatched from the pocket of Guy
(no other name, either).  “Falling Slowly” is the soulful, Oscar-winning ballad at
the wounded heart of “Once” that helped a $150,000 indie film
take in more than $20 million at the box office in 2008.  Like most of the music in this stage adaptation, “Falling
Slowly” has never sounded more ethereally resonant. Or more
Irish: “Take this sinking boat and point it home,” the song’s
narrator urges a distant lover, “you’ve still got time.”  In Tune  As Guy and Girl, Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti are
perfect vocal complements to each other. Whenever they’re joined
by the rest of this remarkable ensemble, the music is gorgeous.  A recent Czech emigre to Dublin, Girl encounters Guy just
as he has decided to throw in the towel. His girlfriend moved to
 New York  and his music is getting him nowhere, certainly not out
of the vacuum-repair shop he runs with his widowed “Da.” Girl is
so taken with his songs that she arranges a one-shot, 24-hour
recording session to make a demonstration disc.  They fall in love, but she’s still married to the absent
father of her little girl and Guy has unfinished business with
the woman who left him behind.  This happens to parallel the true story of Glen Hansard and
Marketa Irglova, who wrote the songs for the movie (and added
more for the show). They bristle with desire sublimated by
circumstance into art.  Moving On  If you miss it in the East Village, don’t worry: “Once”
will surely follow through on plans to move to Broadway by
spring. Before then, I hope that book writer Enda Walsh will
trim the gratuitous slaps at Josh Groban and  “Riverdance.”   Too frequently, the show careers into Tweeland, especially
when the otherwise efficient director John Tiffany turns things
over to Steven Hoggett, credited with “movement” that
resembles a parody of modern dance.  These quibbles are eminently fixable. The inviting pub
setting and working-class clothes are by Bob Crowley, the
sensuous lighting by Natasha Katz. This is one show where having
actors play instruments actually makes sense. “Once” charms us
with a rare combination of intelligence, warmth and musicality.  Through Jan. 15, 2012 at 74 E. 4th St. Information: +1-212-
279-4200;  http://www.nytw.org .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are their own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 