-- 
Trump, Cain Exemplify Era of Debased Debates: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/trump-cain-exemplify-debased-debate-era-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
The League of Women Voters quit
sponsoring presidential debates during the 1988 campaign, saying
the events had devolved into “ charades devoid of substance .”
That was more than two decades before  Herman Cain , Rick Perry
and Michele Bachmann took the stage, redefining “substance”
and “devoid” and “charade.”  One remark you never hear this campaign season: “There
just aren’t enough debates.” There have been about a dozen so
far, with almost a dozen more promised by the time  Florida  holds
its  primary  on Jan. 31. With news organizations tripping over
one another to put on the best show, the charades have evolved
into circuses, featuring bells, whistles, buzzers and visual
effects to rival “Dancing With the Stars” (minus the
rhinestones).  Audience participation is encouraged, enabling Republican
crowds to register cheers for Governor Perry’s very busy death
chamber in Texas (while sounding the Bronx variety for his
vaccine policy to protect teenagers from cancer), boos for a gay
soldier in  Iraq , and some scattered “Yeahs” for the
proposition that a comatose patient who’d refused to buy health
insurance should be left to die.  PBS news anchor Jim Lehrer, who over the decades  has
moderated  11 presidential debates, predicts that if the networks
keep ratcheting up the ratings pressure, we’ll be seeing a
debate held underwater at 5 a.m. Yet by tarting up the beige
League of Women Voters template, the networks have seen
viewership soar.  Fox News  had 6.1 million viewers for its debate
in September in Orlando, Florida -- almost twice as many as the
most-watched presidential primary debate in 2007.  Shooting Star  The spectacles have had an impact, extinguishing Perry’s
shooting star while, in the latest plot twist, enabling former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  to rise from his crypt, despite a
decade of  influence peddling  in Washington. Former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty , one of the more promising candidates,
underperformed on “reality TV,” as he called the experience;
that’s all it took for his show to be canceled.  Herman Cain is both a creation of the debates and their
purest, most vapid expression -- a political  Kim Kardashian .
Campaigning is hard; putting on a show is fun. Instead of a
platform, Cain had a podium, a smile and a slogan (“9-9-9”)
that he swung at every softball. Hoping to find a sweet spot --
a boost in notoriety sufficient to double his speaking fees or
land a TV show -- he overshot.  His Potemkin campaign’s one authentic claim --
amateurishness -- fed the Republican base’s strange cravings and
catapulted him up the polls. When a  video  exposed that Cain
didn’t know enough about  Libya  even to fake a semblance of an
answer, he soldiered on without shame. His campaign might have
persisted if not for the pileup of wronged women stranded behind
Cain’s caravan. His essential cluelessness was in full relief as
he “suspended” his campaign last weekend in front of a new
office he was opening. It was like a ribbon-cutting at an
eviction.  For all the exposure, the debates have told us little about
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. In the land of the
lightly informed, Romney is king. The best student in class, he
always seems to have sussed out what the professor is going to
ask, acing the exam whether the topic is sovereign debt in
 Europe  or explaining his own heresy in providing health care to
the uninsured in Massachusetts.  With his rivals competing among themselves for the rich
vein of Tea Party voters who, so far at least, have been immune
to Romney’s charms, Romney has escaped the usual fate of the
front-runner; he is rarely attacked. Moreover, he has used his
regular turns on the debate circuit as one more excuse to dodge
the media. You can see why. It took a single  interview  on Fox to
reveal what 11 debates had not: that Romney can be a prickly,
irritable and arrogant patrician given to speaking of himself as
“we.”  Bankruptcy and Birtherism  Lehrer’s nightmare scenario, meanwhile, came a step closer
to reality this week -- albeit at  sea level .  Donald Trump , the
biggest clown under the Republicans’ big tent, a man who has
flirted with bankruptcy and birtherism with equal recklessness,
is scheduled to moderate a Dec. 27 debate with the cranky
conservative website Newsmax and ION Television.  Texas  Representative  Ron Paul , proving that even
presidential candidates are capable of dignity, declined to
participate due to the “circus-like” atmosphere that
accompanies everything Trump. Romney and former Utah Governor
 Jon Huntsman  similarly opted out of the show. The other
candidates, continuing their quest for The Donald’s blessing and
unwilling to diss him, appear set to play apprentice.  With the absent Romney, Huntsman and Paul creating space,
perhaps Trump will invite Cain back onto the national stage.
Cain continued his public appearances even after announcing his
campaign suspension, speaking Dec. 5 at a fundraiser in
Oklahoma. “Contrary to what some people think,” he said,
“they are not going to shut me up.” Nor, apparently, will
Trump be silenced. Neither can tolerate exiting the stage. This
year’s Republican primary campaign was made for them.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 