-- 
EU Downgrades, EBA Stress Tests, Dutch Antitrust: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-12-07T13:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/s-p-eu-downgrades-eba-stress-tests-dutch-antitrust-compliance.html
Standard & Poor’s , rebuked by  Warren
Buffett  in August after downgrading the U.S. over government
gridlock, is again injecting itself into the political process,
just as European leaders are poised to meet for a summit aimed
at ending the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The ratings firm put Germany, France and 13 other euro-area
nations on review for a downgrade, saying “continuing
disagreements among European policy makers on how to tackle”
the region’s debt crisis risk damaging their financial
stability. The move came four months after S&P cut the U.S. to
AA+, saying “extremely difficult” political discussions over
how to reduce America’s more than $1 trillion budget deficit
tainted the credit quality of the world’s largest economy.  Bondholders questioned the timing of S&P’s move, which
occurred Dec. 5, with European Union leaders planning to meet
Dec. 8-9 in Brussels to end a crisis that led to bailouts of
Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and now threatens to engulf Italy.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  had presented a plan earlier in the day to rewrite the
EU’s governing treaty to allow tighter economic cooperation.  Grades may be lowered by one level for Austria, Belgium,
Finland, Germany, Netherlands and Luxembourg, and as many as two
steps for the other governments if the summit results don’t
satisfy S&P’s criteria, the firm said. More than $8.1 trillion
of government debt would be affected if S&P does downgrade all
the nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Germany
and France are rated AAA.  Moritz Kraemer, S&P’s head of European sovereign ratings,
said yesterday in a conference call with reporters that the
Euro-zone crisis has reached a level of “systemic stresses,”
and has become “a crisis of euro zone governance.” Kraemer
denied that the company was trying to influence politics.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EBA May Issue Stress Test Results Calling for Capital Increase  Less than five months after conducting stress tests that
found banks needed to raise 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion),
the  European Banking Authority  may tell lenders that they need
40 times that amount to defend against losses on sovereign debt.  The regulator may release updated figures on how much
capital lenders should raise to absorb losses from euro-area
bonds as early as this week, three people familiar with the
matter said. The London-based watchdog’s stress tests in July
were criticized for failing to include writedowns on sovereign
debt held to maturity.  European leaders are demanding the region’s banks increase
capital after financial firms agreed to accept losses on Greek
 government bonds . The EBA estimated in October that the region’s
financial institutions need 106 billion euros to reach a goal of
holding 9 percent of so-called core Tier 1 capital by mid-2012,
after marking their sovereign debt to market prices.  Seventy banks were tested in October with data broken down
by country. Spanish banks needed 26.2 billion euros and Italian
banks 14.8 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, taking into
account booking sovereign debt at market prices, the EBA said.  A publication date for the bank capital data will be agreed
to at a meeting today of the EBA’s board of supervisors, Franca
Congiu, a spokeswoman for the authority said in an e-mail. The
figures on banks’ capital needs will be signed off at the
meeting, she said.  The timing of the release is complicated by holidays in
some European nations and the Dec. 8-9 European Union summit in
Brussels and could be delayed until next week.  For more, click here.  Euro-Area Rescue Fund to Start Short-Term Debt Sales This Month  The euro area’s rescue fund plans to begin selling short-
term debt by the end of the month to meet its expanded role in
tackling the region’s debt crisis.  The 440 billion-euro ($589 billion)  European Financial
Stability Facility  announced a funding program that will focus
on three-, six- and 12-month bills. The first auction is
expected to take place before year-end, the EFSF said in an e-
mailed statement today without elaborating.  The Luxembourg-based EFSF gained the authority in October
to buy sovereign bonds on the primary and secondary markets,
offer credit lines to governments and grant aid to banks as the
region’s debt troubles spread. The EFSF’s sole role until then
had been to sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  The euro area is beefing up the EFSF in a bid to prevent
Spain and Italy from being engulfed by debt troubles that forced
Greece to seek an initial rescue in April 2010, pushed Ireland
and Portugal into aid programs over the ensuing year and led to
a second Greek bailout in late October. The larger EFSF role may
also help to relieve the  European Central Bank  of secondary-
market bond purchases undertaken during the past 19 months to
counter increases in borrowing costs.  For more, click here.  Insider-Trading Rule Needed to Restore Trust, U.S. Lawmakers Say  New restrictions on insider-trading by U.S. lawmakers are
needed to help lift waning public trust in Congress, said
Democrats and Republicans on the  House Financial Services
Committee .  There’s a public perception that lawmakers are benefiting
from non-public information whether they are or not, said
Representative Tim Walz, a Minnesota Democrat sponsoring
legislation to explicitly ban such trading. He added that it
comes to a matter of “restoring faith.”  Previous efforts to pass restrictions haven’t advanced in
Congress. The issue re-emerged after a report last month by the
CBS News program “60 Minutes,” which said members of Congress
bought stock in companies during debates on legislation that
might affect the businesses.  None of the questioned investments was illegal, the report
said. The CBS report sparked interest by lawmakers in
legislation first introduced in 2006. The measure, re-introduced
this year by Walz, would label as  securities fraud  any trading
on legislative information by lawmakers or their staff members.
The bill would require any trade of more than $1,000 to be
reported within 90 days.  The Senate’s Homeland Security Committee is examining
bipartisan proposals to restrict certain trading by lawmakers
and their aides, who often have access to nonpublic information
as part of their legislative and oversight duties.  The chairmen of the House and Senate panels said they would
move ahead with the measures and bring them to a committee vote.  U.S. Regulators Face Grilling on Volcker Rule, Dodd-Frank  U.S. lawmakers questioned regulators implementing the Dodd-
Frank Act yesterday about their progress on rules aimed at
preventing a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis, including a ban
on proprietary trading by Wall Street firms.  Regulators including Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman Gary Gensler, Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Mary Schapiro,  Federal Reserve  Governor Daniel Tarullo,
Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin, Martin Gruenberg, acting
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and John Walsh,
acting comptroller of the currency, testified before the Senate
Banking Committee in Washington about implementation of
legislation overhauling U.S. financial regulation.  The Treasury Department, Federal Reserve and other agencies
have spent more than a year drafting rules required by the law,
from new oversight for the $708 trillion global swaps market to
tools for winding down failing financial firms and enhanced
supervision of the largest and most complex companies.  Regulators are working on hundreds of rules required by
Dodd-Frank, Congress’s response to the credit market collapse
that forced lawmakers to approve bailouts for financial firms.
Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads the
Banking Committee, called for a “timely resolution” to
outstanding rulemakings such as the Volcker rule, which would
ban proprietary trading by banks that benefit from deposit
insurance and Fed borrowing privileges.  Regulators have sought increased resources from Congress,
which has been caught between House Republicans working to cut
spending and Senate Democrats looking to protect the law.  For more, click here and click here.  Compliance Action  Corzine Subpoena Approved by Senate Committee; House Sets Date  The U.S.  Senate Agriculture Committee  voted to subpoena Jon
S. Corzine, former chairman and chief executive officer of  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. , for a Dec. 13 hearing on the collapse of
the New York-based broker.  Senate lawmakers voted to issue the subpoena at a meeting
in Washington yesterday. The House Agriculture Committee last
week voted to subpoena Corzine for a hearing tomorrow.  Jill E. Sommers, commissioner at the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission , James Kobak, lead counsel for the trustee
overseeing the brokerage’s liquidation, and Terrence Duffy,
executive chairman of  CME Group Inc. (CME)  are also scheduled to
testify at the hearing tomorrow of the  House Agriculture
Committee .  William Brodsky, chairman and chief executive officer of
 CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , Dan Roth, president and chief executive
officer of the  National Futures Association , and Gerry Corcoran,
chairman and chief executive officer of R.J. O’Brien and
Associates, are also on the schedule.  The sudden collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. will require
lawmakers and regulators to rebuild farmers’ trust in commodity
markets, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas said.  Roberts, the top Republican on the Senate Agriculture
Committee, said yesterday in a speech at a Washington conference
organized by Farm Journal that farmers and ranchers will have to
be convinced “that our financial markets are a viable risk-
management tool.”  Roberts said MF Global is the “number-one” issue farmers
have been asking him about in recent weeks.  MF Global sought bankruptcy protection on Oct. 31 after
making wrong-way bets on European sovereign debt. Congress and
federal regulators including the CFTC and SEC are investigating
as much as $1.2 billion in missing customer funds.  Dutch Antitrust Investigators Visit KPN, T-Mobile, Vodafone  Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  is among mobile-phone operators in the
Netherlands visited yesterday by the  NMa competition authority 
as part of an investigation into possible antitrust violations.  KPN, the largest Dutch phone company, said in a statement
that its headquarters were raided yesterday by the NMa as part
of a probe into “concerted practice with regard to mobile
telecommunications offerings on the Dutch consumer market,” and
“division of independent sales channels.” It said five KPN
employees are being questioned and the company is cooperating
fully.  T-Mobile is also cooperating fully with the investigation,
spokesman Michael Vos said via phone, confirming a visit from
the NMa this morning. “We are confident in the result,” he
said, while declining to elaborate on the probe.  Vodafone (VOD)  Group Plc confirmed in a  statement  that it had
been visited by the competition authority.  In October, the regulator lowered fines imposed on KPN,
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit and Vodafone in 2002 for
colluding on subsidies that they gave retailers on mobile-phone
handsets, resulting in more expensive handsets for consumers.  Paul Trienekens, an NMa spokesman, declined to comment on
the details of the investigation.  Whirlpool, Panasonic Fined in $216 Million Compressor Cartel  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are among four
companies that agreed to pay European Union antitrust fines
totaling 161 million euros ($216 million) for fixing the price
of refrigerator compressors.  Whirlpool and a unit were fined a total of 54.5 million
euros and Panasonic will pay 7.7 million euros after they
settled a  European Commission  cartel probe into agreements that
set prices for compressors used in refrigerators, air
conditioners and water fountains.  EU investigators raided producers of refrigerator
compressors in 2009. Whirlpool set aside as much as $306 million
to cover a possible EU fine, it said in a July regulatory
filing.  Nordborg, Denmark-based  Danfoss A/S  agreed to pay 90
million euros, the largest fine, and Appliance Components Co.
SpA of Italy must pay 9 million euros for coordinating prices
and market shares from 2004 to 2007.  Whirlpool, Danfoss and ACC declined to immediately comment.
Panasonic didn’t immediately respond to calls and e-mails.  Tecumseh Products Co. (TECUA)  of  Ann Arbor , Michigan, wasn’t fined
because it told the EU about the cartel. Panasonic wasn’t
involved in all aspects of the cartel and quit it in 2006,
regulators said. One of the companies had its fine reduced
because of financial difficulties, the EU said, without naming
the business.  Courts  Accused Inside Trader ‘Shocked’ Hedge-Fund Friend Misled Him  Accused insider trader Rupinder Sidhu told U.K. authorities
he was shocked to discover a friend who worked as a hedge-fund
trader had passed him confidential information.  Sidhu, a management consultant from Osterley, West London,
thought share tips from AKO Capital LLP trader Anjam Ahmad were
based on “research, knowledge and expertise” not inside
information, according to a statement he gave to the Financial
Services Authority that was read out in court yesterday.  “I was shocked to discover what Ahmad had been doing at
his work,” Sidhu wrote. “I have not knowingly been involved in
any insider-dealing activity.”  Ahmad told Sidhu when his firm was about to buy or sell a
stock so Sidhu could benefit from the effect of those trades on
its share price, Michael Brompton, a lawyer for the FSA said
last week. Sidhu, 40, made about 500,000 pounds ($780,500) from
spread bets on companies including Julius Baer Group Ltd.,
 Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  between June
and August 2009, according to prosecutors.  Sidhu, who pleaded not guilty to 23 counts of insider
trading and one money laundering charge in April, is due to be
cross-examined today. Insider trading carries a maximum sentence
of seven years.  For more, click here.  SEC Freezes Assets of Chinese Traders Over Inside Trading Claims  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission won a court
order to freeze assets of four Chinese citizens accused of using
non-public information to trade ahead of  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s
announcement of plans to acquire Beijing-based  Global Education
& Technology Group Ltd. (GEDU)   Sha Chen, Song Li, Lili Wang and Zhi Yao bought American
depository shares of Global Education in the two weeks before
London-based Pearson, owner of the Financial Times, said on Nov.
21 that it will pay $294 million to acquire all of the Chinese
firm’s outstanding stock, the SEC said in a complaint filed at
U.S. District Court in Illinois.  Wang may have received a tip about the acquisition from
Global Education’s co-founder and chairman, who possibly tipped
others, according to the SEC. Wang transferred funds into her
brokerage account and bought 28,000 Global Education shares, the
SEC said. All Know Holdings Limited and other unknown purchasers
were also named in the SEC complaint.  Some of the defendants had already tried to liquidate or
transfer their illicit profits, which totaled $2.7 million, the
SEC said in a statement yesterday. In some cases, stock
purchases equaled or exceeded the stated annual income of the
traders, the agency said.  There was no known defense counsel for the defendants, the
SEC said. A phone call to Global Education in Beijing outside
normal business hours wasn’t answered.  Interviews/Speeches  Kaufman Says Comments on Efforts to Reform the Banking Industry  Henry Kaufman, president of Henry Kaufman & Co. and former
chief economist at Salomon Brothers, talked about the Federal
Reserve’s balance sheet and flaws in the U.S. banking industry,
why the Dodd-Frank law is “verbose,” and conflicts of interest
in too-big-to-fail institutions.  Kaufman spoke with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 