-- 
TSA Doesn’t Mean ‘Thousands Standing Around,’ Chief Says in Quest for Jobs

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-12-07T22:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/tsa-mission-refutes-thousands-standing-around-jab-chief-says.html
U.S. Representative  John Mica , who
helped write the law creating the  Transportation Security
Administration , calls it “a bloated bureaucracy.” TSA deserves
the nickname “Thousands Standing Around,” Representative Paul Broun says.  The agency’s workforce grew 6 percent last year to a record
54,831 full-time equivalent positions, the fastest rate since at
least 2005, according to budget documents. Administrator  John Pistole  requested another 3,570 positions for this fiscal year.  Congress created the TSA after the Sept. 11 attacks, giving
it a virtual blank check to protect U.S. aviation from
terrorists. Ten years later, the agency faces the competing
demands of tighter budgets and labor-intensive mandates such as
screening all passenger baggage and cargo. Congress hasn’t
passed President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to increase fees on
airline tickets to help pay more of TSA’s costs.  “Those who say that we’re inefficient or bloated -- I’d be
glad to sit down and go through the books and say, ’OK, how
would you staff this differently?’” Pistole said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau.  Airports are “optimally staffed,” he said, while allowing
that “there’s something to” the argument by Mica, a Florida
Republican, and Broun, a Georgia Republican, that TSA’s
administrative staff of 4,000 in the Washington area could be
thinned.  Pistole’s Plan  Pistole, 55, said he’s frozen hiring for some
administrative positions and wants an unspecified number of
people in the  Washington  area to leave through early retirement.
He said he’s combined positions in information technology and
training and will eliminate six out of 12 high-level management
positions.  Broun, in a letter today to Pistole, wrote that he would
“gladly accept your offer to sit down and go through” the
TSA’s records. The measures Pistole has taken to reduce
administrative staff can’t compensate for the “massive growth”
of the agency over 10 years, Broun wrote.  Some airports are “insufficiently staffed,” said Brian
DeWyngaert, chief of staff at the American Federation of
Government Employees, which won the right this year to bargain
on behalf of the TSA’s workforce.  “In some airports, the workforce is stretched too thin,
and there’s real anger and angst among employees,” said
DeWyngaert, who said he couldn’t immediately provide names of
understaffed airports.  Risk-Based Security  The TSA says it has 20 layers of security to protect
airplanes, most of which require people. Risk-based security
measures that Pistole favors should allow the agency to reduce
staff in the long run, said Kip Hawley, TSA administrator from
2005 to 2009.  Pistole describes risk-based security as focusing attention
and resources on travelers who appear suspicious or are unknown
rather than putting everyone through the same checks. The TSA
workforce dedicated to one such effort, behavior detection, has
grown to 3,000 in the past five years.  Trained officers rove airports, watching passengers and
interviewing them at random. In Boston and Detroit, they
interview each passenger at certain security checkpoints,
watching for signs of deception and routing questionable
passengers to extra security such as swabbing carry-ons for
explosives.  No Quick Shrinkage  Pistole this year began experimenting with separate
security lines that enable pilots and certain pre-screened
frequent fliers to pass through checkpoints at some airports
without removing shoes or taking laptops and liquids out of
carry-on bags. Through appropriations bills and legislation,
Congress has since the TSA’s creation sought speedy screening of
pilots and the development of a trusted traveler program.  “Logically, as fewer people need full screening, the TSA
should require fewer employees, said Hawley, who’s now a
security consultant in  California .  Congress, rather than agency leaders, likely will drive any
resulting staff reductions, he said in an interview.  ‘‘It’s not a natural instinct in government to wake up and
say ’I want to cut 20 percent of my workforce,’” Hawley said,
citing an arbitrary number.  The TSA is using existing employees in trials of the risk-
based programs, Greg Soule, an agency spokesman, said in an e-
mail. It’s “too early” to know the number of employees that
will be affected long-term, Pistole said.  ‘Mission Creep’  The use of checked-baggage-scanning technology enabled the
agency to shift some employees to become behavior-detection
officers, Pistole said. Airports outside the U.S. are asking for
a larger TSA presence, he said.  “Mission creep” may result as fewer TSA employees are
needed at checkpoints, Jeffrey Price, an  aviation security 
consultant based in Denver, said in an interview. Passengers may
start seeing screeners checking carry-ons at gates or patrolling
airport perimeters, he said.  “When was the last time we saw bureaucracy get smaller?”
Price asked. “If you need fewer people, the business answer is
to get rid of them. The bureaucratic answer if to find something
else for them to do.”  Mica, chairman of the House transportation committee, said
he wants the agency to become a regulatory body overseeing
screeners employed by companies under contract.  “They need to get out of the personnel business,” Mica
said in an interview. “They need to go back to becoming a
security agency” by setting policies for contractors and
conducting audits, he said.  What Congress Wants  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican, said at a Nov. 9
hearing that more use of contract screeners, now at 16 U.S.
airports, would help slim the workforce. “The overall
philosophy that the government can do this better is not
necessarily the right philosophy,” Blunt told Pistole, who this
year froze expansion of the private-screener program.  There are conflicting estimates on the cost of using
private employees. U.S. taxpayers could save $1 billion over
five years if the 35 biggest airports used private screeners,
Mica said in June. According to a TSA report to the Government
Accountability Office, contract screeners cost at least 3
percent more. The TSA also can’t reassign or move contract
employees to respond to changing needs as it can with its own
workforce, Pistole said.  Screener Cap  Congress capped the number of federal screener positions
from 2002 to 2009. The Republican-led House’s appropriations
bill for the Department of  Homeland Security  this fiscal year
would reinstitute a cap, at 46,000. The Senate’s version doesn’t
include that imposition.  The agency had 52,269 full-time-equivalent positions
devoted to aviation security last fiscal year. It’s unclear how
many of those would fall under a congressional screener cap.  After an al-Qaeda operative tried to detonate an underwear
bomb on a Christmas 2009 flight to  Detroit , the U.S. accelerated
plans to install full-body scanning machines at checkpoints. The
TSA hired 5,000 screeners, or 3,000 full-time equivalents, to
operate the machines, some of which require an employee to sit
in a separate room and review revealing images of passengers’
bodies.  If passengers decide not to go through the scanners, they
can opt to be patted down. The TSA must have male and female
employees available at checkpoints to perform the pat-downs.  ‘Not Sellable’  Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat on the
appropriations committee, said he objects to staffing limits.  “Republicans have put arbitrary caps on the number of
screeners and tried to limit funding, which would result in much
longer lines for passengers and weaken the security of our
system,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  While no successful terrorist attack using a plane has
occurred since Sept. 11, elected officials would be reluctant to
decrease the amount of security in airports, Jeffrey R. Sural, a
former congressional liaison to the TSA now with Alston and Bird
LLP in Washington, said in an interview.  “If the mandates were repealed, and the TSA had a pure
risk-based strategy, it would not need as many people,” Sural
said. “Politically, that’s still not sellable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  