-- 
Saab Auto Says China Loan Agreement Needed in ‘Days’ to Avert Bankruptcy

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-07T11:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/saab-auto-needs-loans-in-very-few-days-to-avoid-bankruptcy-chief-says.html
 Saab Automobile is in discussions
with Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile and a Chinese bank to
secure loans that it needs in a “very few days” to avert
bankruptcy, Chief Executive Officer Victor Muller said.  The Swedish carmaker needs to borrow about 600 million
euros ($803 million) and is talking to Youngman representatives
in  Stockholm  today, Muller said in phone interview. A court-
appointed attorney is applying to end Trollhaettan-based Saab’s
protection against creditors, owner Swedish Automobile NV said
in a statement.  Unlike Saab’s earlier agreements with Youngman, this deal
wouldn’t involve the Chinese manufacturer taking a stake in
Saab, which would allow the transaction to proceed without the
approval of former owner  General Motors Co. (GM) , Muller said.
GM, which licenses technology to Saab, has disapproved of
previous proposals in which Youngman would take ownership.  “We’re working on another structure where we don’t need to
get the consensus from General Motors, because they don’t want
to give it,” Muller said. “The transaction involves loans and
no shares.”  Pang Da Automobile Trade Co.,  China ’s biggest dealer by
market value, would no longer be involved if an agreement is
reached, Muller said. Pang Da agreed in October to buy a 40
percent stake in Saab, and that deal collapsed when GM objected.  The Vaenersborg District Court in southwestern  Sweden  is
likely to rule next week on today’s application by administrator
Guy Lofalk to end Saab’s court-administered reorganization,
Muller said. The court granted Saab protection against creditors
on Sept. 21, halting pending bankruptcy petitions.  Running Out of Time  “We don’t have much time, very few days” to reach a deal
that will convince the court to retain the protection against
creditors, Muller said.  “The stakes are so high I think we’ll be able to reach an
agreement,” the CEO said. “Of course it’s a far cry for
Youngman from where they were, but their impressive commitment
to Saab has led them to rather fund the company and not be a
shareholder at this time than to see it go down.”  Saab will ask the court to remove Lofalk as administrator,
Muller said. Lofalk didn’t immediately return a message left
with his secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  