-- 
Sabadell Purchases CAM for 1 Euro as Spanish Banks Pay for Caja’s Rescue

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-12-08T15:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/sabadell-to-buy-cam-for-one-euro-no-budget-impact-spain-says.html
Banco Sabadell SA (SAB)  agreed to acquire
stricken Spanish lender  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  for one
euro in a deal financed and guaranteed by Spain’s commercial
lenders to shield the national budget from losses.  Spain’s deposit-guarantee fund, which is financed by the
country’s banks, will first inject 5.25 billion euros ($7
billion) into Alicante-based CAM. The impact on Spain’s budget
will be “nil” as the deposit fund will also guarantee losses
arising over the next decade, the state bailout fund said.  The deal will create a lender with 166 billion euros in
assets, Spain’s fifth-largest, combining Sabadell with a savings
bank that was  seized  by the Bank of Spain in July after souring
property loans wrecked its business. Spanish bank mergers are
gathering pace, with  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  announcing a 1.35
billion-euro takeover of  Banco Pastor SA (PAS)  in October.  “The first impression is that this may be quite a good
deal for Sabadell,” said  Antonio Ramirez , an analyst at Keefe
Bruyette & Woods in  London .  Sabadell said in a presentation today that the “game-
changing deal” will save more than 300 million euros a year,
increase its client base to five million and add to earnings per
share. Sabadell may close about 300 branches out of a combined
network of 2,279, Chief Executive Officer Jaime Guardiola said
on a conference call.  Sabadell shares rose for the eighth day in nine sessions,
climbing 5.5 percent in Madrid to 2.89 euros at 2:58 p.m. local
time, compared with a 0.1 percent drop in the 46-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Budget Shielded  The sale allows Spain’s central bank to remove CAM from
public ownership as it seeks to speed consolidation in a
financial system burdened by 176 billion euros of troubled
assets linked to real estate.  CAM ran up losses of 1.73 billion euros in the first nine
months of the year. Bad loans as a proportion of total loans at
the combined lender based on June data would be 10.9 percent,
 Sabadell (SAB)  said.  “We expect such a large and complex deal to carry
significant execution risk for Sabadell and to add further
workload on a bank which is still digesting its own exposure to
troubled real-estate developers,” Andrea Filtri and Andres Williams, London-based analysts at Mediobanca SpA who rated
Sabadell “underperform,” said in a report. Sabadell may have
entered the deal to “avoid marginalization on the Spanish
banking scene,” they wrote.  ‘Tough Operation’  “It’s a very tough operation, which means it’s going to
get maximum concentration and the best management,” Josep Oliu,
Sabadell’s chairman, said at a televised news conference.  Spain, fighting to rein in the euro region’s third-biggest
 budget  deficit, said in October that any losses arising from its
overhaul of banks would be borne by the financial industry’s
deposit-guarantee fund rather than by the taxpayer. It followed
up on Dec. 2 by increasing banks’ contributions to that fund in
a move criticized by the Spanish Banking Association as
“surprising and unjust.”  That fund will guarantee 80 percent of losses that may
arise from 24.6 billion euros of problem assets after existing
provisions of 3.9 billion euros, Sabadell said.  Troubled Assets  Those troubled assets include loans to property developers,
refinanced  mortgage loans  to individuals and some loans to small
and medium-sized companies linked to the building and real-
estate industry, an official from the FROB said yesterday. He
said independent auditors estimate losses of 5.5 billion euros
at CAM, a lender that rose and fell with the Mediterranean-area
real-estate boom.  The FROB is providing liquidity guarantees of 12.5 billion
euros, Sabadell said. Those would be used, for example, in the
unlikely event that the  European Central Bank  stopped its
liquidity operations, the FROB official said yesterday.  CAM faces maturities of 28.8 billion euros in wholesale
debt, an amount that includes 7.7 billion euros borrowed from
the European Central Bank, Sabadell said. That amount includes
9.54 billion euros coming due through 2013.  As of September, the combined lender would have a core Tier
1 capital ratio under European Banking Authority criteria of 9
percent. The bank may raise as much as 1 billion euros from a
share sale in the future when market conditions make it
possible, Chief Financial Officer Tomas Varela said.  Government Control  The central bank  replaced  CAM’s managers in July and placed
the bank under administration of the government’s bank bailout
fund, which injected 2.8 billion euros into its business and
provided a 3 billion-euro  credit line  to keep it operating. The
figure of 5.25 billion euros to be provided by the deposit-
guarantee fund includes that 2.8 billion-euro cost, FROB said.  CAM’s ratio of defaults to loans hit 21 percent in
September, more than double what it had last December, as more
than half its loans to property developers went bad.  Mariano Rajoy ,  Spain ’s prime minister-elect after winning
elections on Nov. 20, has pledged to accelerate a cleanup of the
country’s banks that has so far cost 17.7 billion euros. He has
asked for at least two studies on how to create a so-called bad
bank to buy soured assets from lenders at a discount, two people
with knowledge of the matter said on Nov. 25.  The Bank of Spain  seized  Banco de Valencia SA on Nov. 21,
the latest of seven lenders taken over by the central bank. The
lender with 24 billion euros of assets had been under inspection
by the Bank of Spain because it had fallen short of new minimum
 capital requirements  put in place by the government this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  