-- 
Samsung Promotes Head of Chip Business After Kwon Led in Reversing Slump

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-12-07T07:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/samsung-promotes-computer-chip-head-after-riding-out-memory-market-slump.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  named Kwon Oh Hyun, its computer-memory chip business head, as vice chairman
after he led the company out of the industry’s worst slump.  Kwon was promoted at  Asia ’s largest maker of semiconductors
in a broad management reshuffle across Samsung Group companies,
South Korea’s biggest conglomerate said in an e-mailed statement
today. He will continue overseeing chip and display operations
at Samsung Electronics, according to the statement.  Samsung Electronics was the only profitable maker of the
chips known as DRAM in the third quarter after  prices  plunged to
a record low. The Suwon, South Korea-based company is benefiting
from diversification into semiconductors for mobile devices and
servers at a time when slowing growth of personal-computer sales
has caused other chipmakers to suffer mounting losses.  “Samsung has quickly shifted away from PC chips to
specialty chips, so they’ve been relatively unaffected by market
conditions,” Kim Young Chan, a Seoul-based analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp., said by telephone. “Going forward, they’ll
keep focusing on chips going into mobile products.”  Samsung Electronics rose 1.2 percent to 1.06 million won at
the close in Seoul trading, and was the  biggest contributor (KOSPI)  to
the benchmark Kospi index’s 0.9 percent advance. The shares have
advanced 11 percent this year, compared with the 6.4 percent
decline in the benchmark.  Family Members  Jung Yeon Joo, chief executive officer of trading company
Samsung C&T Corp., was also promoted to vice chairman, according
to the statement. Kim Bong Yung, previously a senior executive
vice president at Samsung SDS Co., was promoted to president and
appointed chief executive officer of Samsung Everland Inc., the
group’s de facto holding company, according to the statement.  Lee Jae Yong, the son of Samsung Electronics Chairman Lee Kun Hee, and his sister Lee Boo Jin were excluded from the
latest management changes. Lee Jae Yong was promoted to
president at Samsung Electronics a year ago when the sister was
named president at Samsung Everland, chief executive officer of
affiliate Hotel Shilla Co. and adviser to Samsung C&T.  Kwon “has contributed to strengthening of Samsung’s market
leadership in memory products,” the parent company said in the
statement, which also credited him for expanding the non-memory
business.  Dual Role  Samsung’s chip division had an operating profit of 1.59
trillion won ($1.4 billion) in the third quarter, while its
closest rival Hynix Semiconductor Inc. had an operating loss of
276.8 billion won.  Samsung expanded Kwon’s role in July to include oversight
of the unprofitable liquid-crystal display business. Kwon has
led the chip division since 2008.  The company began operations at its latest factory in  South
Korea  in September. The 12 trillion won facility is the largest
in the industry and can produce NAND flash chips used in mobile
devices as well as DRAM with the narrowest circuitry in the
industry. Samsung plans to build another NAND-flash factory in
 China .  Samsung began to operate its Austin, Texas, factory’s
logic-chip production line at full capacity in October, about
five months after operations began, the company said yesterday.
The plant makes application processors used in mobile phones.  Operating profit at the company’s logic chip business will
probably jump 156 percent to 1.7 trillion won this year and 69
percent next year, according to Korea Investment & Securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  