-- 
San Francisco Gasoline Falls to Lowest Since August on Restart

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-12-07T23:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/san-francisco-gasoline-falls-to-lowest-since-august-on-restart.html
San Francisco  gasoline weakened to
the lowest level against futures since August after  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  said all units affected by a  power failure  at the  El
Segundo  refinery in  California  returned to service.  California-blend gasoline in  San Francisco  fell 3.6 cents
to a discount of 2 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:30 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level
for the fuel in San Francisco since Aug. 16 and the largest drop
since Nov. 21.  The El Segundo plant, California’s largest oil refinery,
restored production to all units affected by a wind storm Nov.
30 that knocked out power to the region, Rod Spackman, a company
spokesman at the refinery, said in an e-mail. The  San Ramon ,
California-based company said last week that the refinery may
flare until Dec. 9 as units recovered.  Units “have returned to service and the refinery is
operating normally,” Spackman said.  Carbob inventories  also jumped 13 percent to 5.61 million
barrels last week from a week earlier, the state Energy
Commission said.  California-blend diesel stocks  rose 1.1 percent
to 2.64 million barrels, the state said.  Non-Carbob gasoline stocks tumbled 20 percent to 873,000
barrels and non-CARB diesel inventories slipped 1.1 percent to
1.12 million, the commission said.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  fell for the third day, by 1.75 cents
to reach parity with futures. California-blend diesel, known as
CARB diesel, in  Los Angeles  was unchanged at a discount of 2.88
cents against heating oil futures traded on the Nymex.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , was
also unchanged at a discount of 7 cents to futures, the lowest
level since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  