-- 
Former Penn State Coach Sandusky Jailed After More Child Sex-Abuse Charges

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T22:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/sandusky-charged-with-additional-crimes-in-penn-state-sex-case-state-says.html
Jerry Sandusky, the former assistant
football coach at Penn State University accused of sexually
abusing eight children, was arrested and charged with additional
crimes against two more boys.  The latest charges stem from allegations from two accusers,
identified as Victim 9 and Victim 10. Sandusky allegedly
targeted them when they were children,  Pennsylvania  Attorney
General Linda Kelly said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Today’s criminal charges were recommended by a statewide
investigating grand jury, based on evidence and testimony that
was received following the initial arrest of Sandusky,” Kelly
said.  Sandusky, 67, was arrested today and arraigned on the new
charges. He was unable to post $250,000 cash bail and was being
transported to the Centre County Correctional Facility in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, for processing, Nils Frederiksen, a
spokesman for Kelly, said in an e-mail. If he posts bail, he
will be subject to electronic monitoring and house arrest.  Sandusky was charged by state prosecutors on Nov. 5 with 40
counts related to alleged molestation of eight boys from 1994 to
2009. According to a grand jury report, he allegedly used a
charity he founded in 1977 to find his victims. He has denied
any wrongdoing and had been free on $100,000 unsecured bail.
He’s scheduled to appear at a preliminary hearing next week.  Four New Counts  Sandusky was charged with four new counts of involuntary
deviate sexual intercourse and two of unlawful contact with a
minor, all first-degree felonies punishable by as long as 20
years in prison, Kelly said in today’s statement.  Sandusky’s attorney, Joseph Amendola, didn’t immediately
reply to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the new
charges.  The new cases fit Sandusky’s pattern of “grooming
victims,” Kelly said.  “Beginning with outings to football games and gifts, they
later included physical contact that escalated to sexual
assaults,” Kelly said.  Victim 9, now 18, met Sandusky when he was about 11 or 12
years old in 2004 while participating in a summer camp organized
by Sandusky’s charity, The Second Mile, Kelly said. Sandusky
allegedly approached the boy and expressed an interest in
spending more time with him. He allegedly took him to Penn State
football games and gave him gifts and money.  Overnight Stays  During overnight stays at Sandusky’s house, hugging and
tickling escalated to sexual assaults, according to a new grand
jury report. Many of the assaults occurred in the basement
bedroom of Sandusky’s home, the report said. Sandusky allegedly
attempted to engage in anal penetration of Victim 9 on at least
16 occasions and at times did penetrate him, the report said.
The victim testified that on at least one occasion he screamed
for help knowing Sandusky’s wife was upstairs and no one came,
according to the report.  Additional sex acts were allegedly performed in the
swimming pool and whirlpool bath of a hotel in  State College  at
times when the pool wasn’t occupied, according to the report.
Victim 9 contacted Pennsylvania State Police after Sandusky was
arrested last month.  Football Games  Victim 10 told the grand jury that he became involved with
Second Mile in 1997 at age 10. Sandusky allegedly took the boy
to several Penn State football games, where he would attend
tailgate parties prior to the game, and also spent time at
Sandusky’s house.  Victim 10 said that while he never stayed the night at the
Sanduskys’, he spent most of his time in the basement when he
was there, according to the report. Sandusky allegedly performed
oral sex on the boy during wrestling sessions and on one
occasion in a car exposed himself and requested oral sex from
the boy, according to the grand jury report.  Frederiksen, the attorney general’s spokesman, declined to
comment on whether all 10 alleged victims will testify at the
preliminary hearing.  Sandusky was ordered to have no contact with the alleged
victims or witnesses and no unsupervised contact with minors,
Frederiksen said.  Second Mile announced today that it “has lost significant
financial support” and is cutting jobs “to put the
organization in a better position to preserve programs.”  Job Cuts  Eric Herman, a spokesman for the charity, said it has 20
full-time staff members. He declined to say how many are being
fired. A statement on the Second Mile  website  said some
employees were told today that their employment will end “over
the next several months.”  The charity has said it’s exploring whether to restructure
the organization and keep its programs, maintain the programs by
transferring them to other organizations or to fold.  “We at The Second Mile are saddened by the need to make
these cutbacks,” the group said in the statement. “However,
our foremost concerns reside with the victims of the horrific
abuse reported by the attorney general and with the children we
serve.”  Penn State Athletics Director Timothy Curley, 57, and
former vice president  Gary Schultz , 62, who oversaw the
university police, have been charged with perjury and failure to
report allegations of sex assault against Sandusky. Lawyers for
Curley and Schultz have said they’ll challenge the charges.  Penn State head football coach  Joe Paterno  and President
Graham Spanier were fired last month after the release of the
first grand jury report, which said school officials were aware
of Sandusky’s conduct as early as 1998. Spanier and Paterno
haven’t been accused of criminal wrongdoing.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, MJ-
49201-cr-0000636-2011, Magisterial District Court 49-2-01,
Centre County (State College).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  