-- 
Scene Last Night: Steve Earle, Adam Max, John Hurt, Josh Ritter

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-12-07T17:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/scene-last-night-steve-earle-adam-max-philip-glass-john-hurt-as-krapp.html
“There are many people in IT circles
that play,” said Peter Carrara, an information technologist at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “It’s a way to unwind, and tonight it’s a
way to raise money for a great cause.”  Carrara, a drummer, stood on the balcony of Irving Plaza
last night at “Wall Street Rocks for the Veterans,” which he
helped organize.  The  event , featuring musicians with day jobs on Wall
Street, drew more than 1,000 people to benefit Wounded
Warrior Project and ReserveAid.  Lucas Detor, a former soldier and Secret Service agent who
is a managing director at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , founded ReserveAid
when he realized people in his unit didn’t have money to buy
things for their families.  The organization now helps veterans with everything from
utility bills to job training and placement.  “Working on  Wall Street , you don’t put your life in
danger,” Detor said. “What’s the same is that you all depend
on each other.”  Carrara rocked through a set list of songs by Jane’s
Addiction, Alice in Chains and the Red Hot Chili Peppers. The 31
sponsors included  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , Savvis Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co., Tech Exec
Partners and Synechron. The drink of choice: Corona.  “I’m a Ludwig guy,” Carrara said of his drums, as
bandmate Neil Holstein, who plays six-string guitar and bass,
approached.  “When we met, we talked about music immediately,” said
Holstein, global head of high-performance engineering at Morgan
Stanley. “We were just hanging out in the office. I think he
had a drumstick on his desk.”  New York  Public Library  Singer-songwriters held forth at the  New York Public
Library  last night.  Steve Earle read from his latest novel, “I’ll Never Get
Out of This World Alive,” about Hank Williams and the doctor
who was with him the night he died.  Earle said part of his inspiration for writing the book was
Michael Ondaatje’s first novel, “Coming Through Slaughter,”
about the New Orleans jazz man Buddy Bolden.  Josh Ritter, who writes to “music without words” by
bands such as Radiohead and Aphex Twin, published his first
novel, “Bright’s Passage,” this year.  Composing fiction allows him to stretch his legs.  “The feeling is like being a dog on the beach. You look at
that expanse of sand and say, ‘This is all I mine. I can write
as long as I want, and I don’t have to rhyme anything.’”  Brooklyn Academy  During the gala supper following John Hurt’s performance in
Samuel Beckett’s “Krapp’s Last Tape” at the Brooklyn Academy
of Music last night, folks talked about the play.  “It’s minimalist,” said Adam Max, a vice chairman of BAM
and managing principal at buy-out firm the Jordan Company LP.
“Maybe he speaks about 20 lines in an hour. The rest is
recordings of his voice in the past.”  That explained the reels of unraveled audiocassettes
serving as table decoration at  Skylight One Hanson , where guests
included Maggie Gyllenhaal, Philip Glass and  Laurie Anderson .  “I had no idea it would be so touching,” said Anderson.
“It’s sad but there’s also the sweetness of remembering.”  Actress Mamie Gummer was intrigued by the silences of the
production. “Silence is scary, and it’s also captivating” she
said.  The star of the play celebrated his first New York theater
engagement with his director, Michael Colgan.  “I’m very pleased,” Hurt said. “It is a wonderful
theater, vocally very easy and crackling with atmosphere.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 