-- 
Serbia May Hold Rates to Weigh Impact of Europe’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-12-07T13:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/serbia-may-hold-rates-to-weigh-impact-of-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
Serbia’s central bank will probably
leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged tomorrow as policy
makers bide time to assess the impact of the European debt
crisis on the Balkan economy.  The Narodna Banka Srbije’s two-week repurchase rate will
remain at 10 percent, according to 13 of 23 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Seven predicted a quarter-point reduction and
three saw a half-point cut. The bank is due to announce its
decision at about noon in Belgrade.  “The signals are quite contradictory,” said Dusko Vasiljevic of the CEVES economics research institute in
Belgrade, who sees no change. “Inflation and the economy are
slowing, which means they should cut fast. On the other hand,
the risk of capital flight may require a hike, so they are best
off if they hold the rate.”  Central banks in eastern  Europe  are weighing faltering
growth prospects against weaker currencies after tightening
policy earlier this year.  Monetary authorities in  Poland  today left the seven-day
rate unchanged for a fifth meeting at 4.5 percent, while Hungary
raised borrowing costs by 50 basis points to 6.5 percent on Nov.
29 to stem declines in the forint. The Czechs have left the
benchmark two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent since May
2010 and said yesterday the next rate move may be in any
direction depending on inflation risks.  ‘Strong Reason’  The Serbian central bank has “a strong reason for a
significant cut” based on cumulative inflation from May to
October, which stood at an annualized 2.4 percent, said Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at the Serb unit of  Austria ’s
Hypo-Alpe-Adria.  Inflation slowed to 8.7 percent in October from a peak of
14.7 percent in April, outside the target rate of 4.5 percent
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points for the end of the year, and
4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, at end-2012. The
Belgrade-based central bank says inflation may return to its
target in the first quarter of 2012.  “A cut would be justified in the context of their monetary
policy framework and the models they refer to, because moves in
the rate target inflation one year from now,” Atanasijevic
said. A deepening of the Europe’s debt crisis and an excessive
rate move may trigger capital flight, putting pressure on the
dinar and fuelling inflation, he said.  The market sees the dinar ending the year at 103.5 to the
euro, marking a 1.9 percent full-year gain, according to a
Bloomberg survey. It traded at 103.12 to the common currency at
2:14 p.m. in Belgrade.  Capital Flight Risk  The main capital flight-related risk stems from the central
bank’s outstanding repo stock, where banks have parked 111.92
billion dinars ($1.45 billion) in two-week maturities, said
Atanasijevic.  The Belgrade-based National Bank of  Serbia  last cut its
main rate by 75 basis points to 10 percent Nov. 10 on concern
Europe’s debt crisis may sour the economic-growth outlook.
Serbia’s economy is forecast to grow 1.5 percent this year, down
from an original estimate of 3 percent.  The economy expanded 0.7 percent in the third quarter from
a year ago, according to a flash estimate by the Statistics
Office on Oct. 31, down from 2.4 percent in the previous three-
month period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  