-- 
Sex Toys, Apple, Micron, Biogen, NFL: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-07T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/sex-toys-apple-micron-biogen-nfl-intellectual-property-1-.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) ’s Drugstore.com unit was
named in a U.S. trade agency complaint filed by a Canadian
company trying to halt imports of infringing sex toys.  Standard Innovation Corp., based in Ottawa, filed a
complaint Dec. 2 with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington, seeking an order that would block competitors from
shipping the rival products into the U.S.  The dispute centers on the We-Vibe, described by Standard
Innovation as a “couple device” worn by women during sex and
presented in gift bags at the 2009 and 2010 Oscars, and the 2010
Super Bowl. The company said it has sold more than 1 million of
the devices, including about 400,000 in the U.S.  The competing products, several of which are sold through
Bellevue, Washington-based Drugstore.com, infringe two patents,
including one for design, according to the complaint.  Among the companies named in the complaint were four
manufacturers, four distributors and 11 retailers. Standard
Innovation also sued one of the manufacturers, Leloi AB of
 Sweden , in federal court in Houston.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency with the power to block
imports of products that violate U.S. patent rights. If it
agrees to investigate a complaint, it typically completes its
work in 16 to 19 months.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Kinesiotherapy Devices,
Complaint No.  2862 , U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ). The civil suit is Standard Innovation Corp. v.
Leloi AB, 4:11-cv-04172, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  Texas  (Houston).  Apple Seeks Patent on Technology for Audio-Cable Recharger  Apple Inc. , maker of the iPod and iPhone, is seeking a
patent on a technology that would let the user of a portable
electronic device recharge it by wrapping the audio cable around
a charging coil.  According to application  20110188677 , filed in February
2010, this technology is comparable to that employed by some
electronic toothbrushes that recharge through the use of an
inductive receiving coil placed in proximity to a charging
stand.  The advantage of the technology is that it can use a
smaller charging stand and the size of the portable device can
be decreased, Apple said.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, no outside counsel is listed on the application filed by
Cupertino, California-based Apple.  Micron Sued by University of  Illinois  Over Chip-Making Patents  The University of Illinois sued  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  for
infringing patents related to the making of semiconductors.  According to the complaint filed Dec. 5 in federal court in
Urbana, Illinois, Micron infringed patents 5,872,387, 6,444,533,
and 6,888,204. The patents cover ways to treat silicon wafers
with  deuterium , an isotope of hydrogen, to limit chip
degradation.  The university said it had made a presentation to Boise,
Idaho-based Micron in 2004 on the benefits of using its patented
technology.  The school asked the court for money damages, attorney fees
and litigation costs, plus extra damages for what it claimed is
deliberate infringement. The school didn’t request a ban on the
manufacture or sale of products that allegedly infringe the
patents.                                                Micron
representatives didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on the suit.  The university is represented by Joseph Grear, George
Summerfield, Keith Vogt, Rolf Stadheim and Steve Pedersen of
 Stadheim & Grear Ltd.  of  Chicago .  The case is Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
v. Micron Technology Inc., 2:11-cv-02288-MPM-DGB, U.S. District
Court, Central District of Illinois (Urbana).  Samsung, Biogen Idec Agree to Set Up $300 Million Venture  Samsung Biologics Co. agreed to set up a $300 million
venture with  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  to develop and sell biomedical
products as  South Korea ’s largest business group seeks to boost
its health-care operations.  Samsung Group  plans to begin making biosimilars in 2016,
starting with Biogen and Roche Holding AG’s Rituxan, used to
treat leukemia, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis,
Kim said in February. Until then, Samsung Biologics plans to
contract-manufacture medicines.  Rituxan has patent protection in the U.S. until 2018 and in
the rest of the world through 2013, Nina Schwab, a Roche
spokeswoman, said in May last year. It generated sales of $6.11
billion last year, making it the world’s ninth-best-selling
medicine, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Biologics, a drugmaker set up in April by Samsung
Group companies and  Quintiles Transnational Corp. , will own 85
percent of the venture, to be based in South Korea, according to
a joint statement distributed by Samsung Group. The new company
will develop, make and sell biosimilars, or copies of
biopharmaceuticals, which won’t include versions of Biogen’s
proprietary products, according to the statement.  The agreement lets Samsung Group work with the world’s
largest maker of medicines for multiple sclerosis to make
biologic drugs, one of five new businesses Samsung Chairman Lee
Kun Hee has singled out as sources of future growth. Samsung
Group said it plans to spend 2.1 trillion won ($1.9 billion) to
generate more than 1.8 trillion won a year from
biopharmaceuticals by 2020.  “We are taking a significant step toward becoming a major
player in the biopharmaceutical industry and investing in an
important growth engine for our company,” Kim Tae Han, chief
executive officer of Samsung Biologics, said in yesterday’s
statement.  Samsung Group ultimately aims to develop its own
biopharmaceuticals after gaining experience in making them
through partnerships with other companies, Kim said in February.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NFL Sues Hamburger Chain Over ‘Raid A Nation’ Ad Campaign  The National Football League and the Oakland Raiders sued a
closely held  California  hamburger chain for trademark
infringement in its “Raid A Nation’s” advertising campaign.  In a complaint filed Dec. 2 in federal court in  San
Francisco , the league objected to  Nation’s Foodservice Inc. ’s
use of the phrase “When Hunger Hits, Raid A Nation’s.” Oakland
fans identify themselves as the “Raider Nation” and the team
said it objects to a billboard that advertises Nation’s burgers
adjacent to its stadium.  The ad campaign is “ambush” marketing and an unauthorized
attempt to hitch a ride on the team’s “goodwill, reputation and
popularity,” the NFL and the Raiders said in the filing.  The league and team asked the court to bar El Cerrito,
California-based Nation’s from using the phrase on its signs and
in advertising, and to award money damages, litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Nation’s didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The team and league are represented by Bruce P. Keller of
 New York ’s Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and  Dawn Newton ,   David C.
Lee  and  Richard Thomas White  of  Fitzgerald Abbott & Beardsley
LLP  of Oakland.  The case is NFL Properties LLC v. Nation’s Foodservice
Inc., 3:11-cv-05818-NC, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  Apple May Have to Rename IPad in  China , ZDNet Reports  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPod and iPad, lost a legal
dispute in China over the “iPad” trademark, the ZDNet.com
technology news website reported.  Proview Technology Co. registered the mark in China in 2000
and sued Apple in October seeking 10 billion yuan ($1.6 billion)
in damages, according to ZDNet.com.  Although Apple had bought the rights to the mark from
Proview’s parent company, the Chinese patent court in Shenzhen,
China, ruled in Proview’s favor, ZDNet.com reported.  Apple, which now may be forced to find a new name for the
iPad tablet computer in China, didn’t comment on the ruling,
ZDNet.com reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  RIAA Weighs in on ‘Fair Use’ in Righthaven Copyright Appeal  The  Recording Industry Association of America , the music
industry trade group, asked a U.S. appeals court for permission
to submit a friend-of-the-court brief in a copyright case
involving Righthaven LLC of Las Vegas.  Righthaven, which has attempted to enforce the copyrights
of Stephens Media Group’s newspapers, has met with opposition by
federal judges who say they are skeptical about whether it
actually has standing to enforce the copyrights.  In its Dec. 5 filing, the Washington-based RIAA said its
arguments “will assist the court in its analysis of the issues
presented by the appeal.” The group said it wasn’t filing in
support of any party to the dispute.  RIAA told the appeals court that the lower court, which
said Righthaven lacked standing to sue, shouldn’t also have said
the defendant’s posting of content on a blog constituted “fair
use” under federal copyright law.  The parties to the case, because they didn’t have any
authority to exploit the copyrighted work, “were in no position
to present relevant arguments on the critical issue of the
impact to the defendant’s use upon such exploitation,” the RIAA
said in its filing.  The trade group said that if the trial court correctly
determined Righthaven didn’t have to right to sue for copyright
infringement, it should have stopped at that and not made any
determination of whether the defendant’s actions constituted
“fair use” or not.  By looking at “fair use” after deciding Righthaven didn’t
have a right to sue, the trial court “reached a question it had
no power to consider,” RIAA said in its brief.  The trade group’s brief was submitted by Steven J. Metalitz
and J. Matthew Williams of Los Angeles-based Mitchell Silberberg
& Knupp LLP, which has represented the RIAA in a number of cases
involving use of its members’ content.  The appeal is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 11-16751, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. The lower court case is
Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-RJJ, U.S. District
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Apple, E-Book Publishers Probed by European Union Regulators  Apple Inc., the world’s biggest technology company, and
five e-book publishers are being investigated by European Union
antitrust regulators over deals that may restrict sales across
the region.  The probe targets the iPad-maker’s deals with  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Harper Collins, CBS Corp.’s
Simon & Schuster,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Verlagsgruppe Georg
von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan division, the European
Commission said in an e-mailed statement. Publishers’ deals with
retailers are also under scrutiny.  PricewaterhouseCoopers  said in a January report that
European e-book sales have been sluggish, partly due to the
small range of non-English titles and fixed price agreements
between publishers and stores in 13 countries.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer, may
sell as many as 5 million e-book readers in the fourth quarter,
according to a report from Forrester Research Inc. Amazon sold
about half of the 12.8 million e-book readers purchased
worldwide last year, IDC said in March. E-books are also sold
for media tablets such as the iPad and Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy.  Piracy, price and a lack of content for non-English-
speaking countries have stifled the spread of e-books in  Europe ,
according to Mario Lombardo, a senior research analyst at IDC.
In part because of the value added tax, many e-books cost the
same or more than hard-copy editions, he said.  The probe isn’t Apple’s first encounter with the EU’s
antitrust authority. The company settled an EU antitrust case in
2009 by agreeing to reduce prices for U.K. iTunes music
downloads and was probed over restrictions on iPhone
applications in a case the EU closed last year.  Some European newspapers also protested earlier this year
against Apple’s proposed subscription model for the iPad. Apple
and Samsung were recently quizzed by the commission over the use
of smartphone patents, regulators said last month.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, Paris-based
Lagardere and Macmillan declined to comment about the EU
announcement.  French technology news website 01net.com reported in March
that Editions Albin Michel SA president Francis Esmenard said
raids by regulators on his company and others were triggered by
a complaint from Amazon.  Amazon didn’t immediately respond to a call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Britain’s Office of Fair Trading, which opened an
investigation in February, said in a statement on its website
yesterday that it would drop its probe into e-books to allow EU
officials to take the lead.  Harper Collins is “cooperating fully with the
investigation,” according to an e-mailed statement from
spokeswoman Siobhan Kenny. Simon & Schuster is also cooperating
with the probe, spokesman Adam Rothberg said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 