-- 
Shell Says Exports, Truck Fuel Among Options for U.S. Shale Gas

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/shell-says-exports-truck-fuel-among-options-for-u-s-shale-gas.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest energy producer, is weighing options for rising North
American natural-gas output including exports and making liquid
fuels, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said.  Shell will double North American gas production in the next
three years to the equivalent of 400,000 barrels of oil a day as
output from shale deposits rises, Voser said in an interview.
Shell may channel gas into chemical production, an export
project in Canada, and a program to use the fuel to power
trucks, he said.  “We are getting now into production phase in a big way,”
Voser said at the World Petroleum Congress in Doha, Qatar.
“It’s about the right time to look for further options. We are
really looking at the usage of gas in a much wider way in North
America.”  Pumping gas trapped in shale rocks has transformed the U.S.
into the world’s largest gas producer, cut prices about 75
percent from their 2008 peak and made exports to higher priced
markets in  Asia  and Europe a viable option. The fuel will
overtake crude oil to account for more than 50 percent of
Shell’s global production next year, driven in part by the
development of shale gas fields in  Texas  and  Pennsylvania .  “This percentage goes up over the next years to come as
most of our projects are actually gas projects,” Voser said.
“Given our huge gas reserves in the U.S. we are looking at a
possibility to actually build a gas-to-liquids plant.”  Largest Project  Shell has invested about $19 billion in its Pearl gas-to-
liquids plant in Qatar to make transportation fuel. It’s the
company’s largest project to date and it plans to build another
“large scale” unit, Andy Brown, Shell’s chief in Qatar, said
earlier this week.  The company has gas reserves in  North America  of 40
trillion cubic feet, about 12 percent of the continent’s total
at end of 2010, based on data from BP Plc’s Statistical Review
of World Energy. The company spent $4.7 billion last year to buy
most of East Resources Inc., a shale producer with fields in
Texas’s Eagle Ford area and Marcellus in Pennsylvania.  The Hague-based producer is working on the Green Corridor
project in Canada to convert gas into 300,000 tons of liquefied
natural gas a year to fuel long-haul trucks from next year. The
fuel will be offered to operators along western Canada’s busiest
truck route from Calgary to  Edmonton ,  said  Malcolm Brinded,
 executive director  for exploration and production.  Shell is looking at using the LNG-to-transport technology
in  China  and  Europe , Voser said. It will be a smaller market
than using gas to fire  power plants , “but it’s a good usage of
the gas,” he said.  “There is a great appetite for this type of solution,” he
said. This market “will be growing. You can think of more, you
can use it in the shipping industry.”  LNG Exports  The gap between natural gas and crude  oil prices  in North
America is opening up the prospect of LNG exports to Asia and
making chemical projects commercially viable. Today’s gas price
is equivalent to about $27 a barrel of crude, while oil is
trading at about $100 a barrel in  New York .  Shell, together with PetroChina Co. and Japanese and South
Korean partners, plans to develop an export facility in British
Columbia in  Canada  to supply LNG to Asia.  In June, Shell announced plans to build an ethylene plant
in Appalachia, the first so-called cracker built in the region
in half a century, to tap low-cost natural gas for making
plastics. The cracker would process gas from the Marcellus
shale. The ethylene probably will be converted to polyethylene
plastic at a second factory to be built at the site, Shell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 