-- 
Singapore Developer Shares Tumble as City Widens Curbs on Housing Prices

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-12-08T09:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/singapore-imposes-additional-stamp-duty-tax-on-some-residential-properties.html
Singapore imposed new taxes on home
purchases to curb excessive investment, sending shares of the
city-state’s biggest developers tumbling by the most in more
than two years.  Foreigners and corporate entities will have to pay an
additional 10 percent stamp duty, the government said in a
statement yesterday. The extra levy, effective today, will be 3
percent for permanent residents purchasing a second home and for
citizens buying their third residential property.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and City Developments Ltd., Singapore’s
biggest builders, tumbled more than 7 percent on speculation the
taxes will hurt sales and drive down property prices. Economies
from Singapore to China have sought to rein in real-estate costs,
with private home prices in the Southeast Asian nation  rising 
for nine quarters.  “This is severe and likely to have a significant and
negative impact on the residential  property market , especially
in prime districts,” Wendy Koh, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in a note to clients today. The latest taxes could be the
catalyst for price cuts and result in a “significant decline”
in residential property sales volume.  Shares Drop  CapitaLand,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer, sank 7.3
percent to S$2.42 at the close in Singapore, its biggest decline
since April 2009.  City Developments (CIT) , the city-state’s second-
largest real estate company, tumbled 8.4 percent to S$9.18, the
most since October 2008 and the worst performance on the  MSCI
Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index. (MXAPJ)  CapitaLand has lost about 30
percent this year through yesterday, while City Developments has
declined about 20 percent.  “We have always had open markets and must keep them that
way,” Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in the
statement. “However, the reality is that investment flows into
our property market are now larger than before, and unlikely to
recede as long as  interest rates  remain low. The additional
buyer’s stamp duty should help cool investment demand, and avoid
the prospect of a major, destabilizing correction further down
the road.”  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  Home prices  are 13 percent above the high seen in the
second quarter of 1996 and 16 percent higher than the “more
recent peak” in the second quarter of 2008, the government said.  More Volatile  “Even with the current economic uncertainties, the demand
for private residential property remains firm,” the government
said. “Given the uncertainty in stock markets and with interest
rates remaining low, private property in Singapore continues to
attract investors, local and foreign. Excessive investment
demand will however make the property cycle more volatile, and
thus increase the risks to our economy and banking system.”  Home prices in China and  Hong Kong  have been declining.
Hong Kong will reverse some property-cooling measures if the
slide continues,  John Tsang , the city’s financial secretary said
in a Dec. 6 interview. In  China , home prices dropped in October
in 33 of 70 cities monitored by the government, the worst
performance this year.  ‘Almost Dry Up’  Singapore’s latest steps “will curb investment demand for
private residential properties drastically, especially demand
from non-resident foreigners,” said Nicholas Mak, an  executive
director  at SLP International Property Consultants in Singapore.
“In the next one to two months or so, the home-buying demand
from non-resident foreigners will almost dry up.”  The higher additional buyer’s stamp duty for foreigners
“is necessary, in view of the large pool of external liquidity
and strong buying interest from abroad, and the relatively small
size of the Singapore market,” the government said. Singapore,
smaller than  New York City , has a population of about 5.2
million people.  Foreign purchases accounted for 19 percent of all private
residential property purchases in the second half of 2011, up
from 7 percent in the first half of 2009, it said.  “We’ll probably see a dwindling in terms of potential
demand coming from foreign investors,” said Donald Han,
Singapore-based managing director at Cushman & Wakefield Pte.
“The impact will be more critically felt particularly for the
high-end, as well as the upper mid-market, rather than the mass
market.”  The government currently imposes a 1 percent duty on the
first S$180,000 ($140,000) of the property price, 2 percent on
the next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder.  Singapore  will introduce sites that can accommodate 14,100
homes, 2.3 million square-feet of commercial space and 4,800
hotel rooms in the first half of 2012, the Ministry of National
Development said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  