-- 
Singh’s Retail Retreat Marks ‘Nail in the Coffin’ for India Market Opening

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-12-08T06:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/singh-s-retail-retreat-a-nail-in-the-coffin-for-india-opening.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
decision to backtrack on plans to let overseas retailers expand
in India may undermine efforts to revive growth and curb
inflation, while deepening a yearlong paralysis in government.  The 79-year-old Singh, credited with sparking India’s
economic transformation when finance minister two decades ago,
yesterday bowed to opposition protests that had forced repeated
adjournments of parliament since the Nov. 24 move to allow
foreign investment in multibrand retail. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told lawmakers the decision was suspended until a
consensus could be reached.  The reversal indefinitely puts off an influx of foreign
investment from companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Tesco Plc (TSCO)  that are bidding to enter the $396 billion market, at
a time when the rupee is already trading near a record low. It
also adds to a list of unfinished economic initiatives that
includes a proposed tax overhaul and changes to how land is
acquired for infrastructure projects.  “It is frustrating to look at unresolved issues and know
that they’re resolvable if you can get some leadership and
orientation around them,” John Flannery, chief executive
officer for  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s India unit, said in an
interview yesterday.  India’s $1.7 trillion  economy  expanded last quarter at the
slowest pace in almost two years after the central bank raised
 interest rates  to slow inflation. The rupee has fallen almost 14
percent this year as investors sold emerging-market assets on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will lead to a global recession.  Local Suppliers  In an attempt to kick start the economy, Singh had approved
allowing overseas companies including  Carrefour SA (CA)  to own as
much as 51 percent of retailers selling more than one brand, as
long as they sourced 30 percent of their products from local
suppliers. International retailers are currently restricted to
wholesale operations.  Singh argued that opening the retail sector to foreign
investors would tame inflation and reduce food wastage in a
country where 40 percent of vegetables rot before they can be
sold. Foreign companies would bring expertise growing crops and
developing a supply chain to keep food fresh, he said at a rally
of his ruling Congress party in New Delhi last month.  The government immediately ran into resistance from its two
largest coalition partners, Trinamool Congress and the Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam, as well as from opposition parties. Small
shopkeepers, who said the plan would wipe out their jobs, joined
a one-day union strike Dec. 1 to protest the move.  ‘Even More Cautious’  “For anyone hoping that this government would do
something, it’s effectively another nail in the coffin,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based head of  India  and
Southeast Asia economics at Credit Suisse Group AG. “They will
be even more cautious in taking reforms forward than they were
before.”  The government has just 10 days left of a crucial session
during which it’s seeking to sign into law proposals to set up
an anti-graft agency with power to punish civil servants.
Transparency activists say they will renew protests that roiled
the government in August if the bill isn’t passed this year.  The government has failed to push through any major pieces
of legislation since the middle of last year after being
embroiled in corruption charges, including allegations against a
former minister, bureaucrats and businessmen over a 2008 sale of
mobile-phone licenses. Opposition lawmakers’ protests against
the government’s failure to check graft had disrupted the
previous three sessions of parliament.  ‘Political Suicide’  While Singh may have bought breathing space for his
administration, both have been badly damaged, said Surjit Singh Bhalla, chairman of New Delhi-based Oxus Fund Management.  “This is political suicide on the part of the Congress
government,” Bhalla said in a phone interview. “The only
conclusion one can draw is that this government has lost any
moral authority to lead. It is completely inexplicable.”  Shares of retailers who could have tied up with foreign
companies fell in Mumbai trading today. Shoppers Stop Ltd. lost
1.5 percent to 344.45 rupees at 11:24 a.m. local time, while
 Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF)  dropped almost 4 percent.  Trent Ltd. (TRENT) 
was 2.5 percent lower at 932.15 rupees. The benchmark BSE India
Sensitive Index fell 2.2 percent.  Pantaloon, the country’s largest listed retailer, had
jumped 13 percent on Nov. 24, before the government announced
relaxing the retail rules, and another 16 percent the day after.
Rival Shopper’s Stop gained 12 percent over the same two days.  Ambani Call  The government’s decision was “deeply disappointing” and
“highly regressive,” Harsh Mariwala, president of the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce, said in a statement.  The rupee touched a record low of 52.73 to the dollar on
Nov. 22 as overseas funds turned net sellers of stocks amid
slowing growth, rising interest rates and the failure of policy
makers to rein in prices. Benchmark  inflation  has stayed above 9
percent all year.  “We currently have a run on the rupee because we have a
total loss of confidence in the government’s capacity to
govern,” said Prem Shankar Jha, an independent political
analyst and former aide to former Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh. “The failure to push through FDI in retail is
symbolic of the government’s lack of ability” to win arguments.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  Chairman  Mukesh Ambani , India’s
richest man, last month urged the government to prioritize laws
to bolster the economy.  Disappointments  Major economic changes in the remaining two years of
Singh’s second term are unlikely, said Jay Shankar, chief
economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. That may
rule out opening pension, insurance and aviation sectors to
foreign investment, he said.  “The government is now facing more challenges from its
coalition partners to carrying out reforms than it is from
opposition parties,” Shankar said in an interview.  After leading Congress to its biggest victory in two
decades at elections in 2009, Singh has disappointed the
businesspeople and analysts who expected him to build on his
1990s’ dismantling of India’s state-dominated economy. Instead,
his government has continued a focus on direct support for the
nation’s poor, in a country where more than three-quarters of
the people live on less than $2 a day.  Singh enacted a jobs plan in 2006 that gives 100 days’ work
to any rural household that requests it, and this year indexed
the pay rates to the pace of inflation.  Regional Polls  Welfare systems, which include a food security bill that
will provide cheap grain to nearly three-quarters of India’s 1.2
billion people, have been promoted by  Rahul Gandhi . He probably
will lead the ruling party into the 2014 election, according to
Eurasia Group, after taking over as party president from his
mother,  Sonia Gandhi . She was treated overseas in August for a
medical condition neither the family nor the party will discuss.  Faced with at least five regional elections next year,
including one in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most populous state, the
government may refrain from making controversial decisions, said
Religare’s Shankar.  After those regional ballots “we will be heading into
general elections and the closer we get to that, the less likely
you are likely to bring out reforms,” Shankar said.  “This is the beginning of the end for this Congress
government,” said Bhalla of Oxus. “The government is
floundering. The opposition knows these guys are extremely
vulnerable and they are just going to keep on attacking them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  