-- 
Sino-Forest May Go Private, Seek Merger as Martin Tries to Exit ‘Morass’

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 
2011-12-07T16:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/sino-forest-may-go-private-seek-merger-as-martin-tries-to-exit-morass-.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese timber
company that plunged 74 percent this year after fraud
allegations, said going private is among the options under
consideration as it attempts to restore its finances and
reputation.  The company may also raise additional funds, bring in a
strategic investor or seek a merger, Chief Executive Officer
Judson Martin said in an interview.  “It is going to be real tough to get back to where we
were,” he said in Hong Kong. “We are up for the challenge, but
we are also up for looking for all options for our
stakeholders.”  Sino-Forest tumbled in June after Carson Block, a short
seller, said the company exaggerated its timber holdings. The
shares were suspended from the Toronto Stock Exchange in August
as  Canada ’s main securities regulator began an investigation.
Canadian police also started a probe.  A committee of independent directors set up to investigate
the allegations said Nov. 15 in an interim report that they
rejected the claim by Block’s Muddy Waters LLC research firm
that Sino-Forest is a “ Ponzi scheme .” The committee said it
confirmed the company’s timber assets, book value and cash
balance. Still, the interim report also disclosed missing
records, a lack of cooperation by some executives and an absence
of an internal audit. The committee’s final report is due by the
year-end.  Commission Meeting  Martin, 55, a former chief financial officer of Canadian
entertainment company Alliance Atlantis Communications Inc.,
took over as CEO from Sino-Forest founder  Allen Chan  in August.
Martin’s priority after emerging from what he describes as
“this morass” is to seek approval for Sino-Forest’s shares to
resume trading when the Ontario Securities Commission meets Jan.
25, he said in a Nov. 23 interview.  “I am very much a free-market individual and I believe
that once information is in the market place, be it good or bad,
whatever the circumstance, it should be up to the market to
decide,” he said.  The next clue to Sino-Forest’s prospects may come Dec. 15
when the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company is
due to publish its third-quarter results. Sino-Forest delayed
announcing the earnings last month while it verified information
about the company’s relationships with its so-called authorized
intermediaries, who sell its timber into the Chinese market.  12 Rounds  “There’s still a persistent gray cloud over Sino-Forest,”
said  John Goldsmith , a Toronto-based vice president of Canadian
equities at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc., which oversees
C$5 billion ($4.9 billion).  “You can only come up with a viable solution once you have
all the facts, which I’d argue we don’t have,” said Goldsmith,
who sold his Sino-Forest holdings for a loss on June 9, seven
days after Muddy Waters published its report on the company.  Sino-Forest’s 6.25 percent bonds, which mature in 2017,
dropped 1 cent on the dollar to 35 cents on Dec. 6, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Simon Murray , a Sino-Forest director who’s also chairman of
Glencore International Plc, the world’s biggest commodity
trader, compared Sino-Forest’s task with a boxer rising from the
canvas.  “It is like doing 12 rounds and being knocked flat on your
back in round 10,” Murray, 71, said in a separate interview in
Hong Kong. “You have got a lot of work to do in the last two
rounds. But I think we will get there.”  Chandler Stake  The slump in Sino-Forest’s shares has cost investors about
C$3.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock, which closed at C$18.21 the day before the  Muddy Waters 
report, fell to C$4.81 on its last day of trading on Aug. 25.  The biggest loser to date has been New York-based hedge-
fund firm Paulson & Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s biggest
shareholder, which sold its entire 12.5 percent stake in June,
booking a C$462 million loss.  Other investors have bet Muddy Waters is wrong. Billionaire
 Richard Chandler , who’s based in  Singapore , has become the
biggest shareholder via his Richard Chandler Corp. with a 19.5
percent stake, while Boston-based Wellington Management Co.
raised its holding to 11.5 percent. Davis Selected Advisers LP,
which is based in Tucson,  Arizona , owns 12.6 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Well Respected’  Chandler said last month, following the independent
committee’s interim report, that Sino-Forest “represents an
excellent deep-value investment opportunity.” Chandler had
nothing further to say, said  Richard Barton , a spokesman.  Sara Sherman, a Boston-based spokeswoman for Wellington,
Laura Berger, a spokeswoman for Davis, and  Armel Leslie , a
spokesman for Paulson, all declined to comment.  Martin said the timber company’s other big investors are
also supportive.  “They are some of the most well-respected investors in the
world who do the best work and have the most knowledge and
perhaps that’s why they stayed,” he said.  Greenheart Group Ltd. , a Hong Kong-listed timber company
with forests in  Suriname  and  New Zealand  that’s almost two-
thirds owned by Sino-Forest, has jumped 52 percent since the
independent committee’s interim report was released, although it
remains 69 percent below its June 2 price.  “I think it is a good proxy,” Martin said.  ‘Pretty Perilous’  Still, the specter of Muddy Waters haunts Sino-Forest.
Block said he stood by his allegations, after the release of the
independent report. While the investigations continue, Sino-
Forest’s cash position is weakening, according to Annisa Lee, a
credit analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong .  Its cash balance fell to $571.1 million on Nov. 4 from
$835.8 million on June 30, according to data released by the
company on Nov. 15. Of that balance, only $205.8 million was in
unrestricted offshore accounts, Lee said in a Nov. 16 report.  “The  cash flow  looks pretty perilous into the next couple
of quarters,” Owen Gallimore, Singapore-based head of credit
strategy in  Asia  for Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
said Dec. 1.  “We have got strong liquidity -- almost $600 million in
the bank -- and we have got no major obligations coming up till
August 2013,” Martin said, referring to $345 million of
convertible bonds which mature on that date. “That’s really our
first big issue. We have a long runway and a lot can happen
between now and then.”  ‘We Need Allen’  Martin said he hopes Chan is soon reinstated in a senior
role in the company. Chan, 59, a Hong Kong-born sociologist
turned entrepreneur, resigned as chairman and CEO and three
other executives stood down after the OSC began its probe.  “Going forward, we need Allen,” Martin said. “We need
his relationships, his mind, we need his strategy. It has been
his company.”  Martin said the internal investigation has shown Sino-
Forest needs to change its systems and improve its staffing.  “We were relying on too few people for a company that has
800,000 hectares of forest estate and $2 billion of revenue,”
he said.  Chief Financial Officer Dave Horsley may be on the move
from the company’s Canadian base in Mississauga, Ontario, to its
other main office in Hong Kong, he said.  “Finance structures are too far away from  China ,” Martin
said. “The senior financial officer has to be sitting beside
the senior operating officer and the senior executive officer
here in Hong Kong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  