-- 
Slovak Lawmakers Back Budget Targeting Deficit of 4.6% of GDP

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-12-07T17:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/slovak-lawmakers-back-budget-targeting-deficit-of-4-6-of-gdp.html
Slovak lawmakers approved the 2012
 budget  that seeks to reduce the deficit at a time when the
country is heading toward early elections and the euro-area’s
debt crisis is weighing on the economy.  The spending plan, approved in a 75-54 vote with 4
abstentions, targets a maximum shortfall of 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a goal of 4.9 percent in 2011.
The caretaker government of Iveta Radicova has abandoned a plan
to trim the shortfall to the originally targeted 3.8 percent as
the debt crisis reduces economic- growth  prospects in the bloc’s
second-poorest member.  “There is a risk that the deficit will climb toward 5
percent as a recession can’t be ruled out,” said Juraj Valachy,
an economist at Tatra Banka AS in Bratislava, Slovakia.
“Despite the early elections, the government should have done
more. The situation on financial markets is tight and there is
no time to wait for the outcome of the elections.”  Slovakia, which adopted the euro in 2009, is seeking to
trim its deficit to avert contagion from the credit crisis,
which has spread from  Greece  into  Italy . The government relies
on fiscal prudence to calm investors after the cost of insuring
against a Slovak default has almost quadrupled this year and the
country has failed to raise the planned amount at Treasury bond
auctions in November.  Lower Growth  The  Finance Ministry  last month revised its forecast for
the 2012 growth to 1.7 percent, half the original projection, as
the euro area’s debt crisis hurts demand for exports of the
products made in the country such as Samsung Electronics Inc.
television sets.  The European Commission expects an even bigger slowdown,
forecasting 1.1 percent growth, while Tatra Banka’s Valachy says
the economy may shrink 0.5 percent. The budget was also
criticized by the opposition led by Smer party leader and former
Prime Minister  Robert Fico , who said the growth assumption isn’t
realistic and the deficit may be wider.  Three months before the elections, the fractured former
coalition wasn’t able to agree on more spending cuts to respond
to faltering growth prospects. Radicova is in office until a
March 10 vote after she lost a confidence motion on Oct. 11.  Even with the slowing economy, the country should stick to
its goal of trimming the budget gap below the European Union
limit of 3 percent of GDP by 2013, Finance Minister Ivan Miklos
said when presenting the budget to lawmakers. Still, the central
bank said Dec. 5 the risks of not meeting this goal have risen,
boosted by the government’s collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  