-- 
South Carolina, Tennessee Raised to Stable Outlook by Moody’s After Review

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-12-07T21:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/south-carolina-tennessee-raised-to-stable-outlook-by-moody-s-after-review.html
South Carolina , Tennessee and 119
top-rated municipal issuers had their credit outlook raised by
Moody’s Investors Service to stable from negative, where they
were placed because of exposure to federal spending cuts.  The outlook remains negative for three top-rated states --
 Maryland ,  New Mexico  and  Virginia  -- and 36 municipalities,
school districts and authorities because of their sensitivity to
changes in U.S. aid or federal employment, Naomi Richman, a
Moody’s analyst, said today in a statement.  “Issuers with outlooks that remain negative are viewed as
having greater exposure to potential cuts,” said Richman, a
managing director in  New York . Moody’s had revised the outlook
for all the issuers to negative on Aug. 4 after taking the same
step on  U.S. government debt  on Aug. 2. All are rated Aaa by the
credit-grading company.  The “expanded evaluation” of each government or agency
looked at measures of federal aid and employment, health-care
jobs, Medicaid spending and short-term debt, Richman said. The
company also examined “exposure to capital markets disruptions”
based on short-term debt, she said.  South Carolina  and  Tennessee  have “relatively lower levels
of financial and economic exposure” to U.S. spending, Moody’s
said. The economies of  Maryland , New Mexico and  Virginia  “are
highly dependent on federal employment and federal spending,”
said Nick Samuels, a Moody’s analyst in New York.  If the Aaa U.S. rating is placed on review or cut, that
would trigger the same action for the similarly rated state and
local credits that have negative outlooks because of their
federal ties, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  