-- 
Supervalu Joins Farmers Behind U.S. Food Stamps at $71.8 Billion

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-12-07T05:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/supervalu-joins-farmers-behind-u-s-food-stamps-at-71-8-billion.html
Louis Holland had five employees at
his carpentry business in Walkersville,  Maryland , during the
housing boom. Now he’s working alone, and his family has joined
many local residents collecting food stamps.  “We’re all in the same boat here,” said Louis’s wife,
Kellie, 40, who’s been looking for part-time work while caring
for their sons, ages 8 and 14, and her ailing mother. “Trying
to keep up, and hoping things turn around.”  Driven by high unemployment, food-stamp use nationally has
soared by two-thirds since the end of 2007 to more than 46
million recipients, about a seventh of the  U.S. population . The
government spent a record $71.8 billion on the program in the
last fiscal year, or about 12 percent of the  national grocery
bill , underscoring the benefit’s importance as revenue for
grocers led by  Kroger Co. (KR) , Safeway Inc. and Supervalu Inc., the
three biggest U.S. chains by sales.  A coalition of farmers, grocers and anti-poverty activists
has helped food stamps survive federal budget-cutting pressures
and maintain bipartisan support in Congress, said Dale Moore, a
former U.S. Department of Agriculture chief of staff. In times
of high unemployment, the aid serves as a cash infusion that has
kept communities afloat and people working, he said.  “There’s no politically sure way to ratchet back
benefits,” Moore, who now lobbies for the  American Farm Bureau
Federation , the biggest U.S. farmer group, said in an interview.
“You have urban lawmakers who need support from rural members
for their programs, and rural members who want backing for their
projects.”  Political Donations  Agribusiness employees contributed at least $18.4 million
from Jan. 1 through Sept. 30 to federal candidates and political
parties, according to the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington, which tracks political donations. Donors tied to
farm-related companies, which include grocers, crop buyers such
as Archer Daniels Midland Co. and food processors such as  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT) , gave more than defense or transportation, the
center’s  website shows .  Pat Burns, president of the Fresh Grocer, a Pennsylvania-
based grocery chain that operates its own stores and also
manages five locations for Save-a-Lot, a discount chain owned by
 Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based Supervalu, said many of the 1,200
people on his payroll would be out of work if not for food
stamps, which account for 34 percent of his business.  “That’s 34 percent of your workforce that could go away
without it,” Burns said in an interview. “We would be paying
the social costs of that.”  Plastic Cards  Food stamps, created as a temporary measure in 1939 and
revived in the 1960s “War on Poverty,” are now provided
through plastic cards rather than stamp-like coupons.
Officially, the program is called the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program, or SNAP.  Intended as a safety net that would cost more when the
economy falters, SNAP has set records for the number of
Americans receiving aid every month but one since December 2008.  The number of Americans who faced hunger at some point in
2010 declined 2.7 percent to 48.8 million, the least since 2007,
partly because of the food assistance, according to the USDA.  While households must meet means tests to receive food
stamps, they can be eligible automatically if participating in
certain other federal welfare programs. A family of four, such
as the Hollands, must have a net monthly income of no more than
$1,863. The  monthly maximum  benefit for such a family is $668.
The cards  can’t be  used in restaurants or for alcohol, tobacco,
pet food, hot foods or household supplies.  Half Under 18  About half  of SNAP participants are younger than 18, and 8
percent are older than 60, according to the USDA. About 41
percent of all recipients live in households where family
members are employed.  Almost one in three people who qualify for food stamps
isn’t getting them, the USDA estimates. States, which manage the
federal benefit program, lack incentives to expand eligibility
because they must pay half the program’s administrative costs.  The number of food-stamp recipients shopping at Kroger
stores has doubled in recent years,  David Dillon , chairman and
chief executive officer of the Cincinnati-based chain, said at a
conference for analysts in  New York  in April.  Supervalu (SVU)  supports SNAP “as an effective, efficient way of
reducing hunger and improving access to food for those in
need,” Mike Siemienas, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
Pleasanton, California-based Safeway didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  KFC, Taco Bell  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC and Taco Bell fast-food
chains, abandoned last month an attempt to persuade officials in
some states to allow the use of food stamps at its restaurants
after the USDA objected.  In a measure of the enduring support for food stamps, the
benefits were exempted from automatic cuts called for after the
congressional supercommittee failed to craft a deficit-reduction
compromise.  In November, Congress approved an appropriations bill that
projects  $80.4 billion  in SNAP spending in the current fiscal
year, a 12 percent increase from last year, with participation
projected to grow to more than 47 million people.  Some Republicans have criticized the program’s rising cost
and potential for abuse.  Romney’s Stance  Food-stamp responsibilities should be transferred to the
states, which can spend the money more effectively, Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said in a candidate’s forum
on Dec. 4.  A Republican plan rejected in the Senate on Dec. 1 would
have paid for a payroll-tax cut through steps including
tightening eligibility to be certain wealthy people can’t
qualify for food stamps.  “We cannot afford to waste taxpayer dollars intended for
struggling families,” Representative Jeff Fortenberry, the
Nebraska Republican who leads the oversight panel of the House
Agriculture Committee, said at a Dec. 1 hearing on food-stamp
fraud, which the Government Accountability Office estimated at
$2.2 billion in 2009.  Fraud generated 179 convictions and $26.5 million in fines
in the year ended Sept. 30, USDA Inspector General Phyllis Fong
said at the hearing.  Kevin Concannon, head of the USDA’s Food and Nutrition
Service, which administers food stamps, said the aid has become
embedded in local economies.  Washington ,  Mississippi   In Washington, about 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of the
Hollands’ home, almost a quarter of the capital city’s
population uses food stamps. In Mississippi, the most-dependent
state, it’s more than 20 percent. That makes the program a
driver of economic activity in those areas, Concannon said.  “The truck drivers, the folks who work for the  food
industry , but especially farmers, this makes a difference” as
food-stamp dollars trickle through the economy, Concannon said
in a telephone briefing Nov. 22.  Increasing food-stamp payments by $1 boosts gross domestic
product by $1.73, according to  Mark Zandi , chief economist for
Moody’s Analytics.  For the Hollands, the food aid lets them spend more on
items such as their children’s dental care, although they’re
still going without coverage for themselves.  “It’s allowed us to get dental insurance for our kids,”
said Holland, whose younger son had root-canal work two weeks
ago. “The children complain, but they’re lucky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  