-- 
Superbugs Will March Unless Antibiotic Behavior Changes: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/superbugs-will-march-ahead-unless-doctors-change-antibiotic-behavior-view.html
A new  study  of pediatricians’
prescribing habits told us something old and something new. It
told us that antibiotics are  overused . It also told us -- and
this is the new part -- that doctors are using the wrong
antibiotics, even when the bacteria-killing drugs are called
for.  According to the study, which looked at tens of thousands
of visits to pediatricians outside hospitals from 2006 to 2008,
in more than 1 in 5 cases doctors gave their young patients
antibiotics. Very often (23 percent of the time), the
prescriptions were written when the children had respiratory
conditions that antibiotics can’t help -- asthma, for example,
or colds caused by a virus.  What’s more, about half of the antibiotic prescriptions
were for broad-spectrum drugs such as  azithromycin  (Zithromax or
Zmax). Because broad-spectrum drugs affect many types of
bacteria inside the body, they make it that much easier for
germs to develop immunity.  Increasing bacterial resistance leaves everyone more
vulnerable to infection by superbugs capable of causing ever
longer, more serious illness. The cost to the U.S. health-care
system: upward of $20 billion a year, and untold thousands of
lives,  according  to a 2009  study .  Doctors have scaled back somewhat on using antibiotics to
treat upper-respiratory-tract infections and, in small children,
ear infections. Still, we need to find ways to fight overuse and
to encourage the development of fresh antibiotics capable of
killing bacteria that have become resistant to the old drugs.  For starters, the federal government could require, as a
condition of Medicare funding, that hospitals, long-term-care
facilities, clinics and private medical practices set up
 programs  that monitor and review every antibiotic prescription
written. When patterns of overuse appear, doctors would be
counseled to change their practice.  The use of electronic health records can make such
monitoring easier -- and also provide doctors with “best
practice” advice at the moment they consider writing a
prescription. The  program  to pay Medicare doctors up to $44,000
over five years to adopt health-care  information technology  can
help in the fight against antibiotic resistance.  The second challenge is to persuade drug companies to
create new antibiotics. It’s not something the market naturally
encourages them to do, because antibiotics, used irregularly and
only for a week or two at a time, aren’t as profitable as
medicines for chronic health problems. What’s more, the
antibiotics we have still work pretty well for most patients.
And drug companies understandably grouse that the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s requirements for approval are onerous and
unclear. Since the 1980s, the number of new antibiotics approved
by the FDA has been falling steadily. From 1983 to 1987, 16
received the go-ahead; since 2008, only two have.  Pharmaceutical companies should be given inducements to
invest in new antibiotics. The research and development they
engage in should be supported with research grants and rewarded
with tax credits. Any new drugs they develop should be given
patent extensions and reasonable protection from lawsuits. All
such incentives are recommended by the  Infectious Diseases
Society of America , an organization of doctors.  We also hope Congress will soon pass the bipartisan  GAIN 
bill (Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now), which would direct
the FDA to streamline and clarify its process for approving new
antibiotics.  The  IDSA  also recommends creating public-private research
partnerships, where government and private industry share the
cost of research to find new antibiotics.  Finally, federal health officials should strengthen their
ability to monitor emerging resistant germs. The IDSA proposes
setting up a central repository of specimens of disease-causing
bacteria. That would allow for tracking of microbial resistance
and, at least as importantly, it would help researchers develop
rapid-diagnostic tests to enable doctors need to write fewer,
smarter prescriptions.  Since the advent of antibiotics seven decades ago, we’ve
generally held the upper hand against bacterial infections. To
keep our advantage, it’s become essential to know exactly which
germs we’re up against, to watch and resist their progress in
evading the drugs we have, and to continually bring new weapons
to the fight.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 