-- 
Survivor of Oil-Tanker Rout Sees Biggest Returns in Coal Carriers: Freight

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-12-07T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/survivor-of-oil-tanker-rout-sees-biggest-returns-in-coal-carriers-freight.html
Knightsbridge (VLCCF)  Tankers Ltd., whose
long-term charters mean it is still profitable during the worst
shipping-rate slump in more than a decade, says the biggest
returns in 2012 will come from hauling coal and iron ore.  The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company owns four tankers and
its market value now exceeds that of Frontline Ltd., whose 43
ships make it the largest supertanker operator. Knightsbridge
may sell two vessels when their contracts expire next year and
buy panamaxes that carry so-called dry bulk commodities, Chief
Executive Officer Ola Lorentzon said in an interview.  Panamaxes, the largest carriers able to navigate the Panama
Canal, will earn $13,250 a day on average next year, according
to the median of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s 19 percent more than the $11,136 anticipated by forward
freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to bet on future
transport costs, data from the Baltic Exchange in London show.  “This company chose to be more conservative,” said
Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New
York  who gives Knightsbridge shares an “overweight” rating.
“With the uncertainty in the market right now, it’s probably
something more people wish they had done.”  All six members of the  Bloomberg Tanker Index (TANKER)  from
Frontline to General Maritime Corp. will lose money this year as
fleet capacity exceeds the number of cargoes, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. While there is also a dry-bulk
shipping glut, it is shrinking faster as demand accelerates.
 Rates  for the biggest ore and coal carriers turned profitable in
September, while those for supertankers fell in April below the
$30,200 a day Frontline says it needs to break even.  Frontline Rallies  Frontline  climbed  26 percent in Oslo trading yesterday
after saying it planned to divide the company in order to
withstand the collapse in tanker rates. Frontline 2012 will take
control of the newest vessels, selling $250 million of shares,
of which Frontline will take 10 percent. Hemen Holding Ltd., a
company indirectly controlled by Chairman  John Fredriksen , will
underwrite the remainder. Hemen is giving guarantees of $505.5
million, valid until Dec. 31.  Knightsbridge made money every year since it was created in
1996 by favoring long-term charters over single-voyage accords.
That meant it missed out on spot rates that rose as high as
$229,484 in 2007 and avoided the $7,254 they sank to in
September this year, according to data from London-based
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Oil Cargoes  Demand for  iron ore , coal and other dry-bulk cargoes will
grow 8.1 percent next year as the fleet of carriers expands 12
percent, Morgan Stanley estimated in a Nov. 27 report. Oil
shipments will advance 2.1 percent, compared with a 9.3 percent
gain in the supply of supertankers, also known as very large
crude carriers, or VLCCs, the bank said.  “We’re looking at dry-bulk acquisitions because they can
give a decent contribution to our yield right away with less
risk,” said Stockholm-based Lorentzon, a 62-year-old chemical
engineer by training. “It will recover earlier than tankers
because the demand side is growing better.”  Panamaxes cost about $30 million apiece and can secure
charters at almost $14,000 a day, more than double the $5,700
needed to cover operating costs, Lorentzon said. The company
already owns four ore-carrying capesizes.  Vessel Surplus  While rates for dry-bulk vessels are rebounding faster than
for  oil tankers , the industry still faces a glut for several
years. The global fleet of panamax ships expanded 33 percent to
1,934 since the end of 2007, according to Redhill, England-based
IHS Fairplay.  Orders  at ship yards are equal to 43 percent of
the existing fleet, the data show. That compares with a 12
percent gain in VLCCs, with outstanding orders at 14 percent of
the fleet, according to IHS Fairplay.  Spot rates for panamaxes fell 8.2 percent to $13,499 a day
this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange , which publishes
freight costs along more than 50 maritime routes. Rates for
VLCCs averaged $21,734 a day, heading for the lowest annual
reading since 1999, Clarkson data show.  Economic growth in  China , the world’s biggest consumer of
iron ore and coal, will slow to 9 percent next year from 9.5
percent in 2011, the International Monetary Fund estimates. The
nation’s  imports  of iron ore, a steelmaking raw material, fell
to the lowest level since February in October as coal cargoes
declined to a four-month low, customs data show.  Equity Returns  The Bloomberg Dry Bulk Shipping Pureplay  Index  plunged 41
percent this year, and 11 of its 14 companies will report lower
earnings or losses in 2011, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities fell 8.3 percent and Treasuries returned 8.5 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  A 30-month charter for one of Knightsbridge’s tankers, the
Camden, built in 1995, ends in August and a five-year lease on
the 1996-built Hampstead expires in April, according to its
third-quarter report. The company will “struggle” to find new
contracts for them, Lorentzon said.  The Mayfair has a five-year charter ending in July 2015,
while the Kensington trades in the spot, or single-voyage,
market. Knightsbridge’s capesizes have charters ranging from 35
months to five years, with the first expiring in January 2013.  Knightsbridge’s tankers, named for London neighborhoods,
are managed by Frontline and its capesizes by  Golden Ocean Group
Ltd. (GOGL) , also located in Hamilton. Golden Ocean is the largest
shareholder in Knightsbridge, with a 10 percent stake, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $61.9 Million  Knightsbridge will report earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $61.9 million for this year,
compared with $63.4 million in 2010, according to the mean of
five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares fell 30
percent this year in New York trading, giving the company a
market value of $383.2 million. Investors got $2 a share of
dividends this year, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Frontline, also based in Hamilton, will report a net  loss 
of $228.3 million for this year, compared with 2010 net income
of $161.4 million, the mean of 20 estimates showed. The company
said Nov. 22 it would pay no third-quarter dividend and may run
out of cash in 2012. The shares slumped 83 percent in Oslo this
year, valuing Frontline at 1.99 billion kroner ($345 million).
General Maritime, the New York-based operator of 29 tankers,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 17.  VLCCs on average are making owners a return of less than
0.1 percent, according to data from Drewry Shipping Consultants
Ltd., a London-based adviser to maritime companies. That
compares with 9.6 percent for  panamaxes , according to the data,
which comprise asset prices and rates for five-year-old ships.  “What we’re seeking to do is keep a predictable and
reasonable dividend for shareholders,” Lorentzon said. “Right
now it’s a very nice way, because we can provide dividends to
our shareholders, which a lot of companies can’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  