-- 
Suzlon Energy Chair Says Funds for Expansion, Stock Drops Most in 2 Weeks

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T14:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/suzlon-energy-chairman-says-funds-raised-to-expand-not-for-margin-call.html
Founding investors of  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest wind-turbine maker, sold a stake to raise
cash for the company to invest in land and infrastructure, the
chairman said, rebuffing speculation over other motives.  Suzlon needs to invest in property for wind farms and power
distribution equipment to maintain its dominant share of the
Indian wind market, which is expanding by 40 percent annually,
according to Chairman  Tulsi Tanti . The shares dropped as much as
4 percent today, the most in two weeks.  “We need some liquidity” to fund expansion, he said in an
interview this week in Durban,  South Africa , at the
international climate talks. There’s “nothing wrong” with
founding investors, known in India as “promoters,” selling
small stakes that will bring big benefits, he said.  Tanti’s remarks counter speculation by analysts and traders
that the 1 billion rupees ($19.3 million) in proceeds may have
been raised to meet margin calls on bank loans backed by shares.
Samanvaya Holdings Pvt., a holding company of various promoters,
sold 2 percent on Nov. 17 as Suzlon slid toward an all-time
record close of 21.35 rupees and its second-worst month on
record in the stock market.  “It’s not a good sign because it could mean they’re
running out of cash,” said Raj Kothari, a London-based bond
trader at Sun Global Investments Ltd., which owns Suzlon
convertible debt. “Even if he’s going to put the money back in
the company, that’s not reassuring,” Kothari said by phone.  Company Denial  Suzlon lost 40 percent in November for its second-worst
month since it began trading in 2005, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. “With the share price falling, they may have to
get money for the company to meet margin calls,” Kothari said.  The company denied that suggestion in an e-mailed response
to questions from Bloomberg. Separately, it said promoters have
been increasingly pledging shares against loans either to borrow
more, to repay loans or for minor “top-ups” of collateral.  Declining stock prices in Asia’s worst-performing major
market this year has forced Indian companies to pledge shares
worth 1.1 trillion rupees as collateral to banks for loans as of
Nov. 18, according to a report by Standard & Poor’s Indian unit
Crisil Ltd.  The shares slid 3.4 percent to close at 22.95 rupees today
in Mumbai trading. The stock has fallen 58 percent this year.  “In the backdrop of inadequate disclosure levels on share
pledging, investment in such companies exposes an investor to
severe price volatility,” Crisil said.  Bondholder Question  Suzlon has $569 million of foreign-currency convertible
bonds that mature next year, the company said in an e-mail
response to questions on Nov. 30.  Tanti declined to say whether the company was approaching
bondholders to buy back those notes before they mature. They’re
apt to miss the threshold at which investors would convert them
into equity.  “We have a very clear plan,” Tanti said. “We are
comfortable to repay bondholders in a time schedule.”  If the stock price continues to fall, Suzlon’s credit
spread might increase, meaning its  borrowing costs  for new debt
or for refinancing existing loans could also rise, Priyo Mayengbam, a Singapore-based analyst at Frontier Investment &
Capital Advisors, said in a Nov. 18 response to questions.  Pledged Shares  A wider group of Suzlon’s founding shareholders had pledged
a total of 76 percent of their holdings as of Oct. 21 in
exchange for loans, according to data from the BSE Ltd. and
National Stock Exchange of  India  Ltd. In total, 41 percent of
the company’s outstanding shares have been posted as collateral.  When a large amount of shares are pledged, it reduces the
founders’ ability to absorb volatility in the stock price, said
Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at SJS Markets
Ltd.  “Falling stock can lead to margin calls, which leads to
more shares pledged or dumping of stocks by creditors to cover
losses, a negative spiral,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 