-- 
Swiss Franc Approaches 8-Month Low on Speculation SNB Plans Negative Rates

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-07T16:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/swiss-franc-approaches-8-month-low-on-speculation-snb-plans-negative-rates.html
The Swiss  franc  weakened to within
one centime of an eight-month low against the dollar after a
lawmaker said a government panel is considering using negative
 interest rates  to combat the currency’s appreciation.  The franc reversed an earlier 0.3 percent gain versus the
greenback after Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said
negative interest rates and  capital controls  “are issues which
are being examined” by a committee looking at ways to counter
the currency’s strength. The statement added to speculation the
 Swiss National Bank  will adjust the franc’s cap of 1.20 per euro
at its policy meeting on Dec. 15. Unemployment held at an almost
three-year low, data today showed.  “The market is nervous ahead of next week’s SNB meeting
with speculation growing that it may raise the franc floor based
on both lower growth and the inflation outlook,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in  London . “Comments over negative rates or other capital
control measures are reinforcing near-term franc bearishness.”  The franc was little changed at 92.49 per dollar at 4:01
p.m. London time after earlier depreciating to 92.88 centimes.
It was at 93.31 on Nov. 25, the weakest since April. The
currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 1.2390 per euro and was
little changed at 83.98 yen.  The Swiss currency slid as a much as 0.9 percent against
the euro on Dec. 1 after the government said it was willing to
“examine the feasibility of supporting measures,” including
negative interest rates, to aid the SNB in its defense of the
franc’s ceiling.  Reports in the past two weeks showing a slide in consumer
prices and third-quarter growth that was the slowest in more
than two years has fueled speculation the SNB will act to curb
the franc next week. Unemployment held at 3 percent in November,
the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs said today, the
lowest since January 2009.  The franc has weakened 4.9 percent in the past six months,
the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  