-- 
Syracuse Sex Abuse Claims Too Old for Prosecution, District Attorney Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T19:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/syracuse-sexual-abuse-allegations-are-too-old-to-be-prosecuted-d-a-says.html
Former Syracuse University assistant
basketball coach Bernie Fine won’t face sexual abuse charges
because the allegations are too old to allow prosecution, the
Onondaga County  district attorney  said.  Had the allegations of a former ball boy been thoroughly
investigated in 2002, they would have likely resulted in Fine’s
arrest, District Attorney  William Fitzpatrick  said. Fine has
denied any wrongdoing. He was fired from the school on Nov. 27.  “There is no doubt in my mind that if presented with these
two victims today and had the statute of limitations not run
there would be criminal charges against Bernie Fine,”
Fitzpatrick said during a press conference.  Syracuse fired Fine, in his 36th season at the school,
after he was accused of sexually abusing two former ball boys.
The firing came after  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN played what the
network said was a 2002 recording of a telephone conversation
that it said appeared to be Fine’s wife, Laurie, acknowledging
her husband’s behavior.  The two former ball boys were the first to accuse Fine of
molesting them. Bobby Davis, now 39, contacted police in 2002
and said Fine abused him when he was in seventh grade. Davis’s
stepbrother Mike Lang, now 45, made his allegations this year,
saying he was abused by Fine when he was in fifth or sixth
grade, according to ESPN.  Third Person  The third person to come forward, 23-year-old Zach
Tomaselli, said that Fine molested him in 2002 in a Pittsburgh
hotel room. That allegation is being investigated by federal
authorities, Fitzpatrick said. Evidence related to that case
will be turned over to the U.S. Attorney and defense attorneys,
Fitzpatrick said. He disputed media reports of a possible fourth
victim.  Federal investigators will also be interviewing Laurie Fine
about her knowledge of her husband’s activities, Fitzpatrick
said.  “If the statute of limitations had not run, Laurie Fine
certainly would have been investigated for endangering the
welfare of a child,” Fitzpatrick said.  Fine’s attorneys, Donald Martin and Karl Sleight, today
thanked Fitzpatrick for “fulfilling his ethical obligations”
and said that they’re looking forward to reviewing these
“exculpatory materials.”  ‘There Is Proof’  “It appears now that there is proof that Tomaselli
fabricated this allegation,” the lawyers said in an e-mailed
statements. “The incredible damage that Tomaselli has inflicted
on Fine cannot be overstated.”  Justin Leary, an attorney for Tomaselli, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the statement by Fine’s
lawyers.  The allegations against Fine follow charges against former
Penn State University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky
for allegedly molesting eight boys during a 15-year period.
Football coach  Joe Paterno  and university President Graham Spanier were fired amid criticism they didn’t do enough to
prevent the crimes. Neither was charged with a crime. Sandusky
faces a preliminary hearing next week in the case.  Additional charges against him related to two new accusers
were announced today by  Pennsylvania ’s attorney general.  Fitzpatrick said any comparisons between the incidents at
the two schools would be unfair as there was no coverup or
institutional failure at Syracuse.  “The PSU-SU comparison is not only inaccurate, it’s not
fair,” Fitzpatrick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  