-- 
U.K. Needs Cameron’s Austerity, but Perhaps Not So Quickly: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-k-needs-cameron-s-austerity-program-but-perhaps-not-so-quickly-view.html
The U.K. government, struggling with
a disappointing economic strategy, deserves some sympathy. It
also needs to show some patience.  In its first budget last year, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition announced higher taxes and lower public
spending, aiming to contain borrowing, shore up market
confidence and spur growth. The policy was hailed by many at the
time as bold and decisive. Now, with the economy at risk of
falling back into recession, Cameron and his team are under
fire.  At face value, the “autumn statement” issued by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on Nov. 29 mostly
hews to the initial plan. It reaffirms the fiscal target -- to
balance the budget, after adjusting for cyclical effects -- and
says that, because of disappointing growth, a more protracted
squeeze would be needed to achieve it. Osborne promises new cuts
in public spending in 2015 and 2016.  In piling austerity upon austerity, the government is
testing voters. The current two-year freeze on public employees’
pay has infuriated their unions and led to brief strikes last
month. Now, Osborne says, it will be followed by two more years
with pay raises capped at 1 percent. Looking at the longer term,
the government has decided to raise the pension age for all
workers to 67 starting in 2026, eight years earlier than had
been planned.  Dependent on Finance  For all this, Osborne blames circumstances beyond the
government’s control. He has a point. Britain is a middle-sized
economy dependent on internationally traded financial services:
Its recovery is at the mercy of global developments. The world
economy is growing more slowly than expected. The euro area’s
extended crisis is a particular threat. Under any conceivable
policies, Britain would be struggling.  Also, the country’s public finances do need long-term
repair. Public borrowing is expected to total 8.4 percent of
gross domestic product this year, an unsustainable figure. For
the nation to stay credit-worthy and keep long-term  interest
rates  low, a credible commitment to cut borrowing was vital.
That’s what the government was determined to establish, and
British long-term bond yields say it succeeded.  On two points, though, the Cameron government can be fairly
criticized. First, when it came to power in May 2010, it had
more room for fiscal maneuvering than it admitted. Despite an
enormous  budget deficit  -- public borrowing exceeded 11 percent
of GDP in 2009 -- the debt burden, at a little over 50 percent
of GDP, looked manageable by European standards. The initial
spending squeeze was tighter than necessary.  Under the government’s plan, the debt ratio will peak at
less than 80 percent of GDP, still relatively low. Because
Britain still has a currency of its own, and a central bank that
can act as lender of last resort, a gentler form of fiscal
tightening would have been feasible. Wouldn’t that have alarmed
the markets? It’s impossible to be certain -- but such a policy
might actually have been more credible than the present one,
because it wouldn’t have generated so much voter displeasure.  Second, the government exaggerated the benefits of showing
fiscal backbone. If Britain had been facing national bankruptcy,
Osborne might have been right to say budget tightening would
lead to short-term growth. But it wasn’t, so his claim was
overstated, and now he takes the blame for a sluggish economy.  In hindsight, it was a mistake to make such a virtue of
fiscal rigidity. The worsening economy was a foreseeable turn of
events. Adjusting to it has become harder because the government
has nailed itself to its budget framework. To markets and voters
alike, abandoning the plan now would look like surrender.  Fortunately, as last week’s statement made clear, the
policy framework allows a bit more flexibility than the
government first implied. Osborne, for example, now says he will
stretch out the period of austerity rather than try to balance
the budget by 2015, as originally planned.  If the U.K. finds it needs to respond to more bad news --
for instance, if  Europe ’s leaders fail to resolve their fiscal
crisis this week, and the continent crashes into recession -- it
should not hesitate to push the timetable back again. Cameron
and Osborne are right to get the nation’s fiscal house in order,
but they should also appreciate that changing circumstances can
mean a change of plans.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 