-- 
October Manufacturing Output Decline Greater Than Forecast on Euro Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-07T10:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-k-october-manufacturing-output-drops-more-than-forecast-on-euro-crisis.html
U.K.  manufacturing output  fell more
than economists forecast in October as the intensifying euro-
area debt crisis undermined demand in Britain’s biggest export
market.  Factory output dropped 0.7 percent from September, the
biggest decline since April, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in  London . The median forecast of 21 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was a decline of 0.3 percent. On the year,
manufacturing rose 0.3 percent, the least since January 2010.  Manufacturers are suffering as the sovereign debt crisis
and a cooling global economy jeopardize the outlook for exports.
As the risks from Europe increase, some Bank of England policy
makers have said the economy will probably need more stimulus.
The central bank will leave the target for bond purchases
unchanged after a meeting tomorrow, according to a survey of
economists.  The data “are pretty disappointing,”  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Bank in London, said in an e-mailed note.
“This report increases the probability that we will see a
negative GDP reading for the fourth quarter, but is unlikely to
directly impact on the current  Bank of England  monetary policy
meeting.”  The pound pared its gain against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.5616 as of 9:54 a.m. in London, up 0.1
percent from yesterday.  Energy Demand  Out of 13 categories of manufacturing, eight fell and five
rose in October from the previous month. The decline was led by
industries including basic metals and pharmaceuticals, the
statistics office said.  Overall  industrial production , which includes utilities,
mining and quarrying and accounts for about 15 percent of the
economy, dropped 0.7 percent in October on the month. Economists
predicted a 0.3 percent decline, the median of 25 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey shows. Electricity and gas supply plunged 4.9
percent, as the warmest October since 2006 curbed energy demand.  Surveys last week showed  China ’s manufacturing contracted
in November for the first time since February 2009, while in
Britain and the 17-nation euro area the sector shrank at the
fastest pace in about 2 1/2 years. A U.K. manufacturing survey
published by the Engineering Employers Federation on Dec. 5
showed companies predict flat output and a “modest
contraction” in orders in the first quarter.  Sales Fall  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , the world’s biggest supplier of
mechanical seals to energy and marine clients, said on Nov. 22
that first-half sales at its security detection unit will fall
from a year earlier as demand from military clients declines.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said last week
British economic growth will be slower this year and next than
previously forecast. In addition to weaker global demand,
Britain’s recovery is being restrained by Osborne’s fiscal
squeeze to reduce the  budget deficit .  All 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the
Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will keep the target
for  asset purchases  at 275 billion pounds ($430 billion)
tomorrow after raising it in October. The MPC will also keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, according
to a separate survey. The central bank will announce the
decisions at noon tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  