-- 
U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Slows to Lowest in Year on Supermarket Price War

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-k-shop-price-inflation-slows-to-weakest-in-year-brc-says.html
U.K.  shop-price inflation  slowed in
November to the lowest in a year as a supermarket price war
curbed food-cost increases, the British Retail Consortium said.  Retail prices rose 2 percent from a year earlier, down from
2.1 percent in October, the trade group and Nielsen Co. said in
an e-mailed report in London today. A separate report from KPMG
LLP showed hiring for full-time jobs dropped the fastest since
July 2009.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said last month that
inflation will slow through 2012, helping to support consumers
as the debt crisis in  Europe  undermines the outlook for growth.
Policy makers will probably leave their  bond-purchase facility 
at 275 billion pounds ($430 billion) and their key  interest rate 
at a record low tomorrow to bolster the recovery.  “It’s been a slow start to Christmas trading and many
retailers have reduced prices further in recent weeks,” Mike Watkins, senior manager of retail services at Nielsen, said in
the statement. “The outlook for inflation is however much more
positive than this time last year and shop-price inflation is
expected to fall further in the first part of 2012.”  Food prices gained an annual 4 percent, down from 4.2
percent in October, while inflation on non-food goods remained
at 0.8 percent, today’s report said. On the month, food prices
were unchanged after falling 0.5 percent in October.  KPMG and the Recruitment and Employment Confederation said
an index of hiring of full-time staff fell to 48.2 in November
from 49.7 the previous month. A measure of demand for temporary
staff dropped to 50.9 from 52. Readings below 50 indicate a
contraction.  King said a press conference last month that inflation is
set to slow “sharply,” and in the absence of a spike in
commodity prices, “the extraordinary squeeze on real take-home
pay that we’ve seen in the past three years should now begin to
come to an end,” easing pressure on consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  