-- 
U.K. Carbon Tax Switch Removes Loophole, Bloomberg Analyst Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-12-07T11:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-k-carbon-tax-switch-removes-loophole-bloomberg-analyst-says.html
Britain’s proposed changes to its
planned carbon tax from 2013 remove a loophole that would have
allowed coal stations to stockpile fuel to avoid paying,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  “It removes a loophole” that may have allowed generators
to store coal before the tax comes into force, Chris Rogers, a
utilities analyst at Bloomberg Industries in  London , said today
by telephone. It makes it easier to implement and administer the
tax and enables the government to more easily collect the
revenues, he said.  European Union emissions allowances have lost almost 50
percent of their value this year as fears of a recession damp
demand and the bloc prepares to boost supply. U.K. government
revenue is likely to rise as the difference between its so-
called carbon floor price and EU allowances widens.  The tax for the 2013 to 2014 financial year will raise 740
million pounds ($1.15 billion) for the government, according to
documents posted on the Treasury Department’s website in March.
It was fixed in March at 4.94 pounds a metric ton. The tax may
rise to 9.61 pounds in the following year and 16.70 pounds in
the year from April 2015, according to similar calculations
since EU prices have fallen, said Lakis Athanasiou, an
independent utilities analyst in London formerly at Evolution
Securities Ltd.  That raises about 1.5 billion pounds for the government in
the second year of the tax and 2.6 billion in the third year,
Athanasiou said. That’s an additional 1.5 billion pounds since
the government announced the tax in March. The tax will be
calculated and fixed annually for two years.  Draft Legislation  The U.K.’s Treasury said yesterday it may change who will
pay its proposed carbon tax, shifting the burden to emitters
rather than fossil fuel suppliers.  “The person liable to account for the levy charged on the
supply is the person to whom the supply is made,” the Treasury
said in  draft legislation published  on its website. “The major
electricity generators have indicated that allowing them to self
account will deliver greater certainty for them and reduce the
indirect costs of complying with the carbon price floor,”
according to the document.  Drax Group Plc (DRX) , which runs Western Europe’s biggest coal-
fired power station, is an example of an emitter that buys fuel
from natural resource companies such as Durham, U.K.-based
Hargreaves Services Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
biggest mining company.  The changes make “logical sense,” Jayne Harold, manager
of PricewaterhouseCoopers’ sustainability and climate change tax
team in Birmingham,  England , said in an e-mail. “In a commodity
market, where derivative mechanisms are in use, it makes sense
for the charging and accounting responsibility to rest with the
receiver of the coal, not the supplier or trader.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  