-- 
U.K.’s Paterson: EU Referendum ‘Inevitable’

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-12-07T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-k-northern-ireland-secretary-says-eu-referendum-inevitable-.html
Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson said a referendum on the U.K.’s membership of the
European Union is “inevitable” if members of the single
currency draw closer together.  In an interview with the Spectator magazine, to be
published Dec. 9, Paterson said he feared the 17 members of the
euro will become “a new and very powerful country which can
dominate us.” He said it would be “wholly unacceptable to have
a new bloc in which we would be permanently outvoted.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is urging EU leaders to “get
behind” the euro following a warning from his fiscal watchdog
that the region’s debt crisis could tip Britain back into
recession. Cameron said Dec. 5 that a referendum wouldn’t be
necessary on any new EU treaty as long as it didn’t transfer
powers from  London  to Brussels.  “If there was a major fundamental change in our
relationship, emerging from the creation of a new bloc which
would be effectively a new country from which we were excluded,
then I think inevitably there would be huge pressure for a
referendum,” Paterson told the Spectator. “I think there will
have to be one, yes, because I think the pressure would build
up.”  He added: “This isn’t going to happen immediately because
these negotiations are going to take some months. But I think
down the road that is inevitable.”  In today’s Times newspaper, Cameron moved to reassure
members of his  Conservative Party  by pledging that he would
block any treaty that threatened British interests, including
financial services.  ‘New Country’  Euro-region countries “may well go ahead and in effect
create a new country, with very central control of taxation and
transfer of funds to weaker areas,” Paterson said. “But if
they want to go ahead and form their new country we want to get
the power to run our country back.”  He said Conservative lawmakers were very concerned about
the issue of  Europe . “The mood has really changed and has
definitely hardened up and has to be respected,” he said.  On Oct 25, Cameron overcame the largest ever Conservative
rebellion over the EU, when more than a quarter of his lawmakers
voted in favor of a referendum on British membership of the
bloc. Cameron won the non-binding vote with the help of the
opposition  Labour Party  and his Liberal Democrat coalition
partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 