-- 
U.K. Economy Growth Slows, Boosting Stimulus Case, Niesr Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-07T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-k-economy-growth-slows-boosting-stimulus-case-niesr-says.html
U.K. economic growth slowed in the
three months through November, strengthening the case for the
 Bank of England  to loosen monetary policy further, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said.  Gross domestic product  probably rose 0.3 percent, less than
the 0.4 percent estimated for the quarter through October,
Niesr, whose clients include the Bank of England and the U.K.
Treasury, said in an e-mailed statement in London today. Output
probably won’t reach its pre-recession peak until 2013, it said.  Bank of England officials meet tomorrow for their monthly
policy decision as they come under pressure from U.K. businesses
to add to stimulus amid threats from the euro-area debt turmoil.
All 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast that the
central bank will keep the target for asset purchases at 275
billion pounds ($430 billion) this week after after increasing
it in October.  “Economic growth in the U.K. remains subdued,” Niesr
said. “These data lend support to the further loosening of U.K.
monetary policy.”  British  factory  and construction growth weakened in
November, according to reports last week, and  consumer
confidence  stayed near a 2 1/2-year low. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said last week that Britain faces two
extra years of austerity after the U.K.’s  Office for Budget
Responsibility  slashed its growth projections.  Some Bank of England policy makers have said the
deteriorating outlook will probably mean the economy needs more
stimulus. Still, Governor  Mervyn King  has signalled they may
prefer to wait until the current round of bond purchases is
completed in early February.  The British Chambers of Commerce today reiterated its call
that the central bank should increase so-called quantitative
easing by 50 billion pounds to help boost sentiment.  “An announcement now would not only strengthen confidence,
but would help to counter the downbeat mood which has followed
the recent projections by the OBR,” the London-based BCC said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  