-- 
U.S. Senators Press Panetta to Review F-35 Training Safety

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-12-07T18:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-s-senators-press-panetta-to-review-f-35-training-safety.html
The leaders of the U.S. Senate Armed
Services panel are pressing Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to
detail plans to resolve potential training safety shortfalls in
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.  Senators  Carl Levin , a Democrat of Michigan and the
chairman of the panel, and John McCain of Arizona, the
committee’s ranking Republican, are calling on Panetta to
provide information on how the Pentagon will resolve safety-
related issues and whether “the path forward” will “ensure
the safety and adequacy of operational training” of F-35
pilots.  Director of Operational Test and Evaluation Michael Gilmore, in an Oct. 21 memo, said there are “serious concerns”
with commencing as early as November initial training at Eglin
Air Force Base, Florida, on the Pentagon’s most expensive
program.  He recommended a delay of as much as 10 months to fly the
Lockheed Martin plane 1,500 more hours on top 1,000 already
flown at Edwards  Air Force  Base, California by experienced test
pilots.  The F-35 “has not yet met the prerequisites previously set
for reducing” air-mission abort rates and “resolving other
safety-related issues before initiating training,” Gilmore said
in a four-page memo to the department’s top weapons buyer, Frank
Kendall.  Levin and McCain are asking Panetta “to review this matter
and conclude to your own satisfaction” that the approach
proposed by the F-35 program office and Air Force “will ensure
the safety and adequacy” of the F-35 training once it begins.  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 