-- 
Treasuries Rally on Speculation Europeans Struggling to Stem Debt Turmoil

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-12-07T20:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-s-treasury-30-year-bonds-decline-pushing-yields-higher-to-3-12-percent.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields down the most in almost a month, on concern Europeans are
struggling to resolve sovereign-debt turmoil before this week’s
summit in Brussels and the  European Central Bank ’s meeting.  Yields fell to a one-week low after Standard & Poor’s
warned the European Union that it may lose its top credit rating
and an official said Germany is rejecting proposals to combine
current and permanent euro-area rescue funds, spurring demand
for safety. The  extra amount  banks pay over the U.S. government
to borrow for three months increased to the highest level in
more than two years.  “In the face of the looming announcements from the ECB
tomorrow and the EU leaders on Friday, people don’t want to
stake out big risk positions,”  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate
strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at UBS AG, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .
 “Easing rates may alleviate near-term pressures, but it
doesn’t alter the longer-term structural issues.”  Yields on 10-year notes decreased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.02 percent at 3:19 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in November 2021 advanced 18/32, or $5.63
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 3/4.  Yields earlier dropped eight basis points, the most on an
intraday basis since Nov. 9. They touched 2.01 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 30.  A one-point gain in 30-year bonds pushed yields down five
basis points to 3.05 percent. Two-year yields dropped two basis
points to 0.23 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index slid 0.5
percent after earlier falling 1.1 percent.  Germany’s Stance  “The U.S. as a safe harbor is benefiting from the flight
to quality, given the broader uncertainties coming out of
 Europe ,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in Stamford. “There are headlines suggesting
the situation in Europe will not be as simple a fix as the
market thought.”  The EU’s AAA long-term rating and the ratings of some of
the region’s largest banks including BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank
AG and Deutsche Bank AG may be cut by S&P. The ratings are on
“creditwatch negative,” the company said in separate statements.  Treasuries have risen this year as Europe’s failure to deal
with its fiscal turmoil encouraged investors to take refuge.
U.S. debt securities have returned 8.7 percent this year, the
most since the 2008 financial crisis, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  Market ‘Uncertainty’  “There’s a lot of uncertainty out there in the market,”
said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in
New York at  RBC Capital Markets , in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“Everyone’s waiting to see what type of news comes out on
Friday. It’s a possibility that we’re disappointed again.” The
Royal Bank of Canada unit is a primary dealer.  Germany  will oppose any attempt to change an agreed-upon
sequence in which the permanent European Stability Mechanism
will take over from the current rescue fund at an appointed
time, a German official told reporters in Berlin today on
condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.  The rejection came amid divisions among the 27 European
Union member states on the latest bid to deliver the euro area
from its two-year-old crisis as the leaders head to a Dec. 8-9
summit in Brussels.  In a sign of reluctance to lend, the  TED spread , or the
difference between the three-month U.S. bill rate and the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, climbed to 54 basis points,
the highest level since June 2009. Three-month Libor increased
to 0.54 percent, while the rate on U.S. bills remained at zero.  ECB Outlook  The ECB may announce a range of measures tomorrow to
stimulate bank lending, said three euro-area officials who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.
Options include loosening collateral criteria so that
institutions have more access to cheap ECB cash and offering
them longer-term loans to ease the flow of credit, the officials
said. Two said a reduction in the 1.25 percent target lending
rate is likely.  “Some people are expecting a 25 basis point cut, and some
are expecting a 50 basis point cut,” said Jason Rogan, director
of U.S. government trading in  New York  at Guggenheim Partners
LLC, a brokerage for institutional investors. “If they announce
a 25 basis point cut, that may disappoint the market a little
bit.”  The Fed sold today $1.33 billion of Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities maturing from April 2012 to April 2014
under a program to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in
its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to cap borrowing costs
and support the economy.  U.S. Offerings  The U.S. government may announce tomorrow that it will
offer $32 billion in three-year notes, $21 billion in 10-year
debt and $13 billion in 30-year bonds next week, the same as in
the previous auctions of similar securities in October, RBC
Capital Markets said in a research note to clients yesterday.
The government is also probably due to auction $12 billion of
five-year TIPS, according to RBC.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE  index , which measure
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two to 30 years, dropped yesterday to 93
basis points, the lowest level since August, and just below the
2011 average of 94 basis points. The gauge reached a high of
117.8 basis points on Aug. 8, three days after S&P lowered the
U.S.  credit rating  to AA+.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  