-- 
U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy Poneman to Visit Taiwan, Meet President Ma

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-07T18:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-s-deputy-energy-secretary-poneman-to-visit-taiwan-next-week.html
U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy
Daniel B. Poneman will visit Taipei from Dec. 12 to Dec. 14, the
highest-ranking U.S. government official to visit  Taiwan  in more
than a decade.  Poneman will meet President Ma Ying-jeou and local business
leaders, the American Institute in Taiwan, the de facto U.S.
embassy on the island, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  China regards Taiwan, ruled separately since a civil war
ended in 1949, as its territory and publicly objects to actions
by overseas governments that seem to imply recognition of the
island as an independent nation. The U.S. doesn’t have formal
diplomatic ties with Taiwan, with institute officials resigning
from the State Department while they work on the island.  Several U.S. officials have visited Taiwan this year,
including Sandra B. Henriquez, assistant secretary at the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Assistant
Secretary of commerce Suresh Kumar, the island’s  Central News
Agency  reported.  Poneman will speak at National Taiwan University on Dec. 13
about “how the  United States  and Taiwan can work together to
tackle tomorrow’s energy challenges,” the institute said
yesterday. Poneman will use the trip to build greater
cooperation between the U.S. and Taiwan on scientific research,
nuclear energy and renewable energy technologies, it said.  The trip comes one month before Ma faces re-election. Ma
was leading in opinion polls last week in a race against
opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  candidate Tsai Ing-wen
and James Soong of the People’s First Party. The presidential
and legislative elections will be held on Jan. 14.  Ma, who returned the Kuomintang party to power in 2008, is
campaigning on his ability to steer the economy through a global
slump and improve ties with  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net  