-- 
U.S. Northeast, Midwest May Be Warm Next Week, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-07T13:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-s-northeast-midwest-may-be-warm-next-week-forecasters-say.html
The U.S. Northeast and Midwest may be
warmer than normal next week, according to forecasters.  The 6- to 10-day forecasts from MDA EarthSat Weather,
Commodity Weather Group LLC and Weather Derivatives all agree
that temperatures will rise throughout the region next week,
particularly around the  Great Lakes .  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants  use about
30 percent of the nation’s natural gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  The computer forecast models that meteorologists use to
prepare the outlooks are split between warming in the northern
U.S. from Dec. 12 to Dec. 16 and more seasonal temperatures,
said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather in Bethesda,
 Maryland . A model out of  Europe , favoring warming, has been more
consistent and it is the one that forecasters are favoring.  Rogers calls for temperatures across much of the eastern
half of the U.S. to be about 3 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius)
higher than normal. Around the Great Lakes, it may be 5 degrees
above normal.  Weather Derivatives’  David Salmon  says temperatures will
rise about 6 degrees above normal through the Great Lakes and
into upstate New York and northern New England. There is also a
chance that parts of Wyoming and Montana may be warmer than
normal, according to Salmon in Belton, Missouri.  Great Lakes  MDA’s outlook calls for temperatures to be about 8 to 14
degrees above normal across the eastern Great Lakes. The U.S.
Northeast and Ohio Valley region may be 5 to 7 degrees above
normal, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  MDA and Rogers split in their 11- to 15-day forecasts for
Dec. 17 to Dec. 21. Salmon didn’t provide a forecast for this
timeframe.  Rogers predicts temperatures across the U.S. will be more
seasonal with the exception of parts of the Southwest and
Pacific Northwest, which may be cooler.  MDA’s outlook for the same time calls for temperatures to
be 3 to 4 degrees above normal across much of the eastern U.S.
with the Southwest cooling slightly.  The normal average temperature in  New York  on Dec. 13 is 39
degrees, according to MDA. Normal for the day is about 36 in
Boston, 46 in Atlanta, 55 in Houston, 40 in Seattle and 54 in
Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  