-- 
U.S. Hit by 12 Weather Disasters Costing $1 Billion Each in ’11, Most Ever

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-07T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-s-hit-by-12-weather-disasters-costing-1-billion-each-in-11-most-ever.html
Hurricane Irene , tornadoes as well as
flooding on the Missouri and Mississippi rivers contributed to a
record of U.S. weather-related disasters costing at least $1
billion this year, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration .  A total of 12 natural calamities killed 646 people and
caused about $52 billion in damage, exceeding the previous all-
time high of nine disasters in 2008, NOAA reported today.  “We know the frequency of billion-dollar weather disasters
is increasing since 1980,” Tom Karl, director of the  National
Climatic Data Center , said by telephone. “Cleary a big factor
this year was tornado outbreaks and severe local weather.”  Six of the worst disasters, killing 548 and causing $19.7
billion in insured losses, came from tornadoes striking 23
states in April through June. Based on records back to 1910,
there has been a rise in weather-related disasters since 1970.  Social and climate factors account for part of the
increase, said Karl. The population has grown since 1980, people
have a greater awareness about insuring their property and have
more expensive possessions, all of which increase monetary
damage figures, he said.  On the climate side, warmer global temperatures mean there
is more  water vapor  in the air, which leads to higher rainfalls
that cause more flooding, he said.  It also means overnight minimum temperatures are higher
exacerbating the impact of drought, wildfires and heat waves,
 Adam Smith , an applied climatologist at the climatic center in
Asheville,  North Carolina , said by phone.  Western Wildfires  Wildfires in Texas, Arizona and New Mexico destroyed almost
3.7 million acres of land in the three states, killed five and
threatened the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Drought and heat
waves struck hard in at least six states and in Texas and
Oklahoma are blamed with losses of $10 billion in crops,
livestock and timber, according to NOAA.  Smith said the damage statistics are complied for a variety
of sources including the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Munich Reinsurance, as well
as state and local governments.  Also making NOAA’s list of the costliest disasters was
Hurricane Irene that struck in August killing at least 45 and
causing more than $7.3 billion in damage in nine states,
including  New York  and  New Jersey .  A blizzard in  Chicago  caused $1 billion in insured losses
and killed 36 while major floods on the Missouri and Souris
rivers and on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers caused at least $4
billion in damage and killed 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  