-- 
U.S. Delay on Climate Pact Spurs Backlash From the EU to Barbados

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-07T19:37:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/u-s-delay-on-climate-pact-spurs-backlash-from-eu-to-barbados.html
President  Barack Obama ’s position
that dangerous global warming can be averted without deeper cuts
in fossil fuel emissions before 2020 is stirring backlash in
nations from  Norway  to  Barbados .  “Multiple pathways” exist to prevent temperatures from
rising 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) without
countries strengthening pledges to reduce greenhouse gases by
2020, U.S. climate envoy  Jonathan Pershing  said at United
Nations climate talks last week.  “It’s a very risky assumption, too risky,” Norway’s top
climate change envoy, Henrik Harboe, said in an interview. “We
know we are far below the recommendations of science.”  The question of when the world acts to contain global
warming is at the heart of the talks in Durban,  South Africa ,
where delegates from more than 190 nations are working on how to
take the next steps in curbing emissions after the limits
outlined in the Kyoto Protocol expire next year.  The UN says pledges to cut greenhouse gases need to double
by 2020 to contain warming to 2 degrees above preindustrial
levels. While scientists say a rise of 1.5 degrees may lead to
“dangerous” climate shifts, countries have agreed to take
steps to ensure warming doesn’t exceed the 2-degree mark.  “There are no credible scientific scenarios that will
allow temperatures to be held under 2 degrees if action is taken
after 2020,” Selwin Hart, an envoy from Barbados, said in an
interview in Durban.  Ice Ages  Over the past million years, warming of 4 degrees has been
enough to pull the world out of ice ages, according to the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Washington.
Scientists say an average temperature rise of 1.5 degrees to 2.5
degrees will trigger droughts and extreme weather, putting as
many as 30 percent of plant and animal species at risk of
extinction.  “Even with 2 degrees Celsius it’s not going to be a vision
of paradise,” Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the UN’s
Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change , said in an interview.
If emissions continue on a rising trajectory, the gain this
century could be as much as 6.4 degrees, he said.  U.S. envoy Todd Stern says it sees the goal as an
“important and serious goal” that should guide efforts to
control climate change.  ‘Look at Science’  “That is different from looking at it as an operational
cap that you must meet,” Stern said at a briefing today. “I
think you have as you look at science and you see the trajectory
it ought to inform our sense of what needs to be done. We don’t
see it as akin to a national target.”  The U.S.’s position means “much, much steeper reductions”
will be needed by countries after 2020, Keya Chatterjee,
director of climate negotiations for WWF, said in an interview.
“It would really strain the edges of what would be doable.”  The biggest polluters are debating this week how and when
to cut fossil fuel emissions.  The European Union said it won’t agree to continue under
the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , whose first phase of emissions cuts
expire next year, unless all countries agree to forge a new
legally binding agreement in 2015.  The U.S. says it won’t agree because  China , the world’s
biggest emitter, and other fast-growing economies aren’t willing
to do their equal share under such a pact. Instead, the U.S.
suggests countries should focus on a voluntary measures reached
last year.  ‘Dangerous for Humanity’  “A legally binding agreement after 2020 would be
disastrous for humanity, global temperature will rise at least 4
degrees-plus,” Bangladesh Environment Minister Hasan Mahmud
said in an interview.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said last month
that delaying a global deal to protect climate is a “false
economy” because costs to deal with increasing  greenhouse gases 
in the atmosphere will surge.  “You can postpone action, but the costs will be much
higher, and the impacts would be far more serious. The costs
keep going up for every year of delay,” Pachauri said.  For every $1 of investment avoided before 2020, an
additional $4.30 would need to be spent after 2020 to compensate
for the increased emissions, the IEA said in its World Energy
Outlook on Nov. 9.  If current pledged energy policies around the world are
implemented, the planet is on a trajectory for warming of 3.5
degrees Celsius, it said.  “If you look at the science and you look at economic
analysis, what it tells you if you delay action by a couple of
years, then it makes it much more expensive,” Artur Runge- Metzger, the lead European Union envoy at the talks, said in an
interview.  Alden Meyer  of the Union of Concerned Scientists say the
U.S.’s position in effect means the world is “taking a pass for
the next decade.”  “If we do that we’ve blown any chance of staying below 2
degrees, maybe 3 degrees,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  