-- 
UN’s Maritime Agency to Weigh Setting Price on Ship Emissions

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-07T12:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/un-s-maritime-agency-to-weigh-setting-price-on-ship-emissions.html
The  International Maritime
Organization , the  United Nations ’ shipping agency, will next
year consider how to set a price on greenhouse-gas emissions
from ships that contribute to climate change.  The London-based IMO’s environmental panel will give
“priority consideration” on whether to set a global levy or
establish an emissions-trading program, IMO Secretary-General
Efthimios Mitropoulos said today in an interview in Durban,
South Africa.  The UN agency has been unable to agree on measures to curb
emissions from ships for more than a decade. The European Union,
which runs the world’s biggest carbon trading system, has said
it may present its own proposal next year to limit the
industry’s pollution if IMO doesn’t find a solution.  Global maritime transport accounts for almost 3 percent of
carbon-dioxide discharges, and emissions from ships are expected
to increase from 150 percent to 250 percent by 2050, according a
report by WWF and Oxfam published in September.  Mitropoulos declined to comment on when a decision may be
made or how much revenue may be raised from a tax or trading
program. He stressed that any new rules for shipping emissions
must apply to all vessels regardless of country.  “For this system to succeed, ships should comply with the
same global standards all over the world,” he said. “Were we
to move to different standards for different ships you would
have a major problem.”  A proposal at the Durban summit calls for using charges on
shipping fuels as a way to channel money into a UN climate aid
fund. The plan is part of discussions on how to establish a new
Green Climate Fund and raise $100 billion a year by 2020 to help
vulnerable nations deal with global warming.  Carbon Price  The proposal is significant because it identifies the first
potential private source of income for the fund.  The draft UN document proposes that “financial resources”
raised by unspecified actions to be taken by the IMO to cut
bunker fuel emissions be channeled into both the UN’s mooted
Green Climate Fund and into providing compensation to developing
nations whose companies are affected by the extra shipping
costs.  Setting a $25 per metric ton carbon price on shipping fuel
could generate $25 billion a year by 2020 and help reduce
emissions, according to environment group WWF and charity Oxfam.
About $10 billion of that could be channelled to the Green
Climate Fund, they said.  Mitropoulos declined to comment on proposals being
discussed at the Durban talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  or
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Durban, South Africa at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  