-- 
Hungary’s Debt Reduction Hinges on Economy, Matolcsy Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-12-07T14:13:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/hungary-s-debt-reduction-hinges-on-economy-matolcsy-says-1-.html
Hungary will enact a new law that
will require the government to cut the level of public debt each
year that the economy expands, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said.  “Public debt has to continuously drop as long as the
growth of gross domestic product is positive,” Matolcsy told
reporters in Budapest today. The rule will be suspended in case
of a contraction, he added.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has focused his economic policy
on cutting debt and narrowing the  budget deficit  since coming to
power last year. Hungary, the most-indebted eastern member of
the European Union at 81 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of 2010, will cut the ratio by 10 percentage points in
2011, excluding the impact of exchange-rate changes, Matolcsy
said.  The debt level will fall to between 65 percent and 70
percent by 2015, according to the minister. The Cabinet last
week proposed delaying until 2016 a constitutional rule passed
in April that forces the government to keep cutting public debt
until it reaches a constitutional limit of 50 percent of GDP.  The  economy  will probably grow between 0.5 percent and 1
percent in 2012, less than a previous forecast of 1.5 percent,
Matolcsy said, adding that reserves built into next year’s
budget ensure that the country will meet a  deficit  target of 2.5
percent of GDP.  ‘Minor Adjustments’  “I don’t exclude, however, that the government will pass
minor adjustments to the budget,” Matolcsy said.  Hungary  reversed more than a year of shunning aid to seek
assistance from the  International Monetary Fund  last month after
the forint fell to a record low against the euro. Moody’s
Investors Service cut Hungary’s credit rating to junk level
later in the month.  The government has asked the central bank to help boost
economic growth with monetary tools, Matolcsy said, adding that
the Magyar Nemzeti Bank should start buying corporate bonds and
mortgage notes.  Matolcsy has asked central bank Governor Andras Simor to
identify “monetary tools and resources the bank can use to help
Hungary’s economic growth remain in positive territory,” he
said. “We only expect solutions that the  European Central Bank ,
the  Bank of England  or the Federal Reserve use on a daily
basis.”  The banking industry may “receive help” from the central
bank’s foreign-currency reserves in the conversion of household
foreign-currency loans if the central bank and lenders agree on
this, Matolcsy said.  “Foreign-currency reserves are a big treasure, we need to
protect them, we can’t use these reserves for any kind of
program aimed at boosting growth,” Matolcsy said.  Hungary’s foreign-currency reserves stood at 33.5 billion
euros ($44.8 billion) at the end of November, according to
central bank data published today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  