-- 
UniCredit to Reduce European Offices by Half as Italian Bank Slashes Costs

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/unicredit-plans-to-reduce-european-offices-by-half-as-bank-slashes-costs.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
plans to cut the number of its corporate offices by about half
in the next few years, saving 50 million euros ($67 million) a
year starting in 2015.  “We want to reduce the space used by the bank’s network,”
Paolo Gencarelli, head of UniCredit’s real estate unit, said in
an interview in his Milan office. The lender will reduce its
main offices to 75 from 160 by closing rental contracts and
selling some of its own property, Gencarelli said.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is cutting costs
and reducing headcount to strengthen the bank’s finances and
boost profitability. UniCredit, which plans to sell 7.5 billion
euros ($10 billion) of shares in January, aims to cut 6,150
staff through 2015 and dispose of assets in non-strategic
countries.  UniCredit is in talks to sell its Hamburg Alter Wall
headquarters and several buildings in downtown  Rome . In Milan,
where the lender is based, UniCredit is canceling rental
contracts for  office space  as it prepares to move into its new
corporate headquarters in 2013, Gencarelli said.  The reduction of offices and the adoption of new workplace
policies will  cut 292,000 square meters  (3.14 million square
feet) of space in the next four years. In Munich, employees of
UniCredit’s HVB AG unit will move from their recently sold
headquarters to the Arabella High-Rise in the city’s Bogenhausen
neighborhood. UniCredit is investing 170 million euros to
renovate the building.  Energy Savings  In Vienna, the bank will move its 4,000 employees into a
single location in the suburbs. Similar moves are planned for
staff in Zagreb, Sofia, Bucharest, Moscow and  Prague , Gencarelli
said.  “We will save money not only by reducing offices, but also
from the energy savings and increasing workplace and building
quality,” according to Gencarelli. UniCredit will reduce its
CO2 emissions by 50 percent, he said.  In Milan, UniCredit plans to reduce its main corporate
offices to four from 24, with about 4,000 employees transferring
to the headquarters being built at the  three Porta Nuova
skyscrapers  at the beginning of 2013, Gencarelli said.  American property developer Hines is building the office
towers at a new  business park  designed by the architectural firm
of Pelli Clarke Pelli. UniCredit signed a leasing contract that
will allow the bank to save 20 million euros annually starting
from 2014.  “Our philosophy will be based on flexibility, so we are
now renting and not buying the new headquarters we are moving
into,” the executive said.  UniCredit is also cutting retail branches and relocating
space to save an additional 50 million euros annually. The
lender will close 200 branches, or 5 percent of the total, in
the country by 2015. It aims to reduce total space at its
branches by 15 percent, either by renting or selling to
retailers.  The bank is negotiating with about 20 retailers, Gencarelli
said. ‘We don’t need so many branch windows on main streets,
which instead could be useful for retailers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  