-- 
Huntsman Targets Wall Street Behavior to Draw Contrast to Romney

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/huntsman-targets-wall-street-behavior-to-draw-contrast-to-romney.html
As the front-runners in the
Republican presidential primary field pocket donations from  Wall
Street  investors, Jon Huntsman Jr. is turning them into a
campaign issue.  “We’ve had implosions on Wall Street,” he said, in an
interview with Bloomberg News yesterday. “We had bad behavior
on Wall Street. We had lack of transparency on Wall Street. I
believe they are, in some measure, responsible for a
diminishment in trust.”  It’s a message that Huntsman hopes can revive his
presidential campaign and echoes a populist theme President
 Barack Obama  sounded yesterday in a speech in  Kansas  when he
said “breathtaking greed” contributed to the nation’s economic
turmoil. Huntsman is drawing a contrast with Republican rival
 Mitt Romney , a former private equity investor who made a fortune
as founder of Bain Capital.  Huntsman has staked his campaign on  New Hampshire , hoping
for a surprise victory against Romney that would make him a
serious contender in the nomination battle. The former Utah
governor stands at 9 percent in New Hampshire among likely
Republican primary voters, according to a Dec. 4 NBC News/Marist
poll.  By taking aim at Wall Street, Huntsman believes he can
piece together a coalition of anti-bailout Republicans and anti-
Wall Street independent voters in the fiscally conservative
early voting state.  Controlling Banks  Last month, Huntsman released  a plan  that would cap the
size of banks and impose new fees on the biggest financial
institutions. In campaign appearances, he accuses his rivals of
being beholden to their Wall Street donors, and he’s expressed
support for the populist Occupy Wall Street protests.  “There are some points of convergence that many Americans
can relate to,” he said, sitting amid the oriental rugs and
polished dining room table in his Washington home. “The concern
about banks that are too big to fail is very real.”  Romney’s business background has helped him become the
candidate of choice for Wall Street investors frustrated with
what they see as targeting of the their industry by the Obama
administration.  Smart Tactic  “It’s a pretty smart tactic because Mr. Romney made a lot
of money from big banks and it’s going to be hard for him to
respond on this,” said  Simon Johnson , an economics professor at
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  who has been critical
of the banking industry.  Citing Romney’s ties to Wall Street, Huntsman, the son of a
billionaire industrialist, raises questions about whether the
former private equity investor would be able to stand up to the
industry.  “He would seem to be doing quite well with the Wall Street
insiders,” Huntsman said. “If too big to fail is in fact an
ongoing problem for this country, you’re going to need someone
who can stand up and point out those deficiencies and do so
without the additional pressure of an industry that built them
up politically.”  Texas Governor Rick Perry, who is also lagging in polls,
has used a similar line against Romney and the newest front-
runner in the field, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  ‘Substantial Insiders’  Gingrich and Romney are “substantial insiders of Wall
Street and  Washington , D.C.,” Perry said in a Nov. 30 interview
on Fox News.  It’s an unflattering portrait that Democrats hope will take
hold. Obama’s allies have already begun painting Romney as more
interested in supporting Wall Street than addressing the
economic challenges facing the middle class.  “This is a more effective argument in the general election
for Obama than it is for the primaries,” said Bob Shrum, a
Democratic strategist who helped run Senator Edward Kennedy’s
1994 re-election campaign against Romney. “Romney’s kind of a
poster boy for the top 1 percent.”  The question is whether those attacks will resonate with
Republican primary voters.  “Coming from him, it doesn’t ring genuine,” said Mark
Meckler, co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots. “He comes from a
long-term family of wealth.”  Huntsman is the son of Jon Huntsman Sr., founder of
Huntsman Chemical. After working in the Reagan White House and
serving as ambassador to  Singapore  during the administration of
President George H.W. Bush, Huntsman joined the board of his
father’s company.  Ruling Elite  “He’s been part of the ruling elite,” Meckler added. “I
don’t think that Huntsman can claim outsider status.”  While the rest of the Republican field frequently promises
to end all government bailouts, none have gone as far as
Huntsman in introducing a specific plan to restructure the
financial industry.  His proposal, released on Nov. 28, caps bank size and total
borrowing based on their assets as a percentage of gross
domestic product. Those institutions that exceed the permitted
size would pay a fee designed to help cover the cost to
taxpayers of any future bailouts. Huntsman would also shut down
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , two government-backed mortgage
lenders caught up in the housing meltdown, and repeal the Dodd-
Frank Act passed by Congress to regulate the financial industry.  “Huntsman is the boldest of anyone who’s taken up this
issue,” said Johnson.  Large Banks  Congress briefly considered breaking up large banks during
the debate over Dodd-Frank. Huntsman’s plan is closest to a
proposal by Democratic Senators Sherrod Brown of  Ohio , and Ted Kaufmann of  Delaware  that got just 33 votes in the Senate,
falling far short of the 60 needed to move forward.  On the campaign trail, Huntsman’s rivals blame the
financial crisis largely on Democratic leadership, while rarely
mentioning the big banks that were at the center of the
government bailout.  Gingrich has called for authorities to jail the two
Democratic sponsors of the law, Representative Barney Frank of
 Massachusetts  and former Senator Christopher Dodd of
 Connecticut .  “If you want to put people in jail,” he said in an Oct.
11 debate, “you ought to start with Barney Frank and Chris
Dodd.”  Huntsman accused his rivals of being hesitant to criticize
banks because they don’t want to cut off a source of campaign
contributions.  Romney is backed by a long list of top financial industry
executives, including  Stephen Schwarzman , chairman of
Blackstone, the world’s largest private equity firm, who plans
to host a campaign fund-raiser next week.  Raising Money  Gingrich spent the early part of this week meeting with
potential donors in  New York City , hoping to raise the funds
needed to catch up with Romney.  “They want to be able to point out the deficiencies in
front of some crowds, but they want to take money from the
banking sector,” said Huntsman. “They’re not going to get
contributions from the banking sector if they’re specific about
how they want to remedy the situation.”  Huntsman has struggled to raise any money at all. He has
reported donations of $2.2 million through Sept. 30 -- and lent
another $2.2 million of his own money to his campaign, according
to the most recent financial disclosure reports. Romney raised
$32 million during the same period.  In September, Huntsman closed his Florida headquarters to
save money and moved his campaign operation to the Granite
State.  Time Running Out  One challenge facing Huntsman is that time is running out
to make an impression on voters. His polling numbers in the
state, while climbing, remain low. In a Bloomberg News poll
conducted Nov. 10-12, Huntsman draws 7 percent support, which
puts him fifth in what was then an eight candidate primary
field.  Last month a super PAC, financed in part by Huntsman’s
father, began running ads in the state. The television spot,
which highlights Huntsman’s background as governor of  Utah  and
ambassador to  China  during the Obama Administration, ends with a
man asking, “John Huntsman, why haven’t we heard of this guy?”  Huntsman says proposals like his financial reform plan give
him something his rivals lack: The ability to beat Obama in the
general election.  “Nobody comes close to us in the area of electability,”
he says. “I think in the end that’s going to be a big part of
how people will break in your favor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  