-- 
Vale Negotiating Cuts in Iron-Ore Prices With China Steel, ArcelorMittal

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-12-07T20:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/vale-says-negotiating-contract-price-reductions-with-customers.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest  iron-ore 
producer, said it’s in talks with customers including
ArcelorMittal and  China Steel Corp. (2002)  to cut contract prices after
clients pressured the company to revise its pricing system.  Almost 80 percent of the company’s iron-ore sales are based
on the current quarter’s price, compared with a previous system
that used the period ending a month before the onset of a new
quarter, Jose Carlos Martins, head of iron-ore and strategy for
Vale, said today in  London .  Iron-ore prices for immediate delivery to  China , the
largest user,  fell  about 18 percent during 2011 and reached
their lowest level in almost two years on Oct. 28, prompting
steelmakers to seek discounts. Chinese and European customers
are moving toward the new contract system while  Japan  and Korean
customers want to keep the previous one, Martins said.  “With the recent drop in prices we got a lot of pressure
from customers to change” the pricing system, Martins told
reporters today during a press conference after Vale hosted a
meeting with investors. “We are more flexible to accept the
price reality from the market.”  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content  delivered  to
the Chinese port of Tianjin fell 0.1 percent to $139.40 a metric
ton today, according to The Steel Index Ltd, averaging $142.33
so far in the fourth quarter. Vale sold its iron ore at an
average of $151.30 per metric ton during the third quarter, the
company said Oct. 26.  ArcelorMittal Talks  Vale is negotiating with ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest
steelmaker, to revise its contracts to current quarter pricing,
Martins said. The company reached a similar agreement with  China
Steel , Taiwan’s largest steelmaker, he said. Companies moving to
the new system won’t be allowed to return to the previous one,
Martins added.  “For China Steel it is not a discount, it is only moving
the price system from one system to the other,” he said.  Vale is setting up “provisional” prices with customers
who adopt the new pricing system, Martins said. Differences with
the quarterly average will be settled at the end of the period,
he said. Prices are currently about 20 percent below the
previous system, he said.  Quarterly Contracts  Vale, along with BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, in
2010 abandoned a 40-year custom of setting prices annually in
favor of quarterly contracts. The new accords were based on a
three-month average of price indexes for the period ending a
month before the start of the new quarter.  Weakness in the market is “accelerating the move to
shorter pricing methods and closer to spot,” Rio Tinto Chief
Executive Officer Tom Albanese told analysts in Sydney Oct. 24.  Vale dropped 3.6 percent to 39.06 reais in  Sao Paulo  at
6:08 p.m., the biggest fall in almost two weeks. The stock has
declined about 17 percent during 2011, more than the 15 percent
decrease in the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  