-- 
Velazquez Portrait Sells for $4.7 Million at London Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-12-07T15:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/velazquez-portrait-sells-for-4-7-million-at-london-auction-of-old-masters.html
A rediscovered painting by Velazquez
sold for 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) at an auction in  London 
today as wealthy international collectors battled for trophy Old
Master paintings.  The head-and-shoulders portrait of an unknown middle-aged
man had been found among a group of paintings entered for sale
at the Oxford branch of Bonhams in August 2010. The well-
preserved canvas was identified as a Velazquez by the Dublin-
based scholar Dr. Peter Cherry and described as dating from
about 1630.  It had formerly been owned by the obscure 19th-century U.K.
artist Matthew Shepperson. The painting was re-offered at the
company’s  Bond Street  headquarters with an estimate of 2 million
pounds to 3 million pounds. It was bought by New York dealer
 Otto Naumann ., who was in the room and beat a telephone bidder.  “I was amazed,” Naumann said in an interview. “I was
prepared to pay double that. It was very dirty. Maybe people
were worried how it would clean. It was bought for stock. I will
do what dealers do, restore it and try to get more.”  Works by 17th century Spain’s greatest artist rarely appear
for sale. The auction record for Velasquez is the 8.4 million
pounds given for a half-length canvas of Saint Rufina at
 Sotheby’s (BID)  in London July 2007.  Yesterday evening,  Christie’s International  offered a
slimline selection of 36 Old Master paintings that raised 24.1
million pounds, with 72 percent of the lots successful. Five
records were achieved, headed by the 6.9 million pounds given by
a telephone buyer for the large figure-packed canvas, “The
Battle between Carnival and Lent” by Pieter Brueghel the
Younger.  The Flemish renaissance painting, based on a 1559 work by
the artist’s father, had been bought by its seller for 3.3
million pounds at the same auction room in December 2006.  International Bids  The successful bidder was a client represented by Cecile
Bernard, head of Christie’s Paris Old Master department,
underbid by a Russian-speaker on another telephone.  Buyers hailed from expanded international clientele of nine
different countries, said Christie’s.  Following a presale exhibition in  Hong Kong  last month, an
Asian commission bidder claimed four lots in the range of
100,000 pounds to 400,000 pounds. Trade bidding, unless on
behalf of private collectors, was subdued.  New private buyers from emerging economies tend to start
buying from auction houses rather than commercial galleries.
Dealers, many of whom had a quiet Tefaf Maastricht fair in
March, were priced out of the most desirable works and were
unwilling to take on middle-range pictures, some of which have
fallen in value.  Investment Security  “Collectors want the security of really good pictures,” 
said the London-based dealer Jean-Luc Baroni, who paid a record
2.3 million pounds for a 17th century painting of an old man
leaning on a window sill by the 17th-century Dutch artist
Govaert Flinck that hadn’t been seen at auction for 150 years.
“Dealers are finding it difficult. No one wants to buy the
tired things.”  The most highly estimated lot at Christie’s failed to sell.
Goya’s portrait of Don Juan Lopez de Robredo, the splendidly
waistcoated embroiderer to King Carlos IV of  Spain , had been
valued at 4 million pounds to 6 million pounds.  Offered by a Spanish collector, this formal portrait of a
portly middle-aged man was deemed one of the artist’s less
appealing subjects and didn’t attract a bid. It last appeared at
auction in 1992 when it also failed to sell.  Sotheby's Sale  A pair of Johann Zoffany portraits of the 18th-century 
actor David Garrick sold for 6.8 million pounds in London 
tonight as private collectors continued to dominate the auction  
market for Old Master paintings.   The 1762 works, showing the actor and his wife relaxing in  
the grounds of his house at Hampton on the banks of the Thames, 
were estimated by Sotheby’s at 6 million pounds to 8 million 
pounds. The portraits had been entered by Edward Lambton, the 
son of the late Conservative politician Antony Lambton, and had 
hung on loan at Tate Britain since 2007.   They were bought in the room by the London dealers Hazlitt, 
Gooden & Fox on behalf of a private collector.   Quality  Old Masters  are in short supply at the moment. 
Sotheby’s, like Christie’s the previous evening, offered a 
compact catalog. The 38 lots raised 20.1 million pounds with 
fees, with 68 percent of the works successful. The presale 
estimate was 17.7 million pounds to 24.2 million pounds, based 
on hammer prices. About 20 lots were valued at less than 200,000 
pounds and half of these failed to sell, reflecting credit-
strapped dealers’ reluctance to buy middle-range works for 
stock.   Trade, Taste  “It’s a healthy discipline to know that we can’t rely on  
the trade,” George Gordon, Sotheby’s co-chairman of Old Master  
paintings, said in an interview. “Taste is evolving and people 
are sensitive to estimates.”   A 17th century Dutch genre painting of figures in an 
interior playing cards by Jan Steen sold for a record 4.9 
million pounds. It was offered with a third-party guarantee at a 
low estimate of 4.5 million pounds and drew a single phone bid.   Some sellers who were re-offering paintings had to take 
losses. A 16th-century Lucas Cranach the Younger three-quarter-
length portrait of an aristocratic lady had been bought by 
London dealer Colnaghi for a record 1.8 million pounds in July 
2007. It was sold on to a collector, who re-entered the painting 
with an estimate of 800,000 pounds to 1.2 million pounds.   It fetched 1.4 million pounds from a telephone bidder. By 
contrast, the 1779 painting, “Virgil’s Tomb by Moonlight” by 
Joseph Wright of Derby had never been offered at auction before.  In its original frame and boasting an unbroken family 
provenance, this was knocked down to the London dealer Patrick 
Matthiesen for 1.5 million pounds against an upper estimate of 
800,000 pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 