-- 
Wal-Mart’s Retail Delay in India Means Politics ‘Killing’ Cucumber Farmers

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-12-08T05:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/wal-mart-s-india-delay-means-politics-killing-cucumber-farmers.html
For Punjabi cucumber farmer Jaswinder
Singh, the Indian government’s decision to put off the entry of
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  into the country is a dream deferred.  “Politics is killing the farmers,” said Singh. “The
government controls the food chain and the middlemen from top to
bottom. Cooperation with foreign companies will help farmers.”  The government reversed last month’s decision to allow
foreign investment in stores selling more than one brand after
protests from the opposition. Jaswinder Singh and 10 other
farmers were counting on the expertise of the multinational
retailers to boost demand and pay them more for their produce.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  have said opening the retail industry would help control
inflation above 9 percent by reducing the amount of farm produce
that rots before sale and bringing better prices to farmers. The
policy reversal delays plans by companies such as Wal-Mart and
 France ’s  Carrefour SA (CA)  to expand in India’s $400 billion retail
market and build supply systems to stock stores.  Farmers could collaborate and “exchange knowledge” with
foreign retailers to boost production, said Singh, the farmer.
Wal-Mart’s joint venture with Bharti Enterprises has 14 “Best
Price” wholesale outlets and buys from about 2,000 farmers in
Punjab and Haryana, Mukesh Madhukar, head of its direct farms
program said on Dec. 2. It aims to increase that number to
35,000 by 2015 for the wholesale business.  Restricted to Wholesale  Overseas “multibrand” retail companies such as  Target
Corp. (TGT) , the U.K.’s  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , and  Germany ’s  Metro AG (MEO)  are only
allowed to operate wholesale stores in India. For retail stores
selling one brand, such as  Inditex SA ’s Zara or  Marks & Spencer (MKS) ,
foreign companies have been restricted to 51 percent ownership.  Under the Nov. 24 decision, which the government reversed
yesterday, overseas investors would have been allowed to own up
to 51 percent of retailers selling more than one brand provided
they invest at least $100 million, with half to be spent on
developing back-end infrastructure in India. The government had
also said it would allow full ownership in single-brand retail.  “This will act as a drag as far as the retail sector is
concerned,” said Gautam Duggad, a Mumbai-based consumer and
retail analyst at Prabudas Lilladher Pvt. with an “accumulate”
rating on  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF)  and  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP) 
“The sector does need money, capital.”  Farmers’ Loss  Pantaloon, the country’s largest listed retailer, had
jumped 13 percent on Nov. 24, before the government announced
relaxing the retail rules, and another 16 percent the day after.
Biggest listed rival Shopper’s Stop gained 12 percent over the
same two days.  Pantaloon, which dropped 3.6 percent to 191 rupees in
Mumbai trading as of 10:48 a.m. today, has since pared its gains
since Nov. 23 to 6.9 percent. Shoppers Stop was down 0.1 percent
today and has lost 0.9 percent in the same two-week period.  “I don’t know why the government has taken this decision,
but it will be a loss for the farmer,” said Mohammed Nazir, who
grows eggplants and other vegetables in the Punjab village of
Malerkotla. “It would be good if more companies come to us.”  Purchasing from farmers has been “a huge success” for
Wal-Mart’s wholesale venture in  India , Madhukar said. “The
farmers are getting higher yields and higher prices.”  Opposition Protests  The global chains were likely to invest in trucking and
distribution systems in India, where government estimates show
40 percent of fruit and vegetables rot before being sold because
of the lack of cold-storage facilities and poor transport
infrastructure. Farmers will have “assured business” if
foreign companies were allowed to invest in multibrand retail,
said Pratichee Kapoor, associate director for retail at
Technopak Advisors Pvt.  India reversed its decision amid protests by the opposition
and its allies that had forced repeated adjournments of
parliament. Opposition parties argued that the move would wipe
out the jobs of small shopkeepers, who dominate the country’s
retail sector.  Rajan Bharti Mittal, managing director of Wal-Mart’s
wholesale partner Bharti Enterprises, in a statement yesterday
called the government’s reversal an “unfortunate” decision.
The policy change would have brought “farmers better
realization for their produce as well as better prices for the
consumer,” he said.  Arti Singh, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart in India, didn’t
answer calls to her mobile phone and Mohan Shukla, director of
corporate affairs for Carrefour in India, didn’t immediately
comment.  “It will affect the farmers,” said Nazir, the Punjab
farmer. “We’ll have to go to the open market again. We’ll get
lower rates for our vegetables.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  