-- 
Wal-Mart Battles With Marx’s Ghost: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-12-07T10:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/wal-mart-battles-with-marx-s-ghost-william-pesek-correct-.html
(Corrects to specify that Singh’s ally ended Communist rule
in 13th paragraph.)  India (SENSEX)  has a Wal-Mart problem. This
may not sound remarkable, considering that  China  and the U.S. do
as well.  China’s preference for sweatshops to supply the Arkansas-
based behemoth impedes the creation of a vibrant domestic market.
America’s addiction to cheap goods made in China helped kill a
once-prosperous manufacturing sector.  India’s challenge in allowing Wal-Mart to enter its market
is more complicated. It’s a question of whether the ninth-
biggest economy moves forward or backward and a defining issue
for the legacy of economist-turned-prime-minister  Manmohan Singh .  Criticism of Singh’s move to open India’s $400 billion
retail market to overseas companies has been rapid and harsh --
there’s already talk of it being shelved. The worry is that
allowing 51 percent ownership by foreign retailers will harm
small merchants that employ millions.  That’s just the point, though. The arrival of  Wal-Mart (WMT) 
Stores Inc. and  Carrefour SA (CA)  would have an invigorating effect
like few events in the 20 years that Singh has been modernizing
 India’s economy . As finance minister in the early 1990s, he
introduced free-market measures that cut red tape, removed caps
on steel and cement makers and allowed overseas names like Ford
Motor Co. to do business locally. These changes deserve as much
credit for India’s 7 percent growth as anything.  Glass Ceiling  India has hit an economic wall in recent years. Although it
has produced healthy growth rates since the financial crisis of
2008, policies to increase efficiency have stalled. Political
paralysis in the world’s biggest democracy is hindering the
process of democratizing the spoils of India’s rapid growth.
It’s still not getting to those who need it most.  Corruption is partly to blame. A growing number of India’s
1.2 billion people are fed up with how institutionalized graft
squanders national wealth, a dynamic underlined by activist  Anna Hazare ’s potent protests this year.  The sheer size of the government bureaucracy is another
growth-killer. So are the inefficiencies inherent in India’s
private sector, retail being an obvious case in point. A
labyrinthine distribution system involves myriad middlemen and
helps inflate prices in a nation where hundreds of millions live
in, or on the cusp, of extreme poverty -- the $1-a-day kind. Yes,
this system employs millions, but at a very high cost.  By investing in neglected supply chains and infrastructure
and applying more modern techniques, foreigners could reduce
waste in India’s huge agricultural industry, get farmers better
prices for their produce and offer shoppers greater choice.  Singh’s Reforms  If you really think  India ’s economic structure works well
as is, that it reasonably serves the needs and desires of a
critical mass of consumers, by all means, keep it. But if you
think there’s a different approach, one that fosters greater
competition, quality, service and cost savings, then Singh’s
retail-industry reforms are the right ones.  Although China has been the big draw for foreign direct
investment, India is beginning to gain some appeal. Kishore Biyani, founder of Pantaloon Retail India Ltd., India’s largest
chain by market value, predicts that the retail industry will
gain $8 billion to $10 billion in investment in the next five to
10 years as competitors abroad enter and local companies try to
keep pace.  India’s historical laggard status reflects a longstanding
romance with  Karl Marx  and too little familiarity with  Joseph Schumpeter . There’s still an excess of Marx and the German
philosopher’s statist solutions in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy and not
enough of Austrian Schumpeter’s creative destruction.  Kolkata’s Communism  If you want to see where the status quo leads, look to
Kolkata, the capital of West Bengal formerly known as Calcutta.
Six months ago, Singh’s ally ended 34 years of Communist rule
there, pledging to turn it into an Indian version of  London .
Instead, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is putting the interests
of local farmers first, backing laws that make it harder for
companies to acquire land and, in the process, deterring
investors.  Banerjee’s protests as opposition leader of the state
prompted Tata Motors Ltd. to move a planned car plant to the
western state of Gujarat in 2008. Not surprisingly, Kolkata is
neither attracting investment nor creating jobs.  This column isn’t pro-Wal-Mart. Such multinational
companies all too often flout environmental laws, undermine
labor unions and represent an economic race to the bottom. Yet
Wal-Mart isn’t the problem. The culprit is leadership that
clings to the failed policies of yesterday to the detriment of
tomorrow.  Singh’s Choice  If my travels in  Asia (MXAP) ,  Africa  and  Latin America  have taught
me anything, it’s this: The real failing of free trade and
globalization is that the parts of the world that need them most
get short shrift. The anti-globalization movement, however well-
intentioned, should turn its energy to extending the benefits of
free trade and capital flows to the world’s neediest people.  India can’t turn back the clock on where the world economy
finds itself. Opening the retail industry isn’t some out-of-the-
blue act of economic radicals; it has been debated for 15 years
now and is an essential part of India’s growth story in the long
run.  Modern India has a choice. The first, for all its painful
bumps, leads toward greater openness, competition and prosperity.
The second goes backward and means India will fall further
behind China and other Asian upstarts. Which will it be, Prime
Minister Singh?  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  