-- 
Web-Name Expansion Could Be ‘Disaster,’ FTC Chairman Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-12-07T21:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/web-name-expansion-could-be-disaster-ftc-head-says-correct-.html
A plan to add hundreds of Internet
domain names beyond .com and .net may be a “disaster,” U.S.
Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz told a House
Judiciary subcommittee.  The program is more costly than necessary for businesses
and would let con artists set up fraudulent websites, Leibowitz
said today in a hearing of the House Subcommittee on
 Intellectual Property , Competition and the Internet.  The domain-name system expansion, authorized by the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, “could be
very harmful,” Leibowitz said. “We see enormous cost to
consumers and businesses and not a lot of benefit.”  Icann, a non-profit that manages the Web’s address system
under a U.S. Commerce Department contract, approved a plan in
June to expand the number of top-level domains beyond the
commonly used .com, .net and .org in a move to spur online
innovation.  The group will start accepting applications for Web
suffixes including company and brand names, cities and words
like .book or .shopping, starting Jan. 12 for a three-month
window. Applications will cost $185,000 for each domain.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Coca-Cola Co.
are among more than 40 companies that last month joined with the
Association of National Advertisers to oppose the expansion,
saying it will increase costs for companies, confuse customers
and create new risks of Internet fraud.  Monitoring Program  “We appreciate the concerns raised by Chairman
Leibowitz,” Brad White, a spokesman in  Washington  for Marina
del Ray, California-based Icann, said in an e-mail.  “Icann has already committed to vigilantly monitor for
abuses” to the new domain program, White said. “If and when
any program abuses arise, there are mechanisms in place to
address them.”  The Commerce Department is “sensitive to the concerns
being raised by some companies” about the introduction of the
new top-level domains, Assistant Secretary of Commerce Lawrence Strickling said in an e-mail today.  “We will closely monitor the execution of the program and
are committed to working with stakeholders, including U.S.
industry, to mitigate any unintended consequences,” Strickling
said, without elaborating.  The Senate Commerce Committee, led by Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, is scheduled to hold a
hearing tomorrow on the domain expansion program, with witnesses
from Icann, the Commerce Department and the advertisers’ group.
The House Energy and Commerce Committee also plans to hold a
hearing on the Icann program next week.  The FTC doesn’t have authority over Icann. The agency has
the power to act when companies engage in unfair and deceptive
trade practices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  