-- 
Wheat to Bottom in Next 60 Days, Global Commodity’s Zuzolo Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-07T17:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/wheat-to-bottom-in-next-60-days-global-commodity-s-zuzolo-says.html
Wheat will touch a low in the next 60
days in Chicago before climbing on rising feed use and a slower
pace of exports from the  Black Sea region , said Mike Zuzolo,
president of Global Commodity Analytics & Consulting.  “Wheat is going to bottom,” Zuzolo said at a grain-
industry conference in Paris today. “The low in wheat should be
just around the corner as we head into the New Year.’  The most-active contract has slumped 24 percent this year
to $6.02 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, and the grain
was at a discount to corn for most of October and November.
Wheat fell as investors’ focus shifted to demand concerns from
supply issues, Zuzolo said in a presentation.  Wheat is the “price leader” for the global grain market
because it sets a floor price for corn, he said. Wheat
previously traded at discounts to corn in 1977, 1983-84 and
1996, according to Zuzolo.  “Very rarely do we see wheat go below corn in  Chicago ,”
he said. “That is an anomaly. Once wheat goes below a certain
price level, it becomes a price competitor with corn. Wheat can
indeed, if supplies of feed wheat are high enough, take demand
away from corn.”  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer, has favored
Russian supplies since the former Soviet nation let a ban on all
cereal exports expire July 1 as scheduled. Russia may ship at
least 25 million metric tons of grains in the current season, a
record-high amount, Deputy Agriculture Minister Alexander
Solovyev said today.  “Russian exports are likely to slow in February 2012,”
Zuzolo said. “Competing supplies are becoming more competitive.
We’re seeing that already.”  U.S. Inventories  U.S. ending stocks for all wheat at the end of the 2011-12
marketing year will be 673 million bushels (18.3 million tons),
according to Zuzolo’s presentation. Chicago wheat is overvalued
above about $7.90 a bushel and undervalued below $5.45, he said.  U.S. farmers may switch some acres to soybeans from corn
for spring planting if the price gap between the two crops
widens, according to Zuzolo. Soybeans must trade at 2.15 times
the price of corn for farmers to plant the oilseed rather than
the grain, he said.  “Corn is still more profitable than beans right now in the
U.S.,” Zuzolo said. Carryover stocks of the grain will be 838
million bushels, or 21.3 million tons, he said.  Soybeans are overvalued at $13.10 a bushel and undervalued
at $10.90, according to the executive.  “At $13, I’ll still sell beans if the acreage is low, but
I may scale back on the amount,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 