-- 
Whirlpool, Panasonic Among Four Fined $216 Million Over Compressor Cartel

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-12-07T16:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/whirlpool-panasonic-fined-in-216-million-eu-compressor-cartel.html
Two  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  units and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are among companies that agreed to pay European
Union antitrust fines totaling 161 million euros ($215.6
million) for fixing prices of refrigerator compressors.  The Whirlpool units were fined a total of 54.5 million
euros and Panasonic will pay 7.7 million euros after they
settled a European Commission cartel probe into agreements that
set prices for small compressors used in refrigerators and
freezers and in vending machines and ice-cream coolers.  “At a time of economic hardship it is all the more
important to promote fair competition and step up the fight
against cartels which inflict serious damage on productivity and
economic growth,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said in an e-mailed statement.  The commission has made fighting cartels a priority in
recent years,  imposing  3.3 billion euros in fines last year. EU
investigators raided producers of refrigeration compressors in
2009.  Danfoss A/S , based in Nordborg,  Denmark , agreed to pay
90 million euros, the largest fine, and Appliance Components Co.
SpA of  Italy  must pay 9 million euros for coordinating prices
and market shares from 2004 to 2007.  Whirlpool will set aside an extra $1.2 million in the
fourth quarter on top of the $71.7 million reserve already
established to cover the fine, it said in a regulatory filing
today. Whirlpool previously set aside as much as $306 million to
cover a possible fine and related costs, it said in July.  ‘Very Embarrassing’  “It’s a very embarrassing case,” Danfoss Chief Executive
Officer Niels Bjorn Christiansen said today in Copenhagen.
Employees at Danfoss’s German unit exchanged information,
including prices, he said. They no longer work for the company,
Christiansen said. The company’s management found out about the
cartel after the EU raid in 2009, he said.  “There was nothing in the profit and loss accounts of the
German subsidiary that raised our suspicions,” he said in an
e-mailed statement. “The business was performing poorly for a
number of years and the performance didn’t change in the period
during which we now know the violations took place.”  Panasonic’s fine will have “no material effect on the
financial outlook for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012,”
Katsuyuki Ito, a spokesman for the company in Wiesbaden,
 Germany , said in an e-mail. Panasonic “takes this matter
seriously and will make every effort to maintain the public’s
confidence.”  Tecumseh Avoids Fine  Applied Components Co. declined to immediately comment.  Tecumseh Products Co. (TECUA)  of  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , wasn’t fined
because it told the EU about the cartel. Panasonic wasn’t
involved in all aspects of the cartel and quit it in 2006,
regulators said. One of the companies had its fine reduced
because of financial difficulties, the EU said, without naming
the business.  Whirlpool’s Embraco unit last year paid $91.8 million to
settle a similar U.S. Justice Department probe.  Osaka , Japan-
based Panasonic also paid a $49.1 million fine under the U.S.
settlement.  Whirlpool, Panasonic, Danfoss, Tecumseh and Appliances
Components face multiple U.S. lawsuits by customers seeking
compensation for alleged price-fixing. Price-fixing convictions
in the U.S. can expose companies to fines and triple damages for
customers that seek restitution through civil lawsuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 