-- 
Wild Women Jostle Buffalo Bill in Paris Exhibition: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/wild-women-jostle-buffalo-bill-as-paris-exhibit-explores-freak-show-craze.html
A soccer star organizing a museum
exhibition, now that doesn’t happen every day.  Yet that’s just what’s happening at the  Musee du Quai
Branly  in Paris: Lilian Thuram, who was a member of  France ’s
national soccer team from 1996 to 2008, is one of the three
curators of a new show, “The Invention of the Savage.”  There’s a reason for Thuram’s involvement: He was born in
the overseas department of Guadeloupe, he’s black and active
in anti-discrimination politics.  The 500 or so items on display -- paintings, posters,
photographs, films, costumes, masks and dioramas -- illustrate
how, during many centuries, men, women and children from
 Africa ,  Asia  and the Americas were exhibited in the Western
world like exotic animals in a zoo.  The thesis of the show is simple: The savage was invented
by the West as a byproduct of colonization.  The first section (of four) describes how the tradition
started in the 16th century: European princes vied to amass the
most original collection of curiosities, including dwarves and
giants, Moors and Indians.  Here you find Omai, a Tahitian who arrived in  London  in
1774 and created a sensation when he was presented at court.
Joshua Reynolds was intrigued enough to paint him.  From there we move to fairgrounds and amusement parks
after the aristocratic passion morphed into a plebeian craze.  Missing Link  London became the capital of freak shows where crowds
lined up to have a glimpse at the oversized buttocks of
Saartje Baartman, the “Hottentot Venus,” or at Krao, the
hairy girl from  Laos  advertised as “Darwin’s missing link”
between human and ape.  In the 19th century, P.T. Barnum became the first show-
business millionaire.  His “American Museum” featured Pygmies, Aborigines, the
Siamese twins Chang and Eng, Mexicans presented as “The Last
Aztecs” and wild animals, some wilder than others.  William (“Buffalo Bill”) Cody’s “Wild West” shows,
which ignored the massacres perpetrated during the Indian
wars, attracted huge crowds on both sides of the Atlantic.  Other exhibitions were organized by the colonial powers
to emphasize their civilizing mission. The last was held in
Brussels in 1958 on the eve of the Congo’s independence. The
“Congolese Village” provoked such a furor that it had to be
closed prematurely.  Fetish Worshippers  The message is clear: None of this should have happened,
we’re all one human family, and if you’re amused by the “Wild
Women From Dahomey” on a giant poster inviting you to watch
their “Holy War Dance of the Fetish Worshippers” you must be
an incurable racist.  What the organizers overlook in their righteous
indignation is that quite a few entertainers later made a lot
of money by playing the exoticism card. There was Josephine Baker, whom you can admire in one of her “Revue Negre”
dances, and the Cuban clown Chocolat (Rafael Padilla), whose
portrait was painted by Toulouse-Lautrec, to name but two.  I also looked in vain for the “Noble Savage,” a popular
cliche in 18th-century literature used as a shining example of
humanity unspoiled by the vices of civilization.  Reservations aside, “Exhibitions: L’Invention du
Sauvage” is a fascinating show.  The exhibition at the Musee du Quai Branly runs through
June 3, 2012. Information:  http://www.quaibranly.fr  or +33-1-
5661-7000.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 