-- 
Year-End Tax Planning for 2011 Is Mainly About 2012 Changes

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-12-07T22:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/year-end-tax-planning-contends-with-2012-uncertainty.html
Year-end  tax  planning for U.S.
taxpayers may be more about what’s happening next year.  While there aren’t major changes to federal tax law for
2011, there’s an “overhang of uncertainty” about what Congress
will do next year to reduce the national debt and improve the
economy, said  Clint Stretch , managing principal of  tax policy  at
Deloitte Tax LLP in  Washington .  “There are a lot of unhappy people and a lot of unhappy
businesses out there because they want to know what the rules
are,” said Stretch.  Decisions by lawmakers in 2012 may affect everything from
federal levies on income to estate-tax laws. One rule change
investors can plan for next year is a new tax-reporting
requirement for mutual funds and most ETFs.  Starting next year, financial-services firms will have to
report to the  Internal Revenue Service  and customers information
on the cost basis, which is usually the purchase price, of
mutual funds and most ETFs bought and sold after Jan. 1, 2012.
That means investors will have to decide before selling what
reporting method they want to use such as average cost or first
shares acquired. Firms already are required to report the cost
basis of individual stocks bought after Jan. 1 of this year to
the IRS.  “Gone are the days when you can take all your statements
in the tax season and go to your accountant and say, ‘OK, use
all these forms and use them to determine the basis,’” said
Maria Bruno, a senior analyst in the investment counseling and
research group at Vanguard Group Inc. “Now you really have to
think about it at the time of the transaction.”  Mutual Fund Holders  An estimated 44 percent of U.S. households, or about 52
million, owned mutual funds in 2011, and 3.5 million households
held ETFs, according to an October  research report  by the
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group for
the mutual-fund industry. Shares of exchange-traded funds, known
as ETFs, trade on  stock exchanges  and don’t have a fixed number
of shares outstanding.  The IRS has been phasing in the cost-basis reporting rules
for financial firms by investment type. The requirements began
this year for equities bought and sold after Jan. 1. As a
result, taxpayers will use a new  Form 8949  for their 2011
returns to record capital gain and loss transactions, said  Eric
Smith , an IRS spokesman. The form lets investors provide
information about securities covered by the law and those
acquired prior to the rules, or non-covered shares, according to
the IRS.  Improving Compliance  Next year the legislation extends to mutual funds, most
ETFs and  dividend reinvestment plans , which generally require
investors to reinvest at least 10 percent of dividends paid. In
2013, it includes  options (VIX)  and fixed-income securities, such as
bonds, according to the IRS. The changes don’t apply to assets
in tax-deferred retirement accounts including 401(k)s and IRAs,
the IRS said.  The changes are designed to improve  tax  compliance and
reduce the record-keeping burden for investors by ensuring that
they receive the information they need to easily report their
gains and losses correctly, said Smith.  Investors may set a preferred method for their firm to use
when determining cost basis and investment providers generally
will use a default, said Bruno of Vanguard, the world’s largest
mutual-fund company. While customers can change their decisions
at the time of sale for a specific transaction, “there are no
do-overs” after securities are sold, she said. Vanguard, based
in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , is encouraging customers to
designate a preference before year-end. It can be done online or
by mailing a form, Bruno said.  Loss Carryover  “If you’re doing some tax planning and trying to match
gains and losses, you may end up using different cost basis
methods for different sales,” said Lisa Featherngill, managing
director of wealth planning for  Wells Fargo (WFC)  Family Wealth.  For example, taxpayers may have bought shares of stock at
$23 this year, so they’re covered under the new rules, and
additional shares of the same company at $20, said Featherngill,
who’s based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , and a certified
public accountant. If the security’s current value is $18, the
investor may tell the brokerage firm to sell the shares with the
highest purchase price to generate the biggest loss, she said.  When capital losses exceed gains, the extra can be deducted
on individuals’ tax returns and used to reduce other income,
such as wages, up to an annual limit of $3,000, according to the
IRS. If the total loss is more than the cap, the unused portion
may be carried over to following years.  Distributing Gains  Some investors have dwindled away large capital losses that
built up and were carried over in 2008 and 2009, which is why
they should review whether to take some this year, said Bill Fleming, managing director in the private company services group
at accounting and advisory firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Many mutual funds distribute taxable  capital gains  at year-
end, which individuals also should consider in their planning,
said Clay Stevens, director of strategic planning at Aspiriant,
a Los Angeles-based wealth management firm serving clients with
at least $5 million in investable assets.  Investors who bought shares of a fund in the middle of the
year may have lost money, especially as equity markets have been
volatile, while a fund may have had a gain for the year overall,
said Stevens. “It may be appropriate to sell a fund to avoid
realizing the gain,” he said.  State Taxes  Taxpayers who do “harvest” losses should keep in mind
that the IRS prevents them from reinvesting in the same or
substantially identical investment for 30 days before and after
the sale, said Timothy Steffen, director of financial planning
for Robert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee. And individuals
shouldn’t upset their long-term investment plan “just to get a
tax break,” said Rande Spiegelman, vice president of financial
planning at  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) ’s Center for Financial
Research.  There also may be tax changes at the state level that
individuals should consider, said Elda Di Re, area leader of the
personal financial services tax division of Ernst & Young in  New
York .  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and legislative leaders
reached an agreement on Dec. 6 to create new tax brackets that
would cut taxes for married couples earning less than $300,000
and set a maximum levy of 8.82 percent for those joint filers
earning more than $2 million. Under a so-called millionaire’s
tax that is scheduled to expire on Dec. 31, those making more
than $500,000 are taxed at 8.97 percent.  Saul Brenner, a tax partner at accounting and advisory firm
Berdon LLP, said he had told clients in New York to postpone
closing deals until January because of the expected lower rates.  Donations to Charities  There are other federal tax breaks set to expire at the end
of 2011 that individuals may want to use while they still can,
said Ted Sarenski, a certified public accountant and president
of the fee-based financial planning firm Blue Ocean Strategic
Capital in Syracuse, New York. That includes a rule related to
charitable donations from IRAs, Sarenski said.  Owners of traditional IRAs, which generally have tax-
deferred contributions, must take annual distributions starting
at age 70 1/2 or over, according to the IRS. This year, savers
are allowed to donate up to $100,000 from their IRA directly to
a qualified charity without paying income tax on that money.  “That’s often a good way to get rid of the required
minimum distribution without it hitting your income,” said
Stevens of Aspiriant. The tax break doesn’t include gifts to so-
called donor-advised funds or private foundations, and the
payment must be a direct transfer from the IRA trustee to the
qualified charity, according to the IRS.  Other Tax Breaks  Congress has in the past extended, or retroactively
extended, miscellaneous tax breaks that are expiring such as
deductions for teachers or the so-called patch on the
alternative minimum tax, said Di Re of Ernst & Young. “They
always seem to be able to pull that out of the bag at the last
minute,” she said.  The alternative minimum tax requires taxpayers to compare
their tax liability under the regular  tax code  with what they
would owe under the AMT, which doesn’t allow taxpayers the full
benefits of state and local tax deductions or personal
exemptions. Because the AMT wasn’t indexed for inflation, over
time it captures more Americans and Congress has spared some
with a series of annual “patches.”  Payroll Tax  Lawmakers also are debating the extension of a payroll tax
cut for workers that expires Dec. 31.  Senate Democrats  are
heading toward a Dec. 9 vote on a plan to pay for it with a 1.9
percent surtax on annual income exceeding $1 million, which
Republicans have declared unacceptable.  Advisers including Di Re of Ernst & Young and Fleming of
PricewaterhouseCoopers said the biggest changes they’re planning
for may come at the end of next year.  A provision letting individuals generally gift up to $5
million during their lifetime without paying tax is set to
expire at the end of 2012 and revert to $1 million unless
Congress acts. Those wanting to move money out of their estate
should consider making a plan to use some or all of that gifting
opportunity as they prepare this year’s return, said Di Re.  ‘Double Whammy’  In 2013, higher earners also may see a “double whammy”
from increased levies on income and investments, said Fleming.  The health-care bill passed by Congress in March 2010
included a 3.8 percent tax starting in 2013 on investment income
such as realized capital gains, plus a 0.9 percentage point rise
in the Medicare payroll tax on wages for those couples earning
more than $250,000 and for individuals making at least $200,000.  President  Barack Obama  also has proposed letting tax cuts
enacted during the presidency of  George W. Bush  expire at the
end of 2012 for those same higher earners, meaning levies on
their income increase to as much as 39.6 percent from 35
percent.  “We’re telling people, get ready to bunch your income in
2012 and postpone deductions in 2013,” Fleming said. “You
can’t turn income on a dime. You have to plan months and months
ahead of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 