-- 
Yemen Interim Cabinet Evenly Split Between Saleh Party, Foes

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-12-07T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/yemen-interim-cabinet-evenly-split-between-saleh-party-foes.html
Opponents of Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh will hold half the posts in a 34-member interim
government aimed at helping to end an uprising against his rule.  The lineup, which includes three women, was announced
yesterday in a decree from the country’s new interim leader and
vice president, Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, the state-run SABA news
agency said. The unity government will be led by Mohamed Salem
Basindwah, a former foreign minister and opposition leader who
was officially chosen on Nov. 27.  Under an agreement between the main opposition coalition,
called the Joint Meeting Parties, and Saleh’s General People’s
Congress, Hadi will run unopposed in an election on Feb. 21 to
replace the president. Parliamentary elections will be scheduled
at a later date.  Saleh agreed last month to relinquish power amid anti-
government protests. Neighboring  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf
Cooperation Council states, with backing from the U.S., have
sought to resolve the conflict to reduce instability in the
region. The unrest has cost Yemen more than $8 billion, with
attacks against the country’s oil-pipeline network disrupting
exports and causing nationwide shortages.  The opposition will control 17 ministries in the interim
government, including finance, interior, information, planning
and international cooperation, according to SABA. The GPC will
take the other 17 portfolios, including defense, oil, foreign
affairs, telecommunications and the civil service.  Oil Minister  U.S.-educated Hisham Sharaf will be the interim oil
minister, according to SABA. He holds a master’s degree in
administration from  Catholic University  of America in
 Washington , and a bachelor of science degree in civil
engineering from the  University of Pennsylvania .  Saadeddin Bin Taleb, who holds a bachelor’s degree in
medicine from Ain Shams University in  Egypt , will assume the
industry and trade portfolio. Sakhr al-Wajeeh, a former lawmaker
in Saleh’s party and an anti-corruption campaigner, was
appointed minister of finance.  The interim government is the result of an agreement
between Saleh’s party and the opposition that won’t be accepted
by the protest movement, Walid al-Amari, a political activist in
the capital of Sana’a, said yesterday by phone. The protests
will go on, starting today, he said.  “This is really disappointing and does not show they are
really serious about a new start, as they say,” al-Amari said.
“We will continue our protests, for the GCC agreement didn’t
respond to our demands.”  Armed ‘Thugs’  He said members of Saleh’s party in the Cabinet include
people who have been accused of leading armed “thugs” to crack
down on protesters. He also said some of those ministers were
involved in instigating and provoking attacks against the
peaceful protests.  Anti-Saleh protests began with rallies in January that
swelled into mass demonstrations as tribesmen and military
members joined the movement. Saleh’s crackdown has left almost
900 people dead, according to the Yemen Students’ Union. Saleh
has put the death toll on the government side at 1,150.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 