-- 
Zynga Gets Publicity Lift From Word Game-Engrossed ‘30 Rock’ Star Baldwin

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c m i l l a n
-- 
2011-12-08T01:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-07/zynga-gets-publicity-boost-from-word-game-engrossed-30-rock-star-baldwin.html
Zynga Inc. has  Alec Baldwin  to thank
for giving its “Words With Friends” word game a publicity
boost.  Baldwin, star of NBC’s “30 Rock,” was so engrossed in the
Scrabble-like game he got ejected from an American Airlines
flight for refusing to stop playing. The actor took his phone
into the plane’s lavatory, slamming the door hard enough to
alarm pilots in the cockpit, American Airlines said today on its
page on Facebook Inc.’s social network.  “Flight attendant on American reamed me out 4 playing
WORDS W FRIENDS while we sat at the gate, not moving,” Baldwin,
53,  said  in a post to Twitter Inc.’s microblogging service
yesterday after the incident.  After Baldwin refused to turn off his phone and obey signs
requiring seat belts, he was removed from the flight, according
to the airline’s statement.  “The passenger was extremely rude to the crew, calling
them inappropriate names and using offensive language,”
 American Airlines  said.  Baldwin today apologized to other passengers, while
criticizing a flight attendant for singling him out, and said
others were also using their phones.  “I guess the fact that this woman, who had decided to make
some example of me, while everyone else was left undisturbed,
did get the better of me,” he wrote in a Huffington Post
 article .  Good Publicity  Zynga, which plans to sell shares in an initial public
offering, is the biggest maker of games on Facebook Inc. Still,
it’s less well understood by many of the investors targeted by
its IPO marketing effort, currently under way, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities. Baldwin’s American
Airlines flap may raise Zynga’s profile, he said.  “This is phenomenal for Zynga,” said Pachter, who’s based
in  Los Angeles . “The problem for Zynga with investors has been
that the average portfolio manager doesn’t relate to their
games. This definitely helps change their perception.”  Zynga took up Baldwin’s cause with Twitter posts featuring
the phrase, “#LetAlecPlay.” “Words With Friends” is Zynga’s
 sixth  most popular game, according to Appdata.com.  Baldwin was removed from a flight to  New York  from Los
Angeles, the actor said on his Twitter account. American
Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  filed for  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors on Nov. 29.  “He loves WWF so much that he was willing to leave a plane
for it, but he has already boarded another AA flight,”  Matthew Hiltzik , a spokesman for Baldwin, said in a statement.   ‘Words With Friends’  Adam Isserlis, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment beyond the company’s posts on Twitter.  “Words With Friends” was created by Newtoy Inc., a
McKinney, Texas-based game developer acquired by Zynga in
December 2010. A version of the game with advertising is free on
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s AppStore, while a commercial-free version costs
$2.99.  Zynga is seeking to raise as much as $1 billion in the
biggest IPO by a U.S. Internet company since Google Inc.’s
debut. The “Let Alec Play” graphic features a scoreboard
saying, “A Baldwin 1, American Air 0.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  