-- 
Iran Nuclear Drive May End Arming Terrorists, Barak Tells CNN

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-11-20T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-19/iran-s-nuclear-drive-may-end-arming-terrorists-barak-says-1-.html
Iran ’s determination to build
nuclear weapons will result in nations such as  Egypt ,  Saudi
Arabia  and Turkey seeking nuclear arms, starting a “countdown”
to terrorists getting nuclear materials, Israeli Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  said.  “People understand now that Iran is determined to reach
nuclear weapons,” Barak, a former Israeli prime minister, said
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” in an interview to be aired
today. “The countdown toward nuclear materials in the hands of
terrorists will start, even if it takes half a generation. But
more than this, they will use the nuclear umbrella to kind of
intimidate neighbors all around the Gulf to sponsor terror.”  Iran may face more international sanctions after a report
last week by the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency said
there was “credible” evidence showing Iran worked on bomb
components until at least 2010. The country is under four sets
of UN Security Council sanctions.  Iran, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
second-biggest producer, has dismissed the charges, called the
evidence fake and said it only wants atomic power.  Barak also predicted the downfall of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad within a year. The deaths of Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  and  Iraq ’s Saddam Hussein have made al-Assad’s
response to the Arab Spring uprisings against his rule “more
brutal, because he understands that, beyond a certain point,
there is no way,” Barak said. “It’s literally a struggle for
life or death.”  Speaking yesterday at a security forum in Halifax, Nova
Scotia, Barak said Assad “went beyond the point of no return.”
There is “no way he will resume his authority or legitimacy,”
he said.  People within the Syrian security services, armed forces
and civil service are beginning to assess when the end of the
regime will come and to “hedge their personal bets,” he said.  The international response, particularly from the Arab
League, Jordan and  Turkey , are “real signals that there is an
acceleration towards the end of this regime,” he said.
“Probably next year we won’t have to have a session about
Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 Cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  