-- AB InBev Said to Near Modelo Takeover for $12 Billion
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-25T14:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/ab-inbev-said-close-to-buying-rest-of-modelo-for-over-12-bln.html
Grupo Modelo SAB, Mexico’s biggest
brewer, rose the most in more than 2 1/2 years in Mexico City
trading in anticipation of an offer from  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) 
for the remainder of the company.  The shares gained as much as 12 percent, the steepest
intraday advance since Oct. 2, 2009. They were up 9.8 percent at
107.51 pesos as of 8:44 a.m., giving the Corona maker a market
value of 347.9 billion pesos ($24.9 billion). AB InBev rose 2.9
percent to 57.22 euros at 4 p.m. in Brussels.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , is close to buying the
rest of Modelo for more than $12 billion, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter. The purchase may be announced as
soon as this week, said the person, who asked not to be
identified as the discussions are confidential. The deal isn’t
completed and may still fall through, the person said.  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, gained a non-
controlling 50 percent stake in  Modelo (GMODELOC)  when InBev NV bought Bud
Lite brewer Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 for $52 billion, the
biggest brewing deal ever. Brewers are among consumer-goods
companies looking to expand outside of Europe as high
unemployment and sluggish economies holds back growth.  “This deal would mean the biggest step forward since the
Anheuser-Busch transaction in 2008, creating new growth
opportunities and making one of the best and strongest consumer-
goods companies even stronger,” Marc Leemans, an analyst at
Banque Degroof SA in Brussels, said in a note.  Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for AB InBev, and Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for Mexico City-based Grupo Modelo,
declined to comment after the Wall Street Journal reported late
yesterday that AB InBev was in talks to buy the remaining stake.  SABMiller Downgraded  The reported value of the transaction would make it
“attractive” to AB InBev, potentially boosting earnings by
about 10 percent,  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in
 London , said in a note. Zuanic has a buy recommendation on AB
InBev and today cut competitor  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  to sell from hold
on the grounds that speculation of a bid from AB InBev may fade.  SABMiller dropped as much as 2.2 percent in London trading
and was down 1.6 percent at 2,465 pence at 3 p.m.  An acquisition of the rest of Modelo by AB InBev would mean
“the strong one becomes even stronger,” said Mikihiko Yamato,
deputy head of research for JI Asia in  Tokyo . “It’s like
musical chairs, and the good deals are taken by strong ones
first, and there is not much left for the rest.”  Lost Arbitration  Modelo,  Mexico ’s largest beer brewer, had sought to prevent
Anheuser-Busch from selling its stake to InBev as part of the
2008 merger that also gave AB InBev nine of Modelo’s 19 board
seats. At the time of the transaction, Modelo Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Fernandez said that his company was interested in
buying back Anheuser-Busch’s non-controlling stake, which the
Budweiser-maker bought in the 1990s.  In July 2010, Modelo lost an arbitration bid to deny board
seats to some AB InBev directors. Modelo has expanded in the
U.S. and in other countries without using AB InBev’s
distribution network.  Modelo’s market value gives it a price-to-earnings ratio of
about 28.7, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average of 26.3 for peers in the industry.
Japan’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ’s ratio is almost 121, while  Heineken
NV (HEIA) , which competes with Modelo in Mexico after buying  Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUB) ’s brewing unit in 2010, trades at almost
28 times earnings, the data shows.  “Modelo is the next best step AB InBev should make,”
 Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote
yesterday in an e-mail, saying it allows the company to profit
from cost-cutting.  Reduced Debt  AB InBev has been formed by a series of takeovers to create
a company with  brands including  Beck’s, Bass, Labatt Blue and
 Stella Artois .  The company has cut debt from the Anheuser-Busch deal and
agreed to buy control of Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana for
$1.24 billion in April, boosting its expansion with the addition
of the Dominican Republic’s biggest beermaker.  SABMiller Plc, the world’s second-biggest brewer by volume,
agreed to buy Foster’s Group Ltd. in Australia last year for
about A$10.5 billion ($10.53 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  