-- Egypt Stocks Gain Most in Four Months; Abu Dhabi Drops
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-24T14:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/abu-dhabi-shares-lead-middle-east-drops-on-egypt-syria-concern.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index rose
the most in more than four months before the North African
country announced the results of its first free presidential
elections. Shares in  Abu Dhabi  declined.  Orascom Construction Industries, the nation’s biggest
publicly traded builder, climbed the most since May and
 Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  rose 3.2 percent.
Egypt’s  EGX 30 index  rallied 3.3 percent, the most since Feb.
13, to 4,166.32 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The gauge
tumbled 8.8 percent last week. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  fell
0.4 percent as Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  retreated 1.1
percent, the most since March 7.  Egypt’s shares rose “especially after different political
factions announced that they will not resort to violence and
will accept the choice of the people,” said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities.  Egypt will announce the results of the presidential vote
today. The Muslim Brotherhood has denied it plans to resort to
violence if their candidate, Mohamed Mursi, doesn’t win the
race. The Brotherhood will continue peaceful protests against
the military’s move to limit the powers of the next president
and increase its influence in the writing of a new constitution,
Mursi said at a televised press conference over the weekend.  Still, analysts such as Said Hirsh of London-based  Capital
Economics  say the results may spark unrest if former air force
commander Ahmed Shafik is declared winner.  Orascom Construction advanced 2.5 percent, the most since
May 13, to 221.5 pounds. Commercial International, the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender by assets, rallied to 22.28
Egyptian pounds. About 75 million shares  were traded  in Egypt
today, compared with a 12-month daily average of 86 million.  Oil’s decline  In the Persian Gulf shares retreated after oil declined 5.1
percent last week to $79.76 a barrel, extending losses this year
to 19 percent. The six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) , holds about
one-fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  “All markets across the region are soft on very light
activity,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of
institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “An air
of enhanced caution pervades as we await political developments
in both Europe and the region.”  Greece  will push its creditors to extend fiscal deadlines
under the country’s bailout program by at least two years,
according to a policy document drawn up by the three parties in
the country’s governing coalition.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  retreated 0.7 percent, while
Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  lost 0.2 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
decreased 0.3 percent. Kuwait’s  measure  tumbled 1.2 percent and
 Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 0.4 percent.  Trading Debut  Tokio Marine Saudi Arabia, a company that offers Shariah-
compliant property and casualty insurance, closed at 77.5 riyals
on its trading debut in  Riyadh .  In Israel, the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 0.6 percent.
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  jumped the most in more than
12 years, surging 12 percent to 163 shekels, after a U.S.
federal district judge ruled that competitors’ drug applications
for the multiple sclerosis medicine Copaxone infringe its
patent.  Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX)  posted its biggest drop this
year, slumping 9.8 percent to 23.32 shekels, after the European
Union rejected the biotechnology company’s first drug on the
market.  The yield on Israel’s 5.5 percent benchmark Mimshal Shiklit
government bonds due January 2022 rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 4.41 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  