-- Thai Bank CEO Sees Competition Spurring Mergers: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-25T09:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/thai-bank-ceo-sees-competition-spurring-mergers-southeast-asia.html
Thailand ’s banking industry may
shrink to as few as five lenders from 14 as competition and
cost-cutting fuels consolidation, said Boontuck Wungcharoen,
chief executive officer of  TMB Bank Pcl. (TMB)   “Thailand has too many banks for the size of the market,”
Boontuck, 55, said in a June 22 interview in his office in
Bangkok. “The country should probably have five or six strong
banks, so I think you will see consolidation over the next five
years.” TMB is 26 percent owned by the Ministry of Finance.  Thailand nationalized more than half of its commercial
banks during the 1997 Asian financial crisis, and has since sold
controlling stakes in some lenders to help repay the cost of the
bailouts. Bangkok-based TMB, the country’s seventh-biggest
traded lender by assets, raised $1.1 billion in 2007 by selling
shares to investors including UBS AG and ING Groep NV, which
owns 30 percent of the bank.  “In a lot of markets the regulator is the main obstacle to
consolidation, which isn’t the case in Thailand,” said Daniel Fineman, Credit Suisse Group AG’s Thailand research head. “The
Bank of Thailand in its  master plan  said it would like to see
fewer banks.”  Thailand’s biggest lenders by market value,  Siam Commercial
Bank Pcl (SCB) ,  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK)  and  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL) , account for
almost 69 percent of the 11-member SET Bank Index, which has
climbed 18 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent advance
for Thailand’s benchmark SET Index. TMB  shares  slumped 2 percent
to 1.5 baht today, the biggest drop in three weeks.  ‘Select Services’  “There is a need for consolidation as the few smaller
banks are offering only select services such as vehicle
financing and stock brokerage services,” said Vikas Kawatra,
head of institutional broking at Maybank Kim Eng Securities
(Thailand) Pcl, the country’s biggest brokerage.  The nation’s top five banks, which also include Krungthai
Bank Pcl and  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl (BAY) , had total outstanding loans of
6.37 trillion baht ($201 billion) at the end of March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was 63 percent of the
industry’s total outstanding loans of 10.19 trillion baht,
according to data from the Bank of Thailand.  Loans by Thai commercial banks grew 14 percent in the first
quarter as the nation’s recovery from last year’s flood crisis
spurred demand for credit, the central bank said in a report in
May.  On a price-to-book basis, TMB  shares  trade at a 28 percent
discount to the  SET Bank Index (SETBANK) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. TMB has a market value of $2.1 billion.  Not Imminent  Consolidation in Thailand “will probably happen at some
point, but it might not happen anytime soon,” Credit Suisse’s
Fineman said. “The bigger banks aren’t eager buyers. There’s
also a lot of overlap between the smaller banks.”  Acquisitions by international banks may be more likely than
mergers between local lenders, Fineman said.  “For the next two years, I don’t see any non-Asian bank
pursuing acquisitions aggressively,” Kim Eng’s Kawatra said.  Thailand has 14 licensed commercial lenders, including
local units of  Malaysia ’s CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., and  Singapore ’s United
Overseas Bank Ltd., according to the central bank.  Nine international banks have closed their operations in
Thailand since 2001, according to  central bank data .  ABN Amro Group NV pulled out of Thailand in 2004, selling
its 81 percent stake in Bank of Asia Pcl to UOB for $533 million
after the Thai lender recorded seven straight annual losses.
HSBC Holdings Plc in January sold its credit card business in
Thailand to Bank of Ayudhya for about $115 million.  ING Stake  Amsterdam-based  ING (INGA)  is TMB’s biggest shareholder, followed
by Thailand’s finance ministry, according to ING and data
compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s DBS Group Holdings Ltd. owned
as much as 16.1 percent of TMB before ING’s purchase in 2007,
and now holds 2.9 percent. Frans Middendorff, a spokesman for
ING, declined to comment on the stake.  Media reports over the past two years have said ING, ICBC,
 Korea Development Bank  and International Finance Corp., the
 World Bank ’s lending unit, may buy the Thai government’s stake
in TMB. Siam Commercial bank on June 19 denied a report in the
Thai-language Kao Hoon newspaper that it may buy shares.  Thailand sold stakes in ACL Bank Pcl to ICBC in 2010 and in
BankThai Pcl to Malaysia’s CIMB in 2008. Thanachart Bank Pcl,
partly owned by  Canada ’s Bank of  Nova Scotia , bought Siam City
Bank Pcl from the central bank in 2010.  “Building a large network to offer lending services
profitably isn’t viable because of competition” in Thailand,
Kim Eng’s Kawatra said, adding that consolidation may not happen
within five year because “smaller banks are nurturing
optimistic ambitions” and may be reluctant to merge.  Indonesian Deals  International banks may see more scope for acquisitions
elsewhere in  Southeast Asia , such as in  Indonesia , where the
central bank oversees 120 foreign and local commercial banks.  On April 2, DBS offered to buy  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN) 
for about $7.2 billion, the biggest takeover by a Southeast
Asian lender. On June 6, Woori Bank Co. signed an agreement to
buy a 33 percent stake in PT Bank Himpunan Saudara, declining to
provide details on the value of the deal.  In Malaysia, Hong Leong Bank Bhd. bought EON Capital Bhd.
for $1.7 billion last year, while RHB Capital Bhd. agreed to
acquire OSK Holdings Bhd.’s investment bank for $620 million in
May. Most recently, K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd., a brokerage
backed by Deutsche Bank AG, announced on June 15 that it will
buy ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd.’s investment banking unit.  “Foreigners are not interested in small operations,” Kim
Eng’s Kawatra said. “TMB is certainly one of the choices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  