-- Ferrari’s Alonso Enjoys ‘Special Feeling’ of Valencia Victory
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-06-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/alonso-wins-european-grand-prix-to-lead-drivers-standings.html
Spain’s  Fernando Alonso  enjoyed the
“special feeling” of victory in yesterday’s European Grand
Prix at Valencia as he delighted the home crowd and took the
lead in the Formula One drivers’ standings.  Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus came second, and Mercedes’s  Michael
Schumacher  was third after 57 laps of the quayside street
circuit in Spain. Ferrari’s Alonso, who started 11th on the
grid, is the first repeat winner this season after seven
different drivers won the first seven races in the calendar.  Two-time defending series champion Sebastian Vettel of  Red
Bull , aiming for a third straight Valencia win, dominated the
early part of the race but dropped out after 34 laps because of
engine trouble. Lotus’s  Romain Grosjean  also withdrew, when in
second, and  Lewis Hamilton  of McLaren exited the race in a
collision just before the end when defending third spot.  Alonso said he was thrilled to win, a day after his
country’s soccer players reached the semifinals of the European
Championship by beating  France . He described it as his “best
win” in terms of emotions.  “I cannot put into words the special feeling of winning
your home Grand Prix,” Alonso told reporters after the 29th win
of his Formula One career and the first in Valencia. “This is a
special team, Ferrari, with the grandstands full of Spanish
flags and the fans in red. After the footballers won at Euro
2012, I am feeling very proud to be Spanish at the moment.”  Pole-sitter Vettel led from the start and his superior pace
let him open up a 9.7-second gap on Hamilton, who started in
second. On lap 10, Grosjean overtook Hamilton, who soon after
made a pit stop, dropping temporarily to 12th.  New Tires  Vettel stayed out as drivers including Raikkonen and
Williams’s  Pastor Maldonado  pitted, leaving the German still
leading ahead of Grosjean. By the time Vettel did stop for new
tires after 16 laps, he was able to rejoin the race in the lead.  Bruno Senna  of Williams was involved in a high-speed spin
after making contact with Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi but managed
to stay in the race. Senna was then penalized with a drive-
through penalty for the incident.  Vettel continued to forge ahead of Grosjean, followed by
Hamilton, Alonso and Raikkonen. By 25 laps Vettel had a 20-
second advantage.  Hamilton was hurt by a slow pit stop involving the front
jack, the latest in a series of such problems this season. That
dropped him back to sixth.  Jean-Eric Vergne’s Toro Rosso came together with Heikki Kovalainen’s Caterham, damaging both their tires and putting
Vergne out, and causing the safety car to come out as debris was
cleared. A round of pit stops followed, and two-time world
champion Alonso immediately overtook Grosjean after the safety
car left to take second place, while Hamilton got past
Raikkonen.  Vettel’s Exit  On lap 34 Vettel’s car lost power and exited the race,
leaving  Spain ’s Alonso in the lead to the cheers of the home
audience. He was followed by Grosjean, Hamilton and Raikkonen  “It’s a shame, we are not sure what happened. It is
frustrating, we were en route to win the race,” Vettel told
reporters. “There’s not much we could have done better, but
with reliability we all work on the limit. Up to that point we
had had a perfect start, a perfect pit stop, a perfect race.”  Grosjean then pulled out because of an alternator problem,
leaving Alonso setting the pace with a 3.7-second lead, ahead of
two other former world champions, Hamilton and Raikkonen.  In the closing moments of the race, Raikkonen went second
after overtaking Hamilton, who then crashed out when Maldonado
hit him as he tried to go past the Briton.  Schumacher Podium  Schumacher held off a late challenge by Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  to finish third, the German’s first podium since
returning to the sport in 2010 after a three-year absence.  “I didn’t think about a podium, not even at the end of the
race,” Schumacher said. “At the end I asked the guys where we
finished and the boys told me third. I can’t believe that, I
didn’t expect it.”  They were followed by Force  India ’s  Nico Hulkenberg , Nico Rosberg of Mercedes, Paul di Resta in the other Force India, and
 Jenson Button  of McLaren. Then came Sergio Perez of Sauber and
Maldonado, who ended 10th following the incident with Hamilton.  Alonso leads the drivers’ standings on 111 points, followed
by Webber (91), Hamilton (88), Vettel (85),  Nico Rosberg  of
Mercedes (75) and Raikkonen (73).  Red Bull is top of the constructors’ standings with 176,
followed by McLaren (137), Lotus (126), Ferrari (122) and
Mercedes (92).  The next event in the 20-race season is the British Grand
Prix at Silverstone on July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  