-- Egypt-Brokered Cease-Fire With Israel Declared by Hamas
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-06-24T15:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/hamas-israel-truce-holds-overnight-as-no-rockets-fired.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the military is ready to use “greater force” to
halt rocket fire from the  Gaza Strip , after Hamas declared a
cease-fire following a week of violence in the south.  Three rockets fired from Gaza have struck  Israel  today,
according to an Israeli army spokeswoman, who spoke anonymously
in accordance with military regulation. There were also no
reports of Israeli strikes on the seaside strip.  The truce, or calm, is intended to halt a round of violence
that left one Israeli and as many as 15 Palestinians dead while
at least 150 rockets were launched at Israel.  “Regarding the events in the south, our army has acted
forcefully against those who seek to injure us, and if necessary
will act with even greater force,” Netanyahu told the weekly
Cabinet meeting in  Jerusalem  today, according to a text message
sent from his office.  “A deal was brokered by  Egypt , after talking with both
sides, to restore calm starting tonight,” said Ayman Taha, a
spokesman for the Islamic movement that rules Gaza, last night
on Palestine TV. “Hamas will be watching the situation on the
ground within the coming hours and also the seriousness of the
Israeli enemy’s commitment to the calm.”  The Hamas-announced cease-fire is the second it has said it
agreed to since the bloodshed began with an attack on the
Israeli-Egyptian border on June 18.  Egypt Election  Hamas received a “moral boost” today with the
announcement that the  Muslim Brotherhood ’s Mohamed Mursi was
elected Egypt’s first Islamist civilian president, said  Mark Heller , senior research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s
Institute for National Security Studies. “How much practical
assistance Hamas will get from Egypt remains to be seen, as the
army will keep control over security matters for the time
being,” Heller said in a phone interview.  Israel has linked the Brotherhood to Hamas, which has been
designated a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union, and has said that Palestinians in Gaza
affiliated with the “global jihad” movement were responsible
for the June 18 attack. News of Mursi’s election was greeted
with celebratory gunfire by Hamas militants on Gaza’s streets.  “Hamas wants to test how much they can get away with, on
the assumption that in the coming months, when the Brotherhood
is in power,” its fighters will be able to escape to Egyptian
soil, Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel, said yesterday.  Red Lines  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  is among Israeli
leaders who have voiced concern about worsening security on the
border with Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with the Jewish
state more than three decades ago.  “Hamas is feeling pretty confident because it feels Israel
has tried to lay down red lines and it has ignored them,” Spyer
said. “Hamas has a strategic sense of wind in its sails because
of the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood.”  The Hamas-announced truce came after the Hamas militant
wing, the al-Qassam Brigades, warned that it could no longer
maintain “the quiet due to the enemy aerial strikes,” adding
that “retaliation will come at a proper place and time.”  Late on June 20, Hamas said it had agreed to halt fire. The
number of rockets and mortar shells fired from Gaza fell over
the next two days, only to rise again yesterday amid a growing
number of Israeli air strikes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  