-- Taqa Drops Most in 17 Months After Oil Falls: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-24T10:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/taqa-drops-most-in-17-months-after-oil-falls-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the
state-controlled power and oil producer known as Taqa, fell the
most in 17 months after crude oil extended its drop last week.  The shares plunged 6.3 percent, the biggest slump since
January 2011, to 1.20 dirhams at the 2 p.m. close in the
emirate. The benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 1.1 percent.  Oil
prices  retreated 5.1 percent last week to $79.76 a barrel in New
York, extending this year’s losses to 19 percent.  “The continued fall in oil prices will squeeze Taqa’s
profit margin late in the second quarter,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Oil, which has dropped this year amid a deepening debt
crisis in Europe, may also decline this week on signals global
economic growth is slowing and as U.S. inventories increase, a
Bloomberg survey showed. Taqa, founded in 2005, owns stakes in
businesses that generate power or produce oil and natural gas in
the  Middle East , North America, the North Sea and India.  Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the United Arab Emirates
and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil. Two
analysts recommend investors buy the shares of Taqa.  Taqa said May 10 its  first-quarter profit  more than
tripled. Sales from oil and gas were almost unchanged at 2.9
billion dirhams ($790 million) amid higher oil prices and weak
natural-gas prices, it said at the time. The company may report
second-quarter results on Aug. 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  