-- Harry Potter’s London Sets Morph Into $156 Million Park, Studio
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/harry-potter-s-london-sets-morph-into-156-million-park-studio.html
The  film studios  outside London
where all eight “ Harry Potter ” movies were shot have been
turned into a production facility and theme park by  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . at a cost of 100 million pounds ($156
million).  The site in Leavesden -- where  Rolls Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) 
once made engines, and where pre-production was done on “Star
Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace” -- now has Hollywood-
standard studios for hire. Also available on site is a  “Harry
Potter” tour  where, for 28 pounds per adult ticket, visitors
can see sets and props from the franchise. Burbank, California-
based Warner would not give a breakdown of how much it invested
in each operation.  Tax incentives introduced by former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  are encouraging investment in U.K.-based film shoots.
Warner Bros. also has been prodded by the success of the Harry
Potter series, which has generated $7.7 billion at the box
office, and the increasing share of box office outside the U.S.  “Given how great our experience was making the ‘Potter’
series, we decided to plant our flag permanently and invest in
these studios,” says Josh Berger, president and managing
director of Warner Bros. in the U.K., Ireland and  Spain . “It’s
a global industry today, and your centers of production are
further afield than where you’re based, which is in Hollywood.”  Fiscal Lure  “The tax credits are a very important part of the overall
ecology here of film production,” says Berger in an interview
at the studios. “Equally important are the incredible talent
that exists here behind the camera and in front of the camera.”  The studios, shown to journalists and camera crews, are a
combination of vast green fields and rows of former factory
buildings.  Unlike other film studios in and around  London  -- smaller
historic warehouses with trailers and a ramshackle charm --
Warner’s Leavesden Studios leave nothing to chance.  Leavesden offers nine giant “sound stages” (soundproof
studios), each large enough to fit at least a dozen planes, with
heating and air conditioning, wall-to-wall padding and an
abundance of power points. The site also has an underwater
filming tank -- basically a giant, empty concrete pool.  Indoor areas have the feel of a corporate headquarters.
Dressing rooms look like little motel rooms, each with a built-
in desk, sofa and bathroom. Make-up rooms have wrap-around neon
lighting, tidy desk drawers and swivel chairs.  A large on-site canteen offers year-round catering and
comfortable seating. There is no need for improvised trailer
cafeterias serving food in Styrofoam trays.  London Street  The only standing film set on view is a strip of a typical
London street that was used both for “Harry Potter” and for
“ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows” (2011).  “A number of people said to me, ‘Hollywood has come to
Hertfordshire,’ and that’s fantastic,” says Dan Dark, senior
vice president and managing director of Warner Bros. Studios
Leavesden. “We’ve got a 200-acre site here that can cope with
pretty much anything.”  Dark says the back lot -- or open green field -- was where
the streets of  St. Petersburg  were created for the James Bond
“GoldenEye,” and where the Hogwarts Express was operated in
“Harry Potter.”  Now, he says, Leavesden can be used not just by Warner
Bros. but by producers of commercials, music videos, television
programs and full-length features.  “We’re open for business to all comers,” he says.  Information:  http://www.wbsl.com   Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 