-- Australia’s Marc Leishman Shoots 62 for First PGA Tour Victory
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/australia-s-leishman-gets-first-pga-tour-win-with-final-round-62.html
Marc Leishman collected his first
U.S. PGA Tour win at the Travelers Championship, where he shot a
8-under-par 62 in the final round and then waited two hours
before celebrating his breakthrough title.  Leishman started six shots off the lead yesterday and had
eight birdies and no bogies at the TPC River Highlands course in
Cromwell,  Connecticut . He finished 14-under par and then grabbed
a late lunch and watched the Euro 2012 soccer semifinal between
Italy and England before focusing on the leaderboard, where he’d
hold on for a one-shot victory over  Charley Hoffman  and Masters
Tournament winner Bubba Watson.  “I didn’t want to watch the golf the whole time because I
would have been sweating,” said Leishman, who also prepared for
a possible playoff before the late challenges fell short.  Hoffman had a two-shot lead before dropping three shots
over the final two holes, while Watson missed a chance to gain
ground when he hit his tee shot into the water and took a
penalty on the 15th hole.  Brian Davis  and Roland Thatcher, who started the day tied
for the lead, both shot even-par 70 during the final round to
tie for fourth at 12 under with  Tim Clark  and John Rollins.  The 28-year-old Leishman, who in 2009 became the first
Australian golfer to receive the PGA Tour’s Rookie of the Year
award, said he saw some similarities between his win and  Webb Simpson ’s U.S. Open victory eight days ago.  “That’s a good way to have your first win,” Leishman said
at a news conference. “Webb showed last week, not that he got
it handed to him, but he got finished early. Didn’t probably
deal with as much pressure as you would if you were off in one
of the last couple groups.”  Follows Norman  Leishman received $1.08 million and is the first Australian
to win the tournament since  Greg Norman  in 1995.  Hunter Mahan , playing in the first group of the day, had a
career-low 61 to advance to 10-under for the tournament, one
shot behind Fredrik Jacobson,  Matt Kuchar  and Brendon de Jonge.
Mahan’s score was one shot shy of the course record.  The tour now moves to Congressional Country Club in
Bethesda, Maryland, for the $6.5 million AT&T National.  Tiger Woods is scheduled to play in the June 28 to July 1
tournament, which benefits his foundation. He’ll then play in
the PGA Tour’s Greenbrier Classic in White Sulphur Springs,  West
Virginia , from July 5-8 before heading to northwest England for
the British Open from July 19-22 at Royal Lytham & St. Annes
Golf Club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  