-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Fall Before European Debt Sales
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-25T06:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/australian-n-z-dollars-fall-before-european-debt-sales.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell on speculation Europe’s debt crisis will continue
to increase the region’s borrowing costs, curbing demand for
riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie slid versus its Japanese counterpart
before  Spain  and  Italy  sell debt this week and European leaders
hold a June 28-29 summit. New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the
kiwi, dropped against the greenback as Asian stocks declined,
extending U.S. equities’ first five-day loss in three weeks.  “Demand will still be there in European bond auctions, but
obviously the yields that they pay are still very high,” said
Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “The Aussie and kiwi are caught
between ongoing fears of contagion, slower global growth and
expectations of further quantitative policy measures abroad.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.3 percent to $1.0035 as of
3:51 p.m. in Sydney. It slid 0.6 percent to 80.46 yen. New
Zealand’s currency fell 0.4 percent to 78.78 U.S. cents. The
kiwi bought 63.16 yen, 0.7 percent lower than its June 22 close.  The Aussie has dropped 1.7 percent versus the  U.S. dollar 
since Dec. 31. The kiwi has advanced 1.4 percent.  Australia’s 10-year yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.01 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, declined
two basis points to 2.72 percent.  Stocks Drop  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.5 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.6 percent last week, the
first five-day loss since the period ended June 1.  Spain is scheduled to sell three- and six-month bills
tomorrow, while Italy is set to auction inflation-linked
securities maturing in 2016 and 2026, as well as up to 3 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) in zero-coupon bonds.  Spanish 10-year  yields  closed at 6.38 percent at the end of
last week, after surpassing the 7 percent level that prompted
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek international rescues.  European Union heads of state will gather in Brussels this
week. That follows a June 22 meeting where German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , French
President  Francois Hollande  and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said they would lobby their EU partners to accept a growth
plan of as much as 130 billion euros, or about 1 percent of the
trading bloc’s economic output.  Shorts Trimmed  Futures traders trimmed bets that the Australian dollar
will depreciate against the greenback, according to data from
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission last week.  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
Aussie compared with those on a gain, known as  net shorts , was
3,458 in the five days ended June 19, down from 45,459 in the
previous period.  “The Australian dollar remains beholden to the ongoing
European saga, with relatively large swings in the currency on
the back of alternating sentiment,”  Peter Jolly , the Sydney-
based head of market research at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,
wrote in a report today. “This pattern should continue in the
very near term, as we head into the European leaders’ summit.”  The Aussie has risen 2.2 percent in the past month, the
second-best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi was
the biggest gainer, advancing 4 percent in the same period.  Russia’s central bank started buying Australian dollars
last week, Reuters reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the matter. The bank will eventually raise its
holdings of the Australian currency to above 1 percent of
Russia’s foreign-exchange reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  