-- Havens Hard to Find as Bonds Lose Risk Status, BIS Says
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-06-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/havens-hard-to-find-as-bonds-lose-risk-status-bis-says.html
Government bonds  losing their risk-
free status are depriving investors of wealth-preservation
opportunities as Europe’s debt crisis boosts demand for havens,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  The global pool of safer assets “has shrunk just as demand
has risen due to a flight to safety, leading to a major shortage
of safe assets in the global financial system,” the BIS said in
its annual report published yesterday in Basel,  Switzerland .
“The deterioration in the perceived creditworthiness of a
sovereign raises the funding costs of virtually all private
borrowers in its jurisdiction.”  While Europe’s leaders are struggling to end a crisis that
threatens the euro, a drop in investor confidence has left
 Germany  as the only nation with a stable outlook on its AAA
rating among the currency’s 17 members. Its borrowing costs are
near record lows as investors seek refuge from a financial
turmoil now in its third year and which has pushed Spain’s 10-
year yields above the 7 percent level that forced  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland to seek international bailouts.  States “whose debt is risky cannot provide a reliable
backstop for the financial system,” posing a danger to
financial stability, the BIS said. That also means that risk-
averse investors are “deprived of a valuable and stabilizing
wealth-preservation option at times of stress, including in the
form of collateral,” it said.  Safety Bid  Investors searching for safety pushed the Swiss franc and
yen higher, prompting  Japan  to sell its currency and Switzerland
to impose a currency cap as the nation’s government sought to
protect exporters. Japan boosted its foreign currency reserves
by $185 billion last year while the  Swiss National Bank ’s
reserves surged 25 percent in May compared with the previous
month, the BIS said.  The yen strengthened to 76.03 yen against the dollar on
Feb. 1, the strongest level since reaching a post-World War II
high in October. Switzerland imposed a cap after gains that
pushed the franc to 1.0080 per euro on Aug. 9. Treasury 10-year
yields slipped to a record-low 1.44 percent on June 1.  Demand for  U.S. debt  has grown even as the Treasury
Department boosted the amount of outstanding marketable debt to
more than $10 trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007,
sustained by a lack of safe alternatives.  “Sovereigns have been losing their risk-free status at an
alarming rate,” the BIS said. “Restoring sustainable fiscal
positions will require implementing effective fiscal
consolidation, promoting long-term growth, and breaking the
adverse feedback loop between bank and sovereign risk.”  The BIS holds currency reserves on behalf of its members
and provides policy makers with a forum for discussion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  