-- Banks Need ‘Push’ to Avoid Prolonging Crisis, BIS Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-06-25T09:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/banks-need-push-to-avoid-prolonging-crisis-bis-says.html
Banks will need a “healthy push”
by governments to fix balance sheets, abandon risky businesses
and serve the public to avoid prolonging the financial crisis,
the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  Almost four years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., lenders still hold overvalued assets and are
postponing necessary recapitalizations while relying on official
funding, especially in  Europe , the BIS said in its  annual report 
released yesterday. Banks are also returning to risks akin to
those that led to the crisis, it said, and governments need to
put more pressure on them by enacting and enforcing new rules.  “Public policy must move banks to adopt business models
that are less risky, more sustainable and more clearly in the
public interest,” the BIS said in the report. “Governments can
give the banking sector a healthy push in this direction if
officials make sure that newly agreed regulations are
implemented universally and without delay.”  Global regulators have warned that the U.S., European Union
and  Japan  may fail to fully implement bank-capital rules drawn
up to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis that followed
Lehman’s collapse. Nations face a January 2013 deadline for
implementing the new rules, which more than triple the core
capital that lenders must have to stave off insolvency, and
require banks to build up buffers of easy-to-sell assets.  ‘Worrying Sign’  The BIS, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , is owned by 60
central banks for which it acts as a counterparty and trustee.
It’s also hosting policy-making groups including the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  and the Financial Stability
Board and provides research and statistics.  While the implementation of the new rules by the Basel
committee is lagging behind, banks are still highly leveraged,
partly because they continue to expect state bailouts, the BIS
said. Another “worrying sign” is that trading returned as a
major revenue source for banks, it said. In some  emerging
markets , credit and asset price booms have inflated banks’
profits in ways “reminiscent of advanced economies” before the
crisis, it said.  “These conditions are moving the financial sector towards
the same high-risk profile it had before the crisis,” the BIS
said. “Recent heavy losses related to derivatives trading are a
reminder of the dangers associated with such a development.”  Banking Union  Euro-area policy makers, who are in the third year of
fighting a debt crisis that started in  Greece , face the biggest
immediate challenges, the BIS said. European banks are still
weighed down by overvalued legacy assets that are a drag on
profits and a cause for mistrust between banks that continues to
clog interbank lending, it said.  Euro governments on June 9 budgeted as much as 100 billion
euros ($126 billion) for a possible rescue of Spanish banks,
which are creaking mostly under bad real estate loans and form
the most acute epicenter of banking problems in the area now.
The banks may need as much as 62 billion euros to withstand a
worst-case scenario, auditors said on June 21.  Spain  is due to
formally ask for the aid today.  The BIS joined the  International Monetary Fund  in saying
that the currency union must create a cross-border banking
system by unifying bank regulation, supervision,  deposit
insurance  and the resolution of failing lenders. That could
revive interbank lending and sovereign access to funding.  “A pan-European financial market and a pan-European
central bank require a pan-European banking system,” the BIS
said. “These measures will break the adverse feedback between
the banks and the sovereign and other destructive links that are
making the crisis so severe.”  ‘Unfinished Business’  While European banks are the main focus now, market
developments for lenders’ equity and debt worldwide signal that
investors don’t see much progress in the global banking sector
since the period following Lehman’s collapse, the BIS said.  “The magnitude of this unfinished business is clear from
investors’ continued distrust of banks” the group said. “The
cost of buying compensation for a bank default is as high now as
it was at the peak of the crisis, and  bank equities  continue to
lose ground relative to the broad market.”  The 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services 
index fell 1.2 percent as of 9:45 a.m. London time today, led
down by  National Bank of Greece SA. (ETE)  That takes its loss in the
last 12 months to 26 percent, outpacing the 8.5 percent decline
for the broader  Bloomberg European 500 (BE500)  index.  ‘Asset Encumbrance’  While banks’ profits have recovered from their lows in
2008, that recovery was driven by trading income, a revenue
source that proved to be fickle in the crisis, the BIS said. Net
interest income, which remained mostly stable in the crisis,
hasn’t change much, it said. Lenders also made only “modest
progress” in lowering their costs, which will be a key
requirement for profitability in the future, it said.  An increase in funding costs because of new regulations is
inevitable, according to the organization. As banks pledge an
increasing part of their assets as collateral for debt
instruments such as covered bonds or for loans from the ECB, the
remainder available for unsecured lenders shrinks. The
withdrawal of government support and greater losses imposed on
bondholders in case of a bank’s failure will also make funding
more costly, it said.  Collateralized lending by euro-area banks, which includes
bonds backed by mortgages, public-sector loans, and other
assets, last year rose to 288 billion euros, or 45 percent of
their total bond issuance, compared with 28 percent in 2007, the
BIS said. Banks also are using more and more assets as
collateral for ECB borrowing, it said.  Recovery ‘Headwinds’  Overall, 20 percent of European banks’ assets were
“encumbered” one way or the other in 2011, the BIS said,
citing industry statistics. For Greek banks, that ratio totaled
a third of assets. While collateralized debt offers a way for
lenders to secure market funding when unsecured debt is harder
to sell, it makes the system more vulnerable to margin calls and
less able to absorb shocks, the BIS said.  Shrinking asset pools also increase incentives for banks to
use collateral as backing for several investments, it said.  “The shrinking supply of safe assets is harming the
functioning of financial markets and driving up funding costs,”
the BIS said. “And it is helping push banks into risky
practices.”  While banks worldwide have raised  capital ratios  since
2008, they didn’t do so in the same fashion, the group said.
Japanese and emerging-market banks continued to boost their
assets as well as raising new equity, while U.S. banks slowed
expansion and European banks shrank assets, which was necessary
even as it cooled global growth, the BIS said.  “Even though such balance-sheet developments have
generated headwinds for global economic recovery, they are
consistent with a welcome downsizing of the banking sector over
the long term,” it said. “Surely, fundamental progress on the
structure of the financial system will be marked when its
largest institutions can fail without the taxpayer having to
respond, and when the overall size of the sector relative to the
rest of the economy stays within tighter limits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  