-- Banking Union Is an Idea in Search of the Good
-- B y   S h a r o n   B o w l e s
-- 2012-06-24T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/banking-union-is-an-idea-in-search-of-the-good.html
It wouldn’t be  Europe  if a proposal
didn’t lead to numerous interpretations.  A case in point is the concept of a so-called banking
union, which is clearly intended as a way to achieve
mutualization of the euro area’s debt and help solve the
region’s crisis. “Easier than euro bonds; less obvious because
it is more complicated” was how some saw it. But the potential
weakness of mutualization was spotted and now we are mired in
the maneuvers to extract something decent from the proposal.  The world learned a crucial lesson from the financial
crisis: that supervision must consider both bank-level and
economywide effects. The new European supervisory architecture,
including the European Systemic Risk Board and the  European
Banking Authority  in  London , seeks to do this by ensuring
Europe’s rules are consistent and applied equally across all
member states.  Because taxpayers pick up the tab for mistakes and crises
in their own country, supervision and the resolution of failing
banks has always rested with individual member states. Now it
has been shown that some euro-area countries can’t afford the
bill and have few options -- such as the ability to print money
-- for standing behind their banking system. The ensuing turmoil
has led to the conclusion that bank supervision, not just rule
making, must take account of monetary policy; hence the need for
a banking union, especially for the euro area.  Blending Ingredients  How do we blend these ingredients to maximum benefit and to
avoid a banking union becoming a vehicle that undermines the
single market in financial services?  The European Banking Authority as an agency of the European
Commission operates only on delegated power, limiting its
ability to make the tough decisions needed of a full-fledged
supervisor. The commission also retains oversight of all its
European agencies. By putting the European Banking Authority in
charge of banking oversight, power will be concentrated in the
commission, creating conflicts of interest similar to those when
individual governments act as bank supervisors. Moreover,
substantially expanding the power of the European Banking
Authority could require time-consuming changes to the European
Union  Treaty .  By contrast, the treaty already has provisions for the
 European Central Bank  to act as a supervisor, and this links
monetary policy and supervision for the euro area. By extension,
this would require a corresponding role for central banks in
member nations outside the euro area, such as the  Bank of
England , to take account of monetary policy in their countries.  This isn’t a question of a level playing field because even
euro-area countries will have supervisory variations in capital
requirements legislation, contributing to local correction of
issues such as the Spanish and Irish property bubbles.  However, EU-wide coordination will still be needed,
requiring an ongoing role for the banking authority as rule
maker, controlling supervisory variations for all 27 EU
countries and continuing in its dispute-mediation role. This is
even more the case if ECB supervision is only for large banks.  There are U.S. parallels here: supervision at the state
level, but federal oversight for large banks or those requiring
resolution after failing. Current EU capital requirements
legislation fits this model.  Member states  have a role on taking
economywide measures, balanced with EU-level constraints via the
Systemic Risk Board or the commission.  A banking union also envisages mutualization of bank
recapitalizations and deposit-insurance programs. But this
wouldn’t happen for some time because budgetary controls have to
prove themselves first, and mutualization without full
integration would pose too much exposure to sovereign debt.
Mutualizing bank debt is an even greater drag on member states’
balance sheets than sovereign debt. Changing creditor
hierarchies so insured depositors are at the top of the queue if
banks fail would help reduce the fiscal risks.  Germany  may want
to exempt all but its biggest banks from contributing, too.  Depleted Programs  We would be left with national deposit guarantee programs
standing as a common reinsurer or lender. The theory is that,
collectively, these funds would be big enough to stop bank runs.
That’s a worthy objective, but not of immediate use with most
deposit-insurance programs depleted and banks short of capital.
A euro-area bailout fund could provide a backstop for euro-area
banks, but it requires approval in all euro-area parliaments,
which would take time.  The U.K. probably wouldn’t join a sovereign-linked
backstop. However, I strongly advocate keeping the door open to
suitably structured and longer-term collective industry
backstops, providing there is a genuine single market in
financial services.  Although the mutualization of banking backstops looks
challenging, the supervisory aspects are doable now, and may be
useful. Difficult questions can’t be fudged. Parliaments and
governments must study the pooling of sovereignty. And euro-area
countries will need to abandon protectionist tendencies in
financial services. Nothing here provides any basis for
discrimination in the single market for financial services on
the grounds of location. Quite the opposite.  The treaty provisions requiring all member states to act in
accordance with the principles of the single market and free
competition must be embedded at all stages, whether it is future
treaty changes, the operation of EU economic governance or any
future legislation building a banking union.  ( Sharon Bowles  is chairwoman of the European Parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Moody’s bank downgrades 
and on  government power over toxic chemicals ; William D. Cohan
on  Wall Street’s job creation ;  Albert R. Hunt  on U.S. business’s
 embrace of Mitt Romney ;  Simon Johnson  on why  U.S. banks aren’t
ready  for a European crisis; Gregory La Blanc on  Facebook’s
strengths .  To contact the author of this article:
 sharon.bowles@europarl.europa.eu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 