-- Berggruen Says German Real Estate Vulnerable in Euro Breakup
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-06-25T15:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/berggruen-says-german-real-estate-vulnerable-in-euro-breakup.html
The German real-estate market, one
of the biggest beneficiaries of the  European debt crisis , would
be hurt by a breakup of the euro, according to billionaire
investor  Nicolas Berggruen .  “Germany has been a safe haven, but if the euro
disintegrates, it will be in trouble,” said Berggruen, a
German-American whose assets include homes and other Berlin
properties valued at about 300 million euros ($375 million).
Investors should take a “very cautious view,” he said.  In the first quarter, investors spent 3.52 billion euros on
German residential portfolios of at least 50 homes, 76 percent
more than a year earlier, CBRE Group Inc. estimates. They were
attracted by the resilience of the country’s economy and the
prospect of higher rents, the Los Angeles-based brokerage said
in an April report.  That resilience is likely to be tested in the next 12
months. Italy and Spain are heading for sovereign bailouts,
which could undermine even Germany’s creditworthiness, Jamie Stuttard,  Fidelity Investments ’ head of international bond
portfolio management in London, said by telephone on June 19.
The southern European countries have combined government debt of
2.8 trillion euros.  Converted Factory  Berggruen, 50, said he won’t be deterred from investing
more money in Berlin. His company owns about 90 buildings in the
city, including  Cafe Moskau  near Alexanderplatz and a former
factory in the Treptow neighborhood that was converted into
offices and homes. It also has properties in  Tel Aviv  and
Istanbul.  “We take a very long-term view,” he said in the interview
at his suite at the Regent Berlin hotel. “We don’t need to show
quick results.”  In 1985, Berggruen founded a company to manage his
investments and a small family trust. Today, Berggruen Holdings
has offices in Berlin, Amsterdam, Istanbul, Mumbai, New York and
Tel Aviv and owns assets valued at more than 1.5 billion euros.  The company bought Karstadt Warenhaus GmbH,  Germany ’s
biggest department-store chain, in September 2010, more than a
year after the retailer filed for insolvency. Karstadt operates
119 outlets including Berlin’s KaDeWe, the second-largest
department store in Europe, according to Berggruen Holdings’
website.  Berggruen Holdings owns and manages residential buildings,
offices and hotels. In Tel Aviv, Berggruen has hired Richard Meier & Partners Architects LLP to design a luxury-apartment
tower on Rothschild Boulevard.  Newark Project  His company is also developing 15 million square feet (1.4
million square meters) of homes, stores and offices in Newark,
New Jersey, to revitalize the downtown area. “Newark is more a
labor of love than anything else,” Berggruen said.  Berggruen’s father, Heinz, was an  art dealer  who amassed
one of the world’s most significant collections of works by  Paul Klee  and  Pablo Picasso , as well as works by  Alberto Giacometti 
and  Henri Matisse , after World War II. The Museum Berggruen, a
state-owned institution in Berlin’s Charlottenburg district,
houses more than 100 pictures by Picasso.  Germany’s residential property market had a better 2011
than most of the countries that share the euro. Prices rose by
an average of 2.6 percent, up from 0.5 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by the  European Central Bank . In the
rest of the euro region, the average increase was 0.3 percent.  Investment Opportunities  Prices fell in most southern European countries, led by
Spain, where there was a 7.4 percent decline, the ECB estimates.
Berggruen sees investment chances in Barcelona, Madrid, Milan
and Turin, though not until the sovereign debt crisis is
resolved.  “It’s too early now,” he said. “Wait until the whole
thing collapses properly. Even if it stabilizes, there will be
opportunities.”  At a conference in Berlin today,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said European leaders have to eradicate the “deficiencies”
that developed when the economic and currency union was founded
20 years ago.  Berggruen said the euro’s long-term future can only be
secured by closer fiscal integration. “Europe is like an
unfinished building,” he said. “Certain elements that are key
to making the structure work are missing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 