-- Borg Bashes Banks in Sweden Shielding Housing Bubble: Mortgages
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-06-25T10:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/borg-bashes-banks-in-sweden-shielding-housing-bubble-mortgages.html
Sweden ’s banks have drawn criticism
from Finance Minister  Anders Borg  for failing to cut mortgage
rates. Their reluctance to do so is about the only thing
preventing a full-blown housing bubble.  “What Borg wants is for banks to hand out cheaper loans
without that increasing demand for loans,” Par Magnusson, chief
analyst for Scandinavian rates at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  Stockholm , said in an interview. “That’s an impossible
equation.”  Swedish property prices have already risen too much,
according to the National Housing Credit Guarantee Board, or
 BKN , which advises the government on housing finance. The group
said residential properties are 20 percent overvalued after
years of crisis policies kept  interest rates  low. Reducing
mortgage rates further would spur credit growth and increase the
risk of insolvencies if borrowing costs start to rise, BKN said.  “If banks start lowering the  mortgage rates , we face the
risk of getting the same low rates we had in 2009 and a very
fast rise in  household  indebtedness,” Bengt Hansson, head of
research at BKN, said in a June 18 interview. “They would then
become very vulnerable to rate increases.”  Borg, who wants Sweden’s four biggest banks to meet
stricter capital requirements than those set elsewhere in
 Europe , has warned the industry that its failure to pass on
lower  interest rates  to customers may prompt his government to
intervene.  Capital Requirements  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Swedbank AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and
SEB AB need to boost core Tier 1 capital -- a measure of
financial strength -- to 10 percent of their risk-weighted
assets by January, and then raise the ratio another 2 percentage
points by 2015. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has
set a target of at least 7 percent by 2019.  The banks’ higher mortgage margins helped them lift their
combined first-quarter profit by 2.1 percent to 16.2 billion
kronor ($2.31 billion) -- money they can use to help fulfill the
higher capital rules. Though Borg opposes a European financial
transactions tax, he said in February there may be other
“national solutions” that could force banks to lower lending
margins.  A continued increase in mortgage lending would follow
record credit growth during the financial crisis, helping to
push  household debt  up to  170 percent  of disposable incomes in
2010, compared with 90 percent in the mid-1990s, according to
the Riksbank. Bank lending to Swedish households jumped 50
percent to 2.65 trillion kronor between 2006 and 2011, driven by
an 86 percent  increase in mortgage lending  to 2.12 trillion
kronor, according to  Statistics Sweden .  Property Bubble  “We have a bubble now, evident in the fact that real
prices have increased so much,” Hansson said. Figures compiled
by BKN show  house prices  have risen 75 percent in the past
decade, while apartment prices have soared more than 150 percent
in the period, adjusting for inflation.  Swedish apartment prices have soared more than 30 percent
since early 2007 to an average of 23,757 kronor a square meter
in May 2012, according to  Svensk Maeklarstatistik AB . The
average price for an apartment in Sweden is 1.6 million kronor
and the average size is 65 square meters.  A 69-square-meter  three-room apartment  in Stockholm’s
exclusive Oestermalm district was put on sale for 6.95 million
kronor, or 100,725 kronor per square meter. The latest bid on
the property was 7.22 million kronor as of June 22, according to
property broker Alexander White Fastighetsmaekleri.  Stockholm Prices  The average apartment price in central Stockholm is 57,932
kronor a square meter, data from Svensk Maeklarstatistik show,
which compiles monthly data on Swedish house prices and tracks
70 percent of all sales brokered through real-estate brokerages.
That compares with an average price of 36,452 kronor per square
meter in Gothenburg, Sweden’s second-largest city.  Not everyone agrees the housing market is in a bubble.
Central bank Deputy Governor Lars E. O. Svensson says the
increase in prices was caused by a shortage of homes on the
market rather than an increase in mortgage lending.  “Everything indicates that house prices are just a
question of supply and demand,” he said in an interview. “A
bubble means a price is higher than what’s justified by
fundamentals and there are no signs that prices in Sweden aren’t
compatible with fundamentals.”  The strength of Sweden’s economy, combined with the
European sovereign debt crisis, has caused the krona to gain 4.2
percent against the euro in the past 12 months. The Swedish
currency was little changed at 8.8131 krona per euro at 11:48
a.m. in Stockholm.  Wider Margins  Swedish banks have widened mortgage margins even as policy
rates have declined, the Financial Supervisory Authority said on
May 24.  The regulator  estimates that the difference between
customer rates and bank financing costs is now 1.1 percentage
points, the same as in 2002 to 2004. The Riksbank’s benchmark
rate is 1.5 percent, down from 4.75 percent in September 2008.  “As financing costs fall, mortgage margins also ought to
fall and it’s of course worrying that the banks so blatantly
prioritize their profitability over taking their societal
responsibility to contribute to stability,” Borg said May 24.  Yet Borg has also signaled he doesn’t want house prices to
further increase. Property prices remain “relatively high,” he
said on June 15. This is “still a risk factor for the Swedish
economy so therefore we have reason to try to make sure that we
won’t end up with rising house prices going forward,” he said.  “If house prices were to start rising and if debt was also
to increase then it all becomes a bit counterproductive from the
point of view of the government,” said Robert Bergqvist, chief
economist at SEB in Stockholm. “The government has been scared
that households would take on too much debt and that there will
be a correction on the  property market .”  Rejecting Borg  Swedbank rejects Borg’s criticism. Sweden’s largest
mortgage lender argues the central bank’s repo rate no longer
reflects bank funding costs, which are based on the Stockholm
interbank offered rate. Stibor was quoted at 2.138 percent as of
June 20.  “The banks can no longer fund themselves at the repo rate
level,” Swedbank said on its website. “Increased liquidity
costs as a result of new and stricter regulation have led to
higher gross margins,” according to the bank. These margins
need to cover “costs for administration, liquidity protection,
credit losses and the owners’ basic return requirements,”
Swedbank said.  Swedbank’s average  funding cost  for floating three-month
mortgages was 3.11 percent in the first quarter, down from 3.26
percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to its website.
The bank also charges clients an additional 0.76 percent for
costs relating to administration, liquidity and credit losses.
The lender says it needs a gross margin on a standard mortgage
of 0.65 percent to cover all its costs, and 0.75 percent to also
meet the return on equity requirement of its shareholders.  Floating Rate   Swedbank’s (SWEDA)  average floating rate for house and villa loans
of 4.31 percent in the first quarter of this year compares with
its average funding cost of 3.11 percent in the same period,
giving the lender an average gross margin of 1.2 percent.  Sweden’s FSA estimates banks on average have a margin of
0.4 percent after deducting administrative expenses, the cost of
maintaining a liquidity buffer and taxes. That’s equivalent to a
return on own capital of 22 percent.  A burst housing bubble would hit the Swedish economy hard,
Magnusson at RBS said.  Prices “have already fallen by about 5 to 6 percent and
that they will fall by another 10 to 15 percent is not at all
unreasonable,” he said. “That would be enough to cause
significant problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 