-- BRICs Biggest Currency Depreciation Since 1998 to Worsen
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-06-25T21:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/brics-biggest-currency-depreciation-since-1998-to-worsen.html
The largest emerging markets, whose
economies grew more than four-fold in the past decade, are
making losers out of everyone from central bankers to  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  as their currencies post the biggest declines since
at least 1998.  For the first time in 13 years, the real, ruble and rupee
are weakening the most among developing-nation currencies, while
the yuan has depreciated more than in any other period since its
1994 devaluation. P&G, the world’s largest consumer-goods maker,
cut its  profit  forecast for the second time in two months last
week in part because of currency losses. Brazil’s  Fibria
Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the biggest pulp producer, asked banks to loosen
restrictions on dollar loans as the real hit a three-year low.  Investors are fleeing the four biggest emerging markets,
known as the BRICs, after Brazil’s consumer default rate rose to
the highest level since 2009, prices for Russian oil exports
fell to an 18-month low, India’s budget deficit widened and
Chinese home prices slumped. Investors are bracing for more
losses as economic growth slows.  “I am quite bearish,” Stephen Jen, a managing partner at
hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP and a former economist at the
International Monetary Fund, said in a phone interview from
London. “When the global economy and capital flow slow down,
it’s going to expose a lot of problems in these countries and
make people stop and ask questions. A run on the currency could
be particularly ugly.”  Ruble’s Retreat  Currencies from Brazil, Russia and India will probably
decline at least 15 percent further by year-end, said Jen, the
former head of global currency research at Morgan Stanley.  Russia’s ruble lost 12 percent this quarter through today,
the biggest drop among the 31 most-actively traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The 11 percent depreciation in the real
and rupee was almost twice the retreat in the euro. China’s
yuan, which was kept unchanged during the global financial
crisis in 2008 and 2009, fell 1 percent since March after the
government widened the amount the currency is allowed to
fluctuate each day.  The ruble sank 2.4 percent last week, while the rupee fell
2.9 percent to a record low against the dollar and the real
dropped 0.8 percent.  Foreign Reserves  India’s currency rebounded 0.3 percent today as the
government said it increased the amount of rupee-denominated
debt overseas investors can own, one of several measures
unveiled to support the currency. The yuan fell as much as 0.3
percent to 6.3827 per dollar, the weakest level since Nov. 29,
before closing little changed. The ruble lost 0.3 percent.  A decade after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Jim O’Neill 
coined the term BRIC, China has become the second-largest
economy while Brazil, India and Russia are among the 11 biggest
worldwide. Their combined gross domestic product rose to $13.3
trillion last year from $2.8 trillion in 2002 as their share of
the global economy increased to 19 percent from 8 percent,
according to IMF data. Together, they control $4.4 trillion in
foreign-exchange reserves, about 40 percent of the total.  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares has surged 281 percent during
the past decade, compared with 34 percent for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  as the real and the yuan strengthened more than
30 percent. Local-currency debt in the BRIC nations returned an
average 86 percent in dollar terms since data for JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes on all four countries began in October 2005,
versus a 48 percent increase in U.S. Treasuries.  Export Boost  The countries are still strong enough to account for 80
percent of growth at New York-based Goldman Sachs, the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said at the St. Petersburg International Economic
Forum in Russia’s second-largest city on June 21.  Weaker currencies will stimulate economic expansion by
making exports more competitive, said Warren Hyland, an
emerging-market money manager at Schroder Investment Management,
which oversees about $319 billion worldwide. He’s been buying
ruble bonds of Russian companies.  Earnings at the nation’s commodity producers, including  OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN)  and  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL) , will get
a boost because their sales are in dollars while the bulk of
their costs are in rubles, New York-based Morgan Stanley said in
a report this month.  Weaker currencies are hurting U.S. companies that rely on
developing-nation revenue to offset slower growth in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan.  Lower Forecasts  P&G, led by Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald, said in a
June 20 presentation at the Deutsche Bank Global Consumer
Conference in Paris that foreign-currency fluctuations will cut
2013 earnings  growth  for the maker of Tide washing detergent and
Bounty paper towels by about 4 percentage points. China is the
Cincinnati-based company’s second-largest market and some of the
firm’s biggest businesses are in Russia and Brazil, P&G said.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
listed tobacco company, reduced its 2012 earnings forecast the
next day because of currency swings. The New York-based maker of
Marlboro cigarettes gets more than 40 percent of its operating
 profit  from Asia and  Latin America , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Pandit’s Expansion  A weaker real and lower interest rates in Brazil may reduce
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s second-quarter profit by $30 million, according
to JPMorgan. The Atlanta-based company left about $3 billion in
cash in Brazil at the end of 2011 to take advantage of the
country’s higher interest rates, Chief Financial Officer Gary Fayard said in a conference call in February. Half of the
positions were left unhedged, he said.  Brazil’s central bank President Alexandre Tombini has cut
the benchmark Selic  rate  by 2.5 percentage points this year to
8.5 percent, while the real has depreciated 9.7 percent.  “We continue to be concerned by Coke’s reliance on this
income source,” JPMorgan analysts led by John Faucher wrote in
a note to clients on June 7, reducing their 2012 profit estimate
to $4 a share from $4.06.  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Coca-Cola, declined to
comment.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which has been expanding in Latin America
and Asia under Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , may take a
$3 billion to $5 billion “hit” this quarter related to foreign
exchange losses, Charles Peabody, a New York-based analyst at
Portales Partners LLC, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television on June 20. The losses may reduce Citigroup’s book
value, or assets minus liabilities, he said.  Fibria Loans  Peabody, whose recommendations on shares of New York-based
Citigroup during the past year produced the highest  total return 
among 31 forecasters tracked by Bloomberg, cut his rating on the
stock to the equivalent of sell from buy in March.  “Citi’s unique global footprint and exposure to the higher
economic growth regions of the world will drive above-average
book value growth over time,” Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “The suggestion that having non-U.S.
exposure is somehow detrimental to Citi’s ability to continue to
grow value over time is simply wrong.”  Local companies in the BRIC countries are also being hurt.
Sao Paulo-based Fibria said on June 11 that it renegotiated loan
covenants after the real’s decline increased the cost of
servicing foreign obligations. About 90 percent of the company’s
net debt is in dollars, according to company filings.  Yuan Debt  The rupee’s drop has hurt Indian companies by fueling
 inflation  and reducing the scope for lower borrowing costs, said
V. Ashok, the chief financial officer of Essar Group, the
utility and shipping company owned by billionaire brothers
Shashi and  Ravi Ruia . India’s central bank unexpectedly left
interest  rates  unchanged on June 18.  “One has no clue where it is going to end,” Ashok said in
a June 22 phone interview from Mumbai. “The uncertainty and the
volatility is the biggest concern.”  A weaker yuan is sapping demand for local-currency debt
sold in Hong Kong, where international investors speculate on
China’s foreign exchange rate. The average yield rose to a four-
month high of 5.35 percent on June 5 from 4.82 percent at the
end of March, according to data compiled by Bank of America
Corp. Wang Changshun, chairman of  Air China Ltd. (601111) , told reporters
this month that the company’s income from foreign-currency
transactions will drop about 80 percent.  Bearish Bets  “All the BRIC looked ugly,”  John Taylor , who oversees
$3.5 billion as founder of currency hedge fund FX Concepts LLC
in New York, said in an phone interview on June 19. The real and
ruble will suffer “fairly decent” declines later this year as
a global recession spurs investors to buy dollars as a haven,
Taylor said.  After spending most of last year introducing policies to
weaken their currencies, emerging-market governments are now
working to limit the slide amid capital outflows.  Brazil’s government pared a tax on overseas loans on June
14 and has used swaps to add dollars to the market. Russia’s
central bank sold U.S. currency this month to slow the ruble’s
retreat, according to Chairman Sergey Ignatiev. India cut the
amount of overseas income companies can hold in foreign exchange
last month, spurring them to repatriate earnings. The ownership
ceiling on government bonds was raised by $5 billion to $20
billion, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Investors withdrew $6.3 billion from Brazil’s  stocks  and
bonds in May, the most since at least 2010, central bank data
show. Russian capital outflows reached a net $46.5 billion in
the first five months of the year, including $5.8 billion in
May, which is “a lot” for the country, Ignatiev told reporters
in St. Petersburg on June 6.  Consumer Defaults  Derivatives traders see no sign of a turnaround.  Wagers on a weaker real on Sao Paulo-based BM&FBovespa’s
futures exchange rose to $4.7 billion on June 12, the most since
February 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Option traders are the most bearish on the ruble since
October and they expect price swings in the rupee to be the
biggest in Asia, the data show. Twelve-month forward contracts
on the  yuan  are pricing in a further decline of 0.9 percent in a
year.  A surge in bad loans in Brazil will weaken the real
further, said Amit Rajpal, who manages global financial funds
for London-based Marshall Wace LLP. The default rate on consumer
debt rose to 7.6 percent in April, matching the highest level
since December 2009, as lending growth slowed to 18 percent from
a record 34 percent in September 2008,  according to the central
bank .  India Deficit  “What we’ll see now is basically a full-blown credit
problem,” said Rajpal, who predicts rising defaults in Brazil
will resemble the collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market
five years ago.  In India, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is grappling with
trade and budget deficits, corruption scandals and fighting in
the ruling coalition. The country may become the first among the
BRIC nations to lose its investment-grade rating, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said this month. India’s budget gap
amounted to 5.8 percent of gross domestic product, compared with
4.2 percent in Portugal and 3.9 percent in Italy, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China has cut its growth target this year to 7.5 percent,
from the 8 percent goal that had been in place since 2005. Home
values fell in a record 54 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in May, while industrial production growth slowed to
a three-year low in April.  In Russia, the price of  Urals crude , the country’s main
export blend, sank 26 percent this quarter. Russia relies on oil
and gas for about 50 percent of its budget revenue.  Investors are still too bullish on assets in the BRIC
nations as Europe’s debt crisis weighs on emerging economies,
said  Eric Fine , a money manager at Van Eck Global.  “They will do poorly when the world is doing poorly,”
Fine, whose firm oversees about $35 billion, said in a phone
interview from New York. “I don’t believe in decoupling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  