-- Bulls Proven Wrong as Prices Slump Into Bear Market: Comm
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-06-25T18:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/bulls-proven-wrong-as-prices-slump-into-bear-market-commodities.html
Speculators increased bets on a
rally in commodities for a second consecutive week, just as
prices tumbled into a  bear market  after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from expanding monetary stimulus.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised net-long
positions across 18 U.S. futures and options by 7 percent to
628,560  contracts  in the week ended June 19, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. That’s the highest in four weeks
and the first consecutive gain since the end of February.  Commodities slumped into a bear market June 21, a day after
the Fed extended its Operation Twist program while refraining
from a third round of debt buying known as quantitative easing.
Reports last week showed that Americans filed for more jobless
claims than forecast, sales of previously owned U.S. homes fell
in May and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted
this month at the fastest pace in almost a year.  “People were thinking that we’d see the next stimulative
event, and they started to front-run the trade, and that got
reversed quickly,” said  Jeffrey Sherman , who helps manage $37
billion of assets for DoubleLine Capital in  Los Angeles . “We’re
in for a volatile time in commodities as people try to ascertain
what’s going to drive growth.”  Weekly Slump  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities fell
3.2 percent last week, leaving the gauge down 21 percent from
this year’s closing high in February. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities retreated 0.3 percent, and the U.S. Dollar
Index, a measure against six trading partners, gained 0.8
percent last week. Treasuries dropped 0.4 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Sixteen of the 24 commodities tracked by S&P dropped last
week. Declines were led by silver, which slumped 7 percent, the
most since mid-December. Cotton plunged 6.9 percent on June 21,
the biggest loss since 1991. The GSCI rose 0.6 percent to 567.28
at 2:45 p.m. in  New York .  The Fed expanded its program to replace short-term bonds
with longer-term debt, known as Operation Twist, by $267 billion
through the end of the year, policy makers said at the end of a
two-day meeting on June 20. The program should have been
extended through 2013 to better shore up growth, according to
Kathy Jones, a fixed-income strategist in New York for Charles
Schwab Corp., which has $1.76 trillion in client assets.  Bundesbank Objections  Europe ’s leaders are struggling to contain a debt crisis
that forced  Spain  to call for a rescue, making it the fourth
euro member to need external funding as borrowing costs surge.
 Germany ’s Bundesbank said June 22 it’s opposed to the  European
Central Bank ’s decision to relax some rules on the collateral
that banks can offer in exchange for central bank loans.  “The fact that the Fed is doing anything implies that the
economy is weak, which isn’t good for commodities,” said Janna Sampson, who helps manage about $2.8 billion of assets at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois . “The outlook is very
dependent on Europe. Europe will have to stabilize before the
U.S. sees strong growth.”  Policy makers may be able to help stem declines through
stimulus measures, said Jeffrey Sica, the president of SICA
Wealth Management who helps oversee $1 billion of assets. A cash
injection would make commodities attractive as alternative
assets amid the threat of accelerating inflation, he said.  $2.3 Trillion  The S&P GSCI surged 92 percent from the end of December
2008 through June 2011 as the Fed kept  interest rates  near zero
percent and bought $2.3 trillion in government and housing debt.  “As we hear more talk of stimulus, that will give
commodities some price appreciation,” Sica said from
Morristown,  New Jersey .  “There’s still tremendous demand for
certain raw materials, such as grains. Their prices may not
explode like they did in years past, but they’re still going to
go up.”  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 13 percent to
428,734 contracts, the most since May 22. Corn surged 9.5
percent last week in  Chicago , the most in 13 months, as dry
weather threatened U.S. Midwest crops. The grain jumped 7.2
percent today, heading for the biggest advance in two years.  Investors added $1.16 billion to commodity funds in the
week ended June 20, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. The
gain was all attributable to gold and precious-metals funds,
which took in $1.2 billion, the most in 20 weeks, said  Cameron
Brandt , the director of research for EPFR.  Gold Bets  Wagers on rising gold prices gained 5 percent to 104,646
contracts, the CFTC data show. That’s the highest since May 1
and the fourth straight gain, the longest bullish streak since
early February. Net-long silver positions climbed 2.4 percent to
7,490 contracts, CFTC data show.  Gold tumbled 3.8 percent last week, the biggest loss this
year, as investors dumped the metal after the Fed’s
announcement. Futures gained as much as 1.4 percent today.  Investors became less bearish on copper before signs of
slowing growth in the U.S.,  China  and Europe sent prices down
2.2 percent last week, the seventh decline in eight weeks. Funds
cut their net-short position, or bets on a decline, to 11,897
contracts from 13,346 a week earlier.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in
June, matching the streak during the global financial crisis,
according to the preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’
index last week. German business confidence fell to the lowest
in more than two years this month, a gauge from Munich-based Ifo
institute showed on June 22.  “The Fed has thrown a wet blanket on U.S. growth
expectations,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New
Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $115 billion. “Until there’s a committed fiscal
thrust from China, as well as a renewed interest from the Fed to
monetize debt, I’d stay on the sidelines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  