-- Central Banks Face Limits of Power as Crisis Persists
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-25T09:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/central-banks-face-limits-of-powers-as-debt-persists-bis-says.html
Central banks in developed nations
are confronting the limits of their ability to aid economic
recovery as government efforts to strengthen their finances fall
short, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  “Central banks are being cornered into prolonging monetary
stimulus as governments drag their feet and adjustment is
delayed,” the  Basel , Switzerland-based BIS said in its annual
report, published yesterday. “Both conventionally and
unconventionally accommodative monetary policies are palliatives
and have their limits.”  While central banks’ actions were key to limiting damage
from the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  interest
rates  are now “as low as they can go” and debt purchases have
swollen central bank balance sheets, the BIS said. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has indicated that the ECB
is close to exhausting its tools after cutting its benchmark
rate to a record low and flooding the banking system with cash.  “In the middle of all this we find the overburdened
central banks, pushed to use what power they have to contain the
damage,” Stephen Cecchetti, BIS economic adviser, said on a
conference call. “There are very clear limits to what central
banks can do. It’s critical for the health of the global economy
to break the vicious cycles and reduce the pressure on central
banks.”  Europe Impasse  In the 17-nation euro area, leaders are at an impasse on
how to solve the debt turmoil as they prepare to meet for a
summit in Brussels on June 28, which will be their 19th since
the crisis erupted.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  called yesterday on
governments to start a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds,
warning in a Bloomberg Television interview that a failure to
produce drastic measures could spell the demise of the currency.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on ZDF
television that joint debt sales in the euro area “don’t make
sense” as long as budgets are set by national governments.  The BIS said central bank policy “buys time” in the short
term for banks and governments to tackle debt overhangs.
Extraordinary measures have reduced incentives for politicians
and other borrowers to repair balance sheets, and created the
illusion that central banks can do much more to stoke growth and
redress imbalances, it said.  The organization was formed in 1930 and acts as a central
bank for the world’s monetary authorities.  Policy Loosening  European stocks declined today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  dropping 0.9 percent as of 10:08 a.m. in  London . The MSCI
 Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.7 percent, while Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures also slid 0.7 percent.  Central banks are continuing to act to try to bolster
growth. The  Federal Reserve  expanded its Operation Twist program
last week and will swap $267 billion in short-term securities
with longer-term debt. The ECB has lent more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.26 trillion) at its  benchmark rate , and said this
month it will continue to provide liquidity to solvent banks.  At the  Bank of England , four of nine policy makers pushed
for more  bond purchases  this month, including Governor  Mervyn King , who said the case for more stimulus is “growing.”  David Miles , who was also among the four, said in an interview
published in the Financial Times today that the “right strategy
has been super-expansionary monetary policy.”  King, Miles, along with Chief Economist Spencer Dale and
policy maker Ben Broadbent are due to speak at a Parliament
committee in London tomorrow starting at 10 a.m.  Indian Measures  In Asia today,  India  increased the amount of rupee-
denominated debt overseas investors can own to arrest a slide in
the currency, which sank to a record-low on June 22.  The ownership ceiling on  government bonds  was raised by $5
billion to $20 billion, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said.
The combined limit on sovereign and corporate debt was last
increased to $60 billion from $50 billion in November. The move
is part of a slew of measures unveiled by Mukherjee to shore up
Asia’s worst-performing major currency this year. The rupee’s
decline has intensified prices pressures in the economy.  In the U.S. today, an economic report will show  new-home
sales  rose less than 1 percent to a 346,000 annual pace in May,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Commerce Department will release the figures at 10 a.m. in
 Washington .  Balance Sheet Risks  The BIS said global central bank assets are at $18
trillion, about 30 percent of global gross domestic product,
double the ratio a decade ago.  “As the benefits of extraordinary monetary easing shrink
and become less certain, the risks of expanding central bank
balance sheets are likely to grow,”  Jaime Caruana , general
manager of the BIS, said in a speech in Basel yesterday. “Such
hazards may materialize in ways that are not completely clear
today.”  Loose policy also poses risks for developing nations by
fueling credit- and asset-price booms, complicating efforts to
stabilize price gains, the BIS report said. In emerging
economies, interest rates have been raised “only hesitantly”
out of concerns about stoking further capital inflows.  “As a result, monetary policy in emerging-market economies
may be systematically too loose,” the BIS said. “This creates
risks of rising financial imbalances” similar to those in
advanced economies before the crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  