-- Central Banks Face Power Limit as Debt Persists, BIS Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/central-banks-face-power-limit-as-debt-persists-bis-says.html
Central banks in developed nations
are confronting the limits of their ability to aid economic
recovery as government efforts to strengthen their finances fall
short, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  “Central banks are being cornered into prolonging monetary
stimulus as governments drag their feet and adjustment is
delayed,” the  Basel , Switzerland-based BIS said in its annual
report, published yesterday. “Both conventionally and
unconventionally accommodative monetary policies are palliatives
and have their limits.”  While central banks’ actions were key to limiting damage
from the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  interest
rates  are now “as low as they can go” and debt purchases have
swollen central bank balance sheets, the BIS said. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has indicated that the ECB
is close to exhausting its tools after cutting its benchmark
rate to a record low and flooding the banking system with cash.  “In the middle of all this we find the overburdened
central banks, pushed to use what power they have to contain the
damage,” Stephen Cecchetti, BIS economic adviser, said on a
conference call. “There are very clear limits to what central
banks can do. It’s critical for the health of the global economy
to break the vicious cycles and reduce the pressure on central
banks.”  ‘Buys Time’  The BIS was formed in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities. It said extraordinary measures
have reduced incentives for politicians and other borrowers to
repair balance sheets, and created the illusion that central
banks can do much more to stoke growth and redress imbalances.  Central bank policy “buys time” in the short term for
banks and governments to tackle debt overhangs, the BIS said.
European finance ministers meeting in  Luxembourg  last week
battled over strategies to contain the debt crisis. Leaders are
due to hold a summit on June 28-29, which will be their 19th
since the turmoil erupted.  The  Federal Reserve  expanded its Operation Twist program
last week and will swap $267 billion in short-term securities
with longer-term debt. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said officials
are focusing “primarily” on the outlook for jobs in deciding
on further easing. The ECB has lent more than 1 trillion euros
($1.26 trillion) at its benchmark rate, and said this month it
will continue to provide liquidity to solvent banks.  ‘Benefits Shrink’  The benchmark rates of both banks, along with the  Bank of
England ’s, are at a record low. Overall, central bank assets are
at $18 trillion, about 30 percent of global gross domestic
product, double the ratio a decade ago, according to the BIS.  “As the benefits of extraordinary monetary easing shrink
and become less certain, the risks of expanding central bank
balance sheets are likely to grow,”  Jaime Caruana , general
manager of the BIS, said in prepared remarks for a speech in
Basel yesterday. “Such hazards may materialize in ways that are
not completely clear today.”  Loose policy also poses risks for developing nations by
fueling credit- and asset-price booms, complicating efforts to
stabilize price gains, the report said. In emerging economies,
interest rates have been raised “only hesitantly” out of
concerns about stoking further capital inflows.  Imbalance Risk  “As a result, monetary policy in emerging-market economies
may be systematically too loose,” the BIS said. “This creates
risks of rising financial imbalances” similar to those in
advanced economies before the crisis.  The BIS called on central banks in advanced economies to
take account of these spillover effects, and use all
opportunities to encourage balance-sheet repair and
deleveraging. Still, they “may have no choice but to keep
monetary policy relatively accommodative for now.”  As central banks enter “uncharted territory” with their
stimulus measures, policy makers may find it difficult to
implement the required tightening of fiscal policy, Caruana
said. Central banks might also lose credibility if governments
fail to improve their balance sheets, he said.  “If markets come to see monetary policy decisions as
constrained by the growing financing needs of government, the
ability of central banks to control inflation would, at some
point, be seriously compromised,” Caruana said. “Fiscal
consolidation is therefore essential not only to restore fiscal
sustainability, but also to preserve the credibility of monetary
policy.”  On the debt crisis in  Europe , the BIS said it’s “hard to
escape” the conclusion that the solution to the crisis will
have to include a pan-European banking system.  “A currency union that centralizes the lender of last
resort for banks must unify its banking system,” it said.
“Banks in Europe must become European banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  