-- China Medical Services Market Seen Hitting $500 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-25T20:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/china-medical-services-market-seen-hitting-500-billion.html
China, where 260 million people
suffer from cancer, diabetes and other diseases, is in a hurry
to bolster its medical services. Investors are ready to help.  The latest is Carlyle Group LP-backed  Concord Medical
Services Holdings Ltd. (CCM) , which last week completed a deal for a
52 percent stake in  Chang’an Hospital , a 1,000-bed facility at
the eastern end of the Silk Road. The acquisition comes three
months after China announced it wants 20 percent of its hospital
beds privately owned by 2015. Other investors in China include
Kuala Lumpur-based  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) ,  Asia ’s biggest hospital
operator, which plans to build a hospital in  Shanghai , to add to
 seven clinics  it owns in Shanghai and one in Chengdu.  The push for private hospitals in China is part of a
broader drive to improve care in a country where  95 percent  of
people had health insurance as of 2011. China’s medical services
market is growing 18 percent annually and projected to reach
3.16 trillion ($500 billion) in 2015, accountancy firm Deloitte
China said.  Concord Medical’s shares rose 1.7 percent to $2.95 as of 4
p.m. in  New York  trading. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
1.6 percent.  “China’s gross domestic product has grown by leaps and
bounds, but the quality of medical care has lagged far behind,”
said David Chow, chairman of Harvest Medical Investment and
Operation Group, a Taiwanese private equity firm that’s planning
to buy stakes in mainland hospitals this year. “The potential
for China’s hospitals to improve is massive, both in the overall
number of beds and the fees charged for each bed.”  Bed Increase  As of last year, China had 3.7 million hospital beds, up 54
percent from 2005. Besides an increase in the proportion of beds
run by private operators -- it was 12 percent last year -- the
government wants at least one or two hospitals in each of its
2,853 counties by the end of 2015, according to an  outline  of
the country’s health-care policies.  China’s central government spent 450.6 billion yuan between
2009 and 2011 to improve the country’s medical services, which
included building and upgrading county hospitals, setting up
basic medical insurance and a promise of further investments,
the official Xinhua news agency reported on Monday, citing a
State Council document.  Annual revenue from private hospitals in China may reach
2.4 trillion yuan ($377 billion) by 2015, said Yvonne Wu,
national life science and health care industry leader at
Deloitte China in Shanghai.  400,000 Beds  The targets could translate to 400,000 new private hospital
beds over the next few years, said Roberta Lipson, chief
executive officer of hospital operator  Chindex International
Inc. (CHDX)   U.S- and European-owned companies previously had a hard
time entering the Chinese hospital market and tended to invest
instead in clinics and diagnostic centers. They have only been
able to independently invest in hospitals since  Jan. 30 , when
the government took the industry off a so-called restricted list
that required non-Chinese investors to have a local partner and
capped foreign ownership at 70 percent.  Chindex, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , started China’s first
foreign-owned hospital in Beijing in 1997, six years after
commencing negotiations with the government, Lipson said. It
took only a year to obtain a license to operate Chindex’s latest
hospital, in the port city of Tianjin, she said.  Friendlier Now  China has become a “friendlier environment” for foreign
companies investing in hospitals, Lipson said in an interview in
Beijing. “There’s a large unmet need for health care in China
and the potential is huge,” she said.  Chindex, whose shares trade on  Nasdaq , is nearing
completion of a fourth hospital in the southern city of
Guangzhou and is studying opportunities elsewhere in China.  Other private hospital operators in China besides Concord
Medical and IHH Healthcare include Shanghai-listed  Topchoice
Medical Investment Corporation (600763) , which is based in Zhejiang
province, and Shenzhen-listed  Aier Eye Hospital Group (300015) , based in
 Hunan province .  The increase in hospitals is also boosting demand for
medical equipment.  General Electric Co. (GE) , which makes ultrasound,
CT and MRI machines, opened an innovation center in May in the
western city of Chengdu to be closer to its rural-hospital
customers. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company intends to
open a second China innovation center this summer in the Shaanxi
provincial capital, Xi’An, where Concord Medical’s Chang’an
Hospital is located.  Preliminary Agreement  Concord Medical signed a preliminary agreement with GE last
August that includes using GE medical products in its treatment
centers and helping promote GE equipment in rural China.  Concord Medical, based in Beijing, operates 131
radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers in 24 provinces in
China. It spent two years trying to buy its stake in Chang’an
Hospital for 248 million  yuan , delayed by “unclear rules” and
bureaucracy, said Yang Jianyu, Concord Medical’s chief executive
officer. New policies encouraging private hospital ownership
will spur more investment, he said.  Concord Medical intends to set up as many as eight private
hospitals in the next decade, starting in Beijing, Shanghai and
Guangzhou, Yang said in an interview. Chang’an Hospital last
year posted its first annual profit in 10 years of business,
helped by the changes introduced by Wang Jingming, a former
senior colonel and head of the  People’s Liberation Army ’s  251
Hospital  in northern China’s Hebei province.  Chang’an Hospital  Wang, who advises the Chinese government on medical
information technology systems, was hired to run Chang’an
Hospital by the original owner three years ago under Concord
Medical’s recommendation.  He installed a system of electronic swipe-cards at the
hospital to reduce patient waiting times and identify under-
performing doctors by gauging treatment times. He’s also
introducing a program for doctors from Philadelphia’s  Fox Chase
Cancer Center  to work there, with diagnostic and management
support from their colleagues in the U.S.  A graduate of  China ’s top army medical school, Wang brims
with ideas on how to generate more income from the hospital’s
facilities, including extracting more profit from its
convenience store, canteen, and even the six-bed mortuary, where
he sees the potential for earning money from funeral and
religious services.  “There should be a dignified way of handling the deceased,
like how it’s done overseas -- not just dressing up the corpse
but also taking care of the psychological and religious needs of
the families,” he said, adding that China’s hospitality
industry improved when foreign investment and management knowhow
was encouraged in the 1980s. “We have some of the world’s best
hotels, and it’s now our hospitals that need to be better
managed.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  