-- Chinese Spacecraft Completes First Manual Docking
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/chinese-spacecraft-completes-first-manual-docking.html
China  moved a step closer to
achieving its goal of building a space station after it manually
docked a spacecraft and an orbiting module for the first time.  The Shenzhou-9 spacecraft carrying three crew, including
the nation’s first female astronaut, linked up with the
Tiangong-1 laboratory module at 12:55 p.m. Beijing time
yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. A remote-
controlled, automated docking took place last week and the
spacecraft was disconnected yesterday to repeat the maneuver
manually, an event broadcast live on national television.  China is seeking to expand its space program and has goals
of putting a person on the moon by 2020 as well as operating a
permanent manned  space station . The astronauts lived and worked
in Tiangong-1 since last week’s docking and returned to the lab
module after yesterday’s maneuver to conduct further experiments
and studies, Xinhua said.  The docking was “a complete success,” Wu Ping, a
spokeswoman for China’s manned space program, said at a briefing
in Beijing yesterday, according to a transcript on the central
government’s website. The breakthrough in the docking technology
“lays a solid foundation for construction of the space
station,” she said.  China has an investment budget of 19 billion yuan ($3
billion) for the country’s space-rendezvous and docking missions,
Wu said. That includes the Shenzhou-9 project and the planned
Shenzhou-10 manned mission next year as well as previous
missions conducted by the Shenzhou-7 and Shenzhou-8 spacecraft,
she said.  Mission Plans  Shenzhou-9 was launched on June 16, while Tiangong-1 was
put into orbit last year. The astronauts will stay in the module
for another three to four days before manually maneuvering it to
separate from the spacecraft and return to Earth, Wu said.  China sent its first man into space and conducted its first
spacewalk decades later than the U.S. and  Russia . The U.S. ended
its 30-year space-shuttle program last year and now has no
manned spaceflight capability.  China spent 20 billion  yuan  on manned space programs
carried out by Shenzhou-6 and earlier projects since it started
manned missions in 1992, Wu said.  As the country marked a step forward in its space
exploration, it also set a new a new depth record for a manned
submersible, according to a separate Xinhua report yesterday.  The Jiaolong, named after a mythical sea dragon, dropped to
a depth of more than 7,000 meters (23,000 feet) below the
surface of the western  Pacific Ocean , Xinhua said. The
submersible reached a depth of 7,020 meters during its fourth
dive into the Marianas Trench, according to the report.  The crew of three worked for almost three hours on the sea
floor collecting water samples and sediments and placing markers
at the bottom of the sea, Xinhua said. The submersible will
return to China in mid-July, it said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors:  Paul Gordon , Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net  