-- Coal-Plant Plunge Threatens Billions in Pollution Spend
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-06-25T16:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/coal-plant-plunge-threatens-billions-in-pollution-spend.html
The coal-fired power industry in the
U.S. is facing the biggest plunge in asset values in a decade,
risking billions of dollars in pollution-control spending by
utilities such as  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)   An indication of how much new emissions rules and cheaper
natural gas have hammered the value of coal-burning generation
will come when Exelon announces the results of the first big
sale of U.S. coal-fired power plants in four years.  Exelon, the largest U.S. power company, may have to take a
40 percent discount for three  Maryland  plants it’s seeking to
sell by the end of August. Bidders including  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) 
have offered $600 million to $700 million for the units, which
have a fair value of $1 billion, said  Travis Miller , Chicago-
based director of utilities research for Morningstar Inc.  “This is going to be the first meaningful transaction for
coal assets since the downturn,” Julien Dumoulin-Smith, a New
York-based analyst with UBS AG, said in a phone interview. “You
can get a little anxious about what the repercussions are.”  Constellation Energy Group, which Exelon bought this year,
spent $1 billion on the plants to keep them in compliance with
pollution rules. Their sale, the biggest since 2008, comes in an
era of more stringent pollution rules and competition from
facilities burning gas, a fuel cost that is near 10-year lows.  The transaction may help American Electric,  GenOn Energy
Inc. (GEN)  and  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  determine whether the cost of added
pollution controls to keep coal plants operating is worth it.
U.S. utilities are switching to burning gas for electricity and
preparing to retire 33,000 megawatts of coal-fired generation
after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency tightened rules
for mercury and other toxins, Dumoulin-Smith said.  Misjudging Power Prices  Lower-than-expected power prices for the coming years
caused American Electric on May 30 to cancel plans to spend $1
billion to reduce emissions from a Kentucky coal-fired plant.
The Columbus, Ohio-based company has announced plans to shut
coal plants capable of generating thousands of megawatts.  Edison International, which paid about $1.8 billion in 1999
for the Homer City coal-fired power plant in  Pennsylvania , this
year surrendered control of the facility after being unable to
get financing for pollution controls.  “Low natural- gas prices  have been a major driver of lower
power prices and have diminished Homer City’s competitive
position,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a May 11 downgrade
note.  Selling Plants  Exelon fell 1 percent to $36.53 at 12:23 p.m. in  New York .
American Electric fell 0.4 percent to $39.08.  Investors have priced in coal-plant losses and the threat
of new gas-fired competitors in mid-Atlantic states, said
Dumoulin-Smith. Exelon, the largest U.S. nuclear power plant
operator, has fallen  16 percent  this year. GenOn, a smaller
generator with coal-fired plants in Maryland, has decreased 41
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Electric Utilities Index has
dropped 1 percent this year.  The last time that coal plants were so cheap was in the
late 1990s and early 2000s, when deregulation brought a spate of
coal-fired plants on to the market, said David Herr, a
Philadelphia-based managing director of the energy and mining
practices for Duff & Phelps Corp.  “The utilities were able to sell their coal plants to
their non-regulated, merchant operations at phenomenally low
prices,” Herr said in a phone interview. “Those assets
increased tremendously” in value when gas prices rose in 2005.  Constellation Spending  Before the commodity boom collapsed in 2008, large coal
plants typically sold for $1,000 a kilowatt,  Daniele Seitz , an
independent power industry consultant, said in a phone
interview. By that measure, the plants owned by Exelon would
have fetched $2.5 billion, less any added environmental
compliance costs.  Exelon must sell the plants as part of its $7.3 billion
takeover of Constellation.  Constellation Energy spent $1 billion from 2008 through
2010 to add pollution-control equipment to Brandon Shores, its
largest coal-fueled plant, and the two other sites in Maryland.
Brandon Shores spewed the biggest amount of hazardous material
from any U.S. plant in 2008 until an $885 million investment cut
emissions 90 percent.  Utilities can hire Shaw Group Inc. or Babcock & Wilcox Co.
to install scrubbers and other equipment to keep coal plants
running. James Bernhard, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based Shaw, said in a June 7 speech that
the company gets work if a coal plant is cleaned up, converted
to gas or shut, since it will help build a replacement.  Shutting Capacity  Coal-plant operators have announced plans to shut 14,000
megawatts of capacity in the next three years within the 13-
state wholesale power market overseen by PJM Interconnection
LLC. The retirements come in lieu of installing equipment to
comply with federal emissions limits slated to take effect in
2015.  The retirement announcements haven’t sent power prices in
PJM soaring for 2015 and 2016 in part because of gas plants
proposed to be built in Maryland and  New Jersey ,  Hugh Wynne , a
New York-based utilities analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said in a May 21 report.  State intervention in support of new plants has also
spooked investors trying to determine values for the Exelon
facilities, Dumoulin-Smith said. “It throws a wrench in your
underlying thesis,” Dumoulin-Smith said. “I think clearly the
price talk is down.”  Power Contracts  Maryland and New Jersey require utilities sign long-term
power purchase agreements with certain proposed plants, giving
the owners a revenue stream and the state some assurance of
cheaper power supplies.  Some sellers have tested the market for coal plants only to
abandon the idea after bids were lower than anticipated.  “A lot have withdrawn assets,” said Jeff Bodington,
president of  Bodington & Co. , a  San Francisco , California-based
firm that specializes in advising power industry mergers.
Selling plants “wasn’t easy in good times, now it’s even less
easy.”  The number of potential bidders for Exelon’s plants is
skewed by the fact that it can’t sell to some of the largest
power companies, including American Electric, FirstEnergy,
GenOn, Dominion Resources Inc. and Calpine Corp. Under an
agreement with federal regulators, Exelon is barred from selling
to any company that owns 3 percent or more of the installed
capacity in the PJM wholesale market.  Strategic Buyers  The three plants generate enough power to light 2.1 million
homes, according to U.S. Energy Department estimates. The plants
would once have commanded a premium for their low emissions,
especially from strategic buyers hoping to gain a foothold in
PJM, the largest U.S. wholesale electricity market, Seitz said.  Their value has been hurt by an unprecedented shift by U.S.
utilities to burning gas that is cheaper than coal mined east of
the  Mississippi River , Robert Zabors, director of the energy
practice for Bridge Strategy Group, a Chicago-based management
consulting firm, said in a phone interview.  The U.S. is expected to get 13 percent less power from coal
this year as gas-fired generation rises 22 percent, the Energy
Department said in its June 12  short-term energy outlook . Coal
accounted for 36 percent of U.S. electricity generated during
the first quarter, down from 45 percent a year ago.  Gas Prices  Gas prices reached a 10-year low on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  of $1.902 per million British thermal units in April.
Central Appalachian coal prices have dropped 17 percent this
year. Returns from each of the five members of the  Bloomberg
Americas Coal Index (BUSCOAL)  have declined by 25 percent or more in 2012.  To make the case to buy the Exelon plants, “you have to
believe Appalachian coal prices are going to fall by half, other
coal plants will retire, capacity markets will stay rich, EPA
rules will stay in place, distributed generation including solar
will not proliferate and load growth will return,” Zabors said.  Exelon Studying Bids  Exelon is studying bids and expects to close the sale by
August, Chief Strategy Officer William Von Hoene Jr. said on
June 7. The company agreed to complete the sale within 150 days
of the March 12 close of its Constellation purchase.  Paul Elsberg, a company spokesman, declined to say how much
Exelon expects to receive from the auction or identify bidders
for the plants.  Lori Neuman, a spokeswoman for NRG, declined to comment on
whether the Princeton, New Jersey-based power producer bid on
Exelon’s plants.  At a heavily discounted price, the plants may be a smart
investment for a strategic buyer betting that gas prices will
rise later this decades as the U.S. exports the fuel and more
utility consumption boosts demand, said  Sam Brothwell , a senior
utility analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  “As gas prices go up, the value of an installed coal plant
could go up to a greater extent,” Brothwell said. “This basket
of coal plants could be a leveraged play betting on a rebound of
coal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  