-- Consumer Spending Probably Stalled in May: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-24T04:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/consumer-spending-probably-stalled-in-may-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending  stalled in May, a
sign the biggest part of the  U.S. economy  may struggle as
employment and wages cool, economists said before reports this
week.  Purchases were unchanged last month after a 0.3 percent
gain in April, according to the median of 75 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey before Commerce Department figures due on
June 29. Manufacturing is weakening, while housing shows further
signs of stabilization, other reports may show.  A slowdown in payrolls and unemployment above 8 percent have
damped consumer confidence, which may keep restraining sales at
companies from  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  to  CarMax Inc. (KMX)  Waning
demand, together with concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and
U.S. fiscal policy, helps explain why the  Federal Reserve  last
week extended a program to keep borrowing costs low.  “Consumers are staying cautious,” said  Michael Hanson , a
senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .
“Job growth is sluggish and overall compensation hasn’t been
great. The economy is decelerating.”  The report may also show  incomes  grew 0.2 percent, matching
the prior month’s gain that was the smallest since November,
economists predicted.  Employment has decelerated each month since January.
Payrolls rose 69,000 in May, the weakest this year, after a
77,000 increase in April. The jobless rate climbed to 8.2
percent from 8.1 percent. Average hourly earnings grew 1.7
percent from May 2011, the smallest rise since December 2010.  Dining Out  Darden, owner of the Red Lobster,  Olive Garden  and LongHorn
Steakhouse restaurant chains, reported fourth-quarter revenue
that trailed analysts’ estimates because of an unexpected drop
in sales at its older establishments. The company said customers
grew more cautious in May, and it will focus more on
affordability in its promotional offers.  “We saw the consumer get a lot more cautious in May,”
Clarence Otis, chairman and chief executive officer at Darden,
said on a June 22 conference call with analysts. “And that was
not just at Red Lobster, but across the restaurant industry and
really, as we look out at the data that we get, generally across
the overall consumer environment beyond restaurants.”  Households may be growing wary of spending on so-called big
ticket items like automobiles. Cars and light trucks sold at a
 13.7 million  annual rate in May, the weakest this year and down
from April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data
showed.  “The weak economy and high  unemployment rate  continues to
be a drag on the consumer,” Thomas Folliard, chief executive
officer at CarMax, a Richmond, Virginia-based used-vehicle
retailer, said on a conference call with analysts on June 21.  Shares Fall  Signs of slower U.S. growth and concern over Europe’s debt
crisis pushed stocks lower last week. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, which decreased 0.6 percent from the previous week, is
down 4.5 percent since the end of April.  Business investment, a pillar of the expansion, is also
moderating as global markets lose momentum, Commerce Department
data may show on June 27. Demand for goods meant to last at
least three years rose 0.5 percent in May, the first gain in
three months, economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.  Orders for durables excluding transportation equipment
climbed 0.7 percent, according to the median estimate, failing
to make up for the 0.9 percent decrease a month earlier.  Other reports will show Americans’ moods remain subdued
this month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of  consumer
sentiment , due June 29, dropped in June to 74.1, the lowest
level of the year and matching the preliminary reading. The
Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index, to be released
June 26, declined to a five-month low, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  Spending Cools  The spending and income report may reinforce concern that
household purchases, which climbed  2.7 percent  in the January to
March period, will provide less of a boost to the economy this
quarter. First-quarter gross domestic product expanded at a 1.9
percent annual pace, matching the government’s previous
estimate, economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected ahead of
the Commerce Department’s revisions due on June 28.  “Growth in employment has slowed in recent months, and the
unemployment rate remains elevated,” Fed policy makers said in
a statement on June 20. “The Committee expects economic growth
to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very
gradually.”  The central bank announced it will expand its Operation
Twist program to extend the maturities of assets on its balance
sheet, and said it stands ready to take further action to put
unemployed Americans back to work. Fed officials also lowered
their outlook for growth and employment.  Home Sales  Weak hiring and tight credit are also holding back
residential real estate.  New-home sales  rose less than 1 percent
to a 346,000 annual pace in May, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. The Commerce Department will release the figures
tomorrow.  The number of Americans signing  contracts  to buy previously
owned homes grew 1.3 percent in May after falling 5.5 percent in
April, the Bloomberg survey median showed ahead of National
Association of Realtors data due on June 27. Pending home
resales provide insight into actual contract closings a month or
two later.  Property values are still under pressure, figures may show
on June 26. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  in 20
cities fell 2.7 percent in the 12 months ended April, little
changed from the 2.6 percent decline in the year ended March,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  