-- Cyprus’s Sylikiotis in China to Explore Ground for Loan
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-06-24T14:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/cyprus-sends-commerce-minister-to-china-for-possible-loan.html
Neoklis Sylikiotis, Cyprus’s
minister of commerce, industry and tourism, is visiting  China  to
“explore the ground” for receiving a loan from the Asian
nation amid speculation it may need a European bailout.  The minister, who is also in charge of energy affairs, is
in China with Michael Sarris, chairman of Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl, the east Mediterranean island’s second-largest lender,
Sylikiotis said in a telephone interview today.  “When there is something that can be announced we shall do
so,” Sylikiotis said. He declined to give details on the size
of any possible Chinese loan.  The Cypriot government is being pressured by the European
Union to seek a bailout package worth as much as 10 billion
euros ($12.6 billion). The nation is also pursuing a loan from
 Russia  to improve its bargaining position after receiving a 2.5
billion-euro payment last year.  Cyprus decided in May to underwrite the issue of 1.8
billion euros in preference shares of Cyprus Popular, which has
until June 30 to meet  capital requirements  set by the European
Banking Authority. The government needs as much as 6 billion
euros over two years to support the nation’s banks, Sarris said
on June 15.  The need to recapitalize Cypriot banks that have been hit
by losses on Greek debt is the reason the island nation is
facing a possible bailout, President Demetris Christofias told
To Vima in an interview yesterday. The so-called troika of the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  has operated like a  “colonial force” by forcing
austerity measures and neo-liberal policies on bailed-out
countries, the newspaper cited Christofias as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  