-- Cyprus’s Sylikiotis in China to Explore Ground for Loan
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-06-26T18:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/cypriot-minister-on-trip-to-china-to-ask-for-loan-simerini-says.html
Cyprus hasn’t specified a figure for
a possible rescue package it requested from euro-area countries
yesterday, which could involve the  International Monetary Fund ,
the east Mediterranean island’s finance minister said.  “Neither ourselves nor the people we are talking to have
ever raised the question of the amount,” Vassos Shiarly told
reporters today. “It is a matter that will be determined in the
process that will follow.”  Negotiations will begin “as soon as Europe and ourselves
are ready to negotiate,” he said, adding that the IMF’s
involvement “is something that is being discussed at the
moment”.  Cyprus, which has been shut out of markets since May last
year, is the fifth euro-area member to seek a European rescue
after  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain . The euro area’s
third-smallest economy has also been cut to junk by all rating
companies.  Fitch Ratings Co., which was the last to do so yesterday,
said that the island’s government may need as much as 6 billion
euros ($7.5 billion) to support its banks, which were hurt by
writedowns in Greek government debt. The  European Central Bank 
said today that Cypriot government bonds have become ineligible
as collateral in refinancing operations following the downgrade.  Recapitalization  The island’s government decided in May to underwrite the
issue of 1.8 billion euros in preference shares of Cyprus
Popular Bank, which is the second largest Cypriot lender. The
deadline for the bank’s recapitalization expires on June 30, a
day before Cyprus assumes the rotating presidency of the
European Union.  Government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou , who spoke in a
joint press conference with Shiarly, said the island’s
government is not prepared to discuss the “red lines” it will
have in the rescue negotiations and added that it will try to
preserve the island’s 10 percent corporate  tax rate .  “We are very sensitive about the corporate tax because it
is very important for the Cypriot economy,” Stefanou said,
adding that “this issue has not been raised,” in exploratory
talks so far.  The island, which requested various countries, including
Russia and  China , for a bilateral loan in order to avoid strings
being attached to its bailout, has not received a final response
yet, the Cypriot government spokesman said.  European authorities have pressed Cyprus to take a full
bailout package worth as much as 10 billion euros, resisting the
country’s attempt to limit any aid to its banking system, two
officials said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  