-- Djokovic Says Wimbledon Defense Is on Course After Loss in Paris
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-24T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/djokovic-says-wimbledon-defense-is-on-course-after-loss-in-paris.html
Novak Djokovic said he won’t let the
disappointment of missing out on a historic run of Grand Slam
championships affect his  Wimbledon  title defense.  The men’s top seed from Serbia will open Wimbledon on
Centre Court today against Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain, two
weeks after second-seed  Rafael Nadal  beat him in the final at
Roland Garros. Nadal’s seventh French Open win ended Djokovic’s
attempt to become the first man since  Rod Laver  in 1969 to hold
all four major titles at the same time.  “It’s behind me now,” Djokovic told reporters at
Wimbledon yesterday. “Yes, I was so close, even though there
was a slight disappointment after the match because I was aware
of the chance that I had in Roland Garros.”  It didn’t take long for Djokovic to put his four-set defeat
to Nadal in perspective.  “The day after, I felt good about my tournament, about my
achievement in Paris,” Djokovic said. “It was the first time I
ever have been in the final of  Roland Garros .  That’s a step
further from all these years that I’ve been playing in Paris.
That’s something that made me satisfied. I’m still only 25, so I
believe that I have a lot more years and a lot more chances to
win Roland Garros.”  Also playing today, six-time champion  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland  starts on Court 1 against Spain’s Albert Ramos.
That’s followed by a match between two former top-ranked
players,  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  and Serbia’s Jelena Jankovic.
Women’s top seed and French Open champion  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia follows Djokovic on Centre Court against Anastasia
Rodionova of  Australia . U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur of
Australia plays Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain, while former
Roland Garros winner  Li Na  of China meets Ksenia Pervak of
 Kazakhstan .  Top Spot  Djokovic took the No. 1 spot in tennis away from Nadal
after beating him in last year’s final at the All England Club.
Now he’s the one being chased by Federer and two-time Wimbledon
winner Nadal.  The third-seeded Federer, who could play Djokovic in the
semifinals, will reclaim the No. 1 ranking if he wins the title.
Nadal has a shot at the top spot if he wins and Djokovic fails
to move beyond the quarterfinals.  Djokovic, who took time off after Paris and didn’t play a
grass-court tournament before Wimbledon, said he’s not thinking
about the rankings.  “It’s not an issue,” he said. “If you worry too much
about calculations, you’re going to lose that necessary focus on
the court.”  Federer’s Target  Sixteen-time major winner Federer said he’d rather win
another Grand Slam title than become No. 1 again. His last major
title was the 2010 Australian Open and he was ousted in the
quarterfinals of Wimbledon in the past two years. The last time
he was No. 1 was in May 2010, and he’s one week shy of tying
 Pete Sampras ’s record of 286 weeks at the top of the men’s game.  “It’s really titles that interest you the most at this
moment,” Federer said in a news conference at Wimbledon two
days ago. “They go hand in hand. We’re talking about the
pinnacle of the sport.”  Djokovic said winning Wimbledon last year has boosted his
confidence on grass.  “I’m playing with more self-belief on this surface, which
is the rarest surface we have now in the sport,” Djokovic said.
“We don’t get much opportunity to play on grass, only a couple
weeks a year. But I realized my dreams last year. I played a
perfect tournament. I like the conditions here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  