-- Don’t Count Out Facebook’s Business Model Just Yet
-- B y   G r e g o r y   L a   B l a n c
-- 2012-06-24T22:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/don-t-count-out-facebook-s-business-model-just-yet.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s disastrous initial
public offering has led to an increasing consensus that the
social networking site was overpriced and that its business
model is flawed.  Some attribute the debacle to issues raised in the
company’s prospectus, such as the difficulty of monetizing
mobile technology. Others have pointed to the slow growth in
advertising revenue or questioned  Facebook’s strategy  of
collecting vast quantities of data from its networked users to
enable customized ads.  Yet the pillars of Facebook’s business model -- monetizing
customer data and social media -- are here to stay, and the
company is among the best positioned to take advantage of both.  Facebook’s strength relies on network effects, economies of
scope, discrimination, customization and market power. Most
people understand the business to work like this: Users derive
the benefits of social sharing. The price they pay is to hand
over personal data that is sold to advertisers. The two major
threats to this model are that users will increasingly become
concerned about privacy and turned off by advertising, which
will slow the growth of both the data and ad  revenue .  This misrepresents the nature of the exchange. Although
there are people who oppose data sharing and advertising of any
kind, most consumers benefit from good advertising.  Wasted Effort  The retailer  John Wanamaker  is often credited as saying,
“Half the money I spend on advertising is wasted; the trouble
is I don’t know which half.” He was optimistic. It is doubtful
that traditional media advertising is even that effective, and
the online variety doesn’t necessarily work any better.
Advertising isn’t made more efficient by moving into cyberspace
but by using data to identify the appropriate audience.  Every transaction, whether social or commercial, involves
search costs. The monetary price of a good usually isn’t a
measure of how much a customer has spent on it, nor does it
accurately reflect what the producer received. The customer pays
the monetary cost plus search costs, which can take the form of
consumer research, product assessment and social validation.
Sometimes these costs are monetary, but more often they involve
time, effort and anxiety.  Similarly, you could say that the seller receives the price
minus search costs. He must expend resources to ensure that
there is an adequate supply of goods in the right place, educate
the customer about the product, and market and advertise it.  Whoever makes this matching process easier is in a position
to charge for it. And whoever does it best is in a position to
charge the most. This is where economies of scope kick in for
Facebook. Most of the companies that have performed this
matching process, whether they are brick-and-mortar or online
retailers, have done so within a single domain. These companies
vertically integrate the advertising platform with the selling
platform. For instance,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  can use customer-purchase data to design customized advertising of other
products. It still doesn’t have access to data on purchases on
other sites or offline, and tries to drive all book purchases
through its site.  This benefits not just Amazon, but also the purchaser, who
is often willing to pay a premium to reduce search costs and
increase the likelihood of a better match between preferences
and the item purchased.  Limited Matching  Yet this form of matching is limited. Suppose purchasers of
a particular book would like to know about a film? Or film
lovers might be inclined to visit a new restaurant? Even if
advertising contracts can be designed across domains, the
matching is suboptimal without data sharing. These limitations
on the matching process that result from fragmented data are
pushing companies toward greater scope, which explains the wider
range of products offered through platforms such as Amazon and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Still, they have trouble knowing what you do in your
brick-and-mortar life.  Unlike the companies that integrate the selling and
advertising functions,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has been extremely successful
at streamlining the matching process purely as an advertising
platform. It does so by knowing specifically what people are
looking for, but also by funneling as much as possible of the
online activity through its own platform.  Facebook, like Google, aims to collect data on every aspect
of its users’ behavior across numerous domains and not just
online. These companies want to know what people purchase, what
they like, what they read, where they’ve been and who their
friends are. They have created applications that make it
increasingly easy to aggregate personal data in a single
location. They do so by ensuring that users are generating data
even if they aren’t logged on to their sites. Ultimately, the
more data that exists in one place, the better the matching
process can work.  Facebook  and Google now offer their services free and
generate all their  revenue  from advertising. There are questions
about the sustainability of this approach. After all, how many
hugely valuable companies can rely entirely on advertising? Is
there enough advertising to go around? And if advertising
becomes more effective through targeting and customization,
won’t advertisers be able to reduce their overall spending?
Probably not.  By making every advertising dollar more effective, the
marginal benefit of each dollar spent increases. When allocating
resources, more will be spent on advertising relative to other
inputs such as labor or materials. The more efficient the
matching process becomes, the more resources will be devoted to
matching. Products will derive more of their value from
advertising, which will account for an increasingly large
percentage of gross national product.  Using Data  Facebook is only beginning to figure out how to use the
customer data it collects. If it succeeds, it will be able to
weed through information, media and user-generated content, and
advertising, and then deliver only the items individual
consumers are likely to enjoy or find useful. Most people would
be willing to pay to view advertising if they knew the ads were
tailored to their needs and desires.  Some have criticized Facebook for moving too slowly to
monetize its data, but to keep its customers, it must continue
to show that it has their interests at heart. The danger in
going public too soon is that Facebook is trying to boost its
numbers too quickly, before it has figured out the analytics.  Finally, much of the concern about user-data privacy is
irrational in ways that economists would recognize. For
instance, there is widespread worry that the availability of
medical histories or driving-style information would increase
insurance rates, even though rates would go down for at least
half the population. As consumers become aware of these benefits
-- and learn when and what to share -- they will be increasingly
less concerned about privacy.  (Gregory La Blanc is a lecturer at the Haas School of
Business and Boalt Hall School of Law at the  University of
California , Berkeley. He is a contributor to  Business Class . The
opinions expressed are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Moody’s bank downgrades 
and on  government power over toxic chemicals ; William D. Cohan
on  Wall Street’s job creation ;  Albert R. Hunt  on U.S. business’s
 embrace of Mitt Romney ;  Simon Johnson  on why  U.S. banks aren’t
ready  for a European crisis;  Sharon Bowles  on how the  EU manages
shared debt .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gregory La Blanc at  lablanc@haas.berkeley.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 