-- Egypt Analysts, Economists Comment on Mursi Election Win: Voices
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-24T16:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/egypt-analysts-economists-comment-on-mursi-election-win-voices.html
The following are comments from
analysts and economists in response to  Egypt ’s election result
today. Mohamed Mursi, the candidate of the Muslim Brotherhood,
beat  Hosni Mubarak ’s last prime minister, Ahmed Shafik.  Wael Ziada, head of research at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE:  “If we see a diversified, highly respected and qualified
Cabinet being formed, the relief rally we’re likely to see may
turn into a firm one.”  “There are still a lot of unknowns for the markets, which
will be looking for direction from the street, the presidency
and progress by the constitutional committee. A lot will depend
on public acceptance of the dissolution of parliament and the
constitutional declaration after Mursi’s win.”  Teymour El-Derini, Cairo-based director of Middle East and
North Africa sales trading at Naeem Brokerage:  “Investors will take it in a positive manner. We won’t see
a panic-selling attack. Markets will stabilize.”  “A lot of people will be happy, a lot of people will be
upset and a lot of people are afraid. The Muslim Brotherhood
waited for 80 years to get power and now they have it.”  “The country is split into two, that’s the bigger issue.
The new president has to make everyone happy. There won’t be
much patience.”  Ashraf Akhnoukh, Cairo-based senior manager for  Middle East 
and North Africa markets at Commercial International Brokerage
Co.:  Mursi’s win “bodes well for the market as it will
alleviate concerns over a possible standoff between the Muslim
Brotherhood” and the military.  Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, Dubai-based senior economist at
Standard Chartered Plc:  “The current institutional vacuum could jeopardize the
very crucial aid and budget support that had been in the making
for months now,” he said. “In the short term, Egypt could be
on a verge of a disorderly devaluation, with foreign-exchange
reserves dangerously low.”  “The new president arrives in a total institutional vacuum
and in a seat essentially devoid of powers. There is no
constitution to define the presidential attributions, allocate
and distinguish the executive from the legislative powers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  