-- Egypt’s Mursi Vows to Unite Nation, Respect Foreign Pacts
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-25T10:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/egypt-s-mursi-vows-to-unite-nation-respect-foreign-pacts.html
Egypt ’s Islamist president-elect
Mohamed Mursi appealed for national unity as he prepared to take
up a post whose powers have been curbed by the ruling generals.
Stocks and bonds surged on the prospect of stability.  In a televised address after becoming the first
democratically elected president in Egypt’s history, the 60-
year-old U.S.-trained engineer, a onetime prisoner under  Hosni Mubarak , said he would be a “president for all Egyptians.”
Mursi, whose win was confirmed yesterday after a week of tension
since voting ended, pledged to heal rifts that had deepened in
the 16 months since Mubarak’s overthrow in a popular uprising,
and said he would honor Egypt’s international agreements.  Egypt needs unity “so that this great and patient people
could reap the fruits of its sacrifices,” Mursi said, as
millions took to the streets overnight to celebrate his win over
Ahmed Shafik, who served as premier under Mubarak. Election
officials said yesterday that Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood’s
candidate, got 51.7 percent in the runoff vote to Shafik’s 48.3
percent. Both men had claimed victory.  Mursi must address the tensions between the army and
civilian politicians and activists that have overshadowed
Egypt’s transition to democracy, escalating in the past 10 days
with the army’s appropriation of wider powers and a court order
dissolving parliament. He also faces the challenge of reviving
an economy that slumped after Mubarak’s ouster in February 2011.  Mursi may put the dissolution of parliament to a referendum
if it is confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court, Sobhi
Saleh, a senior official with the Brotherhood’s political party,
said today, according to the state-run Middle East  News Agency .  IMF Talks  Egyptian stocks and bonds surged for a second day on
expectations Mursi’s win will avert the prospect of renewed
violence. Opponents of Shafik had charged the former air force
commander with seeking to restore the old regime, and vowed to
contest the result if he had been declared the winner.  The benchmark  EGX 30 stock index  gained 6.7 percent at
midday in Cairo, heading for its biggest gain in five months.
Yields on Egyptian dollar bonds due in 2020 dropped 51 basis
points to 7.36 percent, the biggest drop since February 2011.  Egypt’s central bank has spent more than half of its
international reserves since the start of last year, while a
$3.2 billion  International Monetary Fund  loan has repeatedly
been postponed.  Mursi’s victory should ensure the credit is agreed, and
Egypt needs IMF approval of its economic policies to encourage
other donors, said former Finance Minister  Samir Radwan , who
requested the money last year before being vetoed by the
military. “Even the Gulf states will not give you money before
he signs with the IMF,” he said.  ‘Continuing Cooperation’  Mursi said that relations with other countries would be
based on mutual respect and pledged to respect Egypt’s
international treaties, in comments aimed at allaying worries
about the fate of the peace deal signed in 1979 between Egypt
and  Israel .  Israel, which has expressed concerns about a Brotherhood
presidency, said it looked forward to “continuing cooperation
with the Egyptian government on the basis of the peace treaty
between the two countries,” according to a statement by the
prime minister’s office.  The White House in an e-mailed statement congratulated
Mursi on his victory and called on him “to advance national
unity by reaching out to all parties and constituencies in
consultations about the formation of a new government.”  ‘Lofty Goals’  Iran ’s state-run Fars news agency cited Mursi as saying in
an interview hours before he was announced as winner that he
would seek to improve relations with Iran to “create a
strategic balance” in the region. Iran’s joint chiefs of staff
drew a parallel with Iran’s 1979 Islamic revolution in a
statement congratulating Egypt, saying that “the world is
witnessing the overthrow of another U.S. backed regime.”  Mursi’s win marks a change of fortunes for the Brotherhood,
which endured repeated crackdowns under Mubarak and his
predecessors. Since its party won the largest bloc in parliament
this year, the group has been locked in a power struggle with
the ruling military council that took over after Mubarak.  Before the presidential election, the ruling council
boosted its authority at the expense of the presidency after a
court ordered the dissolution of the Islamist-dominated
parliament. Decrees granted the military legislative powers and
the ability to play a direct role in shaping a new constitution.
The military says it plans to hand over power this month.  Key Struggle  Mursi won support from some of the mostly secular and
youth-led activists that played a key role in last year’s
uprising, in an alliance based mostly on mutual opposition to
Shafik and the military.  Ahmed Maher , co-founder of the April 6
group, said Mursi must fulfill campaign promises including
naming vice presidents from a range of backgrounds. Mursi has
said his deputies may include a woman and a Christian.  “The Brotherhood wants to have a stronger presidency, and
they are going to use their popular mandate and their democratic
legitimacy now to aggressively push against” the ruling
generals,  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings
Doha Center in Qatar, said by phone. “That’s a key struggle to
watch.”  Other analysts argued that the announcement of Mursi’s
victory heralds a deal between the Brotherhood and the army. It
signals that “the military council has accepted to have the
Brotherhood as a junior partner,” said Ashraf el-Sherif, a
professor of political science at the American University in
Cairo. “There will be a tug of war, but I don’t think that it
will be a full-fledged confrontation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  