-- Merkel Backs Debt Sharing in Germany Amid Closer EU Push
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-25T10:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/merkel-backs-debt-sharing-in-germany-amid-closer-eu-union-push.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government agreed to underwrite the debt of Germany’s states,
backing a form of burden-sharing that she is resisting at the
euro-area level to combat the financial crisis.  The federal government, facing pressure from the 16 states
over tighter European Union budget rules, dropped its opposition
to a form of shared debt sales to help the states escape a
deficit squeeze and meet constitutional limits. The two layers
of government plan their first joint debt sale in 2013, the
government press office said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Merkel’s coalition backed down in a deal the opposition,
which controls the upper house of parliament, said will help
secure ratification of the EU’s fiscal pact in Germany. With EU
leaders due to discuss further integration at a summit on June
28-29, the accord in Germany doesn’t mean the bloc’s dominant
economy is ready to assume liability for the entire euro zone,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Joint debt sales in the 17-nation currency region “don’t
make sense” as long as budgets are set by national governments,
Schaeuble told ZDF television late yesterday. “As long as the
national states make the decisions, they have to be liable. If
you can spend money on my tab, you won’t be thrifty.”  Bonds Rise  German bonds rose today, outperforming their euro-area
peers, as investors sought safety before this week’s EU summit,
the 19th aimed at crisis resolution. Ten-year bond yields slid
seven basis points to 1.51 percent as of 11:41 a.m. in Berlin.
The euro dropped 0.7 percent to $1.2488.  Bavaria, one of Germany’s richest states and home to the
world’s two-biggest makers of luxury cars, Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and Audi AG, has argued against shared debt sales in
 Germany , saying that so-called Deutschland bonds would weaken
budget discipline. Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said in
March that she opposed the measure.  Germany’s federal and state governments will be separately
liable under the plan, Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin today. The aim of combined
bond sales is to boost the sale volume, increase market
acceptance through the federal government’s participation and
reduce costs, he said.  “Bigger volume normally means better conditions,” he
said. Details of the plan haven’t been set yet, Kotthaus said.  Merkel Concessions  Besides Deutschland bonds, concessions by Merkel’s
coalition include 580 million euros ($729 million) in one-time
federal aid to local governments and a commitment of 75 million
euros annually for day care, plus an unspecified amount of
federal help to states to care for the elderly, said  Kurt Beck ,
the premier of Rhineland-Palatinate state.  “We reached a solution that makes it clear there will be
approval” of the fiscal pact in the upper house, the Bundesrat,
Beck, a member of the main opposition  Social Democratic Party ,
said yesterday in an ARD television interview.  Germany’s SPD, buoyed by the election in  France  of
Socialist Francois Hollande as president, has won additional
concessions from Merkel in the lower house, the Bundestag, where
she needs opposition votes to pass the fiscal pact with the
required two-thirds majority and associated legislation setting
up the permanent rescue fund by the summer recess on July 6.  Growth Measures  At the SPD’s behest, Merkel is pushing for a financial
transaction tax among a smaller group of EU nations after
negotiations among all 27 states foundered. The SPD also aligned
with Hollande in demanding measures to spur growth in Europe,
and Merkel backed plans to lobby fellow EU leaders at this
week’s summit to accept a growth plan of as much as 130 billion
euros, or about 1 percent of the euro-region’s economic output.  Even so, she signaled her rejection of joint euro-area debt
sales, another policy backed by the SPD and her European
partners including Hollande and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti . Merkel said as recently as June 23 that “liabilities and
controls” must “go together.” She is due to meet with
Hollande for dinner in Paris on June 27.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  called on Merkel to agree
at the summit to start a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds
in return for those governments implementing achievable budget
cuts, or risk a “fiasco.”  “Merkel has emerged as a strong leader,” Soros said in an
interview in  London  yesterday. “Unfortunately, she has been
leading Europe in the wrong direction.”  German Referendum  With paths to closer European union on the summit agenda,
Schaeuble told this week’s  Der Spiegel  magazine that a national
referendum on further integration is possible, saying that he
didn’t expect the euro region to break up and that a dissolution
of the EU would be “absurd.”  Germany’s economy,  Europe ’s biggest, might shrink by as
much as 10 percent in the year after a breakup of the euro and
the number of jobless rise to more than 5 million from less than
3 million at present, the magazine cited an unpublished Finance
Ministry study as concluding.  As a result, the cost of rescuing the euro may be the
lesser evil compared with a return to national currencies,
Spiegel cited an unnamed Finance Ministry official as saying.  Germany wants “more Europe” and is ready to consider
ceding powers to achieve it, Schaeuble said on ZDF. “That can
happen very quickly” if EU leaders reach agreement at their
Brussels summit this week. “If the others are willing, that’s
good. Last time, the U.K. really held us back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  