-- Esprit CEO Pledges Smooth Handover With Turnaround on Target
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-25T08:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/esprit-ceo-pledges-smooth-handover-with-turnaround-on-target.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Van der Vis pledged to stay in the post for as
long as a year after resigning this month and said the apparel
maker is meeting turnaround projections.  The 44-year-old Dutchman is open to remaining on the  board 
in the future and will “ensure a smooth transition,” he said
in an interview in Amsterdam. Esprit isn’t in acquisition talks
and has no accounting problems, he assured. Van der Vis also
said he had “no idea” Koerber would quit soon after his own
resignation was made public.  Esprit’s  shares  have tumbled 27 percent since the June 12
resignation of Van der Vis, with Chairman Hans-Joachim Koerber
quitting the next day, as investors grew concerned that the
exits were indicative of bigger problems. CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets today downgraded the  stock  to underperform from buy,
saying a turnaround plan may be more difficult to implement.  The chief executive officer, at the helm since 2009, last
year laid out a turnaround plan to rejuvenate the clothing
company that he said had “lost its soul” and is struggling to
recover from a three-year profit decline. Under Van der Vis,
Esprit is redoing existing stores and adding new ones in  China 
in order to stem the exodus of customers to rivals including
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA. (ITX)   “I’ll be available as long as the board wants me, as long
as the  shareholders  want me,” said Van der Vis, who said he
quit because his family didn’t want to relocate from the
Netherlands. “The first leg of the transformation plan was very
well on track.” Van der Vis said the board still backs the
plan.  Same-Store Sales  The company has shown some improvement in same-store sales.
Revenue at outlets open more than a year increased 0.5 percent
in the three months ended March after dropping 4.6 percent in
the six months to December 31. His departure has raised concerns
that the company may falter in efforts to continue that growth.  “I am not convinced by the continuity of the
transformation plan,” Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Credit Suisse Group said. “The new CEO may have his or her
own ideas which are different from the plan and half of the
board members that actually backed the plan are gone.”  Brand Revival  In an  investor presentation  last year, the company said it
planned to spend more than HK$18 billion ($2.3 billion) over
four years on efforts to revive its brand through more marketing
and a bigger Chinese presence. The company said the
transformation would aim to increase sales at a compound annual
growth rate of 8 percent to 10 percent over four years and  save
HK$1 billion per annum at the end of the turnaround period.  Those targets are still in place, Van der Vis said. “In
terms of sourcing, we’re ahead of schedule,” he said. “We are
confident that we’ll be delivering the HK$1 billion annual
savings after completion of the transformation plan.”  CLSA expects the company to deliver ’’a mild 2 percent CAGR
revenue growth in the next three years with expansion in China
offset by a weak Europe,’’ Hong Kong-based analyst Aaron Fischer
wrote in the report.  The company’s biggest  shareholder , hedge fund  Lone Pine 
Capital LLC, backs the transformation plan, Van der Vis said.
The fund bought 1.39 million Esprit shares on June 13 and 14.1
million shares on June 15, according to Hong Kong Stock Exchange
data.  Esprit fell 2.2 percent to HK$9.88 at the close in Hong
Kong trading. The stock has lost 1.4 percent this year, compared
with a 2.5 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Lone Pine  Lone Pine is “supportive of the transformation plan,”
said Van der Vis. “I’ve met them on various occasions. They
recently visited our new store in Regent Street in  London  and
they really liked it.”  Despite the economic downturn in  Europe , which accounted
for about 80 percent of Esprit’s  revenue  in the six months ended
December, the company isn’t facing inventory problems, Van der
Vis said. “Under these circumstances, I’m actually very pleased
at the progress we made so far and we do not foresee that we
need to have a higher investment program than the one we
announced last year.”  The  inventory  level at the end of the first half of the
fiscal year was “only slightly higher than usual,” he said.
“"Everybody was unhappy with the exceptionally warm weather
especially in November and December.”  The board is looking to add new members, Van der Vis said.  ‘There’s no takeover, there’s no leveraged buyout, there’s
no any kind of such discussion going on,’’ he said.  The almost simultaneous resignations of the CEO and
chairman aren’t connected, he said, adding that the head of the
board resigned for personal reasons as well.  “The family has given me a clear signal that the way I am
currently balancing my life business-wise and family-wise is not
acceptable any more,” Van der Vis said. “That’s why I took
this decision: to ensure I continue having a family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  