-- Euro Crisis Hits Profits Globally as P&G Cuts Forecast
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-06-25T20:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/euro-crisis-hits-profits-globally-as-p-g-cuts-forecast.html
Europe’s debt crisis is putting
pressure on corporate earnings globally with companies from
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  to  Danone (BN)  cutting forecasts and signaling
profits will fall at more companies this year.  Analysts predict members of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
in the U.S. will report a 1.1 percent average drop in second-
quarter earnings, after estimating a gain as recently as last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That would be
the  first decline  in 11 quarters after a 6.2 percent average
increase in the first quarter. A  stronger dollar  is another
threat to earnings as U.S. exports become more expensive.  In Asia, the chairman at computer manufacturer  Compal
Electronics Inc. (2324)  said last week that concern about a global
slowdown is making him less optimistic about the second half of
the year. Paris-based Danone lowered its 2012 profitability
forecast as Spanish shoppers switch to cheaper brands of yogurt.  “There is a lot of trepidation about second-quarter
earnings,”  Tim Ghriskey , chief investment officer of Solaris
Group in Bedford Hills, New York, said in a June 22 interview.
He oversees about $2 billion including shares of Apple Inc. and
DuPont Co. “You are very unlikely to see companies coming out
with favorable outlooks given the problems in Europe and the
slowing growth in the U.S. and China.”  More Cuts  Earnings pessimism in the U.S. is reaching levels last seen
during the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, based on
company guidance. Fifty-nine corporations issued profit
projections that trailed analyst estimates during the 20 days
through June 22, or 3.1 times the number of those that exceeded
them. The ratio has been greater than 3 for eight straight days,
the longest stretch in three years. It was at least that high
the majority of the time between October 2008 and April 2009,
climbing to 11.5 in December 2008, the data show.  FedEx Corp., (FDX)  an economic bellwether because it transports
phones to pharmaceuticals, last week predicted full-year
earnings that trailed some analysts’ estimates.  Philip Morris 
International Inc., the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company, anticipates second-quarter shipments in the European
Union will tumble as much as 9 percent, hurt in part by Spain’s
almost 25 percent jobless rate.  Spreading Crisis?  “It’s the economy, the unemployment,” Andre Calantzopoulos, Philip Morris’s chief operating officer, told
analysts on a June 21 conference call. “It’s the austerity
measures.”  Those measures, which include eliminating 150,000 civil
service jobs in Greece and cutting 11.5 billion euros ($14.5
billion) from the country’s budget, have curbed spending by
consumers and businesses. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
 business confidence  fell to the lowest in more than two years in
June, a sign the crisis may be spreading as leaders grapple with
bailing out Greece, Spain and Italy.  P&G, the world’s largest consumer-goods company, cut its
earnings and revenue forecasts last week for the second time in
fewer than two months. For the fiscal fourth quarter ending this
month, earnings per share excluding some items will be as much
as 79 cents, down from a previous forecast for a maximum of 85
cents, Cincinnati-based P&G said. A year earlier, P&G reported
adjusted earnings of 84 cents a share.  “There’s been slow to no GDP growth in developed markets
and significant levels of unemployment in the United States and
in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald  said at a
June 20 investor conference in Paris. The company, whose brands
include Tide detergent and Gillette razors, also attributed the
reduced forecast to currency losses as overseas earnings carry
less value when converted into dollars.  Stronger Dollar  Through June 22, the dollar has gained 6.5 percent against
seven major currencies since April 30, according to the  Federal
Reserve ’s U.S. Trade-Weighted Major Currency Dollar Index. Also,
for the first time in 13 years, the real, ruble and rupee are
weakening the most among developing-nation currencies, while the
the  yuan  has depreciated more than in any other period since its
1994 devaluation.  New York-based Philip Morris cut its full-year earnings
forecast to $5.10 to $5.20 a share, from an April prediction of
$5.20 to $5.30, citing the dollar’s strength. The maker of
Marlboro cigarettes generates all of its sales outside of the
U.S.  Philip Morris “is just a canary in the  coal mine  for many
others who are going to use currencies as an excuse or
legitimate reason” for declining profit, said Mark Luschini,
chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion.  Estimating Growth  Adding to executives’ concerns, U.S. hiring shows no signs
of a rebound this year, Federal Reserve officials said last week
in reducing their projections for 2012 growth. The Fed pared its
estimate for U.S. 2012 gross domestic product growth to 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent, down from a 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent
prediction in April.  FedEx’s projections for GDP growth of 2.2 percent in the
U.S. and 2.4 percent globally this calendar year assume “the
successful management of the debt crisis in Europe and the
avoidance of significant tax increases next year in the U.S.,”
Michael Glenn, CEO of the FedEx Corporate Services unit, said on
a June 19 conference call.  Airlines Hit  Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx, operator of the world’s
largest cargo airline, predicted profit will rise to $6.90 to
$7.40 a share for the fiscal year through May 2013, compared
with an average analyst estimate of $7.38.  Passenger airlines are also suffering. While Europe’s three
biggest carriers have avoided giving specific forecasts for
2012, the  International Air Transport Association  almost doubled
its loss prediction for European airlines to $1.1 billion.
 Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Asia’s largest international
carrier, cut flights to  North America  and Europe this year,
imposed a hiring freeze on ground staff and offered cabin crew
unpaid leave after predicting “disappointing” first-half
earnings.  “Everybody is worrying about the slowing world economy,”
John Slosar, CEO of Cathay Pacific, said June 11 at the IATA
annual meeting in Beijing.  Less Optimism  Europe’s debt crisis has led Taipei-based Compal
Electronics to become more conservative, according to Chairman
Rock Hsu. Compal is the world’s second-largest contract maker of
 laptop computers , with clients including Dell Inc., Hewlett-
Packard Co. and Asustek Computer Inc.  “Compared to three months ago we’re not as optimistic
toward the second half because market conditions are not as
strong,” Hsu said in a June 22 interview. “We didn’t
originally expect any growth from Europe, yet we’re now worried
that conditions there will flow through to impact Asia.”  U.S. companies lowering forecasts last week included truck-
rental company  Ryder System Inc. (R)  and home-goods retailer  Bed
Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) , leading to stock declines.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  had tumbled 5.9 percent through June 22
since hitting a four-year high April 2, and the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
had slumped 9 percent during that same period. The MSCI lost
another 1.4 percent in trading today.  Europe’s crisis may worsen unless leaders agree on a
unified plan for the region, according to Dan Akerson, CEO of
 General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest automaker. The situation
in Europe is “at best stable,” Akerson said in a telephone
interview while in  St. Petersburg , Russia, on June 21.  “My expectation is that if Europe experiences a recession,
I think the U.S. can kind of manage its way through it,”
Akerson said. “If there were divides in the union, if the euro
were to go away, then I think it’s anybody’s guess what the
implications would be for the U.S., for the rest of the world,
quite frankly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  