-- Euro Falls Before EU Summit as Merkel Rejects Joint Bonds
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-25T21:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/euro-falls-before-italy-spain-debt-auctions-eu-summit.html
The euro weakened before a European
Union summit later this week and as Italy and  Spain  prepare to
sell debt tomorrow amid concern Europe’s fiscal crisis is
infecting bigger economies.  The 17-nation currency extended last week’s 0.5 percent
drop versus the dollar as Moody’s Investors Service cut the
ratings on 28 Spanish banks, citing a weakening of the Spanish
government’s creditworthiness. The euro fell earlier as German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected joint euro-bloc bonds or bills
and the nation of Cyprus requested bailout funding from European
authorities. The yen strengthened on demand for haven assets as
stocks slid.  “The Merkel comments and the request by Cyprus for a
bailout from the broader international community have caused
investors to lean towards a more conservative trading angle,”
said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in Washington at Western
Union Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU)  “Most
traders and major investment participants are curtailing their
larger positions before this week’s euro-zone meetings.”  The euro declined 0.5 percent to $1.2504 at 5 p.m. New York
time after touching $1.2471, the least since June 12. It tumbled
1.5 percent to 99.62 yen. The Japanese currency strengthened 1
percent to 79.66 per dollar after depreciating to 80.62, the
weakest level since April 27.  Both Europe’s common currency and the yen have fallen 3.5
percent against the dollar this year.  Japan ’s currency has
gained 0.1 percent on the euro.  Commodity Currencies  Commodity-linked currencies such as the Canadian and
Australian dollars dropped today against most major peers as
futures for crude oil fell after dropping last week.  India’s currency pared a gain as the government raised the
ceiling on the amount of rupee-denominated  government bonds 
overseas investors can hold.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.6 percent and the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of shares dropped 1.4 percent. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six
trading partners, advanced 0.2 percent.  The shared currency is down from this year’s high of
$1.3487 on Feb. 24 and has depreciated 2.5 percent this year,
the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen 1.5
percent and the yen has fallen 2.4 percent.  Debt Sales  Italy is scheduled to sell inflation-linked securities
maturing in September 2016 and September 2026 tomorrow, along
with as much as 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of May 2014 zero-
coupon notes. Spain will offer three- and six-month bills the
same day. The yield on Italy’s two-year note jumped 54 basis
points, or 0.54 percentage point, to 4.33 percent today, with
the equivalent-maturity Spanish rate 42 basis points higher at
4.85 percent.  France and Italy are urging Germany to take decisive action
to end the debt crisis, now in its third year, after Spain’s 10-
year bond yields jumped to more than 7 percent last week.  The two-day EU summit in Brussels starting June 28 is the
first meeting of European leaders since Greek parliamentary
elections on June 17. New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras
became prime minister on his pledge to seek relief from
austerity measures imposed on the country while keeping the
bailout funds flowing. The Greek leader won’t attend the meeting
this week after undergoing eye surgery.  “We expect Germany to hold their stance about not wanting
debt mutualization or any sort of common bond,” Brian Kim, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview. “The realization set in over the weekend that we’re
not going to get anything more than what leaders have already
talked about in terms of a growth pact.”  Trend Lower  The euro will likely trend lower during the remainder of
June and hit $1.22 by the end of the month,  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia
Capital unit Toronto, wrote in a note today. The EU summit is
unlikely to provide a long-term solution to Europe’s problems,
she wrote.  The shared currency will drop to $1.20 by year-end as
Europe’s debt crisis worsens, according to  State Street Corp. (STT) ,
which oversees $16.9 trillion in custody assets. Investors
should sell the 17-nation euro and buy the  U.S. dollar , said
Collin Crownover, head of State Street’s currency management in
Boston, Massachusetts.  “There are fairly low expectations,”  Richard Franulovich ,
a New York-based senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) , said of the European summit in a telephone interview. “I
don’t think you’re going to see anything concrete that’s going
to contain markets in the short run. There are a lot of reasons
to be cautious on the euro.”  Bearish Bets  Options traders have cut bearish bets on the euro. The one-
month risk-reversal rate had a 1.29 percentage point premium in
favor of euro puts relative to calls on June 21, the smallest
since May 1. The fall in the premium, which was 1.39 percentage
points today, signals a relative decrease in the demand for
options that profit if the euro declines against the dollar.
Calls grant the right to buy the common currency.  “Running into last week there was a degree of optimism
ahead of the EU leaders summit at the end of this week,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global currency markets research at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s become clear over the weekend by the tone of
the German comments, we’re not going to get anything that
results in any kind of ground-breaking policy momentum. That’s
the reason why we’re seeing this reversal today. It’s supportive
of the U.S. dollar.”  Rand, Loonie  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s  Democratic Party  of Japan
is struggling to overcome internal resistance to his proposal to
double the  sales tax . The lower house of parliament will vote on
the consumption tax-bill tomorrow, DPJ lawmaker Koichi Takemasa
told reporters today.  A split in the DPJ amid the tax vote “could lead to the
government falling, pushing up dollar-yen further,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, head of foreign-exchange strategy in  Singapore  at
UBS AG, wrote in an e-mailed note on June 23.  South Africa’s rand fell against all of its major peers,
extending its slide to three days, after Citigroup Inc. cut
China’s growth forecast over European debt concern. The rand
declined 1 percent to 8.4847, after Citigroup said  China’s
economy  may grow 7.8 percent this year, compared with a previous
estimate of 8.1 percent, reflecting “anemic” domestic activity
in the second quarter and further weakening of European demand.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0292 after
dropping to its lowest level in almost two weeks. The Aussie
sank 0.5 percent to $1.0011 after touching 99.69 U.S. cents, its
lowest level in more than a week.  Rupee Gains  India’s government raised the ceiling on the amount of
rupee-denominated government bonds overseas investors can hold
by $5 billion to $20 billion, the central bank said in a
statement today. The rupee, which touched a record low of
57.3275 per dollar on June 22, has fallen 6.9 percent this year,
the worst performer among the 10 most-traded currencies in  Asia .  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 57.0150 after trading as
much as 1.3 percent stronger prior to the announcement,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  