-- Teva Jumps Most Since 2000 on Copaxone Ruling in U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-06-24T14:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/teva-jumps-most-in-7-years-on-copaxone-ruling-tel-aviv-mover.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
jumped the most in more than 12 years after a U.S. federal
district judge ruling may block generic versions of its best-
selling Copaxone drug from entering the market until 2015.  Shares of Petach Tikvah, Israel-based Teva surged 12
percent, the biggest gain since April 2000, to 163 shekels at
the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The increase added 16.1 billion
shekels ($4.1 billion) to Teva’s market value today.  Patent claims that Teva brought against  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Sandoz unit,  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , and  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  are
infringed, valid and enforceable, U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in  Manhattan  ruled. The court decision covers several
patents for its multiple sclerosis medicine, the last of which
deals with the manufacturing process and expires on September
2015, Teva said in a Business Wire statement on June 23.  “While the market expected a Teva win, this clears a major
uncertainty that was hovering over Teva’s shares,” said Steven Tepper, an analyst at Harel Finance Ltd. “There is a higher
chance now that Teva will enjoy protection of its patents until
their expirations.”  Teva is trying to block competition for Copaxone, its best-
selling product, which generated 21 percent of the company’s
revenue in 2011. Shares of the world’s largest maker of generic
drugs decreased 4.9 percent since the start of the year through
the June 21 close, as newer oral treatments such as Novartis’
Gilenya and the possible introduction of generics before patent
expirations threatened to erode its market share.  ‘Big Surprise’  Teva’s shares were raised to ‘buy’ from ‘outperform’ at
Leader & Co. Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . While investors
expected Teva to protect its so-called Orange Book patents,
which expire on May 2014, Teva’s success in defending its
process patent due 2015 is a “big surprise,” analyst Sabina Podval said. The drug could yield profits of about $7.5 billion
to $8 billion over the next three years, Podval said.  “The bottom line is this is excellent news for Teva,”
Podval said. “The fact that generics now have to wait longer
could allow Teva to move more of its patients to the better
version of Copaxone,” which is now in clinical studies.  Teva said on June 14 that a late-stage trial of a longer-
acting version of Copaxone reduced relapses from multiple
sclerosis more than a placebo.  ‘Rally Significantly’  Teva may “rally significantly” over the next few days as
many investors had “remained on the sidelines in front of this
decision,” Shibani Malhotra, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets
LLC in  New York , wrote in an e-mailed note. Malhotra expects 30
percent of Teva patients to move to the new form of Copaxone
once it’s approved.  Teva sued Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis and Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Momenta, saying that copies of Copaxone
would infringe several patents.  “We are disappointed that the court determined that Teva’s
patents were valid and infringed, and we look forward to reading
the full opinion to understand its reasoning,” Momenta Chief
Executive Officer Craig Wheeler said in a press release.  While drugmakers seeking to sell generic versions of
Copaxone will appeal the decision, it will likely take eight to
15 months for an appeal process to unfold, wrote Jason Gerberry,
an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  