-- Fonterra Farmers Approve Plan to Open Exporter to Equity Markets
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-06-25T05:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/fonterra-farmers-vote-on-opening-dairy-giant-to-equity-markets.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s
farmer shareholders approved measures that open the world’s
largest dairy exporter to equity investors for the first time.  Trading Among Farmers , a plan that allows the  New Zealand 
company’s 10,500 members to privately trade shares or sell them
into a publicly traded fund, was supported by 66.5 percent of
voters, Auckland-based Fonterra said in a statement. Farmers
that voted represented 85 percent of the co-operative’s milk
solid production, according to the statement.  “We will now be able to implement our strategy and remain
a relevant player in the global  dairy industry ,” Chief
Executive Officer Theo Spierings said in the statement. “With
overall demand for dairy growing, TAF will ensure that we are
well placed to grow volumes and protect our position.”  The plan allows investors to trade units linked to
Fonterra’s performance, and the securities will carry no  voting
rights  or entitlement to farmers’ milk payout. The vote is the
second on the proposal after the company was forced to review an
earlier plan because some farmers said external investors may
exert pressure to raise dividends at their expense.  Fonterra says the plan will help ease pressure on its
balance sheet as it seeks to expand in markets such as China and
 India , tapping a forecast surge in demand for dairy products.
The company is constrained by its obligation to buy shares from
farmers who wish to sell when cash-flow is tight and would
rather use that spare capital for new investment.  Constitutional Changes  Trading Among Farmers required at least 50 percent support
to proceed. Members were also asked to vote on constitutional
changes that tightened limits on the fund’s size. Fonterra needs
to seek Shareholders’ Council support for that resolution after
getting 72.8 percent and requiring 75 percent.  “On one side, the farmers think the  capital markets  can’t
wait to get their hands on the business,” said Paul Glass,
chairman of the investment committee at Devon Funds Management
Ltd. in Auckland, before the vote. “On the other side, the
capital markets are actually very cautious about what we’re
being offered.”  Some investors are concerned about the lack of voting
rights or share of the milk payout, said Glass. While farmers
will reap the benefits of any rise in milk prices, the
subsequent costs that will add to other parts of the business
could affect profits and reduce dividends, he said.  ‘Unique Plan’  “The wealthier farmers, or the ones who have got less
debt, will end up with a bigger share of Fonterra,” said Greg Boland, director of financial markets at broker OM Financial
Ltd, before the vote. “So the wealthy will get wealthier and
the others won’t.”  The plan is unique to Fonterra, according to company
spokesman Liam Baldwin. Opponents cite Irish dairy company  Kerry
Group Plc (KYG)  as an example of co-operatives ceding control to
external investors. The company was formed when Kerry
Cooperative agreed to sell as much as 49 percent of its shares
in 1986, according to the Netherlands Institute for Cooperative
Ownership. The co-operative’s holding has since been reduced to
17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dairy costs tracked by the  United Nations  had the biggest
drop since January 2009 last month, pushing global  food prices 
4.2 percent lower. Output in New Zealand climbed 10 percent in
the 2011-2012 season and supply gained in  Australia ,  Europe  and
the U.S. after mild weather and surging prices in 2011 spurred
farmers to boost production. Whole-milk powder has tumbled 18
percent this year, according to Fonterra’s trade-weighted index.  November Offer  Fonterra plans to keep the size of the fund, scheduled to
list on the New Zealand stock exchange in November, at around 7
percent to 12 percent of total shares with a minimum NZ$500
million ($394 million) value at the offering.  The company, which accounts for about 40 percent of the
global trade in dairy products, forecasts the market will
increase at least 100 billion liters by 2020, led by  China ,
India and the Middle East-Africa region, Spierings said in a
March 29 conference call. New Zealand output will rise about 5
billion liters in that period, he said.  The company in April said it would spend NZ$100 million on
two more dairy farms in China’s  Hebei Province , increasing to
five sites eventually with 15,000 producing cows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  