-- Germany to Confront United Euro Bloc at Summit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-25T08:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/germany-to-confront-united-euro-bloc-as-leaders-head-to-summit.html
Germany  will confront an
increasingly united bloc of euro-area nations demanding more
ambitious policies to fight the financial crisis this week, as
European leaders prepare for a summit setting the course for
their currency’s preservation or ultimate demise.  As concern mounts over their banking systems and finances,
Spanish and Italian leaders have added their voices to those
calling for more decisive action, a counterpoint to Germany’s
more incremental approach to solving the 2 1/2-year-old crisis.
European Union leaders will attend pre-summit meetings as they
work to to narrow differences before the June 28-29 gathering in
Brussels.  “We are too close to the edge of the cliff for comfort,
and the time to make big changes is awfully short,”  Erik Nielsen , chief economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in London, wrote in a
note to clients yesterday.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last week resisted attempts by the
leaders of France, Italy and Spain to persuade Germany to accept
faster action to ease sovereign-debt worries in the financial
markets, delineating divisions on greater euro-area integration.
Underscoring the friction between Germany and the rest of
 Europe , the Bundesbank issued a statement June 22 opposing the
 European Central Bank  plans to help ailing banks.  Yields Recede  Spanish and Italian borrowing costs rose today, reversing
some of last week’s decline, when there was speculation that
euro-area leaders will take more action. Spain today formally
requested aid from a 100 billion-euro ($125 billion)  credit line 
for its banks.  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  rose 10 basis points to 6.48
percent at 10:40 a.m. in Madrid, while comparable Italian yields
were 5.85 percent, up 5 basis points. Stocks fell, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropping 1.5 percent after the Hong Kong
Hang Seng Index declined 0.5 percent. The euro retreated 0.6
percent against the dollar to $1.2497.  At a June 22 four-way summit meeting in  Rome , Merkel faced
a  united front  among her three interlocutors -- Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , French President  Francois Hollande  and
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  -- on making the euro
region’s rescue funds more flexible. She dismissed a Monti plan
last week to use the funds -- the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility or the permanent European Stability Mechanism
-- to buy bonds, and spelled out her opposition to directly
recapitalizing banks.  ‘Huge Problem’  German taxpayers couldn’t back channeling funds directly to
banks in other countries because they have no oversight of how
the money would be used, Merkel told reporters in Rome. As
chancellor, she only had such powers over German banks. “You
would have a huge problem here,” she said. Merkel travels to
Paris on June 27 for a pre-summit meeting with Hollande, while
ECB President  Mario Draghi  and Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  meet the French president today.  Merkel is worsening Europe’s crisis because countries need
growth, not austerity, to pay down their debt, billionaire
investor  George Soros  said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday.  “Merkel has emerged as a strong leader,” Soros, 81, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua at
his London home. “Unfortunately, she has been leading Europe in
the wrong direction.”  ‘Speculative Attacks’  While the German leader has said repeatedly that
counterparts in the euro area need to take a “step-by-step”
approach and that there was no “big bang” solution to the
crisis, Italy’s Monti said this week may prove critical to the
euro’s survival.  Should leaders fail to produce a blueprint for a tighter
fiscal and financial union, there will be “progressively
greater speculative attacks” on the currency bloc’s more
indebted nations, Monti told a group of European newspapers
including Le Monde and El Pais on June 21.  France’s Hollande reiterated his support for jointly issued
euro-area debt at the meeting, calling the so-called euro bonds
“a useful instrument for Europe.” Merkel has consistently
rejected the idea as premature.  Merkel’s government agreed to underwrite the debt of
Germany’s states, backing a form of burden-sharing that she is
resisting at the euro-area level.  Shared Liability  The federal government, facing pressure from the 16 states
over tighter EU budget rules that risked worsening a deficit
squeeze, unexpectedly backed a form of shared liability to help
the states meet constitutional budget limits. The two layers of
government plan their first joint debt sale in 2013, the
government press office said in an e-mailed statement. The
decision doesn’t mean Germany is ready to assume similar
liability for the  euro zone , Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said yesterday.  “At the start of the crisis, we really had clear joint
actions that worked,” ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said when asked about euro-area dissonance in a June 23
interview with Austrian state broadcaster ORF. “Now in the
second phase, where we have much more differentiated problems,
this no longer is the case.”  With the European Commission expecting the economies of the
17-nation euro area to shrink 0.3 percent overall this year and
six of the  member states  to contract, the leaders of the four
biggest economies unveiled a fleshed-out growth package to
underscore their shift from austerity. As much as 130 billion
euros will be deployed, equivalent to 1 percent of the euro
area’s economic output.  ’Not Trivial’  That amount “is not trivial,” UniCredit’s Nielsen said,
though the stimulus’s punch would depend on the details. The
funding will likely derive from unused EU funds, increased
capital to the bloc’s regional-funding vehicle -- the  European
Investment Bank  -- and project bonds, he said.  Possible steps toward a common banking system and the
degree to which euro members surrender autonomy to Brussels may
form the centerpiece of the summit agreement. While often
reiterating that the bloc needs “more Europe,” Merkel, for
example, rejects calls for a euro deposit-guarantee fund, saying
such a measure would be inconceivable without more robust
political union.  Proposals for common bank rules and supervision within the
euro area are ambitious and would take time, Bank for
International Settlements General Manager  Jaime Caruana  said in
a speech in Basel yesterday.  ’Common Vision’  More Germans would favor leaving the euro area than those
in France, Italy and Spain, according to a poll published in
four European newspapers yesterday. Some 39 percent of Germans
would back such a move, compared with 28 percent of Italians, 26
percent of French voters and 24 percent of Spaniards, according
to the Ifop-Fiducial survey.  This week’s cover of the German magazine  Der Spiegel 
featured a defaced 1 euro coin with the title “If the Euro
Breaks Up -- a Scenario.” Germany’s economy could shrink by as
much as 10 percent in the year after a euro collapse, the
magazine cited an unpublished study from the German Finance
Ministry as saying.  The statistics suggest that the cost of rescuing the euro
would be a lesser evil compared with returning to national
currencies, Spiegel cited a ministry official as saying.
Joblessness would soar to more than 5 million from less then 3
million today, the magazine reported.  The ministry “won’t take part in speculation about alleged
secret papers,” spokeswoman Silke Bruns said yesterday in
Berlin. She said she isn’t aware that such a study exists.  Meanwhile, Germany’s Schaeuble is considering the idea of a
referendum on further European integration, telling Spiegel that
EU members need to move more power to Brussels “without every
national state being able to block the decisions.”  Schaeuble didn’t say when a German referendum may be needed
to approve the changes. “A few months ago I would have said: in
five years? Not in my lifetime! Now I’m not so sure,” he told
Spiegel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Rome at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  