-- India Readies Measures to Counter Rupee Slide Spurring Inflation
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K .   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-24T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/india-readies-measures-to-counter-rupee-slide-spurring-inflation.html
India plans to unveil measures today
to support the rupee as its slump to a record low against the
dollar threatens to intensify price pressures and boost the cost
to companies of repaying foreign debt.  The government and central bank will make the announcement,
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told reporters in Kolkata on
June 24. The ruling Congress party’s nominee for president,
Mukherjee told the  Press Trust of India  he will resign from his
current post tomorrow. A group of federal and state legislators
elects the next president July 19.  India’s currency is  Asia ’s worst performer of the past year,
having tumbled 21 percent versus the dollar, and its decline has
contributed to an inflation rate that the central bank deemed
last week too high to allow an interest-rate cut. Chakravarthy
Rangarajan, the prime minister’s top economic adviser, said last
month one option to shore up the rupee was a deposit program to
lure funds from citizens based overseas.  “The situation is quite worrisome,”  Dharmakirti Joshi ,
Mumbai-based chief economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of
 Standard & Poor’s , said in an interview. “You have to increase
the supply of dollars. A lot of foreign-currency convertible
bonds and other payments are due and it does create stress on
those who have borrowed abroad.”  Indian companies face a record $5.3 billion of maturing
foreign-currency debt this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
At the sovereign level,  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook for India
to negative on June 18, joining S&P in signaling the country is
at risk of losing its investment-grade status.  Rupee’s Slide  The rupee reached an all-time low on June 22 of 57.3275 per
dollar. While most emerging-market currencies have retreated in
recent months as  Europe ’s crisis prompted investors to flee
riskier assets, the rupee has underperformed as India’s
government failed to rein in its  budget deficit  and economic
reforms stalled. The currency slumped 2.9 percent last week, its
biggest loss since September.  Joshi said that besides the deposit program, relaxing
limits on foreign investment could be considered to halt the
rupee’s slide. A variety of dollar-denominated products,
including bonds, could be looked at, HSBC Holdings Plc analysts
wrote in a June 22 research note.  “This would only slow rupee weakness and not change the
overall direction,” HSBC currency analysts led by  Paul Mackel 
in  Hong Kong  wrote in the note. “For the rupee to strengthen
more meaningfully and sustainably against the dollar, the
government needs to do more than short-term patch work. It needs
to undergo the necessary structural reforms.”  Agenda Stymied  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration has seen its
agenda stymied by opposition from its own coalition allies, and
last year suspended a plan to allow Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
other foreign companies to buy majority stakes in Indian multi-
brand retailers. An anti-corruption bill and proposals to allow
foreign direct investment in pensions have also been shelved.  The approaching personnel shift in India’s leadership
offers an opportunity to reinvigorate the government’s agenda. A
successor for Mukherjee, who told parliament May 16 that the
administration will keep up its campaign for greater economic
opening, has yet to be named.  While mostly a ceremonial post, India’s president is the
supreme commander of the armed forces and oversees the creation
of a government in the event of a hung parliament. The leader is
chosen by an electoral college that consists of elected
legislators from the states and both houses of parliament. The
winner will succeed President Pratibha Devisingh Patil, whose
five-year term ends July 24.  IKEA Coming  Even with the foreign-investment measure stalled,  India  did
get a commitment from IKEA, the Swedish retailer known for its
self-assembled furniture, last week. The company will boost the
amount of products it sources from India significantly,
according to an e-mailed statement from India’s commerce
ministry. It also plans to set up 25 stores in the country and
may invest 600 million euros ($754 million), the ministry said.  The rupee’s slump has contributed to inflation because
India buys 80 percent of its oil from overseas and pays for
supplies in dollars. Every one-rupee drop in the domestic
currency against the dollar boosts annual revenue losses for the
three government-owned refiners by 80 billion rupees ($1.4
billion), the oil ministry said in November.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Nov. 17 increased the caps on
overseas investors’ holdings of India’s local-currency
government debt and corporate bonds by $5 billion each to boost
inflows and arrest the currency’s decline.  The central bank has asked oil refiners to obtain 50
percent of their dollar requirements from a single state-owned
bank, Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi told reporters in  New Delhi 
on June 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  