-- Investors See More Pain for Europe Buyout Firms, Coller Says
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-06-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/investors-see-more-pain-for-europe-buyout-firms-coller-says.html
Institutional investors expect
private-equity firms to struggle to sell assets in  Europe  as the
continent navigates through the sovereign debt crisis, according
to an industry survey.  In Europe, most investors see “a stagnant or
deteriorating” economic climate, London-based Coller Capital
Ltd., which buys commitments in funds that banks and other
investors are seeking to sell, said in a  statement  today. This
differs from North America, where almost all investors, also
called limited partners, expect to see a slow economic recovery
over the next 12 to 18 months, according to the firm, which
surveyed 101 investors.  “There’s a recognition among investors that Europe is
diverging from North America,” Stephen Ziff, a partner at
Coller, said. “It comes as no surprise as Europe has yet to
solve the euro-debt crisis.”  Private-equity firms have led about $72 billion of
acquisitions in Europe this year, down from $116 billion in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
There were about $364 billion of transactions at the peak of the
buyout boom in 2007. Buyout firms pool money from investors,
including pension plans and endowments, with a mandate to spend
it within five to six years and return it with a profit after
about 10 years.  While investors are “optimistic” about fund managers’
ability to sell assets in  North America , 43 percent expect a
deterioration of Europe’s exit environment, Coller said.  The European venture capital industry, in particular, is
suffering. Investors in European venture funds have made a
median return of 5 percent or less a year, and more than a third
of them have lost money, according to the survey. Three-quarters
of investors said the sector won’t recover without “significant
government support through an improved regulatory and tax
environment,” Coller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  