-- Is Your Couch Trying to Kill You?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-24T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/is-your-couch-trying-to-kill-you-.html
Imagine if government officials knew
that certain chemicals were hazardous enough to cause health
problems as serious as cancer and neurological defects, yet were
largely powerless to restrict them.  That, in a nutshell, is the state of chemical regulation in
the U.S.  On paper , the Environmental Protection Agency has the
authority to regulate or ban toxic substances. In practice, the
agency faces so many hurdles that it hasn’t tried to do so since
it made an  ill-fated  run at asbestos in 1991.  More than two dozen states are nobly trying to fill the
regulatory void. But  Washington  cannot abdicate its
responsibility to protect public health. U.S. lawmakers should
move swiftly to give the EPA true power to assess and regulate
risky chemicals.  The agency’s inadequate oversight of flame retardants, as
revealed in a recent  series of articles  in the  Chicago Tribune ,
illustrates the perils of weak federal rules. These chemicals
are used in everything from couch cushions to televisions to
airplanes, ostensibly to lower the risk of fire. However, the
flame retardants most often used in such products are largely
ineffective. They exist mainly because the  chemical industry  has
pushed them aggressively.  Some of these chemicals are known carcinogens. Others have
been  shown  to hinder reproduction or to promote obesity, anxiety
and behavioral problems. For good reason, they have raised
concerns among federal regulators. Yet they remain  ubiquitous .
It has been nearly 40 years since makers of children’s pajamas
stopped using a flame retardant known as chlorinated tris
because of  evidence  that it caused cancer, yet the chemical can
still be found in highchairs, car seats, nursing pillows and
other polyurethane-foam-filled baby gear.  Flame retardants are showing up in the environment as well
-- studies have found concentrations of brominated compounds in
the air near the  Great Lakes  and in wildlife across the U.S.
American babies are now born with the world’s highest recorded
levels of flame retardants in their bodies.  What keeps federal regulators from acting are weaknesses in
the Toxic Substances Control Act: When it passed, in 1976, more
than 62,000 chemicals, including several flame retardants, were
grandfathered in, allowing them to avoid scrutiny. And, unlike
drug manufacturers, chemical companies aren’t required to submit
health and safety data before marketing a new product. If
concerns are raised about a chemical, the onus is on the EPA to
prove it poses an unreasonable risk before it can restrict
production or use. The burden is so great that the agency has
been able to require testing for only about 200 of the more than
80,000 chemicals in its inventory.  When the EPA tried to ban asbestos more than 20 years ago,
it assembled 45,000 pages of data documenting how exposure to
the substance can damage lung tissue. Nevertheless, the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the 5th Circuit overturned the ban.  This year, the EPA identified 83 “ chemicals of concern ,”
including several flame retardants, for which it plans to begin
risk assessments in 2013.  Protecting public health shouldn’t be this hard. When it
comes to chemical safety, Congress should shift the burden of
proof from regulators to manufacturers. Substances already in
use should not automatically be considered safe.  The Safe Chemicals Act, which was introduced in Congress in
2011, would require companies to submit to the EPA a minimum
amount of health and safety data for each chemical they produce,
and would ease the agency’s burden to collect any additional
information it needs. The EPA would have to classify chemicals
by risk and take immediate action to restrict the most dangerous
ones.  Given the fractured state of affairs in Washington, states’
efforts to fill the policy vacuum are welcome.  New York  and  New
Jersey , among many others, have been discussing efforts to
restrict or ban the use of certain flame retardants. Last week,
California Governor  Jerry Brown  urged tougher regulations in his
state.  But certain chemicals are known to be dangerous to public
health in every state. In not stepping in to restrict their
production and use, the federal government abandons its
responsibility.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Moody’s bank downgrades ;
William D. Cohan on  Wall Street’s job creation ;  Albert R. Hunt 
on U.S. business’s  embrace of Mitt Romney ;  Simon Johnson  on why
 U.S. banks aren’t ready  for a European crisis; Gregory La Blanc
on  Facebook’s strengths ;  Sharon Bowles  on how the  EU manages
shared debt .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 