-- Islamist Mohamed Mursi Elected Egyptian President
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-24T18:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/islamist-mohammed-mursi-elected-egyptian-president.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi was elected  Egypt ’s first Islamist civilian president,
capping an acrimonious race that divided a nation whose economy
is reeling and where the military has curbed his authority.  Mursi, 60, defeated Ahmed Shafik, who served as  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier, election commission head Farouk Sultan
said in a televised press conference. Mursi won 13.2 million
votes or 51.7 percent, beating Shafik who garnered 12.3 million
votes or almost 48.3 percent, Sultan said.  The announcement drew an uproar of cheers from tens of
thousands gathered in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  where supporters of
the Brotherhood had been rallying for the past week against the
ruling military council. In the Hamas-ruled  Gaza Strip , backers
of that Islamist movement fired celebratory shots in the air and
hundreds waved the Egyptian flag.  “The Brotherhood wants to have a stronger presidency, and
they are going to use their popular mandate and their democratic
legitimacy now to aggressively push against” the ruling
military council, said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center. “That’s a key struggle to watch.”  Second Choice  Mursi was only nominated by the Brotherhood after it became
apparent that its first choice, chief strategist Khairat el-
Shater, was going to be disqualified because of an electoral
technicality. Mursi and Shafik both claimed victory immediately
after the June 16 and 17 runoff vote, sparking a week of tension
in a country that has seen little stability since Mubarak’s
ouster in February 2011.  Before the announcement, the military council boosted its
authority at the expense of the presidency after a court ordered
the dissolution of the Islamist-dominated parliament. A decree
granted the military legislative powers and the ability to play
a role in shaping a new constitution. The military defended its
moves as being in the interests of national security.  “The Egyptian people want a real president and not a
figurehead,”  Muslim Brotherhood  spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said
in a telephone interview after the announcement. “The Egyptian
people and the Muslim Brotherhood are keen on restoring the
president’s authorities and thus are out there on the streets
for the decree to be canceled.”  Ahead of the release of the results, officials boosted
security across the country as tens of thousands of Mursi’s
supporters gathered in Tahrir Square, the epicenter of last
year’s uprising. Some businesses let their employees leave early
amid worries that the outcome would trigger unrest. Official
results were originally due to be released on June 21 before
being postponed amid fraud allegations from the two candidates.  Military Confrontation  The military’s moves raised the possibility of a power
struggle between the army and the Brotherhood after Mursi’s
victory. Tensions marring the country’s transition have scared
away foreign investors and tourists and hampered efforts to
secure a $3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  Israel ’s government said it “appreciates the democratic
process in Egypt and respects the results” of the election.
“Israel looks forward to continuing  cooperation with the
Egyptian government on the basis of the peace treaty between the
two countries, which is a joint interest of both peoples,” the
office of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today in a text
message to journalists.  In Gaza, Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar said “the loser in
this battle is Israel.”  Power Struggle  Mursi’s win is unlikely to settle the longer-range
challenge of the Brotherhood’s power struggle with the military
and how that will play out in the country’s push to stabilize
its economy and its political situation.  “There are still a lot of unknowns for the market, which
will be looking for direction from the street, the presidency
and progress by the constitutional committee,”  Wael Ziada , head
of research at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by
phone. “A lot will depend on public acceptance of the
dissolution of parliament and the constitutional declaration
after Mursi’s win.”  Mursi, a U.S.-trained engineer, inherits an economy that
has struggled to recover since the revolt last year, as tourists
and investors stayed away.  Bond Yields  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
soared the most last week since they were sold in April 2010.
The rate jumped 97 basis points to 7.87 percent in the week that
ended June 22, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That
included a 52 basis-point surge on the last day of the week.  The Arab country’s five-year credit default risk jumped 68
basis points last week to 723, the highest level since December
2008, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices from the privately negotiated market. Egypt is
among the 10 riskiest credits in the world.  “The new president arrives in a total institutional vacuum
and in a seat essentially devoid of powers,” said Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, Dubai-based senior economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “There is no constitution to define the
presidential attributions, allocate and distinguish the
executive from the legislative powers.”  The generals say they are committed to transferring rule to
the new civilian president by the end of the month. Their
critics charge they have tightened their grip in what amounts to
a coup and will not cede meaningful power.  Mursi cast himself as the “revolutionary” candidate in
the runoffs against Shafik, a former air force pilot and civil
aviation minister, who ran on a law and order platform. He also
tried to allay fears by some Christians and secular Muslims who
say they were concerned that the Brotherhood may monopolize
power or curb freedoms.  “The country is split into two,” said Teymour El-Derini,
Cairo-based director of  Middle East  and North Africa sales
trading at Naeem Brokerage. “The new president has to make
everyone happy. There won’t be much patience.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
story: Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  