-- Issa Says No Evidence of White House Role in Gun Sting
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/issa-says-clearly-a-cover-up-on-fast-and-furious-operation-1-.html
U.S. House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  said he had no evidence
that the White House was involved in what he called “a cover-
up” of Justice Department actions related to a failed gun-
trafficking operation known as “Fast and Furious.”  Appearing on several Sunday talk shows, he blamed the
department and Attorney General Eric Holder for the current
stalemate between his panel and the Obama administration. Holder
has defied a subpoena for documents sought by Issa’s committee,
which is investigating the operation.  “It was deny, delay and recuse,” Issa, a California
Republican, said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week” program.  On June 20 President  Barack Obama  involved executive
privilege to shield the documents, an action that House Speaker
 John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said amounted to “an
admission that White House officials were involved in decisions
that misled the Congress and covered up the truth.”  Asked on “Fox News Sunday” about Boehner’s statement,
Issa said his committee had no evidence to support assertions of
White House involvement.  “And I hope they don’t get involved,” he said. “I hope
this stays at Justice. And I hope that Justice cooperates,
because ultimately, Justice lied to the American people on Feb.
4 and didn’t make it right for 10 months.”  Operation Fast and Furious allowed illegally purchased guns
from the U.S. to be smuggled across the border to Mexican drug
cartels, theoretically enabling  law enforcement  to track the
weapons and amass enough evidence to destroy the gangs.  Weapons ‘Lost’  Many of the 2,000 weapons were “lost,” Holder told
lawmakers last year. Two were found in December 2010 at the
scene of the murder of a Border Patrol agent in  Arizona ,
according to a congressional report.  Democrats are accusing  House Republicans  of engaging in an
election-year “fishing expedition” with their probe.  Hours after Obama asserted executive privilege, the
committee, in a party-line vote, recommended that Holder be held
in contempt of Congress for failing to comply with the subpoena.
House Republican leaders set a vote by the full House on the
contempt citation for this week, setting up a potential referral
of the case to the U.S. Attorney’s office in  Washington  to
determine whether prosecution is warranted.  Issa said on ABC that he was going to send a letter to
Obama yesterday or today detailing why lawmakers say the
president is taking an overly broad approach to executive
privilege. If the administration changes course and releases the
documents, “we’ll delay contempt and continue the process,” he
said.  Executive Privilege  The principle of executive privilege says the executive
branch can’t be forced by the legislative branch to disclose
confidential communications when they would harm operations.
This is the first time Obama has invoked executive privilege,
according to the White House.  Issa’s committee is seeking documents describing internal
Justice Department discussions about a Feb. 4, 2011, letter to
lawmakers that Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect
information.  The attorney general told a Senate hearing last year that
he regretted the letter, which indicated that the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives hadn’t “knowingly
allowed” the tactics in the law enforcement operation to be
employed. Information in that letter turned out to be
inaccurate, he said.  Department Memo  Issa said yesterday that his panel is particularly
concerned about a  Justice Department  memo generated weeks later
that may have shown agency officials were aware at that time
that Congress had been given false information. The panel seeks
the memo, drafted by Deputy Assistant Attorney General Jason
Weinstein, as part of the probe.  “How can you presume that it is or isn’t a cover-up of
something wrong, when in fact there clearly is a cover-up of
some information that should have been shown to us?” he said on
“This Week.”  The Justice Department says it already has provided more
than 7,600 pages of documents in the case.  In a June 20 statement, Holder called the contempt citation
“unwarranted, unnecessary and unprecedented.” Yesterday, on
“Fox News Sunday,” Issa said he expects that if the vote is
held, the contempt citation will win House approval in a
bipartisan vote.  “Both Republicans and Democrats will vote for that,” he
said, adding that more than 30 House Democrats had earlier sent
a letter to the Obama administration requesting more disclosure,  Democratic View  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on Issa’s committee, said on the same program that
House Republicans are wrong to pursue the contempt citation
against Holder, in part because there isn’t evidence the
attorney general knew at the time that any incorrect information
may have been relayed to Congress.  “I think it’s extremely unfortunate, and I absolutely
don’t think we needed to be at this place,” Cummings said.  Dozens of Republican lawmakers have called on Holder to
resign over his handling of probes into the gun operation and
leaks of classified national security information. Republicans
have also criticized how the Justice Department under Holder has
prosecuted terrorism suspects and challenged state immigration
and voting laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  