-- Italy Beats England on Penalties to Reach European Semifinal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-24T22:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/italy-beats-england-4-2-on-penalties-to-reach-european-semifinal.html
Italy set up a European Championship
soccer semifinal with record three-time winner Germany after a
4-2 penalty shootout victory over England.  The Italians were forced to rely on the post-midnight
shootout after failing to convert their superior play over 120
minutes at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev into a goal.  Substitute Alessandro Diamanti struck the decisive penalty
after  Ashley Young  and  Ashley Cole  failed for England. Riccardo Montolivo missed for Italy, which had 35 shots to England’s nine
by the end of the game and controlled 64 percent of possession.  “We knew it was going to be a tough match but we deserved
to go through, the best team won,” Italy’s  Andrea Pirlo  said.
“We’re all looking forward to getting through right to the end
of the tournament.”  The winner of the June 28 semifinal will meet holder Spain
or Portugal in the July 1 final. Italy last made the final of
the competition in 2000 when it lost to France on a golden goal.
Italy won the event in 1968.  “We tried our best, we worked as hard as we could,”
England manager  Roy Hodgson  told reporters. “We survived the
cramps and physical problems one or two had. Our defending was
very resolute, especially during a strong set of attacking from
a very good Italian team in the second half.”  Italy had gone five games without victory before
qualifying for the quarterfinal by beating Ireland 2-0 in its
final group-stage match. England has now lost eight of its 11
quarterfinals at major tournaments.  ‘Heartbreak’  “In the penalty shootout I thought we might have got the
bit of luck we needed but it wasn’t to be,” England captain
 Steven Gerrard  told the British Broadcasting Corp. “Again we go
home in heartbreak, which is difficult to take.”  The defeat means England has had only one win from seven
major penalty shootouts: against Spain in Euro 1996.  Italy coach Cesare Prandelli started  Mario Balotelli  ahead
of Antonio Di Natale, while Montolivo and Leonardo Bonucci came
in for the injured Giorgio Chiellini and Thiago Motta. Hodgson,
who was unbeaten in five games as England coach since being
appointed to the post in May, named an unchanged lineup.  After an opening four minutes during which both teams might
have scored, Italy controlled much of the game, dominating
possession and having more efforts on goal.  Daniele De Rossi struck the angle of post and crossbar from
25 yards, then  Glen Johnson  missed when well placed for England
with the game’s next attack. The Liverpool defender hit his shot
off a deflected  James Milner  cross too close to goalkeeper
Gianluigi Buffon, who was able to scoop the ball away.  Chances Missed  Wayne Rooney  headed a Johnson cross over before Italy
created a series of openings.  John Terry  made a crucial block to deny Balotelli in the
26th minute when the striker tried to flick the ball over
England goalkeeper  Joe Hart . The Italy striker kicked the post
in frustration five minutes before halftime when Manchester City
clubmate Joleon Lescott stretched ahead of Balotelli to knock
the ball away from just in front of goal.  Italy spurned further chances at the start of the second
half. De Rossi held his head in his hands after 48 minutes when
he missed the target with a volley from four yards out.
Balotelli and Montolivo then passed up consecutive opportunities
that arose after Hart could only parry  De Rossi ’s powerful shot.  Hodgson reacted to his team’s difficulties by making a
double substitution after 60 minutes, bringing on Andy Carroll
and Theo Walcott for  Danny Welbeck  and Milner. It didn’t
immediately work as the Italians continued to dominate. By the
70th minute Italy had created 19 chances to England’s six and
had controlled 60 percent of the possession.  Rooney Opportunity  Prandelli made his changes with about 10 minutes to go,
bringing on Diamanti and Antonio Nocerino for  Antonio Cassano 
and De Rossi. With two minutes of the 90 left Nocerino was
denied by Johnson just as the ball looked to be heading into the
net. A minute before referee Pedro Proenca called extra
time Rooney drew gasps from the crowd with an overhead kick that
ended up high over Buffon’s bar.  Thirty minutes’ extra time failed to break the deadlock as
the match headed for the penalty shootout. Five minutes from the
end, Nocerino had the ball in the net but the effort was
disallowed for offside.  Italy ’s victory marked its third win in eight penalty
shootouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Kiev, Ukraine, via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  