-- Jeff Koons Fashions Venus’s Buttocks in Shiny Steel
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-06-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/jeff-koons-fashions-venus-s-buttocks-in-shiny-steel-interview.html
Jeff Koons  is reaching back into art
history with his new series “Antiquity,” exploring the goddess
of love in huge glossy metallic sculptures such as the magenta
“Balloon Venus” and turquoise “Metallic Venus.”  They tower over ancient figures in  Frankfurt ’s  Liebieghaus 
museum, where Koons’s work is interspersed among sculptures from
antiquity to the 19th century. “Jeff Koons: The Painter and
Sculptor” is showing at  two venues  in  Germany ’s banking
capital. The paintings are at the Schirn Kunsthalle, where a
screen protects minors from X-rated, hyper-real depictions of
Koons and his porn-star ex-wife having sex.  We meet at the Liebieghaus, where Koons is giving minute
instructions to curators installing his weighty pieces.
“Metallic Venus,” made of stainless steel, is what he terms a
“ready-made” -- a copy of a 19th-century Hungarian porcelain.  She stands 8 feet tall: A curvaceous woman in gleaming
turquoise who lifts her robe over her head to expose her naked
body. Koons explains that the model refers to the ancient Roman
marble statue Callipygian Venus, literally “Venus of the
beautiful buttocks.” She is displayed in a red rotunda.  “So it creates this very strange purple color, very
sensual,” Koons says. “You see your own reflection, because
the piece is affirming your own existence, but you kind of get
lost in this richness of color, almost like velvet.”  Hanging Heart  Koons, a fit-looking 57-year-old in smart-casual clothing, 
once did a stint selling mutual funds and stocks at First 
Investors Corp. on  Wall Street  to fund his art production.   He is prized by some of the world’s wealthiest collectors. 
His “Hanging Heart” sold for $23.6 million in 2007, at the time 
a record price for a living artist at auction. In 2008, a 
“Balloon Flower” of his sold for $25.8 million.  Though prices since have dropped, his sculptures regularly
fetch millions. As well as the Frankfurt shows, a solo
exhibition at the  Fondation Beyeler  in Basel currently features
Koons’s works from three series.  Lenders to the Frankfurt exhibition include billionaires
Eli Broad and Nicolas Berggruen. An art collector himself, Koons
says he doesn’t pay much attention to the market.  “I don’t want to be naive about things,” he says. “In
the long run, what I get from art is the vastness that it gives
my life, the consciousness, the possibilities for understanding
life.  “The aspects of economic value and the things that follow
art, they are about the type of support that your community sees
in your endeavors, or the protection that people want to give
these things,” he says. “If you are doing something that is
interesting, they follow.”  Vacuums, Hulks  Koons speaks about the quest for “acceptance,” saying
that his interest in “ready-mades,” or objects such as vacuum
cleaners that he exhibits as sculptures, was “to find something
and say, ‘it’s perfect, I don’t want to change anything.’”  This “acceptance” seems at odds with the fierce
perfectionism he displays in his metal sculptures. During a
tour, curator Vinzenz Brinkmann describes Koons as a “control
freak” in both the execution of his works, which can take years
and cost millions, and in setting up the exhibition.  A new work features apparently inflatable Incredible Hulks
that actually weigh almost a ton each and are made of bronze.
Every crease in the blown-up plastic surface is immaculately
detailed, yet even the hulks’ matted green hair is made of
plated bronze.  Porcelain Bubbles  Like many of the works on show, they were produced at a
factory near Frankfurt. Koons is a regular visitor to the city.  “There are many things in German culture that I have a
great respect for, along with the engineering and the commitment
to workmanship,” Koons says. “In different cultures you look
for different things. I tried to make porcelain pieces in
Germany but the companies were too inflexible.  “They said ‘Oh we only make porcelain plates, I can’t make
something figurative,” he says. “I went to  Italy  and they said
‘We only make porcelain plates, but maybe I can do that.’”  “ Michael Jackson  and Bubbles,” a larger-than-life gilded
porcelain portrayal of the pop star and his chimp, is shown here
in a room full of Egyptian mummies. Though Koons produced it
while Jackson was still alive, it is strangely appropriate as a
memorial with the singer’s uncertain smile and ghostly pallor.
The luminous dark eyes of both Jacko and Bubbles are mirrored in
the lashless orbs of the mummies.  It is the only apparent allusion to death and darkness in
the exhibition. Koons’s art focuses on themes like love, beauty,
desire and childhood, and is unapologetically cheerful with its
party colors and cartoon characters.  I ask whether it’s difficult to remain so upbeat in times
of crisis and upheaval. Koons says that the most uncertain era
he has experienced was after the terror attacks on  New York  on
Sept. 11, 2001.  “The type of work I created during that time may have had
a mild shift, but always looking forward,” he says. “I believe
in survival, I love life, I never fall back on the dark side.”  “Jeff Koons. The Painter and Sculptor” is on at the
Liebieghaus Skulpturensammlung and the Schirn Kunsthalle in
Frankfurt through Sept. 23. Sponsors include  Bank of America
Merrill Lynch . Information:  http://koons-in-frankfurt.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 