-- New York Yankees Beat Mets 4-3 on Chavez’s 7th-Inning Home Run
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-24T05:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/new-york-yankees-beat-mets-4-3-to-break-three-game-losing-streak.html
Eric Chavez  hit the tie-breaking
home run in the seventh inning as the New York Yankees rallied
from a three-run deficit to defeat the Mets 4-3 at Citi Field
last night, ending a three-game losing streak.  The teams play the final game of this Major League Baseball
interleague series today, after splitting the first two contests.  The Yankees trailed until the seventh inning, when  Raul Ibanez  tied the score at 3-3 with a three-run homer. Chavez then
hit his fifth home run of the season to give them the lead.  “A bloop and a blast -- they can get to you in a minute,”
Mets manager Terry Collins said. “Three-nothing against the
Yankees isn’t exactly a monumental lead.”  The Yankees, who swept an earlier series at home against
the Mets, lead the majors with 110 homers in 70 games, including 
32 in the past 18.  “When you think about our club, they’re in scoring
position when they walk to the plate,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters. “That’s the kind of club we have. They
hit the ball out of the ballpark and we win games.”  Kirk Nieuwenhuis hit a solo homer to give the Mets a 1-0
lead in the third inning.  Scott Hairston  scored on Josh Thole’s
ground-out to first in the fourth and pitcher  Chris Young  hit a
run-scoring single in the sixth.  Rapada Gets Win  Yankee starter Ivan Nova allowed all three of the Mets’
runs and was replaced after Young’s plate appearance in the
sixth inning by Clay Rapada (2-0) who struck out one in 1/3
inning for the win.  Rafael Soriano , who allowed one hit and
struck out two in the ninth, recorded his 14th save.  Jon Rauch (3-7) gave up one run on one hit and struck out
one in 1 1/3 innings for the Mets in taking the loss.  First baseman  Ike Davis , who hit the decisive three-run
homer in Friday night’s Mets’ victory over the Yankees, was
scratched from the starting lineup with possible food poisoning.  Yankees catcher  Russell Martin  left the game in the top of
the ninth inning with a stiff back.  The Yankees (42-28) top the five-team American League East,
while the Mets (39-33) are second in the five-team National
League East, 3 ½ games behind the Washington Nationals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  