-- Nightmare Airport Road Reduces India Silicon Valley Jobs
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-06-25T07:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/nightmare-airport-road-costs-jobs-in-bangalore-corporate-india.html
For visitors to Bangalore,  India ’s
technology capital, the worst leg of their journey can begin
after leaving the city’s airport.  The 35-kilometer (22-mile) drive to downtown from the
gleaming terminal can take as long as two hours as motorists
contend with congestion, wrong-lane driving, tractors and
pedestrians on a road lined with shops and houses. A 6.8
billion-rupee ($119 million) upgrade is adding to the jam, with
more than half of the six-lane link closed off in some sections
for building work.  Jams across the southern Indian city are slowing a tech
boom that has caused the population to jump almost 50 percent in
a decade to 9.6 million.  Infosys Ltd. (INFY)  has delayed a 22.5 billion
rupee development in the city for two years partly because of
congestion, while other technology companies have set up
operations in Hyderabad and Chennai instead.  “Bangalore is possibly 15 years behind because we don’t
have proper planning,” said T.V. Mohandas Pai, a former Infosys
director who now heads a state initiative to boost the
technology industry. “You have to create infrastructure ahead
of the need.”  Work on the airport-road upgrade only started two years
after the airport opened in May 2008. It will be completed at
least five months after the planned November deadline, according
to the National Highways Authority of India’s website. Builder
 Navayuga Engineering Co . didn’t respond to repeated calls and e-
mailed questions about the project.  Construction Delay  The hold-up in starting work was partly caused by a more
than three-year delay for city council elections, said R. Uday
Kumar, a councilor for the opposition Congress Party. The vote
was eventually held in 2010 after a local government
restructuring.  “More than a lack of planning, a complete lack of local
democracy and local institutions contributed to the current
state of the city,” said Vinod Vyasulu, a Bangalore-based
research adviser at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements,
an education institution focused on urbanization.  The city’s traffic jams make it the sixth-most  painful 
worldwide for commuters and second-worst for parking after New
Delhi, according to a 2011 survey of 20 cities by International
Business Machines Corp.  “If I could wish for one thing in Bangalore it would be
that it was easier to get around during the day,” said  John Flannery , chief executive officer of General Electric Co.’s
India unit. The city is “clearly struggling to keep up with the
level of demand.”  Infosys Project  The bottlenecks have caused Bangalore-based Infosys to
delay a new facility that the state government said would create
about 18,000 jobs. The  software developer , which has 365 acres
(148 hectares) of land for the project, is waiting for new roads
to be built, said Co-Chairman S. Gopalakrishnan.  “We are working with the government to create
infrastructure, and I’m hoping that it will happen,” he said.
“But I don’t have a timeline.”  Bangalore has 500,000 technology workers, about 20 percent
of India’s total, according to government data released this
month. They mainly work in Whitefield, a suburb that was once a
settlement of India’s then-colonial rulers. The city’s low wages
and temperate climate have helped make it the world’s fourth-
largest technology cluster after Silicon Valley in the U.S.,
 Boston  and  London , according to a study by Ernst & Young.  Quicker Trip  The improvements to the airport road are designed to reduce
congestion and cut travel time to about 30 minutes. It will
include 3.5 kilometers of elevated roads, said Subhash Chandra
Khuntia, principal secretary at the Karnataka state government’s
Public Works Department. Bangalore, the state capital, is also
adding other new roads and a metro network.  “It is obvious that there’s a lot of work going on,” said
Lowell Paddock, India head for General Motors Co., which has a
technology center in the city. “I’ll be curious to see in 18
months whether the city delivers on the promise.”  In the meantime, other cities are challenging Bangalore’s
grip on the Indian software sector.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  opened its
first India office in Hyderabad, 324 miles from Bangalore.
Hyderabad built an 11.5 kilometer elevated highway to its new
airport in less than 36 months. The road opened within a year of
the airport, said V. Madhwa Raja, chief engineer at the city’s
Metropolitan Development Authority, which oversaw the work.  Chennai Power  In Chennai, the government of Tamil Nadu state has created
rules that assure technology companies uninterrupted power and
connectivity. That helped persuade  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS) , India’s biggest software exporter, to choose the city for
its largest facility, which opened in 2010. The company employs
about 50,000 people in Chennai, compared with about 40,000 in
Mumbai and 25,000 in Bangalore, said Pradipta Bagchi, a
spokesman.  Back in Bangalore, backhoes and cranes were earlier this
month parked in the middle of the airport road inside enclosures
made of tin sheets. Few workers were on site and there was
little sign of activity. Warning signs dotted along the route
told drivers to go slow as they sat in barely moving jams.  GM’s Paddock said that local knowledge is key to avoiding
the queues, after making it downtown from the airport in about
an hour a couple of weeks ago.  “Things are a little chaotic,” he said. “I’m thankful
that the driver who I have knows all the back roads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  