-- Norway Oil Workers Shut Platforms as Mediation Talks Fail
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-24T02:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/norway-oil-workers-shut-platforms-as-mediation-talks-fail-1-.html
Norwegian offshore workers shut two
platforms after mediated talks on pensions and wages failed,
curtailing output in Europe’s second-largest crude and natural
gas producer.  A government-led mediation was unable to bridge a divide
over pensions with the labor unions, Industry Energy, Safe and
Lederene, the Norwegian Oil Industry Association said today in
an e-mailed statement. The talks had pushed past a midnight
deadline before a strike was called.  “Completely unreasonable pension demands from Industry
Energy, SAFE and Lederne show they are clearly placing
themselves apart from other workers in Norway,” Jan Hodneland,
chief negotiator for the association, said in a statement.  The strike will cut oil and gas output as shut production
at  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s Oseberg and Heidrun fields, and close  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Skarv development, according to the group. About 700 workers are
being taken off the job in the initial phase of conflict, which
will also hurt operations at Europe’s biggest methanol plant.  “We can’t accept that the employers rob us of our
pensions,” Leif Sande and Hilde-Marit Rysst, leaders at the
Industry Energy and Safe unions, said in a separate statement.  The platforms will take four to five days to close, the
industry association said. BP’s Skarv output start risks being
delayed by the conflict, which will cost 150 million kroner ($25
million) a day in lost revenue, the group said.  Production Affected  The strike by oil-platform workers, which is the first
industrywide action since 2004, targets about 165,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day, according to the Industry Energy and
Lederne unions. That’s equal to about 3.9 percent of average
daily production of oil, natural gas and condensate in  Norway 
this year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on data
from the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  Oseberg  has produced an average of about 194,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day in 2012, while Heidrun’s output has
averaged 64,000 barrels, according to NPD data. Skarv is due to
start production in the fourth quarter according to BP.  All production will be halted at  Heidrun  while output from
Oseberg will be cut by between 94,000 and 101,000 barrels of oil
equivalent, Per Helge Oedegaard, an official with the Lederne
union, said on June 18. Output from the 2,500 metric tons-a-day
 Tjeldbergodden  methanol plant will also stop after a single
day’s strike because gas supplies would halt, he said. The plant
is  Europe ’s biggest, according to Statoil, which owns more than
80 percent of the facility.  Norway, the world’s third-richest nation per capita, last
suffered an oil worker strike in 2006 when oil-service employees
disrupted drilling for 34 days. Platform workers last went on
strike in 2004, according to the Safe labor union, which is part
of the action. The employers are represented by the Oil Industry
Association.  Norway produced an average of about 2.01 million barrels of
oil, natural gas liquids and condensate a day in May, according
to the NPD. That includes average oil output of about 1.633
million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 Streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  