-- Oil Trades Below $80 for a Third Day on Economic Outlook
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-25T11:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/oil-gains-a-second-day-after-storm-cuts-gulf-of-mexico-output.html
Oil traded below $80 a barrel for a
third day in  New York  amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will curb demand for fuels.  Futures slid as much as 1.2 percent as  George Soros  warned
that a failure by European Union leaders meeting this week to
produce drastic measures could spell the demise of the bloc’s
shared currency. Developed economies are running into the limits
of monetary policy, the  Bank for International Settlements  said
in its annual report yesterday. Oil earlier rose as much as 1.2
percent after Tropical Storm Debby approached oil and gas
installations in the  Gulf of Mexico .  “The outlook for oil remains negative while concerns
remain about the economic outlook in Europe weigh on demand,”
 Michael Hewson , a London-based analyst at CMC Markets, which
handles about $240 million a day in U.S. crude contracts, said
today in an e-mail. “Investors remain skeptical that EU leaders
will be able to agree on anything tangible to alleviate the
current crisis.”  Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 97 cents to
$78.79 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $78.92 at 12:53 p.m. London time. Prices
have fallen 23 percent this quarter, the biggest decline since
the final three months of 2008.  Brent oil for August settlement slid 95 cents, or 1
percent, to $90.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $11.09, compared with $11.22 on June 22.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  reduced bullish oil bets in the seven days
ended June 19, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on June 22. Money
managers, including funds, commodity pools and commodity trading
advisers, cut wagers for a seventh week, paring futures and
options combined by 5.9 percent to 122,815, the lowest level
since Oct. 1, 2010.  Monetary policy  only “buys time” in the short run for
political leaders to act, and leaving an easy stance for a
prolonged period poses economic risks, the Basel, Switzerland-
based BIS said in its report published yesterday.  Central bank balance sheets now contain $18 trillion of
assets, or about 30 percent of global gross domestic product,
double the ratio of a decade ago, and  interest rates  are as
“low as they can go,” it said.  The EU begins a two-day meeting in Brussels on June 28.
Leaders will attend pre-summit meets as they work to narrow
differences on solutions to the debt crisis.  Storm Shift  Oil gave up earlier gains after Tropical Storm Debby
shifted away from offshore energy installations. Companies
including  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  shut about 23 percent of
output in the Gulf, the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement said at the weekend.  Debby was in the Gulf of Mexico, about 90 miles (145
kilometers) south-southwest if Apalachicola, Florida, with top
winds of 50 miles per hour, the National Hurricane Center said
in an  advisory  shortly before 8 a.m. New York time.  Little movement or change in strength is expected through
at least today, the center said.  Norwegian offshore workers shut two production platforms
after talks on pensions and wages failed, curtailing output in
Europe’s second-largest oil and natural-gas producer.  The strike will cut oil and gas output at  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s
Oseberg and Heidrun fields, and close BP’s Skarv development,
the Norwegian Oil Industry Association said yesterday.  The strike by oil-platform workers, which is the first
industry-wide action since 2004, targets about 165,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day, according to the Industry Energy and
Lederne unions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  