-- London Olympics to Be Most Over-Budget Games Since Atlanta 1996
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-06-24T23:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/london-olympics-to-be-most-over-budget-games-since-atlanta-1996.html
The  London  2012 summer Olympics are
on course to be the most over-budget games for 16 years after
organizers failed to forecast demands for security and private
investment, according to a study by the University of Oxford.  The sports-related expense of hosting in the British 
capital is likely to cost more than twice the original estimate,
researchers from the university’s  Said Business School  said in a
paper. That’s the most since the 1996 summer Olympics in
Atlanta, when costs overran by 147 percent.  “The Olympics overrun with a 100 percent consistency,”
Bent Flyvbjerg, who co-authored the research, said in an
interview. “You reach a point of no return seven years before
the games where you commit to delivering and writing this blank
check. You can’t trade off time with money in the Olympics.”  London beat Paris and  New York  to host the games, which
begin July 27. The U.K. government tripled its first budget to
9.3 billion pounds ($14.5 billion) after failing to get 
companies to finance and develop the main site. The security 
budget doubled to 553 million pounds last year as a review found
that an original estimate of 10,000 guards was short by nearly 
14,000 people.  Adrian Bassett, a spokesman for the organizers of the
London games, didn’t comment on the study.  Overruns are typical for large projects like the Olympics
and occur when the host “strategically lowballs” the true cost
of the event or is overoptimistic of the benefits, according to
Flyvbjerg, who’s a professor of major program management at the
business school.  ‘Too Optimistic’  “In order to get approval for something you make it look
good on paper and you do that by estimating the cost low and
estimating the benefits of the revenues high,” he said by
telephone. “If you are too optimistic, again, that will result
in the same pattern and will bias the data.”  The summer games were expected to cost around 8.4 billion
pounds compared with 4.2 billion pounds when London bid for 
the games in 2005, the university said. Beijing’s 2008 Olympics
were 4 percent over-budget, while costs in Athens four years 
earlier were exceeded by 60 percent.  The average cost overrun of the  Olympic Games  is 179
percent, according to the sample of 17 previous summer and
winter events examined by Oxford’s Said Business School.  “Any country that bids for the games probably goes into
it, though they wouldn’t admit it, knowing that there’s very
little likelihood of it ultimately proving to be cost effective
or value for money,” said Alan Seymour, a professor of sports
marketing at the University of Northampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 