-- Hong Kong-LME Deal Spurs Biggest Exchange Drop: Real M&A
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-06-25T09:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/hong-kong-lme-deal-spurs-biggest-exchange-drop-real-m-a.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd.’s pursuit of the London Metal Exchange is transforming the
Asian bourse into the industry’s worst performer.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ $2.2 billion bid for the LME this
month valued the world’s largest trading venue for industrial
metals at 181 times earnings, making it the most expensive
bourse acquisition exceeding $1 billion on record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. With the Asian company’s stock
tumbling since the first report of its interest in the LME, it
has now retreated  33 percent  in the past year, the biggest
decline among the world’s 20 largest exchanges, the data show.  While the merger will give Hong Kong Exchanges control of
about 80 percent of global trade in industrial-metal futures as
it grapples with  falling profits  and a slump in initial public
offerings, the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX) ’s head said the price
would have been too rich for the biggest U.S. bourse operator.
An increase in trading by Chinese companies on the LME is vital
to justify the deal, making the takeover’s success dependent on
 China ’s regulators, who have so far resisted granting the LME
access to the mainland to protect its rival in  Shanghai ,
according to Core Pacific-Yamaichi International (H.K.) Ltd.  “In the short-term, this acquisition will be a huge
burden,” Michiya Tomita, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees $65 billion,
said in a phone interview. “The valuation they’re buying LME
for is expensive. This investment could pay off eventually if
they are able to boost China’s trading volumes on LME, but
that’s not easy to achieve given current regulatory
restrictions.”  Benchmark Prices  Hong Kong Exchanges, formed a decade ago through the
combination of the city’s equity and derivatives markets, has
focused on stocks, options and futures on equity indexes and
 interest rates . The 135-year-old LME, which reported record
volume of $15.4 trillion last year, sets global benchmark prices
for metals including copper, aluminum and nickel, of which China
consumes more than any other nation.  Trading volume on the LME grew about 58 percent between
2007 and 2011, according to data from the exchange. UBS AG
analyst Stephen Andrews forecasts trading will increase to 261
million lots by 2015, from about 147 million lots in 2011,
according to a June 18 note.  “This deal is about growth over not just one or two years,
but over the longer term,” James Fok, chief of staff to  Hong
Kong Exchanges’ (388)  Chief Executive Officer Charles Li, said in a
phone interview. “As a standalone business, LME has quite an
attractive growth rate. On top of that, what we’re able to help
plug it into are areas of growth that it’s not capturing today -
- in particular China -- that are able to boost that growth
quite substantially.”  ‘Very Well’  “From our point of view we think the valuation stacks up
very well,” he said.  After rising as much as 3.3 percent earlier  today , Hong
Kong Exchanges fell 10 cents to HK$108.60 apiece.  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for LME, declined to comment
on the price Hong Kong Exchanges offered for the firm.  Hong Kong Exchanges said on June 15 it had agreed to pay
1.39 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) for LME, or 181 times the
London-based company’s 2011 earnings of 7.68 million pounds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The LME purchase price was almost double the prior record
for an exchange deal exceeding $1 billion, the data show. The
merger of Sao Paulo-based Bolsa de Mercadorias & Futuros-BM&F SA
and Bovespa Holding SA to create  Latin America ’s biggest stock
and futures exchange valued Bovespa at 107 times profit when it
was announced in March 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Limited Relevance’  The member-owned LME’s previous profits are “of limited
relevance” because the bourse kept fees low for the benefit of
its shareholders, Hong Kong Exchanges said in a June 15
statement. Had a fee increase scheduled for next month taken
place before 2011, profits would have tripled to 23.8 million
pounds last year, it said.  With that level of earnings, the takeover would value LME
at 58 times profit. That would still leave Hong Kong’s bid as
the third-most expensive for a bourse on record, behind the
BM&F-Bovespa merger and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s
October 2006 offer for the Chicago Board of Trade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Bloomberg World Exchanges Index (BNWEXCH) 
of 25 bourses traded at almost twice its current price-earnings
multiple when the deal to create the current Chicago-based  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  was announced, the data show.  “The earnings don’t justify the price,” Thomas  Monaco , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t see it being positive for
earnings, which is essentially what the stock trades off of. I
think they’ve bitten off much more than they can chew.”  ‘Value-Destructive’  Taking into account the agreement by Hong Kong Exchanges
not to raise fees on the LME until 2015, Monaco estimated in a
June 18 note that the bourse will have to double the LME’s
profits in order to avoid cutting its dividend or selling new
shares to finance the deal.  “This was a value-destructive deal and the company should
not be doing something like this,” Monaco said.  NYSE Euronext’s CEO Duncan Niederauer said on June 8 that
the LME had become too expensive for the operator of the  New
York  Stock Exchange. NYSE Euronext had said in May it was
removed from the list of potential buyers.  “We weren’t going to chase it,” Niederauer said at the
Sandler O’Neill Global Exchange and Brokerage Conference in New
York. “The price it’ll likely trade at, frankly, it was too
rich in terms of what we were able to afford to pay.”  LME Shareholders  Hong Kong Exchanges’ bid has left New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co. poised to more than double the value of its
investment in LME shares bought seven months ago from the U.K.
unit of bankrupt MF Global Holdings Ltd. The New York-based bank
is the biggest investor in the LME with 1.4 million shares
valued at 150.6 million pounds after Hong Kong’s offer of 107.60
pounds per ordinary share.  New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s stake of 1.23
million shares in LME is valued at 132.3 million pounds. U.K.
metals trading companies Metdist Ltd. and Metdist Trading Ltd.
have a combined 1.21 million LME shares, valued at about 130
million pounds after the offer.  Hong Kong Exchanges, which had $5.7 billion in cash and
short-term investments at the end of March, is borrowing 1.1
billion pounds for the purchase and plans to sell stock or bonds
to refinance the loans. The company is likely to issue 10
percent of its share capital to raise funds, according to Ivan Li, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities in Hong Kong.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Its share price may be under pressure again at that
time,” Li wrote in a June 20 note. Li cut his forecast for Hong
Kong Exchange’s 2012 earnings by about 10 percent and the price
estimate on the stock to HK$90 a share, or 17 percent below  last
week’s close .  With the announcement of the LME acquisition sending Hong
Kong Exchanges to the largest drop in the city’s benchmark Hang
Seng Index on June 18, the bourse has now tumbled 33 percent in
the past year. That’s a bigger slump than any global exchange
with a market value of more than $500 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Most of the decline has come since the South
China Morning Post newspaper first reported the bourse’s
interest in LME in February.  The deal price means that Hong Kong Exchanges will have to
boost LME’s revenue to at least 400 million pounds, from 61
million pounds in 2011, if it is to meet its own goal of a 10
percent to 15 percent return on investment for the acquisition
in five years, UBS’s Andrews said. The purchase is unlikely to
make more than a “mid-single digit” return on investment in
the next three to five years, according to a June 18 note from
Andrews, who factored in the cost of financing and U.K. taxes.  ‘Strategic Benefits’  “There are clearly strategic benefits for Hong Kong from
owning this asset but for HKEx’s shareholders acquisitions need
to generate a good return on cash invested to add value,”
Andrews wrote. “LME may well come up short of expectations in
this regard.”  Hong Kong plans to increase the London exchange’s revenue
in part by tapping the large potential base of customers in
China, which accounts for about 40 percent of consumption of
commodities globally and only as much as 25 percent of trading
on the LME, the company said when  announcing the deal .  To increase trading by Chinese firms, the LME will need
permission to register warehouses in mainland China, according
to Timothy Li, a Hong Kong-based senior analyst for Core-Pacific
Yamaichi. That may not be forthcoming with Chinese regulators
interested in protecting the Shanghai Futures Exchange from
competition, he said.  Warehouse Ban  The China Securities Regulatory Commission, which is
responsible both for regulating trading and developing China’s
domestic markets, has prohibited foreign bourses from setting up
warehouses for delivery of commodities. The ban is in place
until the government issues rules on the opening of  futures
markets , the CSRC said in a July 2008 statement. The CSRC hasn’t
said when that will happen and didn’t respond to a request for
comment outside normal business hours.  “Whether you are a producer, user or trader, warehouse
delivery is an important part of commodity trading,” Zhang Yifan, a commodity strategist at China Galaxy Securities Co.,
said by phone from Shanghai. “Obstacles for overseas exchanges
to set up delivery warehouses in China gives domestic players
less incentive to trade on the foreign exchanges.”  The CSRC also controls Chinese companies’ ability to trade
commodity futures in overseas exchanges, including the LME.  “They need to boost LME trades from China,” Core Pacific-
Yamaichi’s Li said in a telephone interview. “China’s interest
in protecting the Shanghai Futures Exchange from overseas
competition may make this difficult.”  Declining Earnings  Before Hong Kong Exchanges agreed to the deal for LME,
 analysts  were projecting it would report earnings of about HK$5
billion ($640 million) in 2012, the fifth year of falling or
unchanged profits since 2007. The average of analyst forecasts
dropped to HK$4.9 billion in the past week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Hong Kong has accounted for about 5 percent of the global
amount raised through new listings this year, compared with 13
percent in 2011 and 18 percent in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition of LME will have a “significant impact”
on Hong Kong’s ability to boost its  profits  as it increases
trading fees and expands its offering of products denominated in
 renminbi  in the world’s fastest growing major economy, according
to Simmy Grewal, London-based senior analyst at Aite Group LLC.  ‘Very Large’  “The potential is very large and that is what Hong Kong is
paying for,” Grewal said in a phone interview. “They’ve been
very smart about diversifying to now look at commodities. They
didn’t want more exposure to equities, so they realized they
needed to diversify and get to a completely different space that
also complements the exposure to China because that is something
that no other exchange in the world has.”  With the takeover unlikely to boost  Hong Kong’s earnings  in
the short-term, investors may still grow more impatient given
the uncertainty about the merged entity’s ability to get the
necessary access to China, according to Mizuho’s Monaco.  “This is a very, very long-term thing,” he said. “We
don’t know if they’ll be able to get the warehouses in China. We
have no idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 