-- Pakistan’s PM Says Power Crisis, Law and Order Top Goals
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-06-25T06:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/pakistan-s-pm-says-power-crisis-law-and-order-top-priorities.html
Pakistan ’s Prime Minister Raja
Pervez Ashraf said solving the power crisis and establishing law
and order in the financial capital of Karachi will be his top
priorities as he seeks to boost the economy and quell unrest.  “Rather than giving targets, I would rather let the people
decide if we’re making progress in these vital areas,” Ashraf
told reporters after a visit yesterday to the Karachi mausoleum
of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan.  Ashraf, who was elected by lawmakers on June 22 to replace
ousted Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani , faces the challenge of
curbing electricity outages lasting as long as 18 hours a day
that have shut factories and led to violent protests. Political
fighting in Karachi, home to the stock exchange and central bank,
has claimed 777 lives in the five months ended May and caused
frequent shutdowns in trade and industry.  “He has maximum five to six months before the elections to
show some improvements,’ said Sakib Sherani, chief executive
office at Macroeconomic Insights in Islamabad. “If he sensibly
plays his cards he can at least reduce the time of blackouts for
average Pakistani and that should be his only game plan.”  Ashraf reappointed Abdul Hafeez Shaikh and Hina Rabbani
Khar as finance and foreign ministers respectively and Syed
Naveed Qamar was given the position of defense minister, state-
run  Associated Press  of Pakistan reported today. Ashraf
appointed 38  ministers  to his cabinet on June 22.  The benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100  index , which has
risen 20 percent this year, fell 0.7 percent to 13,634.42 at
11:19 a.m. local time. The rupee rose 0.1 percent to 94.42
against the  U.S. dollar , after losing 5 percent this year.  National Elections  Ashraf, 61, also hinted at cooling the four-year clash
between the government and judiciary that has rocked an
administration poised to become the first elected Pakistani
regime to serve a full five-year term. Elections are due in the
year ending June 2013. The new premier also needs to improve
ties with the U.S., vital to help stabilize neighboring
 Afghanistan .  “We don’t want conflict with any institutions,” Ashraf
said. “We want good relations with the U.S. and I will follow
the outcome the parliament decides on.”  The prime minister may have to pursue corruption charges
against President Asif Ali Zardari or risk meeting the same fate
as Gilani, who last week became the nation’s first premier to be
removed by a court ruling for failing to open graft cases
against the president, who also heads the ruling party to which
Ashraf belongs.  Court Ruling  “My feeling is that the courts are not going to give up
and look the other way,” said Rasul Bakhsh Rais, a professor of
Political Science at the Lahore University of Management
Sciences. “Until there is some kind of understanding with the
Supreme Court, I think things may get uglier in the next few
months.”  Ashraf, a member of the National Assembly from Rawalpindi,
has served as minister of water and power and information
technology since he was elected in 2008. He was the chairman of
Social Action Program initiated by slain  Benazir Bhutto  during
her second term as the prime minister.  The Supreme Court in March ruled that the country’s
National Accountability Bureau should initiate corruption probe
against Ashraf and other officials for violating rules while
granting licenses to private electricity companies during his
term as minister for power.  Corruption Investigation  Pakistan’s most senior judges convicted Gilani, 60, of
contempt of court on April 26 for failing to act on an earlier
order to pursue corruption investigations against Zardari in
Swiss courts. Gilani’s lawyers failed to convince judges that
the constitution grants the president immunity from prosecution
while in office.  Zardari issued an ordinance late yesterday validating all
decisions taken by Gilani since April 26 to prevent any legal
challenges, Associated Press of Pakistan reported. Gilani’s
government presented the  federal budget  for the year starting
July 1 on June 1.  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  in 2007
decreed an amnesty to halt corruption probes against 8,000
politicians and officials, including Zardari and his wife,
Bhutto.  The  Supreme Court  in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and Bhutto, who was assassinated at a political rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  