-- Pixar’s ‘Brave’ Opens at No. 1 With Sales of $66.7 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-06-24T18:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/pixar-s-brave-opens-as-no-1-movie-with-sales-of-66-7-million.html
Pixar’s “Brave,” featuring the
computer-animation studio’s first female lead character, opened
in first place at theaters in the U.S. and Canada, taking in
$66.7 million for parent  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   “ Abraham Lincoln : Vampire Hunter” was third in its debut
with $16.5 million in sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “Brave,” Pixar’s 13th film, continues an unbroken record
of first-place openings for the studio dating back to “Toy
Story” in 1995. The movie, about a rebellious princess Merida,
tested the studio’s ability to reach boys with a story focused
on the strained mother-daughter ties. Unlike past Disney
princesses, Merida doesn’t need to be rescued by a heroic man.  “It’s doing some pretty good business with males even
though it’s a total mother-daughter story,” said Gitesh Pandya,
editor of Box Office Guru. “Part of that has to do with the
Pixar brand. This is one of the only animated brands where
people without kids will go to see it regardless of the story,
because it is Pixar.”  Domestic ticket-sales forecasts for “Brave” ranged from
$58 million at Box Office Guru to as much as $81 million, the
forecast of Lazard Capital Markets. Hollywood.com predicted
$60 million for the film. The picture cost about $185 million to
produce, according to Box Office Mojo.  Fifth Best  In “Brave,” Princess Merida prefers riding horses and
archery to the palace duties of a princess. Her refusal to hew
to a traditional role at the royal court leads to unforeseen
consequences that place her family in jeopardy. The 3-D film
features the voices of Kelly Macdonald as Merida and Emma Thompson as her mother, Elinor.  The opening was the fifth best for a Pixar film. “Toy
Story 3” had the best debut, taking in $110.3 million in June
2010, according to Hollywood.com. All but three of Pixar’s films
have grossed at least $500 million in theaters worldwide, with
“Toy Story 3” at the top with $1.06 billion.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s
Most Wanted” fell to second place, with $20.2 million, after
two weeks at No. 1. The movie, featuring the voices of  Ben Stiller ,  Chris Rock  and Jada Pinkett-Smith, has taken in $157.4
million since it opened on June 8.  The movie follows Alex the lion and his urbanized animal
friends as they leave  Africa  to return to their home in  New
York ’s Central Park Zoo.  ‘Abraham Lincoln’  Fox’s “Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter” portrays the 16th
president as an ax-wielding foe of the undead.  The film’s alternate take on history casts the U.S. civil
war as a contest between union forces and a confederacy co-opted
by vampires who want to maintain slavery to ensure a steady
supply of victims. The picture was made for about $69 million,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Benjamin Walker plays the role of Lincoln.  “It’s sort of an untested genre -- you’ve got the vampire
film mixed in with the history of a U.S. president,” Pandya
said. “It was not expected to draw a huge audience up front.
You had a lot of your adult male, horror, vampire audience come
out.”  “Prometheus,” from Fox, was fourth with sales of
$10 million. The film follows a group of explorers who travel to
a distant planet to investigate evidence of alien life.
“Prometheus” stars  Charlize Theron , Noomi Rapace and  Michael Fassbender .  ‘Seeking a Friend’  Finishing fifth was “ Snow White  and the Huntsman,”
 Universal Pictures ’ action-adventure take on the classic fairy
tale. The film, a dark retelling of the story about a jealous,
aging queen who plots against a young beauty, had sales of
$8.01 million.  “Seeking a Friend for the End of the World,” from
Universal Pictures’ Focus Features, finished 10th with sales of
$3.8 million in its debut.  Steve Carell  stars as a man who tries to reunite with his
high-school sweetheart as an approaching asteroid threatens to
end life on Earth. Keira Knightley co-stars.  “I think audiences love Steve Carell in the broad
mainstream comedies,” said Pandya. “This is more of your
upscale, high-concept dark comedy and there just wasn’t a whole
lot of demand there.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 7 percent
to $158.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic film sales this year have risen 9 percent to
$5.14 billion, with attendance up 11 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
22 and June 23, and estimates for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  