-- Porsche Looks at Energy to Ready for Post-911 Role: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-06-25T15:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/porsche-mulls-energy-trading-to-prepare-for-life-after-911-cars.html
Porsche SE, the holding company
controlling a majority stake in  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  after a botched
takeover attempt four years ago, will probably soon be investing
more in energy than in  sports cars  like the iconic 911.  Porsche SE shareholders voted today in favor of changes in
the Stuttgart, Germany-based company’s charter as it closes in
on finalizing the sale of the Porsche car-making unit to VW. The
vote allows the holding company to invest in materials for the
 auto industry , real estate and energy trading.  “The focus would be on activities along the automotive
value chain,”  Martin Winterkorn , who is the chief executive
officer of both VW and Porsche SE, said in a speech at the
meeting ahead of the vote. “Porsche SE is and remains
inseparable from the automotive industry.”  Without new investments, Porsche SE would be reduced to
managing 50.7 percent of Volkswagen common shares after the sale
of the Porsche car brand. The deal, which cleared an important
hurdle earlier this month, would cap a takeover saga that
divided the heirs of company founder  Ferdinand Porsche , who
created of the VW Beetle.  If VW exercises options to buy the 50.1 percent of the
sports-car unit it doesn’t already own, Porsche SE could have
about 2.5 billion euros ($3.1 billion) in cash after deducting
debt. The company is slated to get about 570 million euros in
 dividends  from VW next year, according to Bloomberg data.  U.S. Lawsuits  The sale of the Porsche car business, which also makes the
Cayenne sport-utility vehicle and Panamera four-door coupe, is
part of a 2009 agreement to integrate the companies. The
original plan to merge VW and Porsche SE was called off in
September because of legal tangles. Since then, the companies
have been mulling alternatives, including buying the rest of the
Porsche brand to fold into VW.  “What is clear is that all parties concerned would benefit
from a rapid combination of Volkswagen and Porsche,” Winterkorn
said. “The integrated automotive group of Volkswagen and
Porsche is a certainty.”  Investors are suing Porsche SE in the U.S. and  Germany ,
accusing the company of misleading them about plans to take
control of Volkswagen in 2008. There are five suits pending at a
court in Braunschweig, Germany, with plaintiffs seeking a total
of more than 4 billion euros in damages. A hearing in some of
the German cases is scheduled for June 27. Porsche SE has denied
the allegations.  The legal risks and the uncertainty over Porsche SE’s
future have weighed on the  shares . Over the past 12 months, the
stock has fallen 25 percent, compared with a 12 percent decline
for VW. Porsche preferred shares fell 1.4 percent today in
 Frankfurt  trading to close at 39.76 euros.  Cash Potential  Volkswagen has resolved tax issues facing the transfer of
Porsche auto shares with German finance authorities, Hans Dieter
Poetsch, chief financial officer of VW and Porsche SE, said at
the meeting. The agreement eliminates the risk of a potential 1
billion-euro tax bill. Volkswagen, which already owns 49.9
percent of the Porsche auto business, can exercise options to
buy the rest from Nov. 15 for 3.9 billion euros.  That cash inflow would give Porsche SE a war chest for
investments. Net debt totaled 1.51 billion euros at the end of
March. It received 331 million euros in dividends from
Volkswagen in April. Porsche plans to pay 232 million euros in
dividends to common and preferred shareholders.  Family Feud  Holders of the common stock, of which the Porsche and Piech
families own 90 percent, voted unanimously today to allow the
holding company to invest in new business fields, including
renewable energies and auto materials. The remaining 10 percent
of the common shares is held by Qatar Holding LLC.  VW bought an 8.2 percent stake in  SGL Carbon SE (SGL) , vying for
control of the company with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  to
secure access to carbon fiber, which can reduce vehicle weight
and therefore improve  fuel efficiency .  Porsche SE’s investment proposal hasn’t been warmly
received by investors in the company’s listed preferred shares,
which don’t have  voting rights .  “If the Porsche family wants to invest in these areas,
they should do it privately,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based
analyst with Credit Suisse. “The dividends from the VW holdings
should be forwarded to the shareholders. The option to invest in
such a wide range of fields is definitely not in the interest of
Porsche SE’s shareholders.”  The company’s 2008 effort to take over Volkswagen, which
makes more cars in a week than the sports-car maker does in a
year, split the controlling family.  Ferdinand Piech , VW’s
chairman, crossed his cousin Wolfgang Porsche to thwart the
plan, which ultimately fell apart after Porsche’s debt rose to
more than 10 billion euros in the midst of the financial crisis.  Ducati-Like Impact  Piech, 75, the former VW CEO who was elected to a third
term as chairman in April, has since solidified control of
Volkswagen. His wife, Ursula, took a seat on the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company’s supervisory board earlier this year. In
April, VW agreed to acquire Italian motorcycle maker Ducati,
fulfilling Piech’s vision of a company with a range spanning
from two-wheelers to 50-ton trucks.  Still, the adjustment to the scope of Porsche’s business
doesn’t change the fact the company’s fortunes rest with VW’s
car business, said Juergen Meyer, a  fund manager  with SEB Asset
Management in Frankfurt.  “Porsche SE’s charter changes have as little significance
to shareholders as the acquisition of Ducati,” said Meyer.
Porsche is his fourth-largest  holding .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  