-- Publicis Hit by Stagnant China Ads as Europe Crisis Spreads
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-25T10:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/publicis-hit-by-stagnant-china-budgets-as-europe-crisis-spreads.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Maurice Levy  said advertisers in China, a market that
has helped the French  marketing company  make up for slower
growth in Europe, aren’t increasing budgets from last year.  Publicis has made more than a dozen acquisitions this year
in markets such as China, India and the  Middle East  as high
unemployment and austerity programs by European governments
crimp spending by consumers and companies at home. The economic
slowdown in China, where Publicis’s first-quarter sales
excluding purchases grew by 15 percent, is now one of his top
concerns as the European crisis is spreading to the industry’s
more stalwart growth regions, Levy said.  “What we have seen in the market are some profit
warnings,’’ Levy said in an interview last week at the  Cannes
advertising conference  when asked about his clients’ marketing
spending. “When you have clients facing some difficulties, this
is a little bit worrisome.”  Publicis dropped as much as 1.9 percent to 36.24 euros in
Paris and was down 1.8 percent as of 12:10 a.m., valuing the
company at 6.62 billion euros ($8.2 billion).  Companies advertising in  China  “have maintained their
budget at the level of last year instead of increasing,” Levy
said.  Slower Growth  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its outlook this month for
China’s economic growth this year to 7.7 percent from 8 percent,
while Deutsche Bank AG lowered its forecast to 7.9 percent from
8.2 percent. China cut its benchmark  interest rates  this month
for the first time since 2008 as May economic data showed slower
growth.  Publicis, based in Paris, is sticking to its full-year
forecast, the CEO said. While revenue growth will decelerate in
the second quarter, sales in the second half of the year will be
better than in the first half, helped by the London Olympics,
the company said in April.  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest advertising company, has also
voiced concerns about growth in regions such as Brazil, Russia,
India and China. WPP CEO  Martin Sorrell  told investors this
month that he is “increasingly wary” of a slowdown globally,
including in the so-called BRIC markets. Still, the fastest
increases will come from those countries and his biggest
concerns for the industry are around U.S. and European
performance next year, Sorrell said.  Publicis’s first-quarter organic sales growth of 15 percent
in China compared with 4.6 percent in France and 3.3 percent in
 North America .  New Guard  The stock has dropped 3.9 percent in the past year, while
WPP gained 0.9 percent and the 28-member Bloomberg Europe 500
Media Index declined 4.1 percent.  The French company’s acquisitions this year include U-Link
Business Solutions Co., a health-care communications company in
China, and The Creative Factory in Russia. Advertising on mobile
devices and social networks, such as Facebook Inc., will also
help drive growth this year, the company has said.  China is also in a period of political transition, which
adds to uncertainty about the market’s future, Levy said.
China’s Communist Party is preparing for a once-a-decade
leadership transition later this year when President  Hu Jintao 
and Premier  Wen Jiabao  are set to step down.  The Chinese government signaled a more aggressive approach
to sustaining expansion last month when Wen Jiabao called for
more efforts toward stabilizing growth.  “The old guard which will be going and a new team will be
coming on board,” Levy said. “It is always a time for changes,
but we don’t know how the changes will happen. When you see the
situation one can think ‘What’s going on and what will happen to
the global economy?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  