-- Qatar National Bank Hires Banks for $1.5 Billion Loan
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-06-24T08:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/qatar-national-bank-hires-banks-for-1-5-billion-loan.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  hired five
banks to help raise a $1.5 billion term-loan as the Persian Gulf
country’s largest lender faces debt maturing next month.  HSBC Bank  Middle East  Ltd.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. were mandated to arrange a three-year senior
unsecured facility, the Doha-based bank said in a  statement  to
the Qatari stock market today. “The loan facility will be used
for general corporate purposes,” it said without giving further
details.  Companies in the Middle East and North Africa raised $14.56
billion from syndicated loans so far this year compared with
$17.19 billion in the year-earlier period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Qatar National Bank, which lost out to
 OAO Sberbank (SBER)  in its bid to buy Dexia SA’s Turkish unit Denizbank
AS, has a five-year $1.85 billion loan maturing in July, the
data show.  “It makes sense for banks to seek longer-term loans to
reduce their dependence on shorter-term interbank funding,”
Nick Stadtmiller, head of fixed income research at Dubai-based
Emirates NBD PJSC, said today. “A large loan with three years
to maturity would help extend the maturity of Qatar National
Bank’s liabilities and reduce their refinancing risk in the near
term.”  The bank, rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
fourth-highest investment grade, raised $1 billion from the sale
of five-year bonds in February. The yield on the 3.375 percent
bonds due February 2017 has fallen 60 basis points since they
started trading in February to 2.801 percent on June 22, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The bank plans to announce its second-quarter results on
July 4.  The shares  rose 0.5 percent to 131.7 riyals at 10:38
a.m. in Doha.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  