-- Qatar Seeks $5 Billion China QFII Quota, Securities Journal Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/qatar-seeks-5-billion-china-qfii-quota-securities-journal-says.html
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund is
applying for a license and a $5 billion quota to invest in  China 
under the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program, the
China Securities Journal said on its website yesterday, citing
Energy and Industry Minister Mohammed Bin Saleh al-Sada.  Qatar will allocate the funds mainly for the domestic A-
share equity market and initial public offerings, with some
investment in bonds, al-Sada said in Beijing, according to a
separate report by the Xinhua News Agency yesterday. The
decision was made based on Qatar’s confidence in China’s long-
term growth potential, Xinhua cited the minister as saying.  Central banks, sovereign wealth funds and financial
institutions are looking to China to diversify their assets as
 Europe ’s debt crisis roils financial markets. China said this
month it will lower the entry barrier for foreigners seeking to
invest in the nation’s capital markets under the QFII program
after more than doubling the total quota to $80 billion in April.  Introducing more long-term overseas funds will help improve
confidence, promote stable growth in China’s capital markets and
provide “robust” returns to domestic investors, the China
Securities Regulatory Commission said in May.  The commission said on June 20 it plans to cut the minimum
requirement for assets under management to $500 million from $5
billion for companies seeking a QFII license. It will also allow
them to invest in the country’s interbank bond market.  Investment Quota  The CSRC will complete the license approval for the Qatar
Investment Authority as soon as possible and “actively assist”
it in obtaining an investment quota, the China Securities
Journal said, citing unnamed officials from the regulator. The
newspaper said al-Sada was in Beijing for a China-Qatar
investment and cooperation meeting.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange decides on the
amount of foreign-currency funds an institution can invest. It
said last month it will speed up the approval process.  Guo Shuqing, the commission’s head, is spurring efforts to
give the nation’s bond market a bigger role in financing growth
and help divert risk from the state-owned banking system that
provides 75 percent of the nation’s credit.  The Shanghai Composite Index, the nation’s benchmark stock
gauge, fell to its lowest level in three months on June 21 on
concern the nation’s economic growth is slowing. The  index  has
dropped 8 percent since this year’s closing high on March 2.  The Qatar sovereign wealth fund’s planned investment would
exceed the current limit of $1 billion per single foreign
investor allowed under the QFII program, according to Xinhua and
the China Securities Journal.  Quota Increase  Bank of Korea , the  Kuwait Investment Authority  and the
Monetary Authority of  Singapore  are among the 172 entities
granted QFII licenses since the program was introduced in 2002
to allow foreign institutions to buy and sell yuan-denominated
securities. Of the total, 145 have been awarded a combined quota
of $27.26 billion, the CSRC said on June 20. The total amount
allowed before April’s increase was $30 billion.  Singapore’s state-owned investment company Temasek Holdings
Pte has already applied to increase its quota after the
regulator’s April announcement, according to an e-mailed
statement on June 14.  --Zheng Lifei, Yang Huiwen. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Paul Gordon   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 hyang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  