-- Traitor Treated to Lunch as One-Child China Seen Softening
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-25T06:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/traitor-gets-treated-to-lunch-as-one-child-china-seen-softening.html
When Yi Fuxian spoke out against
 China ’s one-child policy three years ago, he says local
officials in his home town in Hunan called him a “national
traitor.” On his latest visit, they bought him lunch.  “At first only Chinese peasants were on my side, now an
increasing number of Chinese intellectuals are with me,” Yi,
43, now a  University of Wisconsin  scientist, said in an
interview in Beijing. He gave 23 talks at universities and
forums in China in May and June opposing the policy. Yi Qiming,
the Tangwan township head, declined to comment on the lunch.  The Communist Party is tolerating debate on the policy
after the alleged forced abortion of a seven-month-old fetus
sparked a public outcry and as the government prepares for a
once-in-a-decade leadership handover. The population controls
risk restraining China’s economic growth as the nation ages and
the  labor force  shrinks.  “His experience in China showed that Chinese society is
becoming more open to such debates,” said Peng Xizhe, a
professor at Fudan University in  Shanghai  and a vice president
of the China Population Association, a research agency. “The
consensus is building up now among the Chinese general public
and researchers that the policy needs change -- the quicker the
better.”  Labor Shortages  After more than three-decades of strict  birth control , the
world’s most populous country is reporting labor shortages in
coastal areas, insufficient pension funds and school closures.
Ministry of Education data showed 257,140 primary schools at the
end of 2010, down from 491,273 in 2001.  The slowing supply of young laborers is contributing to
wage growth, with migrant workers’ average pay rising 21 percent
to 2,049  yuan  ($322) a month in 2011, according to the  National
Bureau of Statistics .  At the same time, officials are trying to reverse an
economic slowdown. The benchmark Shanghai Composite index fell
to a five-month low today after Citigroup Inc. cut its forecast
for the nation’s growth this year to 7.8 percent from a previous
estimate of 8.1 percent.  In his annual report to lawmakers in March, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that the nation will continue to keep its birth rate
low. Cai Yong, a fellow at the Carolina Population Center at the
University of  North Carolina ,  Chapel Hill , said this year that a
“sudden U-turn” is unlikely.  Demographic Shift  China’s latest census showed that people age 60 and older
accounted for 13.3 percent of the population in 2010, 2.9
percentage points higher than in 2000. Children age 14 and under
were 16.6 percent of the total, down 6.3 points.  The policy is “God-awful” and will change the proportion
of elderly people to workers so rapidly over the next 20 years
that the nation won’t be able to sustain current growth levels,
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  told students at  Florida State
University  on Feb. 6, according to an official transcript.  “The one-child policy, in my view, is a suicidal measure
for the whole nation,” the activist Yi said in the June 20
interview, adding that he’s mailed about 5,000 copies of his
book opposing the measures to Chinese officials and lawmakers.
“The government should immediately stop the one-child policy to
encourage child birth. But I know I am a bit wishful on that.”  Abortion Investigation  The western city of Ankang this month suspended three
officials as part of an investigation into claims they forced
Feng Jianmei, 23, to abort her seven-month-old fetus. The Global
 Times newspaper  said Feng was made to do so because she couldn’t
pay a 40,000 yuan fine for violating the one-child policy.
Photographs of Feng in a hospital bed, the fetus alongside her,
triggered public outrage.  The abortion “would have been seen as normal in the past
and shows how far society has changed,” Wang Feng, the Beijing-
based director of the Brookings-Tsinghua Center for Public
Policy, said last week.  In a separate case, activist  Chen Guangcheng , jailed and
then put under house arrest in Shandong after helping villagers
resist forced abortions, has moved to the U.S. after appealing
for American help during Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s
visit to Beijing in April.  Yi, who works in the obstetrics and gynecology department
of the university in Madison, said that only two of his 25
planned lectures were canceled: one in Shandong and another
scheduled for June 3, the eve of the anniversary of the
government’s 1989 crackdown in  Tiananmen Square .  China already allows exceptions to the policy, such as
permitting rural families to have a second child if the first is
a girl. Couples in some regions are allowed a second child if
both parents are single children. Minority ethnic groups are
excluded from the restriction. Those who can afford to can have
a second or third baby by paying a fine.  Implemented to alleviate poverty, the restriction on family
size will cut the number of 15- to 24-year-olds, the mainstay of
factories that drove growth for two decades, by 27 percent to
164 million by 2025, according to United Nations estimates.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  