-- RIM Considers Breakup, Sale of Handset Unit, Sunday Times Says
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-24T21:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/rim-could-sell-handset-unit-stake-in-company-sunday-times-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is
considering selling its handset-manufacturing unit or a stake in
the whole company, the Sunday Times newspaper reported, without
saying where it got the information.  The BlackBerry maker, which hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
 RBC Capital Markets  to help evaluate its options, may divest the
handset division or break it off into a separate listed company,
the paper said. Another option would be selling a stake in
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM to a larger technology firm, such as
Microsoft Corp., according to the report.  RIM said in May that the two banks would help it evaluate
options, including forging partnerships, licensing its software
and “strategic business model alternatives.” Chief Executive
Officer Thorsten Heins, who took over from co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie  in January, are considering strategy
changes after the company lost customers to Apple Inc.’s iPhone
and devices running Google Inc.’s Android.  Heins has said the best way to drive value for stakeholders
is to execute on a plan to turn the company around, and “this
remains true,” RIM said today in an e-mailed statement.  Frank Shaw , a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment on
the Sunday Times report. Potential buyers for the handset
division include Amazon.com Inc., the newspaper said. Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Amazon, declined to comment.  RIM investor Vic Alboini, chairman of the Toronto-based
investment firm  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC) , has urged RIM to sell
itself since last September. He’s also called for a breakup of
the company.  The loss in market-share has led to  five straight  quarters
of sales shortfalls at RIM. The company is cutting jobs to help
trim $1 billion in operating expenses.  The shakeup may lead to job reductions of 2,000 to 3,000,
assuming RIM tries to eliminate 30 percent of the targeted
operating expenses through labor reductions, according to Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities Inc. in Toronto. The
move follows a round of 2,000 cuts announced about a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  