-- Romney Donors Get Access, and Face Time, at Utah Retreat
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/romney-donors-get-access-and-face-time-at-utah-retreat.html
In the first-class cabin of Delta
Flight 832, the schmoozing began well before take-off.  Wayne Berman, a lobbyist for Blackstone Group LP, stood in
the plane’s aisle, swapping stories with Rob Bishop, a U.S.
House member from  Utah , and Ron Kaufman, a senior adviser to
 Mitt Romney , over Biscoff cookies and complimentary cocktails.  All were headed to the same place: a weekend-long retreat
in the mountain resort town of Park City, Utah, open only to the
biggest contributors to the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee.  More than 700 top fundraisers and their spouses attended
the closed-door affair organized by the campaign to keep the
money flowing as Romney heads into a heated fall election.  Fundraisers mingled with the candidate during an evening
cook-out at Utah Olympic Park, watching freestyle skiers
practice aerial tricks. At the Chateaux at Silver Lake, an
Alpine-style resort nestled amid green mountains, they were
whisked in golf carts to afternoon briefings with former
secretaries of state and senators. And at night, in the hotel
bars, they offered advice to campaign manager Matt Rhoades and
other top strategists.  The price tag for this level of access: a donation of
$50,000 or a fundraising total of $250,000 for Romney’s
campaign.  ‘Final Push’  “It’s a coming together for all the folks who have
supported Governor Romney for a long time,” said Kerry Healey,
who served under Romney as lieutenant governor of Massachusetts.
“We’re coming together for the final push.”  These kinds of retreats have become a trademark of the
Romney political operation. Over the past two years, Romney has
hosted donors for lunch and boat rides at his home on Lake
Winnipesaukee in  New Hampshire  and toured Israel with
fundraisers.  Campaign finance advocates say the unique level of access
given to wealthy donors by the campaign illustrates the failures
of current federal election rules. Hotel security closed off
meeting rooms during the weekend, refusing to allow journalists
any closer than the sidewalk outside the hotel.  “The presidential election and ultimately the presidency
are back on the auction block, going to the highest bidders and
the richest people,” said  Fred Wertheimer , president of
Democracy 21, a Washington-based campaign-finance overhaul
advocacy group.  Crucial Tool  Romney’s campaign sees the event as a crucial tool to build
the arsenal necessary for the final five months of the campaign.
The openness to donors is the mark of a man who spent years as a
private equity executive persuading wealthy investors to part
with their money.  “The personal contact makes all the difference,” said
Dave Phillips, who served as U.S. ambassador to Estonia under
 George W. Bush  and now heads Romney’s fundraising efforts in
 North Carolina .  Romney, 65, greeted donors by name at the evening barbecue,
mingled with them after a breakfast speech by  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain , and answered their questions after industry panels
on finance, foreign policy and health care.  The event was part pep rally, part family reunion.  Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus,
former Bush White House aide Mary Matalin and Weekly Standard
editor and co-founder Bill Kristol raced up hills on golf carts
to policy briefings.  Running Mates?  Three men rumored to be on the vice presidential short list
-- U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, Governor  Bob McDonnell  of Virginia and U.S. Senator  John Thune  of South
Dakota -- sat on a panel titled “Innovation in America.”  And Republican strategist  Karl Rove , now advising two
outside political groups supporting Romney, described the state
of the electorate in a talk peppered with jokes and colorful
language.  With most national polls showing the contest in a near-dead
heat, party strategists and officials could barely contain their
excitement about the state of the race. Former Secretary of
State  James Baker  III said the weekend reminded him of a meeting
of backers of Gerald R. Ford in Aspen, Colorado, before the 1976
election -- with one significant difference.  “This year we’re going to win,” he said.  Stellar Speakers  Donors marveled at the array of speakers and attendees
assembled by the campaign.  “James Baker has always been one of my heroes,” said Kirk Jowers, director of the Hinckley Institute of Politics and
Federal Relations at the University of Utah in  Salt Lake City 
and a long-time Romney supporter. “It’s like Jim Baker or
Bono.”  For Bill Brady, who runs a hotel supply company in Las
Vegas, the highlight was a lunchtime speech by former Secretary
of State  Condoleezza Rice , who explained her support for Romney
and stressed the need for America to reemerge as a leader in the
world. Audience members jumped to their feet with applause,
prompting some to wonder whether Rice ought to be considered as
Romney’s running mate.  “It was one of the best speeches I’ve ever heard,” Brady
said.  Victory Path  Fundraisers, carrying tote bags embossed with a special
campaign logo, shuttled to and from lectures on Israel, health
care and media strategy. A “Women for Romney victory tea”
featured the candidate’s wife, Ann, and former Olympic figure
skater Dorothy Hamill.  Political director  Rich Beeson  taught a quick lesson on the
Electoral College, laying out several pathways to the 270 votes
needed for victory. Chief strategist Stuart Stevens played
several recent ads to illustrate how the slogan “Believe in
America” was reflected in the campaign. Pollster  Neil Newhouse 
disputed a recent Bloomberg News poll showing Obama with a 13-
point lead, using a series of slides detailing a number of other
polls showing a tighter race.  For most donors, the highlight of the weekend was the
chance to talk with the candidate at the Utah Olympic Park, a
subtle reminder of Romney’s success as head of the 2002  Winter
Games . As the sun set against the mountains, they stood in a
tent adorned with chandeliers and listened to Romney and his
family deliver a more personal version of their campaign
message.  With four of his five sons watching, Romney spoke
emotionally about his role as a father and grandfather and
thanked those present for their support, according to donors.  “His remarks were very moving,” said Bobbie Kilberg, a
chairwoman of the Northern Virginia Technology Council in
Herndon, Virginia. “They gave you a really good glimpse at the
personal Mitt Romney.”  Family Members  Romney family members roamed the retreat grounds, mixing
with health care investors from Greenwich, Connecticut, and
insurance executives from Los Angeles.  One of the candidate’s nieces, Kristen Romney Hubbs,
carried a large black-and-white painting of Romney’s face
against the backdrop of an American flag. The flag, she said,
helped draw out her uncle’s “emotional energy.”  Scott Romney, the candidate’s brother, walked out of the
hotel lobby in a puffy jacket bearing the logo of Solamere
Capital LLC, the private equity firm founded by Mitt Romney’s
son Tagg and campaign fundraiser  Spencer Zwick . Scott’s ex-wife,
Ronna, talked with donors and reporters about her still-close
relationship with  Ann Romney .  The close encounters only went so far, though. Just before
midnight, Beth Myers, a longtime Romney aide charged with
vetting potential running mates, sat with other campaign workers
and donors in the hotel bar. At the next table was Thune, the
South Dakota senator considered to be a top prospect for the
position.  Those two were not mingling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  