-- Romney’s Love Fest With Business Is Sometimes a Mismatch
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-06-24T15:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/romney-s-love-fest-with-business-is-sometimes-a-mismatch.html
U.S. big business is returning to
its political roots by embracing the Republican presidential
candidate,  Mitt Romney , in this year’s contest.  This reflects dissatisfaction with President  Barack Obama ’s
regulatory policies and positions on tax increases, along with a
natural fondness for one of their own, a former business
executive.  Romney plays to this constituency. The Obama
administration, he says, too often views business as “the bad
guys.” By contrast, he told a recent Business Roundtable lunch
that “you’re the good guys.” Earlier, at a fundraiser at a
Tampa country club attended by many business contributors, he
went further: “I love you.”  There are some important areas, however, where Romney is
out of sync with much of big business, as his political
calculations changed some long-held views. These include:  CHINA : Most large U.S. companies favor economic engagement
with China and abhor any possibility of a trade war. Although it
isn’t unusual for a presidential candidate to bash China during
the campaign, Romney has taken this sport to a new level and may
be more serious.  Currency Manipulator  He has vowed to declare China a currency manipulator on his
first day in office; he has labeled the Chinese as “cheaters”
and vowed, if necessary, to slap stiff tariffs on their exports.
The candidate’s chief policy adviser,  Lanhee Chen , recently
declared that a “robust” willingness to confront China is the
distinguishing element of Romney’s economic plan. “Here’s a
place where  Governor Romney  is really calling for a different
approach,” Chen said.  That view is shared by some top political advisers. Getting
tough with China is a staple of Romney’s early general-election
ads; in a commercial directed at Ohio voters this week, the
candidate says his initial act as president would be to “stand
up to China.”  Romney is a recent convert to this position. As a
successful business executive and former Massachusetts governor
he was a proponent of free trade and greater engagement with
China and showed no protectionist proclivities; when he headed
the 2002 Winter Olympics, he opposed punitive actions against
China for human-rights abuses.  To be sure, some multinational companies, intimidated by
the Chinese, privately welcome tough talk from  Washington ;
Chinese  trade  and business policies are heavy handed. Yet some
experts and business leaders acknowledge that this ultimately is
a bluff because the U.S. is dependent on China’s purchases of
Treasuries. They predict that, if elected, Romney would quickly
revert to what he really believes. People in the Romney camp say
that’s wrong.  IMMIGRATION: Here, many major U.S. businesses are looking
for a solution; they especially would like to increase the pool
of highly skilled immigrants, and are willing to back
comprehensive immigration reform as way to do so.  Romney once held this position, too. Until the early stages
of his 2008 presidential campaign he expressed sympathy for
immigration reform that created a pathway to citizenship for
those in the U.S. illegally -- the approach championed by former
President  George W. Bush  and Senators  John McCain  and the late
Edward M. Kennedy.  In an apparent response to the anti-immigration sentiments
of the Republican political base, Romney then adopted a tough
line. He raised the stakes in his party’s primaries this year,
embracing a controversial  Arizona  law and attacking Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  as
being too soft on immigration.  Hispanic Vote  Some supporters of the Republican nominee say he’s already
starting to soften his posture as he pivots to the general
election and courts the Hispanic vote. Still, the anti-
immigration base in the  Republican Party  will make it hard to
change his position much once he’s in the White House.  DEFICT REDUCTION: There is strong support in the business
community for a big  deficit-reduction  plan. All the bipartisan
and independent recommendations are along the lines of those put
forth by a majority of both Democrats and Republicans on the
Bowles-Simpson panel. It calls for a $4 trillion deficit
reduction over 10 years; 35 percent of that amount would be
achieved through tax increases and 65 percent through spending
cuts, especially of entitlements.  Romney praises the concept of  Bowles-Simpson  and rejects
the plan, insisting he wouldn’t support even $1 of tax increases
for every $10 of spending cuts. Deficit-reduction plans that
focus almost exclusively on spending won’t attract Democratic
support and probably are politically unpalatable because they
would require draconian Medicare cuts.  The Republican nominee also has insisted that his huge  tax-
cut  proposal -- he would reduce the top individual rate to 28
percent from the current 35 percent, lower  capital gains  and
dividend taxes and eliminate the estate tax -- could be financed
by limiting tax preferences for the wealthy, who would benefit
from his tax cuts.  Erskine Bowles, the Democratic co-chairman of the
committee, said Romney is wrong; his plan would require middle-
class tax increases, too. “It’s just not enough money there in
getting rid of the tax expenditures that only affect the upper-
income people,” he said in a recent interview on Bloomberg
Television.  Romney also is to the right of some top executives on
social issues. A number of big businesses have supported gay
marriage;  Paul Singer , the  New York  hedge fund magnate and
Romney backer, has been a major donor to this cause.  Obama backs gay marriage; Romney backs a federal law
banning it. Many of the gains for the gay and lesbian community
in the past few years have resulted from executive actions by
the president; a Republican in the White House, given the
party’s social-conservative base, might reverse some of those.  There always are trade-offs in backing a presidential
candidate. Some private-equity executives support the president,
who has criticized that industry, even though Romney, a former
head of Bain Capital LLC, used to be one of them. Singer, the
pro-gay rights, pro-Romney magnate, vehemently opposes much of
the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation measure as well as higher
taxes on the wealthy, putting him in line with the Republican
nominee.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 