-- Tropical Storm Curtails Gulf of Mexico Energy Output
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-24T11:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/tropical-storm-curtails-gulf-of-mexico-energy-output.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and
other oil and natural-gas companies curtailed production in the
Gulf of Mexico as a weather system strengthened into Tropical
Storm Debby, the fourth named storm of the year.  The U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
said 7.8 percent of oil production and 8.2 percent of gas output
in the Gulf has been halted. Anadarko shut four platforms, and
BP started closing some oil and gas wells.  Apache Corp. (APA)  and two
other companies began evacuating non-essential workers from some
facilities.  Debby was moving slowly northward as of 5:00 a.m. New York
time with maximum sustained winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers)
per hour and swells as high as 19 feet (six meters), according
to the National Hurricane Center. The storm’s projected path
indicated it was heading for the Louisiana coast west of New
Orleans and would make landfall as early as Monday afternoon
before moving west toward Texas. The storm has a  29 percent
chance  of intensifying to a hurricane by June 26, according to
the forecast.  “We do have it strengthening, and it certainly can’t be
ruled out that it will reach hurricane strength, but right now
all we’re projecting is a tropical storm,”  Dennis Feltgen , a
spokesman for the hurricane center in Miami, said in a telephone
interview.  Early Evacuations  The Gulf of Mexico is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. gas
production, 29 percent of oil output and 40 percent of refining
capacity. Offshore oil and gas platforms need to carry out
evacuations well in advance of a storm’s arrival, so any system
in the Gulf can cause production disruptions.  BP, Apache and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said on their websites that
they began withdrawing non-essential personnel from some Gulf
facilities yesterday.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said it’s taking non-
essential employees off its Magnolia platform. BP began shutting
some wells as it pulled workers and contractors from offshore
platforms and rigs in the expected path of Debby, Brett Clanton,
a Houston-based BP spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Anadarko halted production at its Neptune, Independence
Hub, Constitution and Marco Polo facilities in the eastern and
central  Gulf of Mexico , the company said on its website. The
company will evacuate all employees from the platforms, it said.  Neptune, Shenzi  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  shut the Neptune and Shenzi platforms,
which can together produce 150,000 barrels of oil a day and 100
million cubic feet of gas, on June 22.  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  began
evacuating non-critical workers on the same day, as did
Anadarko, Marathon Oil Corp.,  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , Enterprise Products
Partners LP and  Hess Corp. (HES)   Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may remove some non-essential workers
from rigs in the central and western Gulf in the next few days,
the company said on its website.  ERA Helicopters LLC of St. Charles, Louisiana, reported
ferrying workers from offshore platforms. Melanie Landry, a
spokeswoman for ERA, declined to comment on which companies had
called for evacuations.  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics
Inc . in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said this is the first real threat
of the year in the Gulf of Mexico. With the relatively mild
start to summer, he said, “this will get the traders looking
and saying, ‘Hey, we got something ominous for the Gulf.’”  Wind shear is pushing most of Debby’s wind speed and
thunderstorms to the Gulf’s eastern edge, said Mike Pigott, a
senior meteorologist with State College, Pennsylvania-based
AccuWeather Inc.  Gain Strength  “As long as it remains over the open, warm waters of the
Gulf, it could continue to gain strength,” he said. “If the
shear relaxes, it could become a hurricane before reaching
Texas.”  A storm gets a name when its winds reach 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour and becomes a hurricane at 73 miles per
hour.  Debby is the fourth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. It’s the first time since
record-keeping began in 1851 that four storms have formed in the
Atlantic before July 1, Feltgen said.  “This is the seventh Atlantic season in recorded history
where three storms have formed before July 1,” he said. “We
have never gone with four storms before July 1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  