-- Tropical Storm Debby Strengthens on Course Through Oil Fields
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-06-24T13:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/tropical-storm-debby-strengthens-on-course-through-oil-fields.html
Anadarko (APC)  Petroleum Corp., BP Plc and
other companies stopped production in the  Gulf of Mexico  as
Tropical Storm Debby strengthened, as forecasters projected 
a track that cuts through offshore oil- and gas-production
areas before reaching the Texas coastline by week's end.  Debby’s top winds grew to 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour
from 50 mph earlier as the storm drifted north about 170 miles
southeast of the Mississippi River’s mouth, according to a
National Hurricane Center advisory just before 8 a.m.  New York 
time.  The current track, which is subject to change, would take
the storm parallel to the U.S. Gulf Coast through this week,
including near where Transocean Ltd.’s Deepwater Horizon rig
burned and sank in April 2010 on assignment at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo
well. The Gulf of Mexico is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. natural
gas production, 29 percent of oil output and 40 percent of
refining capacity. Offshore oil and natural gas platforms need
to carry out evacuations well in advance of a storm’s arrival,
so any system in the Gulf can cause production disruptions.  The U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
said 7.8 percent of oil production and 8.2 percent of natural
gas output in the Gulf has been halted. Anadarko shut four
platforms, and BP started closing some oil and natural-gas
wells.  Apache Corp. (APA)  and two other companies began evacuating
non-essential workers from some Gulf facilities.  Stormy Conditions  “Tropical storm conditions are already near or over
portions of the northeast Gulf Coast and are expected to reach
the remainder of the warning area by tonight, making outside
preparations difficult or dangerous,” according to the
advisory.  Tropical storm warnings, meaning winds of at least 39 mph
will arrive in 36 hours, have been posted from Morgan City,
Louisiana, to the Pearl River.  New Orleans  isn’t included in
this warning. In addition, a warning has been posted for the
entire Alabama coast eastward to the Ochlockonee River in
Florida, according to the Hurricane Center.  Sustained winds of 37 mph, just shy of the 39 mph threshold
for a tropical storm, have been reported in Bald Point, Florida.
Tropical storm-strength winds extend 200 miles from Debby’s
center.  BP, Apache, Chevron  BP, Apache and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said on their websites that
they began evacuating non-essential personnel from some Gulf
facilities yesterday.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said it’s taking non-
essential employees off its Magnolia platform.  BP Plc began shutting some oil and natural-gas wells in the
Gulf of Mexico as the company evacuated workers and contractors
from offshore platforms and drilling rigs in the expected path
of Debby, Brett Clanton, a Houston-based spokesman for BP, said
in an e-mail.  Anadarko halted production at its Neptune, Independence
Hub, Constitution and Marco Polo facilities in the eastern and
central Gulf of Mexico, the company said on its website. All
employees will be evacuated from the platforms, the company
said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. on June 22 shut the Neptune and Shenzi
platforms, which can together produce 150,000 barrels of oil a
day and 100 million cubic feet of gas.  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  began
evacuating non-essential workers on the same day, as did
Anadarko, Marathon Oil Corp.,  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , Enterprise Products
Partners LP and  Hess Corp. (HES)   Gulf Rigs  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may remove some non-essential workers
from central and western Gulf rigs in the next few days, the
company said on its website.  In addition, ERA Helicopters LLC of St. Charles, Louisiana,
reported that it’s ferrying workers from offshore platforms.
Melanie Landry, a spokeswoman for ERA, declined to comment on
which companies had called for evacuations.  Hurricane Center wind forecasts show the storm’s winds
reaching 75 mph in three days. A storm becomes a hurricane when
its winds reach 74 mph.  Wind shear in the Gulf is pushing most of Debby’s wind
speed and thunderstorms to its eastern edge, said Mike Pigott, a
senior meteorologist with  State College , Pennsylvania-based
AccuWeather Inc.  “As long as it remains over the open, warm waters of the
Gulf, it could continue to gain strength,” he said. “If the
shear relaxes, it could become a hurricane before reaching
Texas.”  Debby is the fourth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. It’s the first time
since record-keeping began in 1851 that four storms have formed
in the Atlantic before July 1, said  Dennis Feltgen , Hurricane
Center spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 