-- Rubio Says Arizona Immigration Law Isn’t National Model
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-24T18:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/rubio-says-arizona-immigration-law-isn-t-national-model.html
An  Arizona  immigration law that
allows police officers to check a person’s legal status during
routine traffic stops shouldn’t be a “national model,” Senator
Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, said.  Arizona has difficulty controlling illegal immigration and
“has a right to pass that bill,” Rubio said today on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program. He said he wouldn’t want to see a
similar law passed in his home state.  The  Supreme Court  is expected to rule this week on the
constitutionality of the law, which requires law enforcement
officials to verify immigration status if they have reason to
suspect that a person is in the U.S. illegally. Critics have
said the policy leads to racial profiling.  Immigration has become a top issue in the presidential
campaign as candidates from both parties court Hispanics, a
significant voting bloc that supported Obama in 2008, and a
group hard hit by the struggling economy.  President  Barack Obama  on June 15 said he won’t try to
deport some illegal immigrants under age 30 who were brought to
the U.S. before age 16, have lived in the U.S. for five years,
have no criminal records and are high school graduates or
military veterans. He has also supported legislation to provide
some illegal immigrants with a path to citizenship.  Rubio said that measure, known as the Dream Act, is too
broad. The U.S. “can’t do anything that encourages illegal
immigration in the future,” he said.  Rubio’s Plan  The Florida senator last week dropped his own plan to allow
some young people brought to the U.S. illegally to receive work
visas if they served in the military or pursued an education.
Obama’s action removed the urgency to pass such a bill before
the election, Alex Conant, Rubio’s spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement June 18.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, said June 20 that his campaign is vetting Rubio, 41, as
a possible vice presidential candidate. Rubio declined to
discuss the process today.  Romney has criticized Obama for acting on immigration
policy during an election year, instead of during the first two
years of his presidency, when Democrats controlled the U.S.
House and Senate. The Republican candidate has also said he
would veto the Dream Act, which has been stalled in Congress.  Romney “threw Marco Rubio under the bus,” U.S.
Representative Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat, said today
on ABC’s “This Week” program. The former Massachusetts
governor isn’t “willing to even come close to what  Marco Rubio 
said he might be willing to do on the Dream Act,” Becerra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Leslie Hoffecker at 
 lhoffecker@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  