-- Sexy Pundit Stokes Anti-China Anger in Buckley Novel
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-06-24T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/sexy-pundit-stokes-anti-china-anger-in-buckley-novel.html
The Dalai Lama recently accused
 China  of training female assassins to poison him with their
hair.  He might prefer not to learn that he kicks the bucket in
Christopher Buckley’s new satire on Sino-American relations,
“ They Eat Puppies, Don’t They? ”  It all begins when veteran defense lobbyist Walter “Bird”
McIntyre is summoned to his boss’s office. Aerospace giant
Groepping-Sprunt has just axed 300 employees and Bird is afraid
he’s next.  Instead, he finds himself given the task of stirring up
anti-Chinese sentiment to help grease the passage of a top-
secret weapons system known as Taurus through Congress.  “You get yourself back to Gomorrah-on-the-Potomac and open
me up a can of whoop-ass on Beijing” are Bird’s exact orders.  To that end, he teams with Angel Templeton, a telegenic and
exceedingly right-wing pundit. (Think Ann Coulter.) As
“directrix” of the Institute for Continuing Conflict, Angel is
a figurehead for the “Oreo-Cons” -- hard-liners who advocate
intervention abroad and laissez-faire policies at home. If Bird
is a K-Street scoundrel utterly lacking in principles, Angel
will stop at nothing in defense of hers.  The warmongering duo catches a break after an upset stomach
forces the  Dalai Lama  to postpone a meeting with the pope. They
plant the theory that it’s a Chinese plot to poison the Tibetan
leader. Then, when his health drastically worsens and he’s
hospitalized in  Cleveland , they are left playing catch-up.  Good Material  Bird, by the way, is an aspiring novelist, hard at work on
an unpublishable trilogy that has ballooned into a quartet.
After the international standoff triggered by the ailing lama
makes World War III seem a very real prospect, he consoles
himself with the thought that it’s all good material.  Meanwhile, in Beijing, President Fa Mengyao, a crypto
Tibetan-sympathizer, faces mutiny among his ministers. At the
White House, Rogers P. Fancock, director of the National
Security Council, longs only for retirement. Both have advisers
pushing alarmingly thought-through plans to resolve the
situation by dispatching “Saffron Man.”  The novel whips along with good-natured irreverence,
embracing infidelity and a spiritual awakening, the U.S.
equestrian team, a meth lab, Civil War re-enactors and a hedge-
funder who owns a 757 fitted out as a flying stable. It also
posits an ingenious, if costly (the price tag is $200 million),
solution to the problem of what to do with the Dalai Lama’s
body.  Bedtime Churchill  Buckley has produced a superbly paced novel whose hilarity
is often in the details. Bird has a penchant for missile-themed
bow ties and matching cummerbunds, for instance. Angel splits a
sleeping pill with her eight-year-old son Barry -- after  Barry
Goldwater  -- following his bedtime installment of  Winston
Churchill ’s memoirs.  Yet if the novel has a serious point to make, it’s this
misnamed zealot who voices it. As she notes of China’s doleful
environmental record and proclivity for intellectual-property
piracy, “We made them the real Bank of America. What are we
going to do?”  While our hands are tied, we might at least capitalize on
the comedy of it all, Buckley suggests.  “They Eat Puppies, Don’t They?” is published by Twelve in
the U.S. (335 pages, $25.99). It will be published in the U.K.
by Corsair in July. To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and James
Pressley on  business books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 