-- South African Ostrich Farmers Face Ruin From Bird Flu
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-06-25T12:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/south-african-ostrich-farmers-face-ruin-as-bird-flu-halts-trade.html
Danie Kok kicked his boots in the
red dust swirling through empty wire pens at the farm he manages
near Oudtshoorn, the world’s ostrich-farming capital. No
ostriches were to be seen.  “We’ve been through some bad times but nothing comes close
to this,” said Kok, 55, who has worked at the Van Wykskraal
farm east of Cape Town for 30 years.  Last year more than 1,600 of the farm’s birds were taken
away and killed after a strain of bird flu was detected in the
flock. Such outbreaks, detected on 43 farms, led the government
to ban all fresh ostrich-meat exports from  South Africa , which
had supplied 70 percent of world demand. The ban won’t be lifted
until farmers meet new hygiene and registration requirements and
the country has been disease-free for three months.  About 740 ostrich farms, as well 20,000 jobs in farms,
slaughterhouses, tanneries and feather-processing plants, may be
at risk in an industry that dates back to 1864. Feathers from
the flightless birds were only outranked by gold, diamonds and
wool among South African exports before World War I.  More than 43,000 ostriches have been culled in South Africa
since the H5N2 virus was detected in April last year. While
farmers have received 50 million rand ($6 million) in government
compensation, the industry had been earning $115 million a year
from meat exports.  Racing Birds  About 70 percent of meat, valued for its beef-like texture
and its low cholesterol and fat content, was exported.  Carrefour
SA (CA) , the world’s second-largest retailer, Aldi Group,  Germany ’s
biggest discount food chain, and Edeka Group’s Netto stores,
were among the largest buyers, according to Johan Stumpf,
managing director of Klein Karoo International Ltd., the world’s
biggest ostrich-products processor.  “You have the same expenses but no income,” said Jack
Klass, 78, the owner of Van Wykskraal, who has been farming
since 1958. “It’s going to ruin the business.”  The government now requires ostrich farmers to re-register
their farms, chlorinate water and improve fencing and access
controls.  “When they took our birds, they said we could restock in
three weeks,” said Arenhold Hooper, owner of the Highgate
Ostrich Show Farm. He lost 1,500 ostriches, 49 of them trained
to take part in daily races and give rides to tourists. “We’ve
effectively been closed as a farm and a tourism operation for
more than a year now. It‘s been a battle.”  South Africa is a member of the World Organization of
 Animal Health , which requires all birds to be culled on farms
where avian flu is detected.  Unseen Changes  The government has done everything required of it to have
the ban lifted and farmers now have comply with the new rules,
said Mpho Maja, health of animal health at the Department of
Agriculture.  “Progress on the side of the industry is however
disappointing,” she said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The re-registration of farms is stalling, the farming practice
has not changed, or at least we have not seen the proposed
changes and how they intend implementing them.”  The outbreak of the disease, unrelated to the H5N1 type of
bird-flu that has killed at least 357 people worldwide, is the
latest animal health crisis to affect South African farmers.  Tens of thousands of pigs were slaughtered after the
country’s biggest-ever African swine fever outbreak last year,
while horse exports were restricted for more than four years,
after an outbreak of African horse sickness. South African wool
producers lost access to their biggest market,  China , in 2010
when Rift Valley fever swept through their flocks.  Export Markets  Ostrich farmers spared from the culling because the disease
wasn’t detected in their flocks are also struggling. Without
export markets to sell to, the price for adult birds has plunged
about 40 percent to 1,700 rand -- roughly what it costs to feed
them for a year until they are old enough to slaughter.  Prior to the ban, South Africa slaughtered between 250,000
and 300,000 of the birds a year. Ostriches can reach a height of
8 feet and weigh 300 pounds. Smaller competitors to South Africa
include China, Zimbabwe and  Australia .  Meat normally generates about 60 percent of revenue from
ostriches, while leather used in handbags, shoes and belts made
by companies such as  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, Prada SpA and PPR
SA’s Gucci brand account about 35 percent of sales and feathers
the balance.  Ostrich Boom  “There is so little research done on the H5 strains in the
ostrich industry that we are guessing” how best to handle the
outbreak, Piet Kleyn, the acting chief executive officer of the
South African Ostrich Business Chamber, said in a June 5
interview in Oudtshoorn. It lies on the southern tip of the arid
Karoo region and is the center of an area that accounts for more
than two-thirds of the national ostrich-farming industry.  The  C.P. Nel Museum  in central Oudtshoorn tells the story
of the industry’s fluctuating fortunes. The plumage’s popularity
among European nobility fueled industry booms in the late 1800s
and early 1900s, with the price of the highest-quality feathers
peaking at $71 a kilogram in today’s money by 1913.  Feathered Hats  In 1914, the market collapsed due to the start of World War
I, overproduction and the popularity of open-topped cars, which
made ostrich feather hats impractical. The number of
domesticated ostriches plummeted to 32,000 by 1930, from 314,000
at the end of the war. The industry recovered slowly after the
end of World War II as new markets for leather and meat opened.  The European Union  suspended  ostrich-meat imports in 2004,
following an avian flu outbreak. The ban cost South Africa 600
million rand in lost exports and resulted in the slaughter of
about 26,000 birds. While most farmers recovered, the effect of
the current ban may be more lasting.  “I’m very concerned about the future of the industry,”
Saag Jonker, one of the world’s biggest ostrich farmers, said in
a June 5 interview in Oudtshoorn. His company had to cull more
than 6,000 birds. “A very small number of farmers supply the
industry with chicks. Those farmers are sitting back and are not
sure if they are going to re-enter the industry.”  The shortage of birds also will affect factories that
depend on ostrich farming.  Meat Prices  “The big challenge for the processors will be in a year,”
Klein Karoo’s Stumpf said in a June 4 interview in Oudtshoorn.
“We expect production volumes in South Africa to more than
halve.”  Some farmers are seeking to beat the  export  ban by
exporting heat-treated meat, a process that kills the virus but
also reduces prices. Efforts are also being made to increase
local demand where the meat sells more cheaply than in  Europe .
Ostrich meat ranges from 184 rand per kilogram (2.2 pounds) for
fillet to 60 rand for mince at  Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL) 
supermarkets in Johannesburg.  A clear plan for dealing with avian flu is lacking, said
Ranger Gerebe, manager of the Cango ostrich show farm, which was
spared from avian flu while birds from all neighboring
properties were slaughtered.  “We are so worried,” he said, as he fed a bucket of corn
to six jostling black-and-white ostriches. “We don’t really
feel there are leaders standing up to help the farmers and say
‘Boys, this is the way we need to go.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  