-- U.S. Banks Aren’t Nearly Ready for Coming European Crisis
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-06-24T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/u-s-banks-aren-t-nearly-ready-for-coming-european-crisis.html
The euro area faces a major economic
crisis, most likely a series of rolling, country-specific
problems involving some combination of failing banks and
sovereigns that can’t pay their debts in full.  This will culminate in systemwide stress, emergency
liquidity loans from the  European Central Bank  and politicians
from all the countries involved increasingly at one another’s
throats.  Even the optimists now say openly that  Europe  will only
solve its problems when the alternatives look sufficiently bleak
and time has run out. Less optimistic people increasingly think
that the euro area will break up because all the proposed
solutions are pie-in-the-sky. If the latter view is right -- or
even if concern about dissolution grows in coming months --
markets, investors, regulators and governments need to worry not
just about interest-rate risk and credit risk, but also
dissolution risk.  What’s more, they also need to worry a great deal about
what the repricing of risk will do to the world’s thinly
capitalized and highly leveraged megabanks. Officials,
unfortunately, appear not to have thought about this at all; the
Group of 20 meeting and communique last week exuded complacency
and neglect.  Very few people seem to have gotten their heads around
dissolution risk. Here’s what it means: If you have a contract
that requires you to be paid in euros and the euro no longer
exists, what you will receive is unclear.  No Euro  As a warm-up, consider first a simple contract. Let’s say
you have lent 1 million euros to a German bank, payable three
months from now. If the euro suddenly ceases to exist and all
countries revert to their original currencies, then you would
probably receive payment in deutsche marks. You might be fine
with this -- and congratulate yourself on not lending to an
Italian bank, which is now paying off in lira.  But what would the  exchange rate  be between new deutsche
marks and euros? How would this affect the purchasing power of
the loan repayment? More worrisome, what if  Germany  has gone
back on the deutsche mark but the euro still exists -- issued by
more inflation-inclined countries? Presumably you would be
offered payment in the rapidly depreciating euro. If you
contested such a repayment, the litigation could drag on for
years.  What if you lent to that German bank not in  Frankfurt  but
in  London ? Would it matter if you lent to a branch (part of the
parent) or a subsidiary (more clearly a British legal entity)?
How would the British courts assess your claim to be repaid in
relatively appreciated deutsche marks, rather than ever-less-
appealing euros? With the euro depreciating further, should you
wait to see what the courts decide? Or should you settle quickly
in hope of recovering half of what you originally expected?  What if you lent to the German bank in  New York , but the
transaction was run through an offshore subsidiary, for example
in the  Cayman Islands ? Global banks are extremely complex in
terms of the legal entities that overlap with business units. Do
you really know which legal jurisdiction would cover all aspects
of your transaction in the currency formerly known as the euro?  Moving from relatively simple contracts to the complex
world of derivatives, what would happen to the huge euro-
denominated interest-rate swap market if euro dissolution is a
real possibility? I’ve talked to various experts and heard a
variety of fascinating opinions, but no one really knows.  Dissolution Risk  There is a lot of risk that isn’t being priced, including
in so-called safe haven assets. Anything denominated in euros is
subject to complex, hard-to-value dissolution risk. The credit
risk of German sovereign debt may be unchanged, but what is a
German government bond worth if the euro is seriously on the
rocks?  Personally, I’m most worried about the balance sheets of
the really big banks. For example, in recently released
highlights from its so-called living will, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 revealed  that $50 billion in losses could hypothetically bring
down the bank. (All big banks must provide their regulators with
a living will to show how they could be shut down in an orderly
fashion if near default.)  JPMorgan’s total balance sheet is valued, under U.S.
accounting standards, at about $2.3 trillion. But U.S. rules
allow a more generous netting of derivatives -- offsetting long
with short positions between the same counterparties -- than
European banks are allowed. The problem is that the netting
effect can be overstated because derivatives contracts often
don’t offset each other precisely. Worse, when traders smell
trouble at a bank that has taken on too much risk, they tend to
close out their derivatives positions quickly, leaving
supposedly netted contracts exposed.  People with experience regulating or analyzing financially
distressed institutions greatly prefer to measure potential
losses with the European approach, in which netting is allowed
only when contracts expressly incorporate settlement on a net
basis under all circumstances.  When one bank defaults and its derivatives counterpart does
not, the failing bank must pay many contracts at once. The
counterpart, however, wouldn’t provide a matching acceleration
in its payments, which would be owed under the originally agreed
schedule. This discrepancy could cause a “run” on a highly
leveraged bank as counterparties attempt to close out positions
with suspect banks while they can. The point is that the netting
shown on a bank balance sheet can paper over this dynamic. And
that means the JPMorgan living will vastly understates the
potential danger.  Largest Bank  According to my calculations with John Parsons, a senior
lecturer at MIT and a derivatives expert, JPMorgan’s balance
sheet using the European method isn’t $2.3 trillion but closer
to $4 trillion. That would make it the largest bank in the
world.  What are the odds that JPMorgan would lose no more than $50
billion on assets of $4 trillion, much of which is complex
derivatives, in a euro-area breakup, an event that would easily
be the biggest financial crisis in world history?  A few officials see the storm coming. The  Swiss National
Bank  should be commended for putting renewed pressure on Credit
Suisse to increase its capital levels by suspending dividends.
The  Bank of England  has set up emergency liquidity facilities,
and continues to press for more bank capital, although it could
do more.  The  Federal Reserve  should apply the same approach to big
U.S. banks, with an emergency and across-the-board suspension of
dividend payments, but it won’t. The Fed is convinced that its
recent stress tests show U.S. banks have enough capital even
though these tests didn’t model serious euro dissolution risk
and the effect on global derivatives markets.  The striking thing about JPMorgan’s recent London-based
proprietary trading losses is not the amount per se. If the
world’s largest bank can lose $2 billion to $3 billion in a
relatively calm quarter through incompetence and neglect on the
fringes of its operations, how much does it stand to lose when
markets really turn nasty across a much broader range of its
activities? And how might that harm the U.S. economic recovery?  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is a co-author of “ White House
Burning : The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg  View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg
View . Subscribe to receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View
editorials, columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Moody’s bank downgrades 
and on  government power over toxic chemicals ; William D. Cohan
on  Wall Street’s job creation ;  Albert R. Hunt  on U.S. business’s
 embrace of Mitt Romney ; Gregory La Blanc on  Facebook’s
strengths ;  Sharon Bowles  on how the  EU manages shared debt .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 