-- Wall Street Forgets Its Job Is to Create Jobs
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-06-24T22:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/wall-street-forgets-its-job-is-to-create-jobs.html
Conventional wisdom has it that
congressional hearings rarely shed new light and devolve quickly
into a stream of sound bites that members can use in their re-
election campaigns.  By that measure,  Jamie Dimon ’s appearances before the
Senate Banking Committee and House Financial Services Committee
-- in which the  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  chief executive officer had
to explain how his bank lost more than $2 billion on a poorly
executed proprietary trade -- mostly didn’t disappoint.  For instance, at the very end of the House hearing, after
most of the other representatives had left and Dimon was itching
to get back to New York,  Al Green , a Texas Democrat, managed to
elicit from Dimon a promise the banker surely hopes he’ll never
have to keep. After Green explained his concept of “too small
to live off” -- his idea that too many people in the U.S. live
below the poverty line while executives on  Wall Street  rake in
tens of millions of dollars in compensation -- Dimon said he
would show up “any place that you’d like” to discuss it
further.  “What I want to talk to you about,” Green said, “is
this: $47,000 is what it costs a family of four to live off in
Houston. The poverty level is $23,000 a year. The average
janitor, working full time, will make about $18,000 a year.
That’s working full time and living below the poverty line.”  Making Sense  What the annual compensation of an average janitor living
in Houston has to do with why Dimon allowed his traders to take
huge risks with his depositors’ money is not at all clear, but
the exchange should give you a feel for what the hearings were
like, in case you had better things to do. (Still, I enjoyed
that Green said he would pay his own way to get to wherever they
continue their discussion and not use any “congressional
funds,” while Dimon will probably resort to his private jet --
assuming he has to travel to the meeting.)  There was at least one five-minute period that cut through
the pointlessness. For that, we can thank Representative Gary Ackerman, a Democrat from  New York  who is  retiring after this
term , his 15th. Ackerman did a bit of pontificating, but he also
made a whole lot of sense when he got his hands on the
microphone.  “I used to think that all of Wall Street was on the
level,” he explained, “that it facilitated investing, that it
allowed people and institutions to put their money into
something that they believed in and believed would be helpful
and beneficial and grow and make money and especially help the
economy and, on the side, create a lot of jobs and be good for
our country and good for America.”  Then he picked up steam. “Now, a lot of what we’re doing
with this hedging -- and you could call it protecting your
investment or whatever -- but it’s basically gambling,” he
said. “You’re just betting that you might have been wrong. It
doesn’t help anything succeed anymore. It doesn’t encourage
anything anymore.”  Fully warmed up, Ackerman got to his point about what all
the hedging on Wall Street accomplishes. “I don’t see how that
creates one job in America,” he said. “I don’t see how it
helps the American economy. I don’t see how it helps the housing
market or the building market or the let’s-make-steel or widgets
market.”  Ackerman is right. The only beneficiaries of hedges, if
they work out, are the bankers and traders who profit from a
gamble they took with their depositors’ and shareholders’ money
in the first place.  Futile Hedge  He continued: “What it helps is -- if you were right a
majority of the time -- then it makes a bunch of money for the
guys who did it and doesn’t help the company, the industry, the
economy or the country at all. And if you were wrong, it puts
systemically everything at risk. And when I say everything, I
mean the confidence that the American people, the public, the
investment community and everybody else has in the system. And
that’s a loss you can’t hedge against.”  By then, Ackerman’s time was up. Dimon responded sheepishly
with some pablum about all the loans JPMorgan Chase has made and
all the people the company has hired. It wasn’t until the end --
right before Green confronted him -- that Dimon, too, started
making some sense about how the focus should be on making Wall
Street work for the American people and the economy, not just
for the people lucky enough to work there.  He made this point in the context of the so-called Volcker
rule, which would limit the ability of banks to make proprietary
trades. “People should actually get in a room, talk about what
they’re trying to accomplish, go through the specifics and not
pretend that they’re either for Volcker or against Volcker,”
Dimon said. “You may all want to get rid of it, but we have to
deal with it, and it’s a very detailed thing. And I remind
people, we do have the best  capital markets  in the world. You
should go home at night and say that we sit upon the best
economy in the world, the best capital markets in the world, the
best job creator of the world.”  Yes, we would all like to go home at night and feel that
way, Jamie. But it’s been too long -- since well before the
bottom fell out in 2007 and 2008 -- that Wall Street has given
us any reason to do so. Although Dimon has talked about it
before, notably to  Charlie Rose  at the  Aspen Ideas Festival  in
July 2008, should it really have taken him so long to
acknowledge the essential connection between what banks do and
national productivity?  Sounds to me that instead of spending time with Green (as
fascinating as that would be), Dimon should get in a room with
Ackerman and start hammering out the new rules of engagement on
Wall Street -- rules that will stop encouraging banks such as
JPMorgan Chase to take foolish risks with other people’s money,
improve the job prospects for millions of out-of-work Americans
and start making our world-class capital markets respected
again.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Moody’s bank downgrades 
and on  government power over toxic chemicals ;  Albert R. Hunt  on
U.S. business’s  embrace of Mitt Romney ;  Simon Johnson  on why
 U.S. banks aren’t ready  for a European crisis; Gregory La Blanc
on  Facebook’s strengths ;  Sharon Bowles  on how the  EU manages
shared debt .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 