-- White House Orders Agencies to Find New Ways of Cutting Red Tape
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-06-24T17:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-24/white-house-orders-agencies-to-find-new-ways-of-cutting-red-tape.html
Federal agencies face a Sept. 10
deadline to find new ways to trim paperwork burdens on business,
according to a memo from Cass Sunstein, the top White House
regulatory overseer.  “All agencies should attempt to identify at least one
initiative, or combination or initiatives, that would eliminate
at least 50,000 hours in annual burden,” Sunstein said in a
June 22 notice to the heads of agencies and executive
departments.  Agencies with the highest paperwork burdens, which include
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the departments of
Health and Human Services, Treasury and Transportation, should
try to take steps “that would eliminate two million hours or
more in annual burden,” Sunstein said in the memo.  The  memo  amplifies an  executive order  issued by Obama on
May 10 that requires agencies to weed out unnecessary or
outmoded rules. Agency proposals for paperwork reduction are to
be included with other reporting due Sept. 10 in connection with
the president’s order.  In a  blog post  accompanying the memo, Sunstein wrote that
the executive order “specifically directs agencies to
prioritize ‘initiatives that will produce significant
quantifiable monetary savings or significant quantifiable
reductions in paperwork burdens.’za  Suggested targets for reducing red tape include eliminating
redundant collections of information and shortening forms,
according to the notice from Sunstein, who is administrator of
the  Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs .  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has
attacked Obama for excessive regulation, which the former
Massachusetts governor says hampers economic recovery.  Romney devotes a  section  of his campaign website to his
contention that Obama has mishandled regulatory policy.  The White House has said that the anticipated benefits of
rules issued under Obama in the first three years of his
administration far outweigh their expense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  