-- 
‘Dubai’ Lands in Karachi as Pakistanis Flock to 60-Store Shopping Complex

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-12-01T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/-dubai-lands-in-karachi-as-pakistanis-flock-to-60-store-complex.html
One way to take a city’s economic
pulse is to check out where locals shop. In Karachi,  Pakistan ,
shoppers are flocking to Port Grand, which opened in May. Built
as a promenade by the historic harbor for almost $23 million,
the center caters to Pakistanis eager to indulge themselves.  This city of 20 million has seen more than 1,500 deaths
from political and sectarian violence from January to August. At
Port Grand the only hint of the turmoil is the presence of
security details and surveillance cameras, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported in its Dec. 5 issue.  “The whole world is going through a new security
environment” says Shahid Firoz, 61, Port Grand’s developer.
“We have to be very conscious of security just as any other
significant facility anywhere in the world needs to be.”  Young people stroll the promenade eating burgers and fries
and browsing through 60 stores and stalls that sell everything
from high fashion to silver bracelets to ice cream. Ornate
benches dot a landscaped area around a 150-year-old banyan tree.
Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  described the complex as
“out of this world” and “like Dubai” in a Nov. 30 visit.  “Port Grand is something fresh for the city, very
aesthetically pleasing and unique,” says Yasmine Ibrahim, a 25-
year-old Lebanese American who is helping set up a student
affairs office at a new university in Karachi.  One-third of Pakistan’s 170 million people are under the
age of 15, which means the leisure business will continue to
grow, says Naveed Vakil, head of research at AKD Securities. Per
capita income has grown to $1,254 a year in June from $1,073
three years ago.  Strong Appetite  The appetite for things American is strong even as tensions
mount between the two allies. Hardee’s opened its first Karachi
outlet in September: In the first few days, customers waited for
hours. It plans to open 10 more restaurants in Pakistan in the
next two and a half years, says franchisee Imran Ahmed Khan.  U.S. movies are attracting crowds to the recently opened
Atrium Cinemas, which would not be out of place in suburban
 Chicago . Current features include The Adventures of Tintin and
the latest Twilight Saga installment. Mission: Impossible--Ghost
Protocol is coming soon. Operator Nadeem Mandviwalla says the
cinema industry in Pakistan is growing 30 percent a year.  Exposure to Western lifestyles through  cable television  and
the Internet is raising demand for these goods and services.
Pakistan has 20 million  Internet users , compared with 133,900 a
decade ago, while 25 foreign channels, such as  CNN  and BBC World
News, are now available. And for many Pakistanis, reruns of the
U.S. sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond are a regular treat.  To contact the reports on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net .
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net . 