-- 
JPMorgan, BofA Sued Over Home Foreclosures

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-12-01T22:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ma-sues-bofa-citi-jpmorgan-ally-wells-fargo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were among five banks sued by
 Massachusetts  for allegedly conducting unlawful foreclosures and
deceiving homeowners.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  filed the
lawsuit today against the three banks, as well as  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc ., in state court in Boston. She
accused the banks of engaging in unfair and deceptive trade
practices in violation of state law.  “The stakes could not be higher at this stage of the
game,” Coakley said at a press conference in Boston. “The
foreclosure crisis continues to be at the root of the economic
mess that we find ourselves in and our inability to turn it
around.”  State attorneys general across the U.S. have been
negotiating a possible settlement with the five banks that would
resolve a probe into foreclosure practices that began more than
a year ago following disclosures that faulty documents were
being used to seize homes.  State and federal officials are aiming to reach a deal that
would provide mortgage relief to homeowners and set requirements
for the ways mortgage servicers conduct home foreclosures and
interact with borrowers.  ‘Enforceable Relief’  Coakley today blamed the banks for failure to reach a deal,
saying they hadn’t offered “meaningful and enforceable relief”
to homeowners for harm they have caused. With a settlement still
out of reach more than a year after all 50 states announced
their investigation into bank practices, Coakley said, she
decided to file her lawsuit.  “They have had more than a year to show they’ve understood
their role and the need to show their accountability for this
economic mess, and they failed to do so,” she said.  In September, California Attorney General Kamala Harris
said she was withdrawing from the talks, saying a proposed
settlement was “inadequate” and would allow too few California
homeowners to stay in their homes.  John Stumpf , chairman and chief executive officer of San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said in a CNBC interview today that
he’s disappointed the lawsuit was filed.  “We’ve worked hard to come to an agreement that I think
would be good for the country and good for housing,” he said.
“We can work through that better together than working it out
in court.”  ‘In Good Faith’  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, said its
GMAC Mortgage unit, which was named as a defendant, will fight
the lawsuit and has worked “in good faith” with Coakley’s
office during the past year to discuss mortgage servicing and
ways to assist borrowers.  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is leading
negotiations with the banks for the states, said today in a
statement from his office that he’s optimistic a settlement will
be reached “on terms that will be in the interests of
Massachusetts.”  Coakley said the banks moved to seize Massachusetts homes
when they had no legal authority do so because they didn’t hold
the mortgage on the properties. Failure to obtain valid mortgage
assignments before foreclosure has affected titles to
“hundreds, if not thousands, of properties” in the state, she
said.  ‘Strung Along’  The banks also deceived and misled homeowners about loan
modifications, the attorney general said in a statement. The
servicers “often strung along borrowers for months” in trial
modifications before rejecting their attempts to modify loans,
according to Coakley.  Banks are also accused of engaging in “robosigning,” in
which foreclosure paperwork is signed without verification of
the information in the documents. The practice was also used in
the transfer of mortgages, Coakley said.  “If we do not do this, we are stuck in this downward
spiral of more foreclosures in a way that is totally
counterproductive to the economy,” she said at the press
conference.  The lawsuit also names Merscorp Inc., which runs a mortgage
registry used by banks, as a defendant. According Coakley, the
banks undermined the public land record system through the use
of the registry, which tracks servicing rights and ownership
interests in  mortgage loans . Merscorp spokeswoman Karmela Lejarde said in an e-mail that the system complies with
Massachusetts law.  JPMorgan Disappointed  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, said
the bank is disappointed Massachusetts sued while settlement
negotiations with state and federal officials continue.  “We continue to believe that collaborative resolution
rather than continued litigation will most quickly heal the
housing market and help drive economic recovery,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, said in a statement.  Citigroup hasn’t had time to review the lawsuit,  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in an e-
mail. The company has been cooperating with the attorney
general, he said.  The case is Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. Bank of
America N.A., 11-4363, Suffolk County Superior Court ( Boston ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  