-- 
Madoff Trustee Can Appeal $19 Billion JPMorgan Ruling, Federal Judge Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-01T19:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/madoff-trustee-can-appeal-19-billion-jpmorgan-ruling-federal-judge-says.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s
firm, who lost the right to demand $19 billion in damages from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , can appeal the ruling to a higher court, a
judge said.  JPMorgan last month won dismissal of trustee Irving Picard’s damage claims in his lawsuit alleging the biggest U.S.
bank aided Madoff’s fraud. Picard can’t sue for common-law
damages on behalf of the defunct Madoff firm’s customers, U.S.
District Judge  Colleen McMahon  ruled in  New York .  The judge directed a clerk to enter a final judgment
dismissing eight claims from Picard’s complaint and said he can
appeal the ruling under a deal struck with JPMorgan, according
to court papers. Her decision followed a telephone conference
yesterday, she said.  Picard agreed to put his remaining claims against JPMorgan
on hold while he appeals. He told McMahon in a filing last month
he has “no choice but to appeal the order.”  “Permitting an immediate appeal would provide much-needed
finality for the trustee and the BLMIS estate as to the
viability of these claims,” he said. BLMIS refers to Madoff’s
firm.  Rulings by district judges McMahon and Jed Rakoff have
knocked more than $28 billion off of Picard’s claims against
banks and may cost him as much as $11 billion in recoveries from
other cases to benefit investors who lost money in the  Ponzi
scheme , according to the trustee’s estimates.  Money Sought  The amount sought from JPMorgan, Madoff’s primary banker,
represented Picard’s estimate of principal lost by all Madoff
investors by the time the Ponzi scheme collapsed in December
2008, according to a complaint filed in June. The bank could
have stopped the fraud if it had passed on its suspicions to
regulators, he alleged.  JPMorgan said it didn’t know about or in any way become a
party to the fraud and couldn’t be held responsible for a scheme
orchestrated by Madoff alone.  Madoff pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year prison
term. Picard and his firm have made about $224 million in fees
since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The McMahon cases are Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-
cv-913; Picard v. UBS Fund Services ( Luxembourg ) SA, 11-cv-4212,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  