-- 
Advocacy Group Sues Obama Administration Over Solyndra Documents

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-01T21:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/advocacy-group-sues-obama-administration-over-solyndra-documents.html
Judicial Watch Inc., a Washington-
based advocacy group, sued the Obama Administration seeking
documents related to a $535 million federal loan guarantee for
failed solar-panel manufacturer  Solyndra LLC .  The group filed two complaints today in federal court in
Washington, claiming the  Department of Energy  and the Office of
Management and Budget are “unlawfully withholding” records
that the group said should be released under the Freedom of
Information Act.  Judicial Watch seeks data including communications between
agency officials related to Solyndra, and between federal
officials and Solyndra employees or employees of investors
Argonaut Private Equity LLC, Madrone Capital Partners LLC, U.S.
Venture Partners LLC and Rockport Capital Partners LLC.  “The American people are set to lose $535 million and want
to know why it happened,” Tom Fitton, president of Judicial
Watch, said in an e-mailed statement.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, two years after receiving the
Energy Department’s first loan guarantee.  Kenneth Baer , an OMB spokesman, said the agency hasn’t been
served with a complaint. In an interview, Baer said OMB received
Judicial Watch’s document request and that the agency has been
“working diligently” to respond. Baer said the agency has
produced more than 10,000 pages of documents for members of
Congress. Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman, said
the department has turned over more than 180,000 pages of
documents to congressional investigators.  “The department has consistently demonstrated our
commitment to being fully open and transparent since the
beginning of this investigation,” LaVera said, declining to
comment on the lawsuit.  The cases are Judicial Watch Inc. v. U.S. Department of
Energy, 11-02140, and Judicial Watch Inc. v. Office of
Management and Budget, 11-02141, U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  