-- 
African Union Must Double Force to Secure Somalia, Burundi Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-12-01T09:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/african-union-must-double-force-to-secure-somalia-burundi-says.html
The African Union Mission in Somalia
must double the size of its peacekeeping force in order to hold
on to territory secured in Mogadishu and move into al-Shabaab
areas outside the capital, a Burundian defense official said.  Burundi, which along with  Uganda  provides most of the more
than 9,000 troops in the so-called Amisom force, is preparing to
send a sixth battalion of 1,000 soldiers to Somalia, said
Colonel Gaspard Baratuza, spokesman for the  Defense Ministry .
The French and U.S.-trained forces will be deployed once Burundi
receives equipment including armoured vehicles and bullet-proof
vests, he said in an interview today in the capital, Bujumbura.  “Every soldier must have his own equipment, which we are
waiting for from foreign countries,” Baratuza said.  The African Union peacekeepers are supporting soldiers from
Somalia’s United Nations-backed government in their fight
against a four-year insurgency by al-Shabaab. The al-Qaeda-
linked militia is trying to topple the administration of
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed in order to establish an
Islamic state in the Horn of Africa country.  The UN, which approved Amisom’s mandate, has authorized an
increase in troop levels to as many as 12,000 personnel. The 54-
member  African Union  has asked for the operation to be expanded
to 20,000 troops.  While al-Shabaab withdrew from most of its bases in
Mogadishu in August, leaving much of the city under government
control, it still dominates the south and central regions of the
country.  Amisom  plans to target the southern towns of Baidoa and
Afgooye, as well as the ports of Kismayo and Marka, in the next
phase of its campaign, Baratuza said.  “If we had enough strength in troop numbers we could
stabilize the whole country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 