-- 
Lagarde: G-20 May Boost IMF for Europe Crisis

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 
2011-12-01T20:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/lagarde-says-imf-may-receive-help-from-g-20-to-counter-europe-debt-crisis.html
International Monetary Fund chief
 Christine Lagarde  said Group of 20 nations are prepared to boost
the fund’s resources as the European debt crisis threatens the
global recovery.  “If circumstances require, the G-20 will commit the
resources that are necessary for the IMF to play its systemic
role,” she said during a joint press conference with Brazilian
Finance Minister Guido Mantega in Brasilia today. “That gives
you a range that is almost without a cap, without a
limitation.”  Lagarde has indicated that the $390 billion the IMF
currently has available for lending may not suffice should the
global outlook worsen. The Washington-based lender to nations
will probably cut its global growth forecast next month as the
European crisis roils financial markets and slows output,
spokesman Gerry Rice said.  European finance ministers said this week they would seek a
greater role for the IMF alongside their own bailout fund in
their bid to tame the euro region’s sovereign debt turmoil. G-20
leaders last month balked at writing new checks before Europe
did more to fix the two-year old crisis.  Mantega reiterated his country’s willingness to make a
contribution to boost the IMF’s war chest, depending on
continuing changes to give  emerging markets  more say at the
institution. An amount hasn’t been decided, he said.  Mexico’s Stance  Mexico yesterday also indicated it may contribute. Agustin Carstens, the central bank governor and Lagarde’s rival in
getting the IMF top job earlier this year, told reporters his
country would be “more than willing to collaborate and offer
resources to support a greater range of action” by the fund.  Brazil, Russia,  India ,  China  and  South Africa , the so-
called BRICS nations, may gain a “big role” in the IMF if they
provide aid to the euro region, said Thomas Mirow, who heads the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  “This is an ongoing trend, that the emerging economies and
countries need to get a big role at the IMF, and of course if
there would be a necessity to get additional funding for the IMF
for  Europe , that would probably accelerate this process,” Mirow
said in a phone interview yesterday from  London .  IMF members a year ago approved a plan to make China the
third-strongest voice in the organization while weakening
Europe’s influence. Emerging markets, including Brazil, have
been asking for a change to the formula the IMF uses to
calculate voting rights.  Lagarde repeated the IMF will make sure it can help
countries outside of Europe, even as it co-finances bailouts in
 Greece , Portugal and Greece and prepares to send a team to Italy
for an unprecedented audit of the country’s efforts to cut its
debt.  On her first trip to  Latin America  since she took the IMF
helm in July, which included visits to Peru and  Mexico , Lagarde
discussed the risks for the region of the European crisis as
well as potential member support to help contain Europe’s
mounting debt problems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia newsroom at 
Or  rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  