-- 
Magazine Luiza Leads Brazil Retailers Rally on Sales Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-12-01T20:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/magazine-luiza-leads-brazil-retailers-rally-on-sales-outlook-2-.html
Magazine Luiza SA  jumped the most in
three months, leading gains for Brazilian retailers, as
government tax cuts on stoves, refrigerators and washing
machines fueled optimism that sales will surge.  Magazine Luiza, which sells electronics and furniture,
surged 8.2 percent to 11.79 reais at the close of trading in Sao
Paulo, the most since Sept. 1. Online merchant  B2W Cia. Global
do Varejo  gained 2.6 percent to 10.41 reais.  Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar ,  Brazil ’s biggest retailer,
added 3.9 percent to 68.75 reais.  Brazil reduced levies on consumer loans, home appliances,
food staples, home building and some financial transactions,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today in Brasilia.
The stimulus measures come a day after the central bank cut the
benchmark  interest rate  for the third time this year to shield
 Latin America ’s largest economy from the European debt crisis.  “The tax cuts will surely boost Christmas sales,” Julia Monteiro, an analyst at Ativa Corretora, said in a telephone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “Shopping mall operators should
also benefit from the measures, as more people hit the streets
to shop.”  BR Malls Participacoes SA , Brazil’s biggest owner of
shopping centers, advanced 4 percent to 19.05 reais. Rival
 Iguatemi Empresa de Shopping Centers SA  gained 4.5 percent to
34.23 reais.  The so-called IOF tax on consumer credit will fall to 2.5
percent from 3 percent, Mantega said. The government is also
extending tax cuts on flour, wheat and bread, and reducing a tax
on pasta. The tax on stoves will fall to zero from 4 percent, to
5 percent from 15 percent on refrigerators, and to 10 percent
from 20 percent on washing machines. All measures become
effective today, according to Mantega.  Brazil’s decision to reduce taxes on home appliances may
result in an average price reduction of 10 percent to 15 percent
for consumers, Magazine Luiza President Luiza Trajano told
reporters today in Brasilia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  