-- 
AIDS Grove Provokes Bulldozer Threat; Chicago Serial Killer: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-12-01T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/aids-grove-provokes-bulldozer-threat-chicago-serial-killer-tv.html
The winning design for the  National
AIDS Memorial  featured a small grouping of blackened poles
erected on a charred landscape.  The proposal by architects Chloe Town and Janette Kim was
meant to evoke the devastation of a forest fire. Supporters saw a
poignant metaphor, while detractors considered it a pretentious
waste of time and money.  “ The Grove ,” a terrific hour-long documentary by Andy
Abrahams Wilson and Tom Shepard, traces the little-known, two-
decade history of  San Francisco ’s National AIDS Memorial Grove.
Beginning tonight, the film will air on PBS stations to mark
World Aids Day.  In 1991, a group of grieving San Franciscans planted a few
trees in a neglected, seven-acre section of Golden Gate Park to
commemorate the AIDS deaths of friends and lovers.  Soon, as many as 200 volunteers set aside the third Saturday
of every month for weeding and planting, and the once blighted
spot became a beautiful, low-key sanctuary. In 1996, local
congresswoman  Nancy Pelosi  successfully urged President  Bill Clinton  to designate the Grove as a national memorial.  Bulldozer Threat  That resulted in more internal dissent than widespread
recognition. Meetings of the Grove’s board of directors, captured
by Wilson’s camera, became polite but intense battlegrounds, with
younger members bemoaning the park’s “disconnect” between its low
profile and national aspirations.  The park, says one board member, lacks the “shocking,
disruptive” statement demanded by the AIDS crisis.  “For me, a lovely garden doesn’t do it,” says another.  A lovely garden, of course, is exactly what founding board
member Jack Porter had in mind when he organized the first
planting. He threatens to “throw himself in front of the
bulldozer” if even one of the winning design’s charred poles is
installed.  Porter’s side wins that battle, and the patch of greenery
remains a memorial without a monument. Giving both sides their
due, “The Grove” offers no easy answers on how best to
memorialize the dead. But the film’s gentle, insightful approach
is a fine place to start.  “The Grove” airs on PBS stations beginning tonight. Check
local listings. Rating: ***  ‘Hidden City’  The best stories, says crime novelist Marcus Sakey, are
about the worst people.  That’s the premise for Sakey’s new  Travel Channel  series
“ Hidden City .” Visiting a different place each week, Sakey
presents a travelogue of crime and notoriety, recounting the
darker moments that helped shape the place.  With his double-pierced ears and shaggy hair, Sakey is an
affable guide prone to neo-noir narration (Chicago is a city
“good at doing bad.”) But his tales are anything but hidden.  In the Chicago episode that kicks off the series, Sakey
rehashes the tale of H.H. Holmes, whose murder spree during the
1893 World’s Fair was definitively chronicled in Erik Larson’s
best-seller “The Devil in the White City.”  Segments on John Dillinger and 1968’s Chicago Seven trial
turn up nothing a Wikipedia search couldn’t reveal.  To fill out the running time, Sakey wanders off track with
silly diversions. In the segment about the ‘68 riots, he trots
out that hoary reporter’s gimmick of undergoing a voluntary
dousing of pepper spray. To better understand Dillinger, he fires
off a tommy gun at a shooting range.  The second episode available for review focuses on  Boston ,
and finds nothing new in the Brink’s Robbery, the Strangler or
James “Whitey” Bulger.  Sakey might have been wiser to present his trips
alphabetically. Maybe future installments on Austin and Anchorage
will contain a few surprises.  “Hidden City” airs Tuesday on Travel Channel at 10 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 