-- 
Airlines May Face Stricter EU Slot Rule, Gain Trading Right

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-12-01T17:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/airlines-may-face-stricter-eu-slot-use-rule-gain-trading-right.html
Airlines would face a stricter
European Union rule on the use of takeoff and landing slots and
gain the right to trade them under draft EU legislation meant to
tackle a “capacity crunch” at airports.  Current EU law requires carriers to use airport slots at
least 80 percent of the time in order to retain them the
following year. It is silent on the question of slot trading, a
practice permitted in the U.K. and banned in some EU nations
including  Spain .  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm,
today proposed legislation that would raise the use-it-or-lose-
it slot obligation to 85 percent. The draft law would also
permit EU-wide secondary trading of slots by airlines.  “Faced with intense global competition, if we do not
change the way we do business we may not be doing business at
all,” European Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said in a
statement in Brussels. “We have to act now.” The proposals
need the support of EU governments and the European Parliament
in a process that can take a year or more.  With Europe’s share of the worldwide aviation market set to
fall next year from second behind the U.S. to third behind it
and the Asia-Pacific region, the commission is stepping up a
push for the industry to make better use of scarce airport
space.  Major Hubs  The number of  Europe ’s saturated airports is due to rise
from five, including  London Heathrow  and Paris Orly, at present
to 19 major hubs over the next two decades without policy
changes, according to the commission, which says this would lead
to delays affecting half of all flights in the EU.  “Europe’s airports are facing a capacity crunch,” Kallas
said. “The status quo is not an option.”  As part of the planned tougher rule on the use of slots,
which are allocated in series, the commission proposed to expand
those blocks from a minimum of five slots allocated at the same
time on the same day of the week in the winter and summer
seasons to 10 in winter and 15 in summer. It cited the need for
“stricter discipline on airlines.”  The International Air Carrier Association representing 29
operators such as  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  criticized the plan to expand
the series of slots, saying it would undermine services to
southern European countries such as  Greece  already hit by
Europe’s debt crisis because airlines won’t opt to fly the
additionally required flights empty for several weeks in order
to retain the slots.  Seasonal Demand  “Certain tourist regions, particularly in Greece, Spain,
 Italy  and  Portugal , will be deprived of some air services,”
IACA said in a statement. “The current system works well for
airlines, as it allows them to match their offer of flights with
seasonal demand.”  The  Airports Council International Europe , which represents
more than 400 European airports including BAA Ltd.’s Heathrow,
praised the slot-use proposals in general.  “Improving the system is overdue,” Olivier Jankovec,
director general of ACI Europe, said in a statement. “The way
airport slots are allocated dictates the way our facilities are
used.”  The draft legislation also seeks to bolster competition in
ground services including baggage handling by strengthening a
1996 EU market-opening law. This element also includes stronger
rights to protect workers in the field.  The Association of European Airlines representing network
carriers including  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
and British Airways hailed the further push to open the ground-
services market.  Competition, Quality  “Airlines are still dependent on service providers which,
in many cases, operate as monopolies,” AEA Secretary General
Ulrich Schulte-Strathaus said in a statement. “This regulatory
proposal is a move in the right direction because it will
encourage competition and improve service quality.”  In addition, the proposals aim for stronger commission
scrutiny of local bans in the EU on allegedly noisy aircraft to
ensure such curbs are based on objective considerations as well
as for updated definitions of noisy planes to account for new
technologies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.ne  