-- 
Airwaves Auction Sought by AT&T, Verizon Clears House Panel

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-12-01T21:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/airwaves-auction-sought-by-at-t-verizon-cleared-by-house-panel.html
A House panel advanced legislation
authorizing airwave auctions sought by mobile carriers such as
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  trying to meet surging demand
from smartphones.  The 17-6 vote by the  Subcommittee on Communications and
Technology  sends the measure to the Energy and Commerce
Committee. An auctions bill cleared a Senate committee in June.  The auctions of airwaves voluntarily surrendered by
television stations are designed to help meet growing demand
from smartphones and other wireless devices. Wireless companies
would buy access to airwaves to feed mobile Web devices
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads.  The Obama administration has called for almost doubling the
airwaves available for wireless Internet service to relieve what
Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski 
has called a “looming spectrum crunch.”  Under the Senate bill and the measure considered today, the
government may share auction proceeds with station owners,
establishing an incentive for TV companies to participate.  Broadcasters have said they want assurances that the
auctions are truly voluntary and that any rearranging of
channels doesn’t sap the signals and cut the audience of
stations that remain on the air.  The House bill provides about $15 billion for  deficit
reduction , and as much as $6.5 billion to build an emergency
workers’ radio network, Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon
Republican who leads the panel, said in a Nov. 29 statement.
Walden said today that the measure would lead to the creation of
100,000 U.S. jobs.  ‘Urgent’ Need  The emergency workers’ network would aim to avert
communications failures such as those that plagued police and
firefighters responding to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  There is an “urgent” need to enact legislation this year,
Peter Davidson, Verizon senior vice president for federal
government relations, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Verizon has consistently supported legislation that makes
more spectrum commercially available for mobile services,
addresses public safety’s needs for an interoperable wireless
network, and helps put America’s economy back on track with
deficit reduction and  job creation ,” Davidson said.  The Senate version of the measure, backed by Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, has not moved since the
Commerce Committee approved it in June. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said this week that his chamber
won’t vote on the bill, S. 911, this year.  National Security  In today’s House subcommittee vote, 16 Republicans and one
Democrat voted for the bill, while six Democrats opposed.  Lawmakers approved a handful of amendments to the
legislation, including one from Rep. Mike Rogers that would bar
anyone that the U.S. government considers a national security
risk from bidding for spectrum.  Rogers, a Michigan Republican who chairs the House
Intelligence Committee, this month announced an investigation
into Chinese phone-equipment makers including Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp.  and whether their expansion in
the U.S. poses a security threat. He introduced separate
legislation this week that encourages the U.S. government and
companies to share information about cybersecurity threats.  Another amendment to the House bill approved today, from
Rep. Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, would prohibit
the Federal Communications Commission from imposing so-called
“net-neutrality” rules on spectrum bidders. The rules bar
 Internet-service  providers’ from interfering with subscribers’
Web traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  