-- 
Economists in Majority Don’t Let Improving Data Undermine Gloom

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-12-01T05:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/majority-of-economists-still-see-deflation-gloom.html
After concern last summer of an
imminent double-dip recession in the U.S., the data got a bit
brighter in the fall. The economy grew faster than expected in
the third quarter and has created almost 2.8 million private-
sector jobs since the labor market bottomed in early 2010.  “It looks like recovery to me,” says  Chris Rupkey , a New
York-based economist for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. Even
as he’s encouraged by an uptick in consumer spending and slow
but steady gains in  employment , Rupkey says he knows his
optimism is a minority view.  Two and a half years after the  official end  of the
recession, in June 2009, this recovery looks like none before
it, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its January issue.  Daniel Tarullo , a member of the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors, describes the economy as “slogging through the mud.”
Arun Raha, chief economist for the state of Washington, chooses
a different metaphor. “A return to normalcy seems like a mirage
in the desert,” he wrote in a report in October. “The closer we
get to it, the further it moves away.”  The trek through the sand (or mud) may be longer than many
had anticipated -- at the  Federal Reserve , in the White House or
on Wall Street. Growth has picked up several times, only to
stall.  In 2009, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spotted
“green shoots” suggesting a turnaround. He was premature.
President Barack Obama in June 2010 started touting a  Recovery
Summer , only to suffer political embarrassment as stimulus
spending failed to cure the jobs crisis. Another false dawn came
and went in early 2011, as the labor market added about 200,000
jobs per month before slowing again.  Weakest Recovery  Measured from the December 2007 start of the recession, the
rebound in production in the U.S. has been weaker than any
recovery since World War II. After previous contractions, the
economy has always topped its previous high within two years.
This time it took almost four. Annual gross domestic product at
the end of the third quarter was less than  0.1 percent higher ,
after adjusting for inflation, than its pre-crisis peak in 2007.  Job growth too has been more feeble than in past comebacks.
Fewer Americans have work today than in April 2000, before the
technology stock bubble deflated, even though the population has
grown by 31 million. The gains in private-sector employment that
reassure Rupkey have been partly offset by lost state and local
government jobs, the result of plunging  tax revenue  and debts
coming due.  Joblessness  October’s 9 percent  unemployment rate  was just 1 percentage
point below its 2009 peak -- and more than 4 points higher than
it was prior to the recession. The rate likely stayed at 9
percent in November, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of the government’s
report tomorrow.  Even with such discouraging news, the  U.S. economy  today is
nowhere near as bad as in the Great Depression, when
unemployment topped 20 percent and output shrank for three and a
half years -- from 1929 into 1933 -- before recovery even began.  Still, some investors and analysts are batting around terms
meant to distinguish today’s economic pain from the less
distressing recessions and recoveries of past decades. “It’s the
modern equivalent of a depression,” says Lacy Hunt, chief
economist at Hoisington Investment Management in Austin,  Texas .  Fisher Debt Deflation  What’s holding the economy back? Hunt, who has also worked
on the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and as chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , says the U.S. is
stuck in a debt deflation. The term was coined in 1933 by
economist Irving Fisher, a prominent Yale University professor,
as he tried to explain the Great Depression. Fisher’s reputation
never really recovered from his claim on the eve of the 1929
market crash that stocks had reached a “permanently high
plateau.” And yet, his debt-deflation theory has gained currency
in the aftermath of the collapse of credit markets in 2008.  Fisher describes a vicious spiral in which liquidation of
debt slows the economy, cuts the value of assets, curtails
lending, reduces employment and leaves businesses with excess
capacity. The subsequent loss of confidence just makes things
worse.  Americans are clearly in a sour mood, as Fisher’s theory
would predict. Consumers are only slightly less pessimistic than
they were at the February 2009 nadir of the financial crisis,
according to the University of  Michigan  Confidence Survey’s
expectations index.  Globalization’s Impact  The downward spiral describes well what the economy is
going through, says Daniel Alpert, a founder and managing
partner of Westwood Capital LLC, the New York investment bank.
“It’s a classic Irving Fisher debt deflation.”  The effects of deleveraging are being made worse by excess
production capacity due to globalization, according to “The Way
Forward,” a  report  co-authored by Alpert, Cornell University law
professor Robert Hockett and economist Nouriel Roubini of New
York University. Over the past generation, almost 2 billion new
workers from developing  Asia  and eastern  Europe  have joined a
more integrated global economy, the report explains. That has
lifted millions of people out of poverty. It has also disrupted
the worldwide balance between supply and demand. Swapping well-
paid American workers for lower-paid Chinese or Indians means a
loss of demand overall, Alpert says. Workers who are paid less
buy less.  While some economists express optimism about a growing
consumer class in  emerging markets , Alpert and his co-authors
emphasize the flip side: the growth in labor supply and
productive capacity as developing countries become bigger
players in international trade.  Excess Capacity  In the U.S., almost 14 million men and women are
unemployed, and factories are operating at 78 percent of
 capacity , which is below the low point reached in the recession
of 1990 to 1991, according to Fed data.  Alpert says unemployment is likely to climb again and may
top 10 percent in 2012. He, Hockett and Roubini argue that, to
boost demand, the government should oversee the spending of $1.2
trillion on the nation’s crumbling airports, roads, bridges and
energy grid, tapping both public and private funds.  That won’t happen, of course. Money from the $787 billion
economic stimulus bill that Democrat Obama signed in February
2009 is mostly spent. Republicans won control of the House of
Representatives in 2010 with promises to curb spending and
tackle the federal debt. They favor fewer government regulations
and lower taxes as the recipe to strengthen the economy.  Political Disagreements  Obama’s stimulus package didn’t create the jobs he
promised, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said at an
Oct. 11 debate among candidates for the Republican presidential
nomination: “The right course for America is not to keep
spending money on stimulus bills, but instead to make permanent
changes to the tax code.”  Romney has also said Obama’s auto industry rescue was
wrong. Yet Michigan has been creating jobs since General Motors
Co. and Chrysler Group LLC emerged from bankruptcy with
government backing in mid-2009. Bloomberg’s Economic Evaluation
of States indexes, which incorporate data on employment, income
and tax revenue, show that conditions improved more quickly in
Michigan than anywhere else in the country except North Dakota
in the two years ended in June 2011.  The struggling economy and the deep political divide in
 Washington  are feeding off each other. Growth might pick up if
politicians were working together, and cooperation between the
parties might improve if the economy were healing more quickly.  Bernanke Surprised  Closing the government’s $1.2 trillion  budget deficit  would
be easier if economic growth were stronger. If not for the
recession, the U.S. likely would be collecting $600 billion more
in annual tax revenue. For now, Republicans and Democrats offer
mutually exclusive diagnoses of the economy’s ailments and
preferred cures, and their squabbles -- such as the brinkmanship
over the debt ceiling -- are hurting consumer and business
confidence.  The Fed has been surprised that the economy has failed to
gain momentum, Bernanke said during a Nov. 2 press conference:
“The drags on the recovery were stronger than we thought.” In
response, the Fed cut its 2011 and 2012 economic growth
forecasts. The central bank sees the economy growing at an
annual rate of 1.6 to 1.7 percent in 2011 -- more than a full
percentage point below its June prediction -- and 2.5 to 2.9
percent in 2012.  The troubled housing market and consumer deleveraging have
contributed to the weakness, Bernanke said, along with Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis.  European Hazard  Demand in Europe is eroding as leaders struggle to keep the
 euro zone  intact. Mario Draghi, who took the helm of the
 European Central Bank  at the beginning of November, cut  interest
rates  by a quarter point at his first policy meeting, while
warning that Europe is on the verge of a mild recession.  Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi is among those who take
solace in the positive U.S. economic data in recent months.
Americans may be complaining to pollsters, yet they are still
shopping, Rupkey says.  Consumer spending  in October was 2
percent higher than a year earlier, after adjusting for
inflation, and shopping over the Thanksgiving weekend gave a
preliminary signal that holiday sales will be strong. Rupkey
expects pent-up demand for big-ticket items such as homes and
cars to begin making itself felt.  Maury Harris , chief economist at UBS Securities LLC, a unit
of UBS AG, also says the data show that economic fundamentals
are improving in the U.S. His team ranked as the top forecaster
of the U.S. economy in the January issue of Bloomberg Markets.  While Bernanke remains concerned about household debts,
they have become less burdensome by some measures. Consumers
were spending about 11 percent of disposable income on mortgage
and credit card payments as of June 2011 compared with nearly 14
percent as the financial crisis gathered force in September
2007.  Debt Burdens  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economic research at Bank
of America Corp., doesn’t see that data as grounds for optimism.
When the economy returns to normal and the Fed begins raising
interest rates, he says, “these debt burdens are going to zoom
back up again.” He expects the jobless rate in 2013 to be higher
than today.  Household debt peaked at $13.9 trillion in mid-2008. After
three years of repayments and write-offs, consumer obligations
have been trimmed to $13.3 trillion, down just 4.6 percent from
the high, according to the Fed. In the second quarter, the most
recent data available, consumers made less progress whittling
down their  debt  than in any quarter since the deleveraging
began.  Chronic Ailments  Even if the danger of a new recession has eased, the
economy has chronic ailments that defy easy solutions -- and
have spawned the Occupy  Wall Street  protests in New York and
elsewhere. The income of the average American household is less
than 1 percent greater than it was in 1989.  Measured another way, the current era has been almost 10
times as damaging to household balance sheets as the mid- to
late 1970s, generally regarded as a pretty miserable period for
the economy. During the past six years, household net worth
relative to disposable income has fallen by more than
20 percent, according to Fed data. During a similar span from
1973 to 1979 -- years that encompass both of the Middle East oil
shocks, peak inflation above 12 percent and the address by
President Jimmy Carter that became known as his “malaise speech”
-- the ratio fell just 2.4 percent.  “We’ve had a recovery for 21 months, technically, but the
standard of living has continued to decline,” says Hoisington’s
Hunt, whose firm oversees $5.7 billion. “So the recovery is very
incomplete,” he says.  Wounded Economy  The risk now is that a wounded U.S. economy gets hit with
another shock -- this time coming when politicians in Washington
can’t agree on a response and central bank officials already
have deployed their most-effective tools. (The Fed’s benchmark
interest rate has been near zero for three years.) Ripples from
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis or some other disruption to the
financial system could do the job.  “The worst-case scenario is that we allow the economy to
sit in this non-recovery for so long that something comes along
and causes that second recession,” says Ethan Harris, a former
New York Fed staff economist. “Accidents happen. And if you’re
growing at 1 to 2 percent, you’re just waiting for bad luck to
hit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  