-- 
Takeda May Face 10,000 U.S. Suits Over Actos Cancer Claims

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T06:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/takeda-may-face-10-000-u-s-suits-over-actos-cancer-claims.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Asia ’s
biggest drugmaker, may face as many as 10,000 lawsuits in U.S.
courts over allegations that its Actos diabetes drug causes
bladder cancer, and a group of judges is preparing to decide
where they should be consolidated.  U.S. regulators found in June that an analysis of a
company-sponsored study showed some users of Actos, the world’s
best-selling diabetes medication, faced an increased risk of
developing the potentially fatal disease. Takeda shares fell 2.2
percent at the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo .  The evidence linking Actos to bladder cancer “is unusually
strong and clear,” Paul J. Pennock, a New York-based lawyer
representing former users of the drug, said in a telephone
interview. He said his firm,  Weitz & Luxemberg , represents 1,200
former Actos users and that total cases may reach 10,000.  “We are getting calls every day about Actos,” he said.  Pennock was set to appear today before a judicial  panel  in
Savannah,  Georgia , to argue that federal court suits over the
drug, whose chemical name is  pioglitazone , should be gathered
for pretrial proceedings in Louisiana or  Ohio .  Takeda officials this year pulled Actos, its top-selling
drug, off the market in Germany and  France  after it was linked
to an increased cancer risk. The medication had sales of 387.9
billion yen ($4.8 billion) in the last fiscal year, 27 percent
of the  Osaka , Japan-based company’s revenue.  The drugmaker declined to comment on the impact of the
lawsuits to its earnings or whether it plans to set aside money
for the litigation.  Company Statement  “Takeda already revised the information on risks regarding
bladder cancer on leaflets in the U.S. and  Japan  and is in the
process of updating in  Europe ,” Mitsuo Oguri, a Takeda
spokesman in Tokyo, said yesterday by telephone. “Takeda
remains confident on the efficacy of pioglitazone for treating
type 2 diabetes, while it continues to monitor the safety
profile of the medicine.”  The company’s lawyers said in a September court filing that
so far it had been sued 54 times over Actos in federal courts
around the U.S.  Terrence Allen, a warehouse worker, filed one of them,
against Takeda and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , which marketed Actos in the
U.S. from July 1999 to March 2006. He took the drug over a five-
year-period starting in 2006. He was diagnosed with bladder
cancer in January.  Stefanie Prodouz, a spokeswoman for Indianapolis, Indiana-
based Lilly, didn’t return calls for comment on the Actos suits
naming the drugmaker as a defendant.  Cancer Operations  Allen, of Attica,  New York , said he’s had two surgeries to
remove cancerous tissue from his bladder and may be facing
another after the Christmas holiday.  “If somebody had told me I could get cancer from Actos, I
never would have taken it,” he said in a telephone interview.
“There were other products out there that could have helped
treat my diabetes without putting me through all of this.”  Allen, 57, said he sued the drugmaker to help alert other
diabetics that Actos poses serious health risks. He’s also
hoping the litigation will force Takeda to take responsibility
for his injuries, he said.  “To some degree, I would like my pound of flesh from the
company,” he said.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers say they expect thousands more former
Actos users to join Allen in suing Takeda over the drug given
its rise in popularity after  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia
diabetes drug was found to pose an increased heart-attack risk.  Glaxo officials pulled the drug from European markets and
curtailed sales in the U.S. in 2007 after studies found Avandia
posed greater risk of heart attacks and strokes than Actos.  $6 Billion  The London-based drugmaker has paid more than $6 billion
for legal costs tied to Avandia and other medicines. In the wake
of Avandia’s problems, Actos’s sales rose from about $3 billion
in 2006 to almost $5 billion last year.  Will Kemp , a Las Vegas-based attorney representing former
Actos users, said the suits will differ from Avandia cases
because the alleged injuries are more distinctive.  “Bladder cancer is considered to be a signature injury
because there aren’t a lot of other things that cause that
particular illness,” he said. “With a heart attack or stroke,
you’d have a slew of other potential causes to deal with.”  Turner Branch, a New Mexico-based plaintiffs’ lawyer, said
Takeda also will face claims that Actos caused heart attacks and
strokes like Avandia. “I think this is going to be very large
litigation with a large number of cases,” he added.  Before corralling the litigation in one court, judges on
the so-called Multi-District Litigation panel will hear
arguments today on which federal court should be selected.  Pretrial Steps  Similar cases in courts across the U.S. can be consolidated
before one judge for pretrial exchange of information. The
consolidation is intended to save money by streamlining document
exchanges and avoiding duplication.  Lawyers for Takeda and some of the plaintiffs are arguing
in court papers that the Actos suits should be consolidated in
federal court before U.S. District Judge  James Zagel  in  Chicago 
or before U.S. District Judge Rebecca Doherty in Lafayette,
 Louisiana .  Other plaintiffs’ attorneys are suggesting the cases be
collected before U.S. District Judge Daniel Polster in
 Cleveland , according to court filings. Another group of lawyers
seek to have the suits consolidated in federal court in
Birmingham,  Alabama .  Allen’s case is Terrence Allen v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals
North America Inc., 11-cv-643, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 