-- 
Akzo Heads for Disappointing Quarter as Revamp Takes Shape

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-12-01T12:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/akzo-heads-for-disappointing-quarter-as-revamp-takes-shape-1-.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s biggest
paint maker, forecast earnings at its decorative paints division
this year lower than analysts’ estimates, held back by raw-
material costs and sluggish markets in parts of Europe.  The Dutch maker of the Dulux and Glidden brands expects
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about 450 million euros ($607 million), according to a chart
included in a presentation today. Deutsche Bank had predicted
487 million euros in profit, according to a note sent to clients
today. Akzo stock slumped as much as 3.8 percent.  “The trends in deco we’ve seen in the third quarter
continued in the seasonally weak fourth quarter,” Chief
Financial Officer Keith Nichols told analysts at the meeting at
the company’s headquarters in the Dutch capital.  Akzo is undertaking a broad overhaul of its businesses
spanning coatings, paint and specialty chemicals. The job of
overseeing the task will fall to incoming Chief Executive
Officer Ton Buechner, who joins the company next month before
formally taking the helm in April. Akzo eliminated about 3,500
positions, saving 642 million euros, in the wake of its $16.5
billion acquisition of Imperial Chemical Industries in 2008.  Margins from deco-paints will probably drop to between 8
percent and 9 percent this year, according to the company.  U.S. Writedowns  The disappointing prediction for deco paints includes a
writedown of about 15 million euros to 20 million euros on U.S.
inventories, the company said.  Deco-paints head Tex Gunning pledged to make 2012 the year
of turnaround for Akzo’s unprofitable decorative paints
operation in the U.S. as the benefits of retail deals with Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. and Home Depot Inc. feed through to profit.
Gunning is also overseeing the streamlining of operations to
save on costs.  "If you keep pushing the right buttons, 2012 will be one of
turnaround for paint in the U.S.," said Gunning, who said when
he began overseeing the division he found relations between ICI
and Home Depot had deteriorated. Now they have a direct link in
to the retailer’s ordering system.  The Dutch company revamped its Glidden brand in the U.S.,
helping it get the exclusive agreement to supply Wal-Mart a year
ago. Current CEO Hans Wijers has said the plan is to review the
options for the U.S. decorative paints operation once it’s been
restored to health.  In  Europe , the company will focus its decorative paint
production around three major hubs to improve margins and combat
higher raw-material costs, Richard Stuckes, head of deco paints 
in Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said in an interview.  European Hubs  The three hubs, in  Poland , the U.K. and  France , will
account for a significant amount of Akzo’s volume. Production
elsewhere will be slimmed down from the current 27 locations,
complemented by ’’quite a few smaller’’ plants where it’s not
economical to transport paint over long distances, said Stuckes.  Total cost savings at the company should amount to 450
million euros, as the company reduces the number of IT-systems,
cuts the number of raw materials used in its products and tries
to improve manufacturing technologies. The company has set a
target to boost earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization by 500 million euros for 2014. Gunning set the
challenge of generating more than 40 percent of that benefit.  “We’ll get over this dip,” the paints head said. “We can
adjust our cost base, but people have to paint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  