-- 
Allen Stanford Is Taken Out of North Carolina Prison

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-12-01T19:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/allen-stanford-is-taken-out-of-north-carolina-prison-correct-.html
(Corrects to say doctors, and not lawyer, said that
Stanford may need to stay in prison hospital in eight paragraph
of story published Nov. 10.)  R. Allen Stanford, the indicted
 Texas  financier, was transferred out of a prison hospital where
he spent almost nine months being treated for a drug dependency
acquired in jail and lingering effects from an inmate beating.  Stanford, 61, has been imprisoned as a flight risk since
his June 2009 indictment on charges that he defrauded investors
through an alleged Ponzi scheme built on sales of certificates
of deposit sold by his Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston ordered
Stanford into a prison rehabilitation program for treatment of a
dependence on anxiety drugs prescribed to him in prison and for
evaluation of effects from a head injury he received in a
jailhouse assault in September 2009.  Stanford was treated at the hospital unit at the Federal
Detention Center in Butner, North Carolina, since February. He
is now in the federal prison transfer facility in  Oklahoma City ,
according to the bureau’s website. He is being moved within days
to the federal facility in Houston where he was previously
locked up, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the judge barred people
involved in the case from discussing it publicly.  His trial, which was originally scheduled for January 2011,
hasn’t yet been rescheduled.  Stanford’s criminal-defense attorney, Ali Fazel, declined
to comment on his client’s current location or mental state,
citing Hittner’s order against publicly discussing some aspects
of the case.  ‘Back in Houston’  “Once he’s back in Houston, the next thing would be either
a hearing or some sort of agreement between the parties that he
is competent to stand trial,” Fazel said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The judge has to find him competent” before a
trial date can be set, Fazel said.  A lawyer representing Stanford in a related civil suit
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had said
in court papers that Stanford’s doctors may require him to
remain in the  North Carolina  hospital facility. The attorney
sought an extension of a delay in the case.  “Mr. Stanford still suffers from long-term and short-term
memory loss as a result of his medical treatment,” Stephen
Cochell, the civil attorney, said in a Sept. 27 filing in
federal court in Dallas.  Cochell, in a phone interview yesterday, said he wasn’t
notified of Stanford’s transfer from the North Carolina hospital
unit or given access to the most recent reports by the prison’s
doctors.  “I assume his doctors have submitted a supplemental
report,” Cochell said. “I’ll get a chance to talk to him when
he comes back.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 