-- 
AMR Insider Horton Brings Deal-Making History at AT&T to Airline CEO Role

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/amr-insider-horton-brings-deal-making-history-at-at-t-to-airline-ceo-role.html
Tom Horton knows how to help dress up
a broken company and make it a powerhouse again.  That’s what he did at the former Ma Bell, leading to the
merger that created  AT&T Inc. (T)  Now he will face a similar
challenge at  AMR Corp. (AMR) , the parent of the once industry-leading
 American Airlines .  Horton, 50, became chief executive officer at AMR on Nov.
29 with the retirement of Gerard Arpey, who led the company’s
eight-year fight against a Chapter 11 filing. Horton now must
juggle new labor talks and reworking $29.6 billion in debt while
keeping the third-largest U.S. airline flying.  “He’s probably the right guy, with the right tools to do
this job,” said  Ray Neidl , a Maxim Group LLC analyst in  New
York , who predicted Nov. 18 that AMR might go bankrupt within
the next year. “He had the experience of taking AT&T through a
restructuring and a sale.”  In taking the CEO’s post at  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR,
Horton capped a career at the company that began in 1985 and
bracketed almost four years at the old AT&T Corp., the long-
distance company descended from the one-time parent of the Bell
system. As AT&T’s chief financial officer, he led the review of
options culminating with a 2005 takeover by SBC Communications
Corp.  Jets, Borrowing  Since coming back to AMR in 2006, Horton helped negotiate a
jet order with a $38.5 billion list value and borrow $2.9
billion to update airport hubs for the third-largest U.S.
airline. He returned as CFO and executive vice president and was
named president in July 2010.  His involvement with the old AT&T selling itself may help
if American ends up merging with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  in
bankruptcy, said Jeff Straebler, an independent aviation analyst
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “One has to wonder if Horton’s selection was driven by the
board’s expectation that an inevitable and likely successful bid
by US Airways warranted an insider to act as caretaker in the
interim,” Straebler said yesterday.  US Airways tried to buy  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  after that
carrier filed for bankruptcy in September 2005, and held merger
talks with the former  United Airlines  in 2008 and 2010. CEO Doug Parker said in April that he saw “one big deal left” in the
U.S. industry, with US Airways possibly tying up with one of its
three largest competitors.  Andrew Christie, a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based  US
Airways , declined to comment. American’s  Andrea Huguely  said in
an e-mail that the company doesn’t “comment on rumors.”  ‘Forward Looking’  “I like very much the fact that he was gone for four
years,” James M. Higgins, a Ticonderoga Securities LLC analyst,
said in an interview. “Horton, in part because he did spend
time away from the company, is likely to be forward looking and
say, ‘These are the cards we were dealt, let’s play them as best
we can.’”  AMR’s board voted unanimously the evening of Nov. 28 to
file for Chapter 11 after weighing options for months, Horton
said yesterday. AMR had been determined to avoid Chapter 11 as
 air travel  fell and losses mounted after the 2001 terrorist
attacks, even while peers used bankruptcy to shed pension and
retiree benefit plans and restructure debt.  Directors selected Horton after Arpey, 53, said he rejected
their request that he stay.  ‘Unique Perspective’  “Although Tom has spent over 20 years with American, the
time he has spent outside the company has given him a unique
perspective to draw upon as he leads the company through this
phase and beyond,” Arpey wrote in a letter to employees.  Horton’s education and career have been largely spent in
 Texas . He earned an MBA from Southern Methodist University’s  Cox
School of Business  in Dallas and a bachelor’s of business
administration from Baylor University in Waco. He is an avid
runner, according to American, and serves on the Cox School’s
executive board.  Horton held a variety of positions at AMR before his first
CFO stint there, from 2000 to 2002, when he left to become CFO
at then-AT&T Corp. He was named vice chairman in January 2005,
and the company credited him with helping trim gross debt by 75
percent. That year he led an evaluation of strategic options
that led to the takeover by SBC Communications Inc.  After departing from the newly renamed AT&T in January
2006, Horton was fishing in the Bahamas the next month when he
was contacted by Arpey, whom he described yesterday as a “very
close friend,” about coming back to what was then the biggest
U.S. airline.  Drop in Rank  By the time Horton was promoted to president last year,
American had slipped to No. 3 in the U.S. air-traffic rankings
and AMR was mired in annual losses that began in 2008.  “There’s an argument that he knows the company well,”
said  Charles Elson , director of the University of  Delaware ’s
Center for Corporate Governance. “The problem is having been
there so long his creativity is not going to be as high as
someone from the outside.”  Horton was instrumental in the July 2011 plan to order 260
 Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320s and 200  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s, renewing the fleet
with more fuel-efficient models. The average ages of American’s
mainline  jets  will fall 33 percent to 9.5 years in 2017 from
2010 levels, Horton said at the time. The deal included $13
billion in financing from Airbus and Boeing.  “Horton is a very bright guy and I have confidence in his
ability to lead American,” former  Continental (UAL)  CEO Larry Kellner
said in an interview. “The company will benefit by having
somebody who has been there and understands the issues to lead
them through bankruptcy.”  ‘Long and Ugly’  Horton’s challenges include negotiations with unions to
boost productivity and cut what American says is an $800 million
annual cost disadvantage to its peers. After contract talks with
unions for all major work groups as far back as 2006, the
bankruptcy “resets” the bargaining, Horton said yesterday.  “This is likely to be a long and ugly process,” said Jim Little, international president of the Transport Workers Union,
whose members include American mechanics and baggage handlers.
“Our union will fight like hell to make sure that front-line
workers don’t pay an unfair price for management’s failings.”  AMR has the highest operating costs among the four
surviving major U.S. network airlines, CFO Bella Goren said in
court papers. The company is set to post its fourth-straight
annual loss this year and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project
a loss for 2012 as well.  “It’s time to turn the page and move forward,” Horton
told reporters at a press conference yesterday at the Dallas-
Fort Worth International Airport, the carrier’s largest hub. He
described bankruptcy as a “well worn path” for U.S. airlines.  AMR Rivals  United Airlines  parent UAL Corp., Delta, Northwest Airlines
Corp. and US Airways all reorganized in Chapter 11 protection
since 2000. Horton was still at AT&T when AMR had its own brush
with bankruptcy, in 2003, before union concessions helped the
airline avert default.  Hiring an outsider isn’t automatic in airline bankruptcies,
said Maxim Group’s Neidl, who cut his AMR rating to sell from
hold yesterday after the filing. Delta and Northwest, which
later merged, both went through Chapter 11 without changing
management, Neidl said.  “Usually I’d say that it doesn’t make sense that whoever
brought the company down should stay there,” said  Israel
Shaked , a professor at Boston University School of Management.
“In this case, he’s a legitimate guy who knows the industry and
has done the job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  