-- 
Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Expanded at a Faster Pace

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-01T13:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-at-faster-pace-in-november.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
grew in November at the fastest pace in five months, showing
factories will keep supporting the economic expansion through
the end of the year, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
51.8 last month from 50.8 in October, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News  forecast  the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data
showed today. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction. Jobless claims fell last week and construction
spending increased in October, other data may show.  Corporate investment on new equipment, export demand,
stronger consumer purchases during the holidays and leaner
inventories lay the groundwork for a pickup in  production . At
the same time, risk of recession in  Europe  may restrain U.S.
manufacturing, the industry that spurred the recovery.  “Demand for manufactured goods has remained pretty
resilient over the last couple of months,” said  Russell Price ,
a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit .
Nonetheless, global “growth is starting to slow and this could
have a moderating impact on U.S. manufacturing, at least over
the intermediate-term,” he said.  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data is due at 10 a.m.
Estimates for the manufacturing index from 82 economists ranged
from 50.2 to 53. A reading above 42.5 generally indicates an
expansion in the overall economy, the group has said.  China , Europe  In China and Europe, manufacturing contracted last month. A
purchasing managers’  index  compiled by the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing slid to 49 in November, the weakest
since February 2009. Separate reports showed slowing retail
sales and an industrial slump in  Australia , which relies on
China as its biggest export customer.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 46.4 from 47.1 in
October, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
lowest since July 2009.  The national ISM report follows data yesterday showing
business activity grew in November at the fastest pace in seven
months. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
its  business barometer  increased to 62.6 from 58.4 in October as
orders and production strengthened.  Optimism the  U.S. economy  will avoid recession, along with
efforts by six central banks to ease Europe’s debt crisis,
sparked a stock-market rally yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index jumped 4.3 percent, a third straight gain.  Tax Credit  An approaching deadline to qualify for a larger government
tax credit may be contributing to an increase in businesses
demand for equipment. The Obama administration’s tax compromise
allows companies to depreciate 100 percent of investment in
capital outlays in 2011 and 50 percent in 2012.  Automakers are enjoying sales gains as well. U.S. light-
vehicle sales climbed in October to their fastest rate since
February even as automakers reduced discounts, a sign that more
consumers are returning to showrooms.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of  13.2 million  in October, according to
Autodata Corp.  Growth in  emerging markets  is helping sustain demand for
U.S.-produced goods.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-
equipment maker, on Nov. 23 reported fiscal fourth-quarter
profit and forecast 2012 earnings that topped analysts’
estimates as U.S. farmers flush with cash buy more tractors and
combines.  Deere & Co.  “Globally, coming off 2011’s high levels, the 2012
industry outlook is for stable commodity prices and farm
income,” investor communications manager Susan Karlix said on a
conference call. “We expect sound farmer confidence and strong
equipment demand.”  Deere introduced a record number of products during fiscal
2011 and announced plans for six new factories in China,  Brazil 
and  India , the company said. Net sales of equipment in the U.S.
and Canada rose 14 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter and 31
percent in the rest of the world.  A dollar that has  lost (DXY)  about 9 percent of its value since
June 2010 has made American goods more competitive. August and
September were the best months for U.S.  exports  on record,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  Federal Reserve   The Federal Reserve yesterday said the U.S. economy
expanded at a “moderate” pace in 11 of its 12 districts in
October and the first half of November, led by gains in
manufacturing and consumer spending. “Hiring was generally
subdued” and residential real estate “generally remained
sluggish,” the Fed said.  The Labor Department today may report  initial jobless 
claims fell to 390,000 last week from 393,000 the prior week,
according to the median estimate in the Bloomberg survey ahead
of the 8:30 a.m. report.  Construction spending  increased in October for a third
month, economists forecast that Commerce Department figures may
show at 10 a.m. Outlays increased 0.3 percent after rising 0.2
percent in September, according to the median projection.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  