-- 
Manufacturing Growth in U.S. Defies China Slowdown: Economy

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-01T21:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-grows-at-faster-pace-as-ism-index-increases-to-52-7.html
U.S. manufacturing expanded in
November at the fastest pace in five months, buttressing other
reports this week that signal the economy is picking up as 2011
comes to an end.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
increased to 52.7 last month from 50.8 in October, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
gain to 51.8. Construction spending climbed for a third month in
October and jobless claims increased, other data showed.  The manufacturing figure was punctuated by gains in orders
and production in the same month that consumer  confidence 
rebounded and companies beefed up their payrolls. Corporate
purchases of new equipment and stronger holiday spending may
help sustain U.S. factories after reports today showed the
industry shrank in China and  Europe .  “We are an oasis,” said  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN
Financial in  New York . “The rest of the world might slow when
the U.S. slows, but the U.S. doesn’t necessarily slow down when
the rest of the world slows.”  Stocks declined after the biggest three-day gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since March 2009. The  S&P 500  fell
0.2 percent to 1,244.59 at the close in New York. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.10 percent from
2.07 percent late yesterday.  Bullard on Economy  James Bullard , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St.
Louis , said recent economic reports point to stronger economic
growth, and policy makers shouldn’t rush to ease further.  “The data have come in stronger than expected, so I think
the logical thing now is to wait and see,” Bullard said in an
interview in New York today at the Bloomberg Hedge Fund
Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link . “See if we continue to get
a good read on the holiday season and start out the New Year
stronger or weaker, and also assess the situation in Europe and
see how that feeds back to the United States.”  Consumer confidence  in November posted the biggest monthly
gain since April 2003, figures from the Conference Board showed
Nov. 29. Private employment rose 206,000 last month, the
strongest increase this year, according to a report yesterday
from ADP Employer Services.  While the  U.S. economy  may be picking up, global growth is
cooling and remains a risk to American manufacturers.  China and Europe  A purchasing managers’  index  compiled by the  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing dropped in November to
the weakest level since February 2009. Separate reports showed
slowing retail sales and an industrial slump in  Australia , which
relies on China as its biggest export customer.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 46.4 from 47.1 in
October, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
lowest since July 2009.  Estimates for the U.S. manufacturing index from 82
economists ranged from 50.2 to 53. While 50 is the midway point
between expansion and contraction in the industry, a reading
above 42.5 generally indicates an expansion in the overall
economy.  Construction and Claims  Construction  spending  climbed 0.8 percent, reflecting gains
in housing and commercial projects, the Commerce Department
said.  Initial claims  for  unemployment benefits  rose by 6,000 to
402,000 in the week ended Nov. 26 that included the Thanksgiving
holiday, according to the Labor Department.  Today’s ISM report showed the measures of production and
 new orders  climbed at the fastest rate since April. Factory
inventories shrank, while a gauge of customer stockpiles climbed
to the highest since March 2009.  The group’s  employment index  showed fewer factories in
November added workers than a month earlier. Manufacturing
payrolls rose by 9,000 last month after a 5,000 gain the prior
month, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
Labor Department’s payroll report tomorrow.  An approaching deadline to qualify for a larger government
tax credit may be contributing to an increase in businesses
demand for equipment. The Obama administration’s tax compromise
allows companies to depreciate 100 percent of investment in
capital outlays in 2011 and 50 percent in 2012.  Deere & Co. (DE)   Growth in  emerging markets  is helping sustain demand for
U.S.-produced goods. Deere & Co., the world’s largest farm-
equipment maker, on Nov. 23 reported fiscal fourth-quarter
profit and forecast 2012 earnings that topped analysts’
estimates as U.S. farmers flush with cash buy more tractors and
combines.  “Globally, coming off 2011’s high levels, the 2012
industry outlook is for stable commodity prices and farm
income,” investor communications manager Susan Karlix said on a
conference call. “We expect sound farmer confidence and strong
equipment demand.”  Deere introduced a record number of products during fiscal
2011 and announced plans for six new factories in China,  Brazil 
and  India , the company said. Net sales of equipment in the U.S.
and Canada rose 14 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter and 31
percent in the rest of the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  