-- 
Manufacturing in U.K. Shrinks at the Fastest Pace in Two Years, CIPS Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-01T10:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/manufacturing-in-u-k-shrinks-at-the-fastest-pace-in-two-years-cips-says.html
U.K.  manufacturing  shrank at the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years in November as both domestic and
overseas demand weakened.  A gauge of factory output, based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply,
fell to 47.6 from 47.8 in October, according to an e-mailed
report in London today. The median forecast of 26 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a decline to 47. A level below
50 indicates contraction. New orders fell for a fifth month.  Manufacturers are suffering as the sovereign debt crisis
jeopardizes the outlook for exports to Europe, Britain’s biggest
trading partner, and the global economy cools.  China ’s
manufacturing contracted for the first time since February 2009
last month as the  property market  cooled and Europe’s crisis cut
export demand, a separate survey today showed.  “It looks like it’s going to be a bleak winter for U.K.
manufacturers,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said
in a statement. “Exports orders, which U.K. manufacturers are
increasingly dependent on, continue to decline as the euro zone
crisis impacts demand in U.S. and Asia as well as Europe.”  Edinburgh-based semiconductor maker  Wolfson
Microelectronics Plc (WLF)  said Nov. 1 revenue dropped 14 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, and that “weak consumer
demand” has prevented a return to full-year profitability.  Forecast Cut  The U.K.’s Office for Budget Responsibility cut its 2012
economic growth forecast to 0.7 percent from 2.5 percent this
week.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said Nov. 28 the U.K.
is “increasingly threatened” by the crisis in Europe.  Policy makers have been counting on the weaker pound to
bolster exports and drive the recovery as the government affirms
its commitment to the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II.
The pound has dropped about 25 percent on a trade-weighted basis
since the start of 2007.  The Bank of England, the  Federal Reserve  and four other
central banks yesterday pledged to lower the cost of emergency
dollar funding for financial companies by 50 basis points in a
coordinated move to ease liquidity strains. The cost for banks
in Europe to fund in dollars rose to the highest levels in three
years amid concerns about a breakup of the euro area.  The  Purchasing Managers’ Index  for China fell to 49.0 in
November from 50.4 in October, the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said in a statement today. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 49.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  