-- 
Maple Group Working With Antitrust Regulators on TMX Bid

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-12-01T15:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/maple-group-working-with-antitrust-regulators-on-concerns-over-tmx-bid.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp. is
working with Canadian regulators on its bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X) 
after the antitrust agency expressed “serious concerns” about
the sale of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner to a group of
Canadian banks.  “Our work with the Competition Bureau continues and we will
update the market on its progress at the appropriate time,”  Luc Bertrand , spokesman for Maple Group told a hearing at the
Ontario Securities Commission today. “Our proposal represents a
unique opportunity to strengthen  Canada ’s capital markets.”  Canada’s Competition Bureau told TMX and Maple Group, whose
13 members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Manulife Financial
Corp. (MFC)  and  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , that it had concerns
about the impact of the sale on competition.  Maple’s plan includes a takeover of the bank-owned Alpha
Group, which operates a trading platform that competes with the
Toronto Stock Exchange, as well as the Canadian Depository for
Securities Ltd., the country’s securities clearinghouse.  The Competition Bureau said its concerns were “primarily
in connection with equities trading and clearing settlement,”
Maple said in a Nov. 29 statement.  OSC Chairman Howard Wetston said at the hearing in Toronto
that the commission will consider how possible conflicts of
interest will be managed in the sale and whether there should be
a for-profit model for clearing trades. TMX and Alpha combined
would control more than 85 percent of equity trading in Canada.  “We have before us an application that raises many-faceted
issues for our  capital markets ,” Wetston said. “The
infrastructure that is under consideration in this transaction
is critical to our markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  