-- 
Apple’s Hot Cloud Offers Samsung Chance to Boost Low-Power Chip Lead: Tech

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-12-01T23:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/apple-s-hot-cloud-offers-samsung-chance-to-boost-low-power-chip-lead-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  operate farms of always-on computer warehouses to
sell music and books and run Internet searches. The servers also
produce heat, an unwanted consequence that  Samsung Electronics (005930) 
Co. sees as an opportunity.  Samsung aims to maintain its leadership in the $39 billion
market for dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, by tapping
demand for low-power chips that can help servers save energy and
companies reduce costs, Hong Wan Hoon, head of the company’s
memory sales and marketing, said in an interview.  Electricity takes 12 percent of a data center’s operating
expense. Total costs are poised to increase as the number of
warehouses rises 8 percent to 3.7 million globally in the next
four years, analysts said. Samsung’s ability to outspend rivals
such as  Japan ’s  Elpida Memory Inc . on the latest production
techniques may mean it’s better placed to benefit from the
increasing need for more efficient chips.  “You need high-performance machines that are highly
efficient with a lot of storage to cover all your devices
without a hitch,” Hong said. “The question is how you can cool
down the heat resulting from power consumption, and that’s where
low-power chips come in.”  Cloud Computing  The servers operate the cloud-computing technology that
allows smartphones and tablet computers to access music, video
and software on the Web. They also store e-mail and social-
network accounts.  Data centers were responsible for about 1.5 percent of
energy consumption in the U.S. in 2006, Hong said. That likely
will double to about 3 percent this year, enough to keep four or
five nuclear plants running, he said.  The data centers run by  NHN Corp. (035420) , owner of  South Korea ’s
largest search engine, consume the equivalent of 10 percent of
the power used by households on Jeju island, population 580,000,
Kim Jung Hoon, an operations director, said at a Seoul forum in
October.  Energy consumption by data centers is forecast to increase
19 percent next year, according to a September report by London-
based researcher DatacenterDynamics.  “If you run servers, you have to consider ownership costs,
and your biggest goal is to reduce electricity costs,” said
Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based analyst at  Dongbu Securities Co. (016610) 
“Memory for servers will have to go energy-efficient.”  Lowest Prices  DRAM chips provide the main memory in computers, holding
data while the processor makes calculations. Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung accounted for 45 percent of the market by revenue
in the third quarter, while Ichon, South Korea-based  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  followed with 21 percent, according to
researcher Gartner Inc.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest semiconductor maker, is
turning to servers and energy-efficient chips as growth in sales
of PCs slows, damping memory demand. PC shipments climbed 3.2
percent last quarter, compared with an earlier projection for
5.1 percent growth, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner.  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, and global sales may drop 27
percent this year to $29 billion, according to IHS iSuppli.
Elpida, Hynix and other makers of DRAM lost a combined $14
billion in the past three years, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  DRAM chips for servers probably account for about a third
of the overall market in revenue, Hong said. Samsung’s share for
server DRAM in the third quarter was about 67 percent, he said.  Smaller Transistors  Samsung has avoided the slump in the DRAM industry by
diversifying into specialty chips for smartphones, tablets and
servers. The company will post 2.3 trillion won ($2.04 billion)
profit from DRAM this year, according to  Shinhan Investment
Corp . in Seoul.  “Back in 2008, we decided we needed a definite
differentiation for our products for the mobile era, and that
can be done by reducing power consumption,” Hong said. “What
we wanted was to reduce power consumption by half.”  The company developed 20-nanometer DDR3 DRAM chips that can
slash consumption by 67 percent, compared with older generation
50-nanometer DRAM, Hong said. A nanometer is a billionth of a
meter.  Chips made with 20-nanometer technology contain smaller
transistors, which consume less power than bigger ones while
performing the same computing functions. The newer technology is
being tested by most server manufacturers, Hong said. He didn’t
specify which companies are testing them, but  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  both make servers.  Apple Warehouse  A center with 10,000 servers can process the same amount of
data with a third as many machines and save $20 million a year
by replacing conventional hard-disk drives with flash memory and
using the newest low-power DRAM chips, Hong said.  “When you have got a huge room with literally thousands of
servers, even a small change can lead to significant energy
savings,” said Andrew Norwood, a U.K.-based DRAM analyst at
Gartner.  Server DRAMs typically carry better profit margins than
memory chips for PCs, he said.  Worldwide shipments of memory chips for servers may
increase about 68 percent this year, according to  SK Securities
Co. (001510)  in Seoul. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) 
expects its share of revenue from server DRAM to climb to 20
percent within a few years from 12 percent currently, vice
president Pai Pei-lin said in an Oct. 19 conference call.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , built a $1 billion
data center in North Carolina for its iCloud service to help
mobile devices synchronize files and download songs, videos and
apps from iTunes.  Google, Facebook  Mountain View , California-based Google, owner of the
world’s most-popular search engine, said in September it will
invest more than $200 million to build its first  centers  in
 Asia . The company has acquired land in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and
 Taiwan .  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, opened data
centers in the U.S. in August focused on government clients.  Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, said it will share its  data-center  and
server designs to help the industry become more efficient.
Warehouses can use 38 percent less energy and cost 24 percent
less to build by better regulating computer workloads, power
consumption and cooling, according to the Palo Alto, California-
based company.  “Demand for server chips will remain solid as companies
continue to build up infrastructure,” Shin said. “Chipmakers
will flock to server chips because they are what make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  