-- 
Apple Executive in Charge of Government Sales Is Said to Depart

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-12-01T22:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/apple-executive-in-charge-of-government-sales-is-said-to-depart.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s vice president in charge
of sales to the U.S. government, who helped get its devices into
more federal agencies, has left the company, according to a
person with knowledge of the move.  Ron Police, who had run the government sales force since
2004, left in October, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the departure hasn’t been disclosed. Police’s
LinkedIn profile  indicates  that he’s no longer at the company.  Police, who couldn’t be reached for comment, helped Apple’s
iPhone and iPad gain a foothold at government agencies, a market
traditionally dominated by technology products from companies
such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
To further that effort, Apple is seeking security certification
from the  National Institute of Standards , the agency that
provides technology recommendations to the federal government.  While President  Barack Obama  has said he uses an iPad,
government sales still only account for a small part of Apple’s
revenue. In the fiscal year ended in September 2010, the latest
period with complete data available, the federal government
spent $50.8 million on Apple products, either directly or
through resellers and integrators, according to information
compiled by Bloomberg Government. Apple’s total sales in that
period were $65.2 billion.  Even so, government agencies are starting to use Apple’s
products more. The U.S. Defense Department has purchased iPads
for trial use, and the U.S. Veterans Affairs Department has said
its employees will be able to use iPhones and iPads to conduct
official work.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment.  Police’s departure creates another senior job opening for
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to fill. Apple also is seeking
executives for its retail operations and the iAd mobile-
advertising platform.  Apple shares rose 1.5 percent to $387.93 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 20 percent this year. 