-- 
Apple Ordered to Give HTC Details of Alleged Patent Breaches

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T15:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/apple-ordered-to-tell-htc-what-handset-features-infringe-patents.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , embroiled in global
patent litigation to protect sales of its iPhone, was ordered by
a U.K. judge to disclose to HTC Corp. which features of its
competing mobile phones may infringe Apple’s European patents.  At a hearing yesterday in London, Apple was given until
today to describe which aspects of HTC’s handsets allegedly
violate the company’s “swipe-to-unlock” function and other
features covered by Apple’s four patents in the case. Apple said
it was already planning to provide the information by today.  “I will make an order that Apple identifies the features
of the accused devices that are relied upon as embodying the
features” of the claims in the patent, Judge Richard Arnold
said at the hearing. A trial of the case is scheduled for April.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , is involved in a
worldwide fight with Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC, the
largest seller of smartphones in the U.S., over handsets and
tablet computers. Apple sued HTC for patent infringement in
 Germany  in July, triggering a countersuit by HTC in London.
Apple also filed a new lawsuit against HTC and Samsung in
September in the U.K.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , sought the order on Nov. 22,
saying Apple had failed to give adequate responses to requests
for information it needed to prepare a defense of its handsets,
court records show.  “We need to make sure that we do not, at a later stage,
have an argument blowing up in trial,” HTC’s lawyer, James
Abrahams, said at yesterday’s hearing. HTC was forced “to come
to court to get the clarity” imposed by the ruling, he said.  If HTC wins the  London  case and invalidates Apple’s
European patents, it could use the judgment in a parallel German
trial. Under German legal precedent, judges in the country give
weight to British judgments on a patent’s validity when
considering whether the patent has been infringed.  Apple was prepared to hand over the additional information
and didn’t do so earlier because HTC’s questions weren’t clear
enough, Apple’s lawyer, Guy Burkill, said at the hearing.  The companies are preparing for trials in Europe after HTC
lost a separate patent case against Apple in the U.S. in
October. The U.S. International Trade Commission said Apple’s
iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad devices don’t violate HTC’s rights
to four U.S. patents.  The case is: HTC  Europe  Co. Ltd. v. Apple Inc.,  High Court 
of Justice, London, HC11C02703  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  