-- 
Argentine Capital Flight Hit Decade High $8.4 Billion in the Third Quarter

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-02T17:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/argentina-capital-flight-accelerated-to-8-4-billion-in-the-third-quarter.html
Argentine capital flight accelerated
to the fastest pace in at least 10 years last quarter as
investors concerned about inflation and a weakening peso  pulled
cash  out of  South America ’s second-biggest economy.  Capital flight totaled $8.4 billion in the July-through-
September period from $6.1 billion in the previous quarter, the
central bank said yesterday in a report originally scheduled for
Nov. 10. Outflows doubled to $18 billion in the first nine
months of 2011 from the same period of 2010.  Annual  inflation  that economists estimate is 24 percent,
the highest among major global economies after  Venezuela , and
uncertainty over President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
economic policies fueled a surge in capital flight that helped
shrink central bank  reserves  to $48.6 billion last quarter from
a record $52.6 billion in January. Reserves have since tumbled
to $46.1 billion.  “Those problems are related to the speed of inflation and
the  exchange rate  in an international context that is more
complicated,” former Finance Secretary Daniel Marx said in a
interview in Buenos Aires. “There are imbalances to correct
going forward,” he added, citing the speed of growth in public
spending.  Dollar Deposits  The total outflow was the most since the central bank began
issuing the quarterly reports in 2002 and topped the $8.37
billion pulled from the economy in the second quarter of 2008,
at the start of the last global financial crisis. Some foreign
currency purchases in the quarter were used to help boost dollar
deposits in banks and to pay for travel abroad by individuals,
yesterday’s report said. Dollar deposits rose $1.3 billion in
the three-month period.  The yield on  Argentine dollar bonds  climbed 274 basis
points, or 2.74 percentage points, to 12 percent in the third
quarter, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Brazilian dollar debt
yields fell 9 basis points in the same period to 4.92 percent.  The peso has fallen 7.1 percent against the dollar this
year, compared with a 9.0 percent decline in the Mexican peso
and a 4 percent gain by the Peruvian sol. The peso was little
changed at 4.2838 per dollar at 12:07 p.m. New York time.  In the week after Fernandez, 58, won re-election on Oct.
23, she ordered energy and mining companies to repatriate future
export revenue and insurance companies to bring investments back
into the country. An Oct. 28 decision to heighten oversight of
foreign exchange purchases led to a surge in dollar deposit
withdrawals. Dollar deposits fell to $13.6 billion on Nov. 18
from $15.9 billion a month earlier.  Benchmark Rate  As banks struggled to attract savers, the 30-day benchmark
peso deposit rate, known as the  badlar , climbed to a three-year
high of 22.9 percent on Nov. 17. Economy Minister  Amado Boudou 
and central bank President Mercedes Marco del Pont met with
bankers that week to ask them to lower rates, and the badlar has
since fallen to 18.9 percent on Nov. 30.  “The government has to regain confidence and for that, the
first thing it should do is eliminate those new exchange
rules,” said Ricardo Lopez Murphy, who served as Economy
Minister for two weeks in 2001, under former President Fernando
de la Rua.  Insurer ACE Seguros SA, which has 60 percent of its
invested assets abroad, may be downgraded by Moody’s as a result
of the investment decree, the ratings company said in a report
today.  Slowing Outflows  Capital outflows may slow next year should Fernandez take
steps to boost investor confidence, by allowing more utility
price increases, improving the credibility in official inflation
data and reaching an accord with the  Paris Club  over about $9
billion in defaulted debt, said Fausto Spotorno, an economist at
Orlando Ferreres y Asociados in Buenos Aires.  Fernandez last month announced the elimination of some
energy subsidies that will save the country 4.6 billion pesos a
year.  Government spending  rose 41 percent in October to about 52
billion pesos while revenue rose 31 percent, the government
reported Nov. 22.  Spotorno estimates capital outflows will slow in 2012 from
about $25 billion this year, as a result of a smaller  trade
surplus . He forecasts central bank reserves may fall to as low
as $45.5 billion by year-end.  Argentina ’s economy, which has expanded an average 5.6
percent per year since Fernandez took office in late 2007, will
see growth slow to 5.1 percent in 2012, according to the
government’s draft budget.  The successor to Boudou, who will be sworn in as
Fernandez’s vice president on Dec. 10, will have to resolve
imbalances in the economy and slow growth of public spending to
regain investors’ confidence, said Marx.  “I hope that they give signals addressing the main
problems that originated the outflows,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  