-- 
Harrisburg Proposed Receiver Says Bond Debt ‘Disturbing’

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-01T18:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/harrisburg-proposed-receiver-says-incinerator-debt-disturbing-.html
The bonds behind Harrisburg’s fiscal
crisis have a ‘disturbing’ structure, the proposed receiver for
Pennsylvania’s capital city said in a court hearing.  Former bond attorney David Unkovic told the judge who will
decide whether to approve his appointment that the bonds used to
finance an insolvent incinerator had an unusual structure that
he plans to review.  “I’d say it is uncommon,” Unkovic told state Judge James
R. Kelley in Harrisburg. “It is disturbing to me.”  The bonds themselves couldn’t be challenged, no matter what
a review uncovers, Unkovic said in an interview after the
hearing. The law does allow legal action against entities that
provided false information to support a  bond issue , Unkovic
said. He declined to answer questions about what aspects of the
incinerator bonds’ structure he considered disturbing.  Governor Tom Corbett nominated Unkovic to become
Harrisburg’s receiver after the City Council and the mayor
failed to fix the city’s fiscal crisis. The city is insolvent
partly because it has guaranteed repayment of about $242 million
in incinerator bond debt, which the facility cannot cover by
itself.  Unkovic is chief lawyer for the state economic development
department. Corbett’s administration seeks to give Unkovic the
power to override Harrisburg’s mayor and city council, who have
been feuding over how best to solve the city’s budget crisis.  Failed Bankruptcy  The council tried to put the city beyond the reach of a
state receiver, and bondholders, by filing bankruptcy in
October. The petition was thrown out by a federal judge six
weeks later after being opposed by Corbett and Mayor Linda D. Thompson.  Unkovic testified mostly about his qualifications to be
receiver, saying he didn’t have any conflicts of interest that
would prevent him from carrying out his duties. He has worked as
a bond attorney helping municipalities in  Pennsylvania  raise
money through public debt for decades, he said in court.  Unkovic has already taken action since his nomination on
Nov. 18. He asked Jill Busch, acting chief counsel of
Pennsylvania’s Community and Economic Development department, to
send letters to firms involved in Harrisburg’s incinerator
financing deals in 2003 and 2007 requesting that they preserve
their records.  Unkovic, along with law firm McKenna Long & Aldridge, is
going to review the deals as part of the process to develop a
recovery plan for the city, said Steven Kratz, a spokesman for
the economic development department said.  Before the hearing an attorney for the City Council,  Mark
Schwartz  was denied permission to question Unkovic, or otherwise
participate in the proceedings.  Kelley ruled that Schwartz should have filed a routine
notice announcing his intention to be involved in the case.
Instead, Schwartz sent a letter to the court clerk last month
saying he would not be involved, Kelley said.  City Council members plan to meet with Unkovic,  Chuck Ardo ,
a spokesman for the council majority that filed for bankruptcy
said. Unkovic’s job should not include overriding local
officials, Ardo said.  “State government’s role is not to determine which side
wins in a local political dispute,” Ardo said. “It’s an
outrageous usurpation of power that should make every local
government uneasy.”  The receiver case is Walker v. City of Harrisburg, 569MD
2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 