-- 
Arsenal to Make $47 Million Bid for Mario Goetze, Mirror Reports: Roundup

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-01T10:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/arsenal-to-make-47-million-bid-for-mario-goetze-mirror-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Goetze Bid  Arsenal will make a club record 30 million-pound ($47.2
million) bid for  Borussia Dortmund  forward Mario Goetze, 19, in
the January transfer window,  the Daily Mirror reported .  Dortmund has insisted that Goetze will not be sold, but the
Gunners are determined to try and sign him in January to head
off interest from clubs such as Real Madrid and Bayern Munich,
the newspaper said.  Arsenal, which wants to prove it can compete in the
transfer market with  Europe ’s top clubs, believes Goetze is
receptive toward a move, the Mirror said.  Sunderland Contenders  Martin O’Neill would be interested in taking charge at
Sunderland, which fired Steve Bruce as manager yesterday after 2
1/2 years in charge, the Mirror said.  The former Aston Villa coach is likely to face competition
for the role from Mark Hughes, the newspaper said, adding that
Sunderland has yet to make approaches for any candidates.  Steve McClaren, Rafael Benitez and Bob Bradley are among
other contenders, the Mirror reported. Sunderland has slipped to
16th in the Premier League, two points above the relegation
positions.  Pogba Exit Fear  Manchester United  fears it may lose midfielder Paul Pogba
when his contract expires at the end of the season after talks
over a new deal reached an impasse,  according to the
Independent.   Arsenal, AC Milan and Inter Milan are among clubs
interested in the 18-year-old, while Manchester City is also
chasing Pogba, the newspaper said.  Fulham Targets Gignac  Fulham wants to boost its attack with the signing of
Marseille’s France striker Andre-Pierre Gignac, but faces
competition from German club Wolfsburg,  the Mirror said .  Gignac, who was the subject of a failed bid by Fulham in
the summer, has been frozen out of the team at Marseille and
relegated to the reserves, the newspaper said.  Brown to Toon?  Celtic captain  Scott Brown  is a January target for
Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew ,  the Mirror said .  Brown, 26, is in a contract dispute with Celtic and may be
available for about 1.5 million pounds in January when he will
have only six months remaining on his deal, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 