-- 
Spanish, French Bonds Climb After Auctions

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-12-01T21:49:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/asia-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-won-jumps-as-central-banks-act-on-crisis.html
U.S. stocks retreated as data showing
improving manufacturing growth was not enough to extend the best
three-day rally since 2009 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Spanish and French bonds rallied as successful debt auctions
tempered concern about  Europe ’s sovereign crisis.  The  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  slipped 0.2 percent to close at 1,244.58 at 4
p.m. in New York following a 4.3 percent jump yesterday when six
central banks took coordinate action to ease funding strains
stemming from turmoil in European bond markets. The  yield  on
 France ’s 10-year note dropped 29 basis points, the most since
1991, to 3.11 percent. Spain’s five-year  yield  tumbled 57 basis
points to 5.29 percent. The euro was up 0.1 percent at $1.3461,
paring an earlier 0.6 percent advance.  A report showing U.S. manufacturing expanded at the fastest
pace in five months and forecasts that data tomorrow will reveal
a pickup in job growth failed to extend a three-day, 7.6 percent
rally in the  S&P 500. (SPX)  A contraction in China’s manufacturing
fueled concern Europe’s debt crisis is damaging the global
economy as yesterday’s moves by central banks were viewed as
only a temporary fix.  “We’re muddling along,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior fund
manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $14.5 billion of assets, said in a telephone interview.
“Until there’s a true resolution for the European situation,
the U.S. markets will be somewhat of a prisoner from a
psychological perspective. We’re still going to be range-
bound.”  Banks Slump  Financial shares led losses among the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500 as  Massachusetts  sued five lenders
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of
America Corp., claiming deceptive foreclosure practices.  JPMorgan and Citigroup Inc. fell more than 1.6 percent each
after rallying more than 7 percent yesterday. Bank of America
erased earlier losses to end up 1.7 percent. Massachusetts
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  filed the lawsuit today against
the three banks, as well as Wells Fargo & Co. and Ally Financial
Inc., in state court in Boston.  Financial shares have led losses among the 10 main groups
in the S&P 500 this year, dropping 20 percent as a group, amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis and tighter regulatory scrutiny
will hurt earnings and as low  interest rates  squeeze the
profitability of lending. The group is  trading (S5FINL)  for 9.4 times
next year’s earnings, compared with an average multiple of 16.3
times reported profits since 1993.  The S&P 500 erased losses earlier as data signaled that
factories will keep supporting the economic expansion through
the end of the year. The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index increased to 52.7 last month from 50.8 in October.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a gain to 51.8. Orders and production
grew at the fastest pace since April.  Economic Data  Jobless claims climbed to 402,000 in the week ended Nov. 26
that included the Thanksgiving holiday, Labor Department figures
showed. The  median  forecast of 43 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a drop to 390,000. Labor Department data
tomorrow is forecast to show the U.S. added 125,000 jobs last
month and the unemployment rate held at 9 percent, according to
the median economist forecasts.  Improving economic data has sent the  Citigroup Economic
Surprise Index for the U.S.  to the highest since March 18. The
gauge, which measures the rate at which data is beating or
missing economist forecasts, reached 61.9 today and has
rebounded from a more-than two-year low of minus 117.2 on June
3.  James Bullard , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis, said recent reports point to stronger economic growth and
policy makers shouldn’t rush to ease monetary policy further.
Fed officials are debating whether the central bank should
resume large-scale purchases of securities to push down the
jobless rate.  ‘Wait and See’  “The data have come in stronger than expected, so I think
the logical thing now is to wait and see,” Bullard said in an
interview in  New York  today at the Bloomberg Hedge Fund
Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link. “See if we continue to get
a good read on the holiday season and start out the New Year
stronger or weaker, and also assess the situation in Europe and
see how that feeds back to the United States.”  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities slipped 0.5 percent
following a three-day, 3.4 percent rally. Nickel, Brent crude
oil and zinc fell at least 1.3 percent to help lead losses in 16
of 24 commodities tracked by the index.  The dollar strengthened against eight of 16 major peers,
while the euro increased against nine. The Australian currency
dropped versus 15 of 16 major peers after building approvals
dropped in October and consumer spending slowed.  Bond Yields  The 10-year Treasury note fell for a fifth straight day,
sending the yield up two basis points to 2.09 percent after
rising as much as seven points earlier and ending eight points
higher yesterday.  The gain in French 10-year bonds narrowed the yield gap
with benchmark German bunds to as little as 84 basis points, the
least since Oct. 13. The Spanish-German spread reached a one-
month low while the Italian spread was the least since Nov. 4.  The rate that London-based banks say they pay for three-
month loans in dollars was 0.527 percent today, according to the
British Bankers’ Association, marking the first time three-month
Libor has declined since July 25. Three-month cross-currency
basis swaps signaled dollar-funding costs for European banks
retreated for a second day after reaching a three-year high
before the coordinated central-bank action yesterday.  The central banks of the U.S., the euro region, Canada, the
U.K.,  Japan  and Switzerland agreed yesterday to cut the cost of
providing dollar funding via swap arrangements, the Fed said,
and agreed to make other currencies available as needed.  ‘How Serious’  “Sovereign debt will continue to be the focus for the
entire market,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in  London , said in a report. “The coordinated
move was welcomed by the market, but the fact that central banks
saw the need for such measures confirms how serious the bank
funding situation is.”  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi signaled the
ECB could do more to fight the debt crisis as long as
governments push the euro area toward a fiscal union. Draghi
didn’t specify what more the ECB could do and said the central
bank’s bond purchases “can only be limited.”  French borrowing costs declined in an auction of 10-year
bonds and  Spain  sold 3.75 billion euros ($5.1 billion) of debt,
the maximum amount planned.  France Auction  France sold 1.57 billion euros of 10-year debt at an
average yield of 3.18 percent, down from 3.22 percent at the
last auction on Nov. 3. The yield on Spain’s five-year bonds was
5.544 percent, compared with 4.848 percent when notes with a
similar maturity were auctioned on Nov. 3.  The cost of insuring against default on sovereign debt fell
for a third day with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index
of credit-default swaps linked to 15 governments dropping 1.2
basis points to 337.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 3.3 percent, extending
this week’s gain to 9.3 percent, the biggest four-day rally
since 2009. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index jumped 8.1
percent, the most since 2008, after the Chinese government cut
the reserve-ratio requirement for lenders. Benchmark indexes in
 Brazil ,  India ,  South Korea  and Taiwan advanced more than 2
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  