-- 
Assured Guaranty Jumps as S&P Holds Ratings Within AA Tier

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-12-01T23:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/assured-guaranty-jumps-as-s-p-holds-ratings-within-aa-tier-1-.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , the bond
insurer cut two steps by  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday, jumped the
most in more than seven months after the ratings firm kept its
grades in the same tier and said the company’s businesses
maintained “strong” capital.  Assured rose $1.29, or 13 percent, to $10.99, the biggest
increase since April 15. It rose as much 20 percent.  S&P lowered the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company’s insurance
units, Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. and Assured Guaranty
Corp., to AA- from AA+, according to yesterday’s statement. The
insurers don’t hold enough capital under new restrictions to
mitigate so-called largest obligor concentrations, S&P said.  “We view the rating action as a significant positive,
especially given market fears of a downgrade to the A
category,” Piper Jaffray Cos. analysts led by Michael Grasher
in  Chicago  wrote in a note to clients today. The ratings action
removes “a significant overhang on the stock,” the analysts
said, “while clearing the way for new production in 2012.”  While S&P said Assured and its units were “maintaining
strong capital,” they didn’t have enough to avoid the two-step
downgrade because of new tests the ratings firm was applying to
bond insurers to guard against defaults by large borrowers. S&P
said its outlook on the insurer was “stable.”  S&P Overhauled  S&P overhauled the way it grades financial guarantors after
the two biggest,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , and
most of the rest of the industry lost their top AAA ratings in
2008 and were cut to below investment-grade within a year.
Wisconsin regulators seized part of Ambac’s business last year,
while MBIA split its insurance units after losses from
securities linked to subprime mortgages.  Assured, the only bond insurer still writing new policies,
is still graded five steps above MBIA’s municipal insurer,
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., which had its BBB
rating affirmed yesterday by S&P.  MBIA shares rose 5 percent to $10.21 after a 19 percent
jump yesterday on the S&P statement relating to its grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Parry at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net  