-- 
AT&T, Sprint Defend Their Use of Carrier IQ Tracking Software

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-12-01T23:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/at-t-sprint-defend-their-use-of-carrier-iq-tracking-software.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
defended the use of Carrier IQ software in a usage tracking
application on mobile phones including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and
 HTC Corp. (2498)  devices that has raised privacy concerns.  The Carrier IQ software is a so-called rootkit installed at
the carriers’ request on mobile phones. The application runs in
the background and logs user activity. AT&T and Sprint, the
second- and third-largest U.S. wireless providers, said in e-
mailed statements that the software data is used to improve
service performance.  The software created by  Mountain View , California-based
Carrier IQ Inc. is at the center of a growing controversy over
how mobile phone user data is collected and the extent to which
privacy may be jeopardized.  Alarms started soon after Trevor Eckhart, an independent
security researcher, posted a 17-minute  YouTube video  Nov. 28
detailing data logs collected by Carrier IQ and showing keys
pressed and features activated by a phone user. The issue has
been described as “deeply troubling” by Senator  Al Franken , a
Minnesota Democrat, who said that Congress should act
“quickly” to protect consumers’ privacy.  “Carrier IQ is required on devices by a number of U.S
carriers,” Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC said in an e-mailed
statement. The company is “investigating the option to allow
consumers to opt out of data collection” by the application.  ‘Remove it Completely’  Natalie Harrison, a spokeswoman for Apple, said in an e-
mailed statement that the Cupertino, California-based company
“stopped supporting Carrier IQ with iOS 5 in most of our
products and will remove it completely in a future software
update.”  Phone makers  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  have
said they don’t install Carrier IQ.  Verizon Wireless , which is
majority owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , doesn’t use
anything like Carrier IQ’s software, Jeffrey Nelson, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Usage tracking is a relatively common feature on many
applications and it’s generally disclosed in user-agreement
terms. Theoretically, the software can help inform phone or
software companies when there are issues and record the
circumstances surrounding the event.  In the Carrier IQ case, users aren’t made aware of the
tracking system nor are they given an option to shut down the
surveillance feature.  In a statement Nov. 16, Carrier IQ said its software is
designed to improve user experience and is embedded in devices
by manufacturers along with other diagnostic tools. The company
also says it doesn’t sell personal subscriber information to
third parties.  Both  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint and AT&T said they
are committed to protecting their customers privacy and
security. AT&T, based in Dallas, says it adheres to its privacy
policies when using Carrier IQ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  