-- 
AT&T Says FCC Misinterprets Market Analysis on T-Mobile Bid

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-12-01T21:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/at-t-fcc-misinterprets-merger-market-analysis.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  said the Federal
Communications Commission misinterprets market analysis and
“cherry-picks facts” in concluding that the company’s bid for
T-Mobile USA Inc. fails to serve the public interest.  The agency erroneously determined in a Nov. 29 report that
the $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile would cause significant job
losses and that AT&T would probably build high-speed wireless
Internet connections without the merger,  Jim Cicconi , AT&T’s
senior executive vice president-external and legislative
affairs, said in a statement today.  “The report raises questions as to whether its authors
were predisposed,” Cicconi said. “The document is so obviously
one-sided that any fair-minded person reading it is left with
the clear impression that it is an advocacy piece and not a
considered analysis.”  The FCC let Dallas-based AT&T on Nov. 29 rescind its
application to buy T-Mobile, a deal to join the second-and
fourth-largest U.S. wireless carriers. The  Justice Department 
sued in August to block the merger as anti-competitive, and a
court date is set for February. The FCC moved last week to send
the deal to a hearing that would have taken much of next year,
an outcome the application withdrawal avoided.  AT&T’s response “represents a very visceral reaction to
the release of the FCC report,” Jeff Silva, senior policy
director for telecommunications, media and technology at Medley
Global Advisors LLC in Washington, said in an interview. “The
trial is perhaps their last best chance to salvage the
transaction, and the release of the report is potentially
damaging to that objective of winning at trial.”  ‘Massive Job Losses’  The FCC said in its report that “the applicants have
failed to meet their burden of demonstrating that the
competitive harms that would result from the proposed
transaction are outweighed by the claimed benefits.” T-Mobile
offers low prices and innovation, and its potential loss as a
competitive force causes “serious concern,” the FCC found.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said today in an e-mail that
“the FCC’s expert staff dispassionately analyzed all of the
facts, including the arguments AT&T rehashes today.” The agency
concluded that “the transaction would decrease competition,
innovation and investment and harm consumers,” Grace said,
adding that “AT&T’s own filings, many of which they have kept
confidential, show that the deal would lead to massive job
losses.”  Cicconi said that the agency’s analysis of the deal’s
effect on competition “willfully ignores critical facts about
the wireless market.” The FCC report cites Bellevue,
Washington-based  T-Mobile  as a “disruptive force” in the
wireless industry, yet fails to mention that “for the past two
years T-Mobile has been losing customers despite growing demand
across the industry,” he said.  ‘Makes No Sense’  AT&T also challenged the agency’s conclusion that the deal
would eliminate jobs, pointing to the FCC’s plans for a $4.5
billion fund to support high-speed Internet expansion aimed at
spurring employment growth.  “This notion -- that  government spending  on broadband
deployment creates jobs and economic growth, but private
investment does not -- makes no sense,” Cicconi said. The
company has said in ads aired on Washington-area television
stations that the deal would create as many as 96,000 jobs.  AT&T fell 0.1 percent to $28.84 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  ‘Fairly Serious Hit’  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a Nov. 29 statement
that “our review of this merger has had a clear focus:
fostering a competitive market that drives innovation, promotes
investment, encourages  job creation  and protects consumers.”  AT&T and T-Mobile parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  plan to focus
on objections from antitrust authorities and to return to the
FCC at some point, AT&T said in a statement last week.  “That was a fairly serious hit that AT&T took at the FCC,
but their response today makes it clear that the battle
definitely isn’t over,”  Paul Gallant , an analyst with
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in an interview. “A settlement
with the Justice Department isn’t likely but the company still
has a decent chance in court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  