-- 
Atomic Power Heats Up French Election as Sarkozy Rival Backs Reactor Halts

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-01T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/atomic-spat-rocks-french-election-as-sarkozy-rival-backs-halts.html
For decades the French political
elite agreed that nuclear energy was the best way to power the
nation, and today  France  gets about three-quarters of its
electricity from its 58 reactors.  In the wake of the Fukushima disaster in  Japan  last March,
though, unified support for nuclear power is crumbling.  On Nov. 15, the opposition Socialist and Green parties
issued a pledge to close 24 reactors by 2025. The statement was
a compromise between the Socialists, who seek to boost use of
renewable energy, and the Greens, who want to ban nuclear
reactors, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 5 issue.  Under the proposal, the country’s oldest plant, 33-year-old
Fessenheim near the Swiss border, would be shut down immediately
if the Socialists win the presidential election next spring.  The plan is “about moving progressively away from all-oil
for transport and all-nuclear for electricity,” Socialist
leader  Francois Hollande  wrote in an opinion piece in Le Monde.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who faces a challenge from
Hollande in the election, says the plan would lead to hundreds
of thousands of job losses, higher electricity rates, and an
exodus of heavy industry.  “We should not return to an era of candlelight,” Sarkozy
told reporters Nov. 25 during a tour of a uranium enrichment
facility under construction at Tricastin, southeastern France.
“This isn’t the time to go back to the Middle Ages, to medieval
fears when people were scared of progress.”  Support Eroded  Opinion polls show support for atomic energy has eroded
since Fukushima. Forty-percent of the French are “hesitant”
about nuclear energy while a third are in favor and 17 percent
are against, according to a survey by pollster Ifop published
Nov. 13.  Almost two-thirds of supporters of Sarkozy’s governing UMP
party say they back nuclear power, while half of Socialist
supporters are unsure.  France’s nuclear program was started under President
 Charles de Gaulle  in a bid to make the country self-sufficient
in electricity.  From 1978 to 2002, 58 reactors were commissioned. State-
controlled utility  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  and nuclear
technology developer Areva SA are building a 59th at Flamanville
and are planning another at Penly, both on the  English Channel .  Before the political debate erupted, EDF announced that the
annual bill for maintaining French reactors could more than
double by 2015 as the utility seeks to prolong their lives.  Shares Slump  EDF may also be forced to increase spending on safety
measures following audits by the French atomic regulator as a
result of Fukushima. The utility’s shares have fallen about 35
percent since the Japanese accident, including a 9 percent drop
in the two days after the unveiling of the joint Socialist and
Green plan.  On the campaign trail, Green candidate Eva Joly has called
French Industry Minister Eric Besson a “nucleopath” for his
unwavering support of atomic energy.  In a speech to Parliament, Besson countered that the
Socialists “want us to believe that nuclear engineers and other
workers can overnight become installers of solar panels and  wind
turbines . ... We have to stop this masquerade.”  As economic growth slows and unemployment rises amid the
European debt crisis, nuclear jobs will be a focus of the
debate, potentially dividing left-leaning voters. Many Socialist
lawmakers are supporters of atomic energy, and labor unions have
long backed nuclear plants.  “The French are a bit baffled by the nuclear question,”
said Jerome Fourquet, a director at Ifop. “Nuclear power wasn’t
necessarily popular in France, but it was accepted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  