-- 
Latvia Buys Out Minority Shares in AirBaltic, Ministry Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-12-01T12:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/latvia-buys-out-minority-shareholder-in-airbaltic-ministry-says.html
Latvia’s government bought out a
minority shareholder in unprofitable AirBaltic AS, acquiring a
stake that was pledged as collateral in Latvijas Krajbanka AS,
the lender that was suspended on Nov. 21.  The state bought the shares for 224,453 lati ($432,972),
giving it 99.8 percent in the carrier, the Transport Ministry
said in a  statement . The goal of the acquisition is to protect
the depositors of Krajbanka, who are receiving payouts from the
deposit insurance fund, the ministry said.  The government reached an agreement with Baltic Aviation
Systems, the minority owner, to invest a combined 107 million
lati in AirBaltic after the airline posted a loss last year and
continued to lose money this year. The minority shareholder’s
financial problems threatened to prevent the state from
investing in the airline’s capital, the ministry said.  “The government decided to act proactively in the defense
of the state’s interests and take control of AirBaltic,” the
statement said.  The state and the minority shareholder had invested
together about 30 million lati in the company in October and
planned to invest another 70 million lati to 79 million lati
more, said Anrijs Matiss, the Transport Ministry’s state
secretary, according to the  Baltic News Service .  Should BAS decide to invest the money by Dec. 22 it could
get its stake back, said Matiss, according to BNS.  “It’s obvious that that 200,000 lati for 47.2 percent of
AirBaltic’s shares is an inadequately low sum, and in this
situation the government and also Krajbanka’s administrator has
acted against the interest of the airline and the bank’s
depositors,” said Bertolt Flick, a shareholder in BAS and the
former chief executive officer of the airline, in a statement
posted on Leta.lv’s website.  The decision to take control of AirBaltic won’t
significantly affect the 2012 budget, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  