-- 
Latvia Says Antonov Owes $290 Million in Krajbanka Funds

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-12-01T16:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/latvia-demands-antonov-return-290-million-in-krajbanka-funds.html
Latvia is seeking to recover about
150 million lati ($290 million) from  Vladimir Antonov , formerly
the majority owner of  Latvijas Krajbanka AS (LKB1R) ’s parent bank, which
was suspended by regulators because of missing funds.  Latvia’s bank regulator halted operations at Krajbanka, a
unit of Lithuania’s third-biggest bank by deposits,  Bankas
Snoras AB (SRS1L) , on Nov. 21, saying initially that about 100 million
lati may be missing. Lithuania’s government took over Snoras on
Nov. 16 after the central bank discovered assets reported on the
lender’s balance sheet were missing.  “We want the money Antonov borrowed from Krajbanka,”
Janis Brazovskis, deputy head of the Baltic nation’s banking
regulator, told Latvian television last night. “There are
several assets we have questions about.”  The Latvian bank regulator submitted an insolvency
procedure Krajbanka today to the Riga district court, it said in
an e-mailed statement. The regulator asked the court to name
Aigars Lusis as the bankruptcy administrator, according to the
statement.  Latvia  froze assets, including a house and 14 cars,
belonging to Antonov last week,  TV3  reported on Nov. 27, citing
local police. The cars are valued at about 1 million euros ($1.3
million), the television channel reported. Antonov’s house in
Jurmala, a seaside city outside the capital, Riga, was also
seized, according to TV3.  Former Snoras owners Antonov, 36, and Raimondas Baranauskas, 53, were arrested in  London  on Nov. 24 after
Lithuanian authorities issued a European arrest warrant. They
told a court in the U.K. capital on Nov. 25 that they were
innocent of allegations of fraud and embezzlement that pushed
the bank into insolvency and were granted bail by Judge Caroline Tubbs.  Antonov “strenuously denies dishonesty in any of his
dealings,” Rachel Scott, his lawyer, told the court. “He
doesn’t impose a serious flight risk.”  The men are accused of stealing about 879 million litas
($343 million) from Snoras in  Lithuania  through forgery and
misappropriation, U.K. prosecutor Natalie Soule said. They
allegedly forged documents to show false deposits in unspecified
Swiss banks, Soule said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  