-- 
Auction Demand Supports Biggest Bond Rally in Nine Months: India Credit

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-12-02T03:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/auction-demand-supports-biggest-bond-rally-in-nine-months-india-credit.html
The cost of permits for global  funds 
to invest in  India ’s bond market has risen 53 percent since
August 2010 on growing demand for notes of the third-largest
developing economy.  International investors agreed to pay a record fee of at
least 1.15 percent for the right to invest $5 billion in
sovereign securities at a Nov. 30 auction in Mumbai, according
to three people familiar with the matter. That compares with
0.75 percent in August last year. Yields on Indian government
10-year  notes  fell 14 basis points last month, the most since
February, to 8.74 percent, while  China ’s declined 16 basis
points to 3.66 percent.  Foreigners have raised holdings of rupee-denominated debt
by 25 percent to $22.2 billion in 2011 and Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  raised the cap on offshore ownership by 20
percent last month to $60 billion.  Inflation  will slow to 7
percent by the end of March from 9.73 percent in October,
according to the central bank, following the most-aggressive
round of rate increases among  Asia ’s 10 biggest economies.  “The yields are very high in India,” Rajeev De Mello, the
Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Schroder
Investment Management Ltd. who oversees $6.5 billion, said in an
interview yesterday. “Indian bonds should start becoming more
attractive as inflation comes down.”  Schroder Investment bid for both government and corporate
debt at the sale, he said.  Curbing Volatility  The government raised the limits on foreign ownership of
sovereign and corporate debt by $5 billion each, according to a
 Finance Ministry  statement on Nov. 17.  Global investors can now hold as much as $15 billion of
federal securities and $45 billion of corporate debt. Within the
$60 billion cap, the amount that each foreign entity is allowed
to buy is limited by the permits, or the quota system, that
India uses to curb volatility in bond and rupee trading.  The maximum amount that a single fund could bid for was 20
billion rupees ($389 million) at the auction held by the
 Securities & Exchange Board of India  on Nov. 30. The sale was
oversubscribed by about 30 percent with $6.5 billion of orders,
according to a  Barclays Capital  client note yesterday. Six calls
made to the mobile phone of N. Hariharan, a Mumbai-based
spokesman for the regulator, went unanswered.  India’s government bonds snapped a three-day rally today,
with the yield on the 8.79 percent securities due in November
2021 rising two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.72
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system.  Hedging Risk  The rupee depreciated 0.2 percent to 51.5750 per dollar,
paring its first weekly gain since October. Three-month non-
deliverable forwards, which allow investors to bet on exchange-
rate movements, were at 52.46, from 52.29 per dollar yesterday.  Policy makers allowed investors, for the first time in
2011, to buy notes maturing in less than five years at the
latest auction.  “The lack of tenor restrictions means investors can take
lower-duration risk and also hedge  currency risk  easily,” Kumar Rachapudi, a Singapore-based interest-rate strategist at
Barclays Capital, said in an interview yesterday.  Global funds’ ownership of rupee-denominated notes is
headed for an 11th straight quarter of increase, according to
exchange data.  India’s bonds returned 4.6 percent in the past year,
underperforming six other regional markets, according to 10
Asian local-currency debt markets monitored by HSBC Holdings
Plc. The  yield premium  on Indian 10-year debt over U.S.
Treasuries is 663 basis points, 34 basis points off a record-
high reached on Nov. 9.  Missed Forecasts  While India’s higher yields are attractive, investors need
to take into account that the inflation rate has held above 9
percent since the start of December 2010, according to Mumbai-
based Development Credit Bank Ltd. The Reserve Bank of India
missed its target to keep  wholesale  price growth within 5.5
percent in the year ended March 2011.  “Inflation will continue to weigh on the minds of
investors as we have missed forecasts in the past,”  Anoop Verma , a Mumbai-based fixed-income trader at Development Credit
Bank, said yesterday. “To that extent, relative returns will be
lower on investments in  government bonds .”  India’s bond risk surged the most since October 2008 last
month on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will slow the
global economy and crimp demand for Asian exports.  Rate Cuts  Five-year credit-default swaps on  State Bank  of India,
viewed as a proxy for the nation, cost 351 basis points on Nov.
30, an increase of 85 basis points from the end of October,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  India’s gross domestic  product  grew an annual 6.9 percent
in the three months through September, the least in two years,
government data on Nov. 30 showed. Exports rose 10.8 percent in
October from a year earlier, the least since October 2009,
according to Commerce Ministry data released yesterday.  Slowing growth will spur the  Reserve Bank  to start cutting
 borrowing  costs, according to  Franklin Templeton  Investment
Trust Management Co. The central bank has raised its benchmark
repurchase rate 13 times since the start of 2010 TO 8.5 percent.  “The outlook for bonds is positive as headwinds from the
European Union will hurt growth,” Kim Dong Il, the Seoul-based
chief investment officer for fixed income at Franklin Templeton,
said in an interview yesterday. “That will prompt the central
bank to cut  interest rates  by up to 150 basis points next
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net 
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  