-- 
Australia’s Four Largest Banks Downgraded by S&P on Criteria

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-12-02T05:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/australia-s-biggest-banks-are-downgraded-by-s-p-after-revision-of-criteria.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the
nation’s largest lender, and its three biggest rivals were
downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  as the ratings company applied
its revised criteria to Asia-Pacific financial institutions.  Commonwealth, Westpac Banking Corp., Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and  National Australia (NAB)  Bank Ltd. were
cut one level to AA- from AA, New York-based S&P said in a
statement yesterday. Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
Australia’s largest investment bank, was downgraded two grades,
to BBB from A-.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  was raised to A+ from A,
while Japan’s  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  was kept at BBB+.  S&P this week cut the ratings of banks in the U.S. and
 Europe  led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as a result of changes to
its criteria initiated three years ago, while  China ’s three
biggest lenders got higher grades than most of their largest U.S.
rivals. Australia’s top four banks, which control more than 80
percent of lending in the country, rely on credit markets for
about 40 percent of the funds they use for lending.  “It’s a good outcome for the four major banks,” said
Chris Viol, a credit analyst at UBS AG in Sydney. “They’re
still in the AA band, and remain among the highest rated banks
globally.”  Shares of Commonwealth Bank rose 2 percent in Sydney.
 Westpac (WBC)  added 2.1 percent, National Australia jumped 1.6 percent
and ANZ Bank gained 1.9 percent. Macquarie was little changed.  Low Risk Appetite  The cost of credit-default swaps on the four banks was
unchanged at 190 basis points as of 4:26 p.m. in Sydney,
according to ANZ. Contracts on Macquarie Bank were unchanged at
315, the ANZ prices show.  The assessment of Australia’s banking industry “is
underpinned by the country’s conservative and comprehensive
regulation, and the banking sector’s very low risk appetite,”
S&P said in its note on Macquarie. That’s “partly offset by
limited funding support from customer deposits and a material
dependence on net external borrowings,” it said.  Because of its operations outside the country, Macquarie
has a weaker risk score than institutions with more domestic
business, S&P said in a statement. S&P maintained its A rating
on  Macquarie Bank  Ltd., which Chief Financial Officer Greg Ward
said accounts for 90 percent of the group’s funding.  ‘Flush With Cash’  “We’re looking at this as a comparative upgrade” for
Macquarie Bank as “virtually every other bank in our peer group
has been downgraded over the past four years,” Ward said in a
telephone interview. In addition, Macquarie Group is “flush
with cash” and won’t “need to do any borrowing for some time.”  The ratings methodology, which S&P began revising after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., now puts more
emphasis on the strength of each nation’s banking system. Each
country is assigned a grade that serves as a starting point for
its banks, S&P Managing Director Craig Parmelee said Nov. 29.  “We’re emphasizing our system analysis much more
significantly than we have in the past,” Parmelee said in a
telephone interview. “An important reason why we decided to do
that was in recognition of the very high level of systemic risk
that was evident in the financial crisis.”  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. Ltd. (OCBC) , the Singaporean lender
that’s Southeast Asia’s second largest by assets, was upgraded
to AA- from A+.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) ,  Hong Kong ’s third-
largest lender by market value, was raised to A from A-.  Household Savings  Australia’s lenders including Commonwealth Bank, Westpac,
ANZ Bank and National Australia may need to sell about A$144
billion ($147 billion) of bonds in the 12 months ending in June
2012, according to a July research report from Deutsche Bank AG.  The nation’s four “pillar lenders,” so named for a law
that prevents them from buying each other, were among global
lenders that suffered when credit markets froze after Lehman
went bankrupt in September 2008.  Australian banks have reduced their reliance on global debt
markets as they obtain more funds from Australian households,
which are saving at about the  highest rate  in a quarter-century.  “To some extent you could say that we’ve already baked
into our current ratings an expectation of continuing funding
difficulties,” Gavin Gunning, S&P’s head of financial services
ratings in Melbourne, told Bloomberg Television. Still, the new
ratings remain “very strong” by international standards as the
nation’s economy has continued to “perform quite well,” he said.  Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank doesn’t expect the S&P move
to “have any material impact on our funding plans or expected
pricing of our new issuance,” bank treasurer Lyn Cobley said in
a statement.  National Australia, ANZ  National Australia Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne
said in an e-mailed statement that his bank is “well
capitalized” and “remains well-placed to continue to support
customers.”  ANZ Bank (ANZ)  is one of few banks in the world to have
“come out of the global financial crisis with the same rating
as we went into it with,” CFO Peter Marriott said.  Standard Chartered was upgraded in part to reflect the
bank’s market share and operations in Asian economies including
China and India, S&P’s projection that its risk-adjusted capital
ratio will stay above 7 percent over the next 18 months, and its
“good” customer-deposit base in Hong Kong, Singapore, India
and Korea, the ratings company said in a separate statement.  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,
India’s three largest lenders, were kept unchanged at BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, S&P said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  