-- 
Australian Home-Building Approvals Plunge

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-01T02:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/australian-home-building-approvals-plunge.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
unexpectedly plunged in October and retail sales growth slowed,
snapping the local currency’s three-day advance as investors
raised bets the central bank will cut interest rates next week.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments fell 10.7 percent from September, when they
dropped a revised 14.2 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. None of the 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicted a decline. Retail sales in October gained 0.2
percent, half the increase economists estimated.  The reports add to signs that  Europe ’s debt crisis is
weighing on Australian consumer sentiment even as a mining
investment boom helps keep the nation’s unemployment rate near 5
percent. Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the
benchmark interest rate a month ago for the first time in 31
months, and money markets indicate an 86 percent chance he will
ease again at a Dec. 6 meeting.  “There’s no doubt the consumer in Australia is finding it
very difficult,” Bernie Brookes, chief executive officer of
Melbourne-based Myer Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest
department store chain, said in an interview today with
Bloomberg Television. “A couple of rate cuts would certainly
help our customers.”  Currency Declines  Australia’s dollar weakened after the reports. The currency
traded at $1.0197 at 1:33 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0283 in  New
York  yesterday, when it rallied 2.8 percent.  Building approvals in October fell 29.8 percent from a year
earlier, the report showed, the steepest drop since January 2009
and more than twice the 14.4 percent decline economists
predicted.  “It seems like a combination of households being a bit
more cautious about how they spend their money combined with a
little bit of economic uncertainty in terms of what’s happening
globally,” said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Approvals to build private houses fell 7.5 percent to 7,042
in October from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations declined 16.8 percent to 3,241.  Department Store Sales  The retail report showed consumers spent 0.7 percent less
at department stores in October, while spending on clothing and
footwear rose 1.2 percent. A category that includes sporting
goods, pharmaceuticals and newsstands dropped 0.4 percent, it
showed.  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest
electronics retailer, said in October that sales fell in the
three months through Sept. 30. It cited the strength of the
local currency and “intense competition” for the weakness.  Today’s reports contrast with other data this week that
showed business investment jumped last quarter by the most in 15
years as the growth of mining projects accelerated.  Capital spending  rose 12.3 percent from the three months
through June, when it gained a revised 6.2 percent, a Bureau of
Statistics report showed yesterday. The gain was the biggest
since the second quarter of 1996 and was higher than all except
one forecast among 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Demand from emerging nations including India and  China ,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, is fueling the resource
investment expansion. A survey today showed China’s
manufacturing contracted for the first time since February 2009
as Europe’s crisis cut export demand.  China Manufacturing  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 49.0 in November
from 50.4 in October, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 49.8. A level above
50 indicates expansion.  “Overall, the data this week have been mixed and highlight
the two-tier nature of the Australian economy,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney.  Stevens reduced the nation’s benchmark  interest rate  to 4.5
percent from a developed-world high 4.75 percent on Nov. 1, the
first reduction since April 2009.  After cutting rates, Stevens noted stronger economic data
in the U.S. and signs that Europe is getting its fiscal turmoil
under control. “But it is likely to be some time yet before
concerns about the European situation can definitively be laid
to rest and the effects of the recent turmoil on confidence may
result in a period of precautionary behavior by firms and
households,” he said.  Australia’s employment growth has weakened this year from a
record in 2010 and the jobless rate climbed to 5.3 percent in
August before declining in October, the first drop in seven
months.  Earlier today, a private survey showed Australian
manufacturing contracted for a fifth straight month in November
as weakness in industries outside mining outweighed strength at
companies tied to the surge in resource extraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  