-- 
Unions Avoid Rail Strike After Congress Prepares to Intervene

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-12-02T05:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/averting-rail-strike-is-goal-of-republican-democrat-lawmakers.html
Two unions agreed on labor terms with
U.S. freight railroads, reducing the likelihood of a strike,
after U.S. lawmakers said they were prepared to intervene in the
dispute.  The Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen and
the American Train Dispatchers Association, representing 26,500
workers, reached tentative agreements, the  National Railway
Labor Conference , a Washington-based group that bargains on
behalf of railroads, said in an e-mailed statement last night.  The House was ready to vote on legislation to prevent a
“job-crushing railway labor strike,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said yesterday before the unions
reached agreement. A freight-rail work stoppage, which could
have occurred as early as Dec. 6, would have cost the  U.S.
economy  about $2 billion a day, according the  Association of
American Railroads , a Washington-based group.  “I applaud all the stakeholders who worked to avert a work
stoppage that would have hurt our nation’s economy just as the
holiday season gets underway,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is
Congress’ constitutional duty to ensure the unfettered flow of
interstate commerce, and to protect the nation’s economic well
being.”  The agreements call for raises of more than 20 percent over
six years, A. Kenneth Gradia, a labor conference official, said
in the group’s statement.  Two Ratified  Ten unions have tentative deals and two have ratified
agreements, leaving only the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way
Employes without a deal. That group said this week it plans to
bargain into February. It speaks for 25,100 workers who build
and maintain tracks, according to the labor conference.  Talks among 30 freight railroads, including  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP)  and  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe, and
unions representing 132,000 workers broke down in September
after almost two years, triggering a 90-day strike ban under
U.S. law.  Railroads carry 43 percent of the freight volume moved
between cities, according to the railroad association.  House transportation committee Chairman  John Mica , a
Florida Republican, and Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican,
on Nov. 30 proposed adopting the recommendations of a board
President  Barack Obama  appointed in October to resolve the
dispute. Reid made a similar proposal and added one to extend
the Dec. 6 bargaining deadline until Feb. 8.  U.S. business groups urged Congress to prevent a strike if
the companies and unions didn’t resolve the dispute.  Congressional Intervention  “We are not thrilled with Congress getting involved in
settling labor disputes,” Alex Herrgott, director of
transportation and infrastructure for the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , said in an interview. “But we’re more concerned about
losing $2 billion a day without intervention.”  One-third of U.S. exports and 70 percent of coal shipments
travel by rail, Herrgott said in an e-mail.  Seven auto-industry trade groups, including the  Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers , also called on Congress yesterday to
stave off a strike. The Washington-based Alliance includes  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC as members.  A strike during the U.S. holiday shipping season could be
“devastating,” said Matthew Shay, president of the  National
Retail Federation , a Washington-based trade group.  A strike “would severely disrupt commerce across the
country, wreak havoc on supply chains, inhibit the export of
U.S. goods, and even disable intercity and commuter rail
service,” R.  Bruce Josten , chief lobbyist for the Washington-
based Chamber, wrote in a letter to Congress. The Chamber
represents more than 3 million U.S. businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  