-- 
Avoid Stocks Until End of Debt Crisis Becomes Clear, Coxe Says

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-12-01T14:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/avoid-stocks-until-end-of-debt-crisis-becomes-clear-coxe-says.html
Don Coxe, the  Bank of Montreal (BMO) 
strategy adviser who recommended selling equities in May, says
investors should refrain from buying more stocks until it’s
clearer that the European debt crisis won’t cause a recession.  Because the euro-region troubles are unprecedented, it is
impossible to know the likelihood of the currency’s survival,
Coxe said in a telephone interview Nov. 29. The uncertainty
makes equities unattractive, even with stocks trading at
historically low levels relative to earnings.  “When nobody can quote you the odds, it’s like someone
who’s an expert poker player being asked to play blackjack,”
said Coxe, 75, who has 39 years of investment-industry
experience. “He’s not going to bet a lot of money in that
game.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 5.9 percent from May
26, when Coxe said North American investors should reduce their
stock holdings, through yesterday. Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite
Index slumped 11 percent during the same period. The U.S. gauge
traded at  13.1 times earnings  yesterday, compared with a 10-year
average of 17.6.  World equities have declined, led by financial stocks, as
European leaders have struggled to contain the debt crisis.
Stocks rallied yesterday after central banks in  Europe ,  Asia  and
 North America  cut lenders’ borrowing costs to bolster the
financial system. Coxe said yesterday the decision, while a good
sign, didn’t change his views on the equity markets.  Partial Solution  “It relieves one of the crucial aspects, which is the lack
of liquidity in the European banking system,” said Coxe, the
chairman of Coxe Advisors LLP in  Chicago . “It doesn’t do
anything about the problem of sovereign debt.”  Either of two things would lead Coxe to start buying stocks
again, he said. One would be European Central Bank purchases of
 government bonds  to “monetize” the debt. Juergen Stark, a
member of the ECB’s executive board, said Nov. 8 he can’t
foresee the central bank ever doing that.  The other buying signal would be an outperformance for U.S.
bank stocks relative to other equities, Coxe said. “If that
happens, I will be among the most-bullish,” he said.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  sank six times as much as the  S&P 500 
this year through Nov. 29, indicating investors didn’t believe
the debt-crisis solutions offered to that point would work, he
said. The bank index jumped 7.2 percent yesterday as the S&P 500
advanced 4.3 percent.  Instead of equities tied to the economy, investors should
consider buying gold-mining stocks or the metal itself, Coxe
said. Gold, which settled at $1,750.30 an ounce on the Comex in
 New York  yesterday, will surpass $2,000 an ounce in the event of
“a full-blown crash of the banking system” in Europe, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  