-- 
Taylor Swift as Counterculture Icon for Teens: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/taylor-swift-as-counterculture-icon-for-teens-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
What is teen rock music for? To shut
out parents. Or so it always seemed.  The donning of the ear buds marks the beginning of teen
life, when children set off on their own for the passage through
adolescence. Boom boxes performed the same function in the old
days.  Even back then, the content of the songs was anti-parent,
or at least parent-free. Adults were generally depicted as not
understanding: “Suzanne, the plans they made put an end to
you,” as  James Taylor  put it decades ago, describing what
adults did to a troubled girl. The angry anti-them bias has been
the rule since the days of the screaming girls at  New York ’s
Kennedy Airport, waiting for the Beatles.  “Help, I need someone!” Just not my mother.  Most parents have assumed there was nothing you could
change about this dynamic. It was a child’s developmental right
to break away, girls as well as boys. Music had to end
childhood, and early. After a child reaches 13, or 11, or 9,
parents must be dissed. Good manners showed you were your
parents’ patsy.  When concert time came, parents played chauffeur, covered
their ears, and prepared to be ignored or worse. “They wouldn’t
be musicians if they didn’t want to rebel against parents,” as
one child painstakingly explained to me.  Cyrus Antithesis  Miley Cyrus, precocious perma-rebel, is typical of this
mindset, and publicly abdicated responsibility for fan behavior:
“My job isn’t to tell your kids how to act or not to act,” she
told Harper’s Bazaar in 2010. And, after all: You can’t fight a
market. Anti-parent music seems to be all the pop-rock market
wants.  But maybe it isn’t really all. Now a 21-year-old singer-
songwriter named Taylor Swift is challenging the anti-parent
bias, at least for girls. Swift, who happens to be named after
James Taylor, isn’t occasionally pro-parent, like  Kanye West 
(See his 2005 “Hey Mama”), with whom she tangled at the MTV
Video Music Awards ceremony in 2009.  Swift is, in fact, systematically pro-parent and pro-
family. She sings about men, yes, but she also sings about mom,
dad, being nice, putting bullies in their place and backing up
friends, all in a perfectly irony-free tone. She even publicly
thanks father chaperones accompanying their daughters to her
concerts.  And here’s the interesting part: Swift is wildly popular
with people older than 9. Her album, “Speak Now,” has set a
Guinness World Record as the fastest-selling digital recording
of 2011. Her tours gross $100 million.  The idea that there was something different about Swift
dawned on many of us chaperones when we heard her first big hit,
“ You Belong With Me.” Swift comes out of the country-music
culture, where nice girls sing about boys they can’t have all
the time, but now she had busted into the world of pop rock,
taking on someone else for being too cool. Of the girl who has
stolen her guy, Swift sang: “She wears short skirts, I wear
sneakers, she’s cheer captain and I’m on the bleachers.”  The first truly astounding Swift product was “Best Day,”
a song in which a girl returns home after a fight with her
friends and is cheered by her mother, who takes her for a drive.
“Now I don’t know who I’m going to talk to at school. I know
I’m laughing on the car ride home with you. Don’t know how long
it is going to take to feel OK. But I know I had the best day
with you today.” It turns out mom is sometimes a better friend
than teen girls. Impossible. Even more impossible: that Swift
plays her song with a backdrop of images of herself as a toddler
with her mother.  Impossible Vision  The other night at Madison Square Garden, thousands of
female concertgoers well into puberty joined Swift in singing
down an imaginary bully: “All you’re ever going to be is
mean.” The girls were jumping, crying and screaming, just the
way their grandmothers would have for the Beatles. But this
time, it was all about friends and fairness. Girls were holding
hands with their mothers, and this was a concert, not a
confirmation class. Impossible!  Some critics have depicted Swift as a manufactured
construct of monster parents and coaches, a sort of Shirley Temple. That’s oversimplification. But her parents are
thoughtful, and did advance her career, as well as, at least for
a time, home-school her. In a New Yorker interview, Swift
recalled how some girls at a seventh-grade sleepover wanted to
sneak over to a boy’s house. Swift wanted to call her mother.
Sounds obnoxious, right? But we all know girls much older than
12 who would rather not sneak over to a boy’s house, at least
not this year. For those girls, Swift provides cover.  She is also willing to give cover to us parents. She
implicitly rebutted Cyrus in a recent “ 60 Minutes ” segment in
which she said the following about artists’ responsibility:
“The truth of it is every singer out there with songs on the
radio is raising the next generation.”  Swift, the phenom, suggests the market for pop culture
features elements of a vicious cycle perpetuated by music
professionals, at least in the case of girls. She’s won Grammys.
But she’s won more American Music Awards. The distinction is
that the former prize is chosen by players in the entertainment
industry. In the AMAs, music buyers choose the winner. Maybe the
professional entertainers held sway too long. Swift reminds us
that music can stretch out childhood a few years, instead of
curtailing it. And that possibility is enough to make, if not a
best day, then a better day for many of us. Whatever age we are.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 