-- 
Baht Rises Most in 5 Weeks as Central Banks Act to Help Growth

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-12-01T08:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/baht-rises-most-in-5-weeks-as-central-banks-act-to-help-growth.html
Thailand’s baht advanced the most
since October after central banks in the region eased their
monetary policy to support economic growth.  The currency touched a two-week high as the  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-
Pacific Index of shares gained for a fourth straight day. The
Bank of Thailand yesterday lowered the one-day bond repurchase
 rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.25 percent, its
first cut in more than two years, while the People’s Bank of
China said the amount of cash lenders must set aside as reserves
will decline 0.5 percentage point from Dec. 5.  “Central bank actions contributed to gains in stocks and
that led to gains in emerging-market currencies,” said
Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the  Asia  and emerging-markets
team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “We are seeing a
risk-on sentiment now although this doesn’t really mean
everything would be O.K. from now on.”  The baht climbed 0.7 percent, the biggest gain since Oct.
27, to 30.96 per dollar as of 3:24 p.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 30.85 earlier,
the strongest level since Nov. 17. It may strengthen to around
30.50 before year-end, Shiroki said.  The baht may also draw support from speculation overseas
reinsurers honoring claims by local underwriters on the nation’s
worst floods in 70 years will bring in funds, Mizuho’s Shiroki
said. “We will probably see some baht demand from reinsurers
and the baht may see slight upward pressure toward the year-
end,” he said.  Fund inflows in preparation for insurance claims linked to
the floods may affect the baht, Bank of  Thailand  Assistant
Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said on Nov. 14.  The yield on the 3.25 percent debt due June 2017 was
unchanged at 3.3 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  