-- 
Bank of Korea Says It Boosted Gold Holdings in Foreign-Exchange Reserves

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-12-02T04:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bank-of-korea-says-it-boosted-gold-holdings-in-foreign-exchange-reserves.html
The  Bank of Korea , which controls the
world’s eighth-biggest  foreign-exchange reserves , boosted gold
holdings for the second time this year as investors sought safer
assets amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The central bank bought 15 metric tons last month, boosting
holdings to 54.4 tons, which is equivalent to 0.7 percent of its
total reserves, Lee Jung, head of the investment strategy team
at the bank’s Reserve Management Group, told reporters in Seoul.  Central banks are expanding reserves for the first time in
a generation as the precious metal is in the 11th year of a  bull
market . Purchases of as much as 450 tons in 2011 may be repeated
next year as Asian nations and emerging economies diversify
their reserves, UBS AG said Nov. 30.  “They want to diversify,”  Gavin Wendt , the founder and
senior resource analyst at Sydney-based Mine Life Pty., said by
phone today. Investors and “central banks are pretty nervous
about all currencies, not just the  U.S. dollar .”  Gold has risen about 23 percent this year, reaching an all-
time high of $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6 and beating equities,
treasuries and other commodities. The U.S. dollar, which
typically moves inversely to bullion, is down about 1 percent
this year against a basket of six major currencies.  ‘Portfolio’  “We’re buying gold to improve profitability against
risks,” the Korean bank’s Lee said. “This is part of our mid-
and long-term strategy to diversify our portfolio and enhance
efficiency of asset management.”  The Bank of  Korea  purchased 25 tons over a one-month period
from June to July, the first purchases in more than a decade,
joining other emerging-market countries in expanding gold
holdings to guard against volatile currency movements and to
diversify portfolios.  The World Gold Council  said central bank purchases in the
third quarter jumped more than sixfold to 148.4 tons and
forecast buying for the year would reach as much as 450 tons.
Russia, Kazakhstan, Colombia, Belarus and Mexico added a
combined 25.7 tons of gold to reserves in October, according to
data on the International Monetary Fund’s website.  Holdings  in exchange-traded products reached a record 2,356
tons on Nov. 30 and were at 2,355.5 tons yesterday, according to
Bloomberg data compiled from 10 providers.  South Korea ’s foreign-exchange reserves fell by $2.35
billion from October to $308.6 billion at the end of November as
the euro weakened against the dollar, the central bank said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  