-- 
Bank Funds Won’t Cover MF Global Shortfall

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-12-01T14:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bank-funds-won-t-cover-mf-global-shortfall.html
MF Global Inc., the futures brokerage
that collapsed on Oct. 31, will have a shortfall in customer
funds even if all the money in customer accounts at U.S.
depository institutions is recovered, the trustee overseeing the
firm’s bankruptcy said.  James W. Giddens, the trustee, has said there may be as
much as $1.2 billion in missing funds. MF Global Inc. was a
subsidiary of MF Global Holdings Ltd., the New York-based firm
run by Jon S. Corzine that failed after making $6.3 billion in
wrong-way bets on European sovereign debt.  “The trustee has determined that even if he could recover
everything that is at U.S. depositories, there will be a
shortfall in what MF Global management should have segregated at
U.S. depositories,” according to a document, dated today, from
Giddens’s office that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for the trustee, confirmed the authenticity
of the document, and said it was part of a briefing Giddens gave
today in Washington with congressional aides and a lawmaker.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission ,  Securities and
Exchange Commission ,  Justice Department  and trustee’s office are
investigating the missing client funds.  “There is no big pile of money we’re going to find in the
U.S. depositories now that we don’t know about,” Jarrell said
in a telephone interview today. “When it comes to overseas
assets that we believe we have a right to claim on behalf of our
customers, we will do everything we can to recover that.”  CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a Democrat, said he will
monitor the agency’s staff to ensure it is doing everything
possible to collect and properly distribute customer funds.  “I also intend to actively pursue any and all other
alternatives to protect customer funds, such as an insurance
fund for derivative investors,” Chilton said in an e-mail
statement today. “This is an idea whose time has come.”  Corzine, the former Democratic New Jersey governor and U.S.
Senator, resigned Nov. 4 as chairman and chief executive officer
of MF Global. U.S. House and Senate committees have asked him to
testify in mid-December. Corzine was co-CEO of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. before seeking political office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  