-- 
Bank Stress Rewinds to October After Policy Move: Credit Markets

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-12-01T16:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bank-stress-rewinds-to-october-after-move-by-policymakers-credit-markets.html
The global effort by central banks to
make it cheaper for financial companies to borrow in dollars to
ease  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may prove little more than a
“Band-Aid.”  While the amount European banks pay to borrow in dollars in
the swaps market dropped from a three-year high after six
central banks led by the  Federal Reserve  cut overnight borrowing
costs, the rate is still near the highest level since 2008. The
U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of stress
that fell by the most in nine months, remains above where it was
in October.  Even as central banks seek to avert a credit seizure like
the one that followed the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. three years ago, they didn’t address the threat of
contagion from bulging budget deficits. Euro-area finance
ministers want the  International Monetary Fund  to take a larger
role after saying their efforts to expand the European Financial
Stability Facility missed the target.  “It’s more of a Band-Aid,” said Colin Robertson, who
oversees $375 billion as Northern Trust Corp.’s managing
director of fixed income in  Chicago . “The market is ahead of
itself in believing this is the end of what’s a pretty
significant liquidity crisis and the pressure that’s been
building in the banking system and the euro-zone countries.”  Rate-Swap Spreads  The three-month cross-currency basis swap shrank to 118
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, which
reduced the premium traders are paying for dollars paring from a
three-year high on Nov. 29 only to the level last seen on Nov.
14. The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread  slid 10.9 basis
points on Nov. 30 to 41.55 basis points. That’s above the level
on Nov. 8, and is up from this year’s low of 13.06 on April 28.
It fell 0.9 basis points today to 40.7.  “You get these sorts of rallies because, ‘Oh good, nothing
bad is going to happen tomorrow,’ because no one’s going to run
out of liquidity tomorrow or next week or next month,”  Jim Vogel , interest-rate strategist at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , said in a telephone interview. “But then it dawns on
everybody that there are bigger issues that can’t be papered
over with official government sources of liquidity.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt rose 1 basis point to 277 basis points,
or 2.77 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
4.245 percent.  Default Swaps Fall  A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit risk dropped for a fourth
day. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased by 1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 126.5 basis
points as of 11:10 a.m. in  New York , the lowest level since Nov.
8, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined from 146
basis points on Nov. 25, which was the highest since Oct. 4.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Six Central Banks  The central banks led by the Fed agreed to lower the
premium paid to borrow overnight in dollars by half a percentage
point to 50 basis points, the Fed said yesterday in a statement
in  Washington .  The banks, which included the  European Central Bank , the
 Bank of Canada ,  Bank of England , Bank of  Japan  and  Swiss
National Bank , also agreed to create temporary bilateral swap
programs so funding can be provided in any of the currencies
“should market conditions so warrant.” Those swap lines were
also authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  While the move improves near-term sentiment, “it’s not in
itself the bazooka the market ultimately needs,” Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term rates trading at Toronto
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  Euro-area finance ministers backed off from the level of
firepower that their bailout fund would have and will seek a
greater role for the IMF, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker told
reporters Nov. 29 in Brussels.  Libor Rises  The  London interbank offered rate  increased yesterday
before the announcement to 0.529 percent, the highest level
since July 2010. The borrowing benchmark fell today to 0.527
percent, the second decline since June. The dollar  Libor-OIS
spread , a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, was 42.4 basis
points, from 42.3 basis points.  “We’ve been on this road multiple times before,” said
 Thomas Chow , a senior  money manager  who helps invest $129
billion of fixed-income assets at Philadelphia-based Delaware
Investments. “It’s hard to believe this one step is the one
that’s going to cure everything. I do believe it’s a step in the
right direction.”  The spot Euribor-OIS spread was little changed at 99 basis
points, the most since March 2009. Euribor is the rate at which
European banks say they see each other lending.  “The market for their short-term funding remains
challenging, especially when we talk about European banks
funding themselves in U.S. money markets,” said Jonathan Perez,
an analyst who tracks the banking industry at Principal Global
Investors, which has more than $200 billion of assets under
management. “Many money-market accounts have been pulling back
because of concerns over there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein in New York at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  