-- 
Belgium’s Political Feud Nears End as Di Rupo Prepares to Form Government

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-12-01T10:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/belgium-strikes-deal-to-form-government-after-536-day-impasse.html
Belgium  neared the end of a 536-day
political feud with an accord to form a full-time government
that vows to prune the  budget deficit  to confront the financial
crisis.  Elio Di Rupo, a French-speaking Socialist, is set to take
office next week in charge of a six-party coalition, political
leaders said after the governing program was completed late
yesterday. A cut in Belgium’s credit rating by Standard & Poor’s
last week triggered the final push to end the stalemate between
Dutch and French speakers that had threatened to tear the
country apart.  “It’s the end of the tunnel,” Laurette Onkelinx, a
Socialist in the current caretaker cabinet, told Le Soir
newspaper.  The six parties will hold conventions this weekend to
approve the coalition accord, with the goal of Di Rupo being
sworn in as prime minister by  King Albert II  at the start of
next week. The agreement came after  Standard & Poor’s  reduced
Belgium’s credit standing one step to AA with a negative outlook
on Nov. 25.  Belgian bonds have gained for four straight days since the
ratings cut prompted the negotiators to reach a deal on reducing
the budget deficit. Ten-year bond yields fell below 5 percent
today after last week reaching 5.91 percent, the highest in 11
years.  Budget Deficit  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may challenge the Di Rupo
coalition’s goal of narrowing the  budget deficit  to 2.8 percent
of gross domestic product next year. S&P said that it may cut
Belgium’s rating again should its net government debt rise to
100 percent of GDP from an estimated 93 percent this year.  Moody’s Investors Service said this week that the “rapid
escalation” of the debt turmoil is threatening all of the
sovereign ratings in the region. Moody’s put Belgium’s Aa1
rating under review for a downgrade last month, and  Fitch
Ratings  said on Oct. 20 that a “more aggressive” debt-
reduction program is needed for Belgium to retain the second-
highest credit ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  