-- 
Biden Seeks Turkey’s Help to Keep Up Pressure on Syria and Iran

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-12-01T22:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/biden-seeks-turkey-s-help-to-keep-up-pressure-on-syria-and-iran.html
U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is
visiting  Turkey  as the Obama administration looks to the
secular, majority-Muslim NATO ally to keep pressure on Syria and
Iran and boost economies and democratic institutions in
governments emerging from the Arab Spring civil uprisings.  Biden arrived last night in Turkey’s capital, Ankara, and
will be in Istanbul tomorrow, before flying to Greece for the
first meeting between a top Obama administration official and
the new prime minister,  Lucas Papademos , on Dec. 5.  U.S. assistance to Turkey to combat the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, which the U.S. regards as a terrorist
organization, and preventing that fight from destabilizing the
border area between Turkey and Iraq are among the top items on
the agenda.  “Turkey has always looked to the east and the west, given
its position in the world both geographically and
geopolitically,” Biden’s national security adviser Antony Blinken said at a briefing before the vice president left the
U.S. Turkey has “a unique role to play as a bridge between
these different worlds, an ability to talk to different
countries in ways that are extremely helpful.”  The vice president’s arrival follows the Turkish
government’s imposition on Nov. 30 of sanctions on  Syria  in
response to President Bashar al-Assad’s eight-month crackdown on
dissent.  The sanctions include freezing Syrian government assets in
Turkey, banning Assad’s leadership team from entry and
suspending arms sales and Syrian bank transactions, said Turkish
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu .  Coordinated Response  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has “coordinated closely”
with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Syria, White
House National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said in
 Washington .  Biden’s visit comes as the U.S. is asking allies to impose
stronger sanctions on Iran to halt its nuclear program. A Nov. 8
report by the  United Nations ’  International Atomic Energy Agency 
said Iran has continued work on developing nuclear weapons
capability. The U.S. on Nov. 21 announced sanctions for  Iran ’s
banking system and oil industry.  The European Union yesterday toughened sanctions for Syria
and Iran.  Turkey’s announcement this year that it will host a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization early-warning radar system has
prompted criticism and threats from Iranian officials who see it
as a means to protect  Israel  from Iran.  Official Meetings  In Ankara, Biden is scheduled to meet this morning with
Cemil Cicek, speaker of Turkey’s Parliament, and Turkish
President Abdullah Gul. Biden had been scheduled to meet with
Erdogan, who is recovering in Istanbul after surgery on his
digestive system. The state-run Anatolia news-agency reported
yesterday that that Erdogan isn’t likely to leave his residence.  The U.S. has agreed to sell Turkey three SuperCobra
military helicopters to combat the PKK. The U.S. also
transferred four Predator drones from  Iraq  to Turkey’s air base
in Incirlik, and the U.S. stands “strongly” with Turkey to
combat the PKK, Blinken said. The U.S. is working to strengthen
cooperation between Turkey and Iraq in confronting the threat
from the PKK, he said.  Clashes have increased in southeastern Turkey since Oct.
19, when PKK attacks killed 24 soldiers. Turkey has sent troops
into neighboring Iraq to strike at PKK bases there.  Before arriving in Turkey, Biden stopped in Iraq to meet
with U.S. troops and Iraqi political leaders as the U.S.
prepares to pull its remaining combat forces out the country by
year’s end.  Economic Issues  In Istanbul, Biden will attend a Global Entrepreneurship
Summit.  Blinken said the entrepreneurship summit is the “primary
reason” for Biden’s trip. In the  Middle East  and North Africa
over the past year, he said, civilian uprisings have been driven
by the desire for more economic opportunity as well as political
freedoms.  “Entrepreneurs are a driving force in the  United States 
for  job creation ,” Blinken said in the Nov. 28 briefing. “They
can do the same thing in the Middle East and North Africa, and
so this could not be more timely.”  Steven A. Cook, a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , a policy center in Washington, said Syria, Iran and
discussion about the future of the Arab uprisings were key
themes of the visit.  Turkish Investments  Cook said the U.S. supports Turkish investment in  Egypt  and
other Arab countries to help develop those economies.  “In general, there’s a very strong sense, in Turkey, that
Turkey can play a constructive, influential role in helping
countries in the region develop more democratic, open, vibrant
societies with functioning economies,” he said. “The question
is, can Turkey actually fulfill that role? Do Arabs want them to
fulfill that role?”  Biden’s visit to  Greece , on Dec. 5, follows approval on
Nov. 30 by Euro-area finance ministers of a 5.8 billion-euro
($7.7 billion) loan to Greece as part of its bailout.  White House Deputy National Security Advisor for Economic
Affairs Mike Froman said that the U.S. “very much recognizes
the sacrifices being made by the Greek people as they pursue
this reform process” and “we’ll continue to support Greece
through this very challenging period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  