-- 
Black Friday Regrets Stall Kohl’s, Gap as Most Retailers Meet Estimates

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-12-01T21:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/black-friday-regrets-stall-kohl-s-gap-as-most-retailers-exceed-estimates.html
On a day when many retailers’
November same-store sales exceeded analysts’ estimates amid a
rush of holiday shopping on Black Friday, Kohl’s Corp., J.C.
Penney Co. and  Gap Inc. (GPS)  disappointed.  Comparable-store sales fell 6.2 percent at Kohl’s, 2
percent at J.C. Penney and 5 percent at Gap, all trailing the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics. J.C.
Penney said the decision not to join rivals and open at midnight
on Thanksgiving hurt sales, while Gap cited competition from a
promotional environment.  These results and consumers waiting for discounts to make
purchases will make it difficult for retailers to lure shoppers
before Christmas, and that could hurt sales, said David Bassuk
head of the global retail at consultant AlixPartners.  “December is still highly questionable,” Bassuk, who is
based in New York, said in an interview. “The consumer is now
trained to buy on promotion, and they are smart enough to wait
for that next big sale.”  Kohl’s, based in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin ,  fell (KSS)  6.4
percent to $50.37 at the close in New York. J.C. Penney, based
in Plano,  Texas ,  increased (JCP)  0.6 percent to $32.22. Gap advanced
0.6 percent to $18.81.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics, rose 3.2 percent
last month, exceeding the estimate of a 3.1 percent increase, as
11 chains surpassed projections. Luxury retailers such as  Saks
Inc. (SKS)  and Nordstrom Inc. topped estimates as stock market
volatility failed to deter wealthy shoppers from spending.  ‘High-End Consumers’  “High-end consumers aren’t feeling as good as when the
stock market was at 14,000, but they are feeling reasonably good
and they are out shopping,” Saks Chief Executive Officer Steve Sadove said in an interview.  Gap’s same-store sales decline, which includes online
revenue, was led by a 7 percent drop at its Old Navy chain, the
San Francisco-based company said. Gap’s total comparable-store
sales have declined for five straight months.  J.C. Penney opened its stores at 4 a.m. on Black Friday,
the day after Thanksgiving, while  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
Kohl’s and Best Buy Co. opened earlier at midnight. The earlier
starts helped draw a record amount of shoppers on Black Friday,
according to the  National Retail Federation . For the entire
Thanksgiving weekend consumers spent a record $52.4 billion, 16
percent more than a year earlier, according to the NRF.  By not opening at midnight, J.C. Penney gave away some
sales to competitors,  Ken Perkins , president of Retail Metrics
said.  “They missed out,” he said.  Total sales at Kohl’s dropped 4.5 percent last month to
$1.93 billion after gaining 8.1 percent a year earlier as
revenue from accessories and children’s clothes fell.  The industry’s results “were a little disconcerting, given
that they pulled out all the stops” with extended hours, free
shipping and mailing promotional circulars earlier than ever,
Perkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  