-- 
BM&FBovespa Rallies on Bet Cuts to Equities Tax Will Boost Trading Volumes

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-12-01T21:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bm-fbovespa-rallies-on-bet-cuts-to-equities-tax-will-boost-trading-volumes.html
BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of  Latin
America ’s biggest securities exchange, gained the most in three
months after Brazil cut to zero the so-called IOF tax on
foreigners’ stock purchases as part of measures to boost
economic growth.  Shares jumped 6.7 percent to 10.54 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, after earlier rising 8.8 percent. The
benchmark Bovespa index advanced 2.2 percent.  Brazil is cutting taxes on home appliances, staple foods
and foreign investment in stocks to help meet a target of 5
percent growth next year, Finance Minister Guido Mantega told
reporters today. Mantega had put a 2 percent levy on equity and
debt purchases in October 2009 to keep inflows from pushing up
the currency.  “The measure will encourage foreign investors to come back
to the Brazilian stock market, boosting trading volumes,”
Luciana Leocadio, an analyst at brokerage Ativa Corretora, said
in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “It’s also a sign
that the government may take further steps in the future to
boost domestic capital markets.”  The tax cuts will cost 2.8 billion reais ($1.56 billion) in
lost revenue next year, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement.  In addition to cutting taxes, Brazil has reduced borrowing
costs in an attempt to prevent  Europe ’s debt crisis from curbing
growth in Latin America’s biggest economy. The central bank’s
board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, yesterday voted
unanimously to reduce the benchmark lending rate 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, for a third straight meeting,
to 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  