-- 
BMW to Supply Toyota With Diesel Engines

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-12-01T09:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bmw-to-supply-toyota-with-diesel-engines-in-partnership-1-.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , will supply  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  with  diesel engines  as part of a cooperation
agreement that will initially focus on developing  car batteries .  The manufacturers will collaborate on research into next-
generation lithium-ion batteries and explore other projects to
develop fuel-saving technologies, the automakers said today in
Tokyo. As part of the cooperation,  BMW  will supply Toyota with
1.6-liter and 2-liter engines for the Japanese company’s models
in Europe starting in 2014.  The agreement allows Toyota, Asia’s largest carmaker, to
expand its European lineup of diesel-powered vehicles. For BMW,
the partnership paves the way for the company to team up with
the biggest producer of hybrid vehicles, as it seeks to fend off
 Volkswagen AG ’s Audi, which aims to take the luxury-car lead.  “It’s positive for BMW to expand its range of partners
among mass-market carmakers,” said Daniel Schwarz, an analyst
with Commerzbank in Frankfurt. “One of the problems for premium
manufacturers is generating scale for environmental technology,
and this will help.”  BMW already cooperates with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-largest carmaker, on hybrid technology and engines for
the Mini brand. The company is developing a line of electric-
powered cars under its new “i” sub-brand. The first vehicle,
the i3 city car, is due to be introduced in 2013, followed by
the i8 plug-in hybrid supercar in 2014.  Shares Gain  Toyota, which counted on Europe for 12 percent of sales in
the last fiscal year, rose 2.3 percent to 2,567 yen at the 3
p.m. close of Tokyo trading. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  climbed 1.9 percent. BMW was up 0.2 percent to 56.10
euros as of 10:53 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  “Both companies will bring their wide-ranging knowledge --
starting with that concerning environmental technologies -- to
the table,” Toyota President Akio Toyoda said in a statement.
“It is a great joy and a thrill to enter into this mid-to-long-
term collaborative relationship with BMW.”  Mathias Schmidt, a BMW spokesman in Munich, declined to
comment on the number of engines that will be delivered under
the agreement with Toyota’s European operations.  In August, the Japanese carmaker and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
announced a plan to jointly develop a hybrid system for pickup
trucks and sport-utility vehicles as U.S. fuel-economy rules
tighten. Toyota is also working with U.S. electric-car maker
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  on a battery-powered version of the Toyota
RAV4 sport-utility vehicle that will go on sale in 2012.  BMW has been looking to sell components to other
manufacturers to boost revenue. The company has agreed to supply
engines to Sweden’s Saab Automobile and Carbon Motors Corp.,
which is developing a police car for U.S. law enforcement
agencies. It also supplies engines to boutique carmaker
Wiessmann GmbH.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  