-- 
Bobby Valentine Says He’s Neither Genius Nor Monster in Red Sox Debut

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bobby-valentine-says-he-s-humbled-to-take-over-as-boston-red-sox-manager.html
Bobby Valentine ’s debut as Boston Red
Sox manager included a plea to treat him as “a regular human
being” and not a polarizing personality.  Valentine, 61, who is taking on one of  Major League
Baseball ’s most high-profile positions, has 15 years of
managerial experience and is the only man to lead teams to the
championship series in the U.S. and  Japan .  “I am honored, I’m humbled and I’m pretty damn excited,”
he said at an introductory news conference yesterday at Boston’s
Fenway Park. “I tried to not engage myself in this day because
I didn’t want to be heartbroken. I wanted this from the first
time I heard this job was opening.”  Valentine’s last major league job was as manager of the  New
York  Mets, the club he led to a spot in the 2000  World Series 
before being fired two years later. The Mets lost that World
Series in five games to the  New York Yankees , the American
League East division rival of the Red Sox.  Valentine has worked as a major league analyst for Walt
Disney Co.’s ESPN since his last managerial role, with Japan’s
Chiba Lotte Marines from 2003 to 2009. He has 1,117 wins and
1,072 losses in seven years with the Mets and eight with the
 Texas Rangers .  “People who take the time to get to know me understand I
have some qualities in my character that are OK,” he told
reporters. “I’m not the genius that I’ve heard people refer to
me as. I’m not the polarizing guy that people refer to me as.
I’m not the monster that breathes fire that some people have
referred to me as. I’m a guy. I’m a regular human being with
regular feelings and regular attributes.”  Boston ’s Collapse  He succeeds Terry Francona, who left in September after
Boston blew a nine-game wild-card lead in the final month and
missed the postseason for the second straight year.  Valentine said he understands the passion of Red Sox fans
and “the rich tradition of baseball in this city.” The Red Sox
have had 14 straight winning seasons, including 10 years with 90
or more victories and, along with the  St. Louis Cardinals , are
the only two-time World Series champions in the past 11 seasons.  “With all respect to New York, I can’t imagine that
there’s any tougher place to be good than here,” he said.  The  Red Sox  said Valentine signed a two-year deal, with
club options for 2014 and 2015. Details of the contract weren’t
released. Ben Cherington, who replaced Theo Epstein as Boston’s
general manager five weeks ago, said Valentine was chosen from
among five candidates.  “I’m very confident that we found the right person,”
Cherington said at the news conference. “He has enormous
baseball intellect, he’s passionate and he certainly wants to
win.”  Won’t Draw Conclusions  Valentine deflected questions about the roles specific
players will perform on the Red Sox, saying he needs more time
to evaluate his team, and said he wouldn’t jump to conclusions
about causes for the team’s collapse in September.  Following the season,  Jon Lester  confirmed a report in the
Boston Globe that he and fellow pitchers Josh Beckett and John Lackey drank beer in the clubhouse during games they weren’t
scheduled to pitch. Boston’s starting staff had a 4-13 record
and a 7.08 earned run average in September.  “I can guarantee you nobody in the room has made as many
mistakes as I have, and I think I’ve learned from all of them,”
Valentine said. “I wish I could say I had this checklist of
improvements that I’ve made or things I will never do again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  