-- 
BOE Says Banks Must Do More to Protect Against Euro Debt Risks

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-12-01T10:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/boe-says-banks-must-do-more-to-protect-against-euro-debt-risks.html
The  Bank of England  said risks to
U.K. financial stability from the euro-area debt crisis have
increased and “stronger action” is needed to make banks more
resilient to potential shocks.  “Sovereign and banking risks emanating from the euro area
have intensified and remain the most significant and immediate
threat to U.K. financial stability,” the Bank of England said
in its Financial Stability Report published today in  London . It
said that if banks’ earnings aren’t enough to build capital,
they should limit payments of bonuses and dividends and “give
serious consideration” to raising external capital.  The  Federal Reserve  cut the cost of dollar funding for
European banks yesterday in a coordinated move with other
central banks. The move came two days after Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King said there are “early signs” of a credit
crunch in the euro area, where leaders are under pressure to
resolve the escalating debt turmoil.  “The current funding pressures facing banks could lead to
a renewed tightening in credit conditions for real economy
borrowers,” the central bank said today. Its Monetary Policy
Committee restarted bond purchases in October to aid the
recovery and cut its economic growth forecasts this month.  The central bank also published today the recommendations
of its Financial Policy Committee, which met on Nov. 23. The FPC
said the Financial Services Authority should encourage banks to
disclose their leverage ratios to investors by the start of
2013.  Funding Pressure  The Bank of England said in the FSR that U.K. banks have
140 billion pounds of term funding due to mature in 2012,
concentrated in the first half of the year. It said that short-
term money market funding conditions have “been fragile over
the past few months, with banks finding it harder to roll over
all of their maturing funding and tenors shortening.”  While Britain’s banks have 15 billion pounds of exposure to
sovereign debt in the most-vulnerable euro-area economies, they
have “significant” exposures to the private sectors of
Ireland, Spain and  Italy . This exposure amounts to about 160
billion pounds, or 80 percent of their core Tier 1 capital.  “U.K. banks have made significant progress in improving
their capital and funding resilience,” the Bank of England
said. “But progress has been set back recently and they have
been affected by strains in bank funding markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at  bmoshinky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  