-- 
Boehner Optimistic on Payroll Tax Cuts

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/boehner-predicts-extension-of-payroll-tax-cut-jobless-aid-1-.html
The first attempts to prevent a
 payroll tax  cut from expiring Dec. 31 fell short in the  U.S.
Senate , even as House Speaker  John Boehner  expressed confidence
that Congress would extend the tax break and  unemployment
benefits .  “There is enough common ground between where the White
House and Democrats are and where Republicans are for us to move
this legislation and to do so quickly,” Boehner told reporters
yesterday.  Many lawmakers from both parties agree that Congress should
extend the 2 percentage point cut in the payroll tax and
expanded unemployment insurance into 2012 to prevent workers
from getting smaller paychecks. They disagree on how to cover
the cost. The payroll tax cut extension would prevent the
government from collecting $119.6 billion.  The Senate votes yesterday demonstrated partisan divisions,
though even most Republicans opposed a plan proposed by their
leaders.  Senators rejected a Democratic proposal to impose a 3.25
percent surtax on income over $1 million, expand the cut to 3.1
percentage points and extend it, in part, to the employer
portion of the payroll tax. The counter-proposal by Republican
leaders would have recouped the forgone revenue by freezing the
pay of federal civilian workers and shrinking the federal
workforce by 10 percent through attrition.  The vote on the Democratic proposal was 51-49, nine shy of
the 60 needed to advance it. The Republican version got just 20
votes, with no support from Democrats.  Democratic Defectors  Democrats  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  and Jon Tester of
 Montana  and independent Bernard Sanders of  Vermont , who usually
votes with the Democrats, opposed the Democratic plan. Senator
Susan Collins of  Maine  was the lone Republican to vote for the
Democratic plan.  More than half of Senate Republicans opposed the plan
proposed by Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky .
Opponents included Senator John Thune of  South Dakota , who had
argued for the proposal on the floor moments before the vote.  “We were putting up a proposal that a majority of our
conference wanted us to put up, so we did that, and I helped to
craft it,” said Senator Jon Kyl of  Arizona , the second-ranking
Republican. “But I didn’t want to support it because -- as a
matter of policy -- I think we are making a mistake taking money
out of the Social Security trust fund for an extension of this
so-called holiday. I don’t think that it achieves the purpose of
creating jobs.”  Money Transfer  The legislation would transfer money from general Treasury
funds to Social Security to cover the cost of the payroll tax
cut.  The rejection of those proposals clears the way for further
negotiations, and top lawmakers and Obama administration
officials said yesterday that they saw possibilities for an
agreement.  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi told reporters in
 Washington  that Democrats would consider “reasonable” spending
cuts to pay for extending the payroll tax reduction.  Jay Carney , the White House spokesman, said, “We will move
forward and try to find a way to reach an agreement.” President
 Barack Obama , who has been urging Congress to extend and expand
the payroll tax cut, may talk to lawmakers personally “in the
coming days and weeks,” the spokesman said.  In a statement issued after the vote, Obama called
Republican objections unacceptable.  Taxing Middle Class  “It makes absolutely no sense to raise taxes on the middle
class at a time when so many are still trying to get back on
their feet,” he said.  An administration official familiar with the discussions
said talks would begin in earnest over the weekend.  Senator  Dan Coats , an Indiana Republican, said the chamber
will “eventually pass” an extension.  “Both sides are committed to passing this, so in the end
there will be some different mix of cost offsets agreed to,” he
said.  Figuring out the details won’t be easy, said Senator Mike Crapo, an Idaho Republican.  “I’m not sure,” he said yesterday when asked about the
prospects for compromise. “I don’t think that a huge tax
increase will fly.”  Seeking Big Cut  Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, told
reporters that his party will continue to press the tax increase
and as large a payroll tax cut as possible.  “We have a lot of leverage in the negotiations that are
coming ahead,” he said. “And this isn’t the only tax issue
where Republicans are on the defensive. On the millionaire’s
tax, the Republican wall against taxing incomes over a million
dollars is beginning to crack.”  He said he would be willing to work with Senator Collins,
who has suggested exempting income earned from active businesses
from the surtax.  The extended jobless benefits and payroll tax cut for
workers are among the items that Congress must consider by
year’s end. Lawmakers also are discussing how to avoid a 27
percent cut in physician reimbursements by Medicare, scheduled
to begin Jan. 1. It would cost about $21 billion over a decade
to keep payments to doctors at the current level.  Miscellaneous Breaks  Miscellaneous tax breaks, including the research and
development tax credit, also expire. That group of provisions
has a history of being extended retroactively.  At a minimum, Obama wants to see the current 2 percentage
point payroll tax cut for employees extended for 2012.  Senate
Democrats  are seeking to reduce the payroll levy to 3.1 percent
for workers. They also would lower the employer rate to 3.1
percent from 6.2 percent on the first $5 million in payroll and
eliminate the levy for each company’s first $50 million in wage
growth.  Boehner said yesterday that extending the payroll tax cut
would help the economy because it keeps money in people’s
pockets. The tax benefit must be financed by spending cuts
because “any drop in revenue resulting from a temporary
reduction of the payroll tax that is not paid for” hurts Social
Security and would “accelerate the program’s looming
bankruptcy,” Boehner said.  House Republicans  haven’t said yet how they plan to offset
the costs of the payroll tax cut and  unemployment insurance .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  