-- 
Boeing Backs 737 MAX After Airbus Questions Support for Jet

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-12-01T22:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/boeing-defends-737-max-after-airbus-questions-commitment-to-jet.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  defended its commitment to
the 737 MAX after rival Airbus SAS said the U.S. planemaker may
switch back to its original strategy of developing an all-new
successor to the single-aisle jet.  Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy  told reporters on
a conference call today that Boeing “may have to go back to an
all-new clean-sheet airplane to compete” with Airbus’s A320neo,
an upgrade of the European planemaker’s model that vies with the
737. Leahy said he based his comments on reports from suppliers
and airlines that Boeing hadn’t dismantled the team that had
been working on a brand new successor.  A Boeing spokeswoman said the Chicago-based company doesn’t
expect a new airplane until well into the next decade and cited
700 commitments for the MAX from nine customers.  “The 737 is better than our competition today, and with
the MAX, will be even better tomorrow,” Karen Crabtree said in
an e-mailed statement.  “We are pleased with the work completed to date as we
continue working with customers and finalizing the airplane
configuration,” she said. “As we always do, we continue to
evaluate the best low-risk solution for new development programs
and production system architecture.”  Boeing decided to offer the MAX, which will carry more
fuel-efficient engines, to fend off the A320neo and help capture
half of a $2 trillion market in the next 20 years.  Not A ‘Disaster’  If Boeing were to change its mind and develop an all-new
plane, that could help thwart further orders for the Airbus
upgrade as airlines might be willing to wait a bit longer to get
an all-new model, rather than an upgraded version of a plane
that’s been flying since the late 1980s.  Leahy said it “wouldn’t be a disaster” if Boeing did
that, given that Airbus has already won 1,450 commitments for
its own latest offering, the  A320neo , that will put new engines
on the existing A320.  Leahy said publicly after Boeing announced plans to offer
the  737 MAX  that he was pleased to see his competitor move in
that direction. Had Boeing offered an all-new plane by 2020, he
said, it would skew the competitive landscape since Airbus
didn’t foresee having its own new jet until the middle of the
next decade.  Airbus’s A320neo will go to customers at the end of 2015.
Boeing’s MAX at this point is planned for entry into service by
late 2017. While Boeing hasn’t set list prices for the MAX, the
average 737 has a catalog value of $78 million. The A320neo has
a list price of $91.2 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  