-- 
BofA Joins Foreign Investors Fueling Record Ginnie-Fannie Gap

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-12-01T16:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bofa-joins-foreign-investors-fueling-record-ginnie-fannie-gap-in-bonds.html
Home-loan securities guaranteed by
Ginnie Mae are trading at about record premiums over  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
bonds as foreign investors target debt with the strongest
backing from the U.S. and lenders including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  seek notes considered the least risky by regulators.  The price difference between U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae’s 4.5
percent, 30-year securities and similar debt from government-
supported Fannie Mae has almost tripled this year to 3
cents on the dollar, exceeding 3.1 cents last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The widening signals the value of the explicit guarantee
bestowed on Ginnie Mae debt by the U.S., even after  Standard &
Poor’s  stripped the nation of its top credit grade in August and
Fitch Ratings said this week it may review its AAA ranking. The
government has vowed to protect holders of bonds insured by
 Fannie Mae  and rival Freddie Mac after seizing the companies
three years ago without officially guaranteeing their debt.  “If you’re an international buyer, you lean toward Ginnies
because you’d rather have the full-faith-and-credit backing at
any reasonable difference in spreads,” said Peter Hirsch, the
New York-based head of U.S. dollar rates and agency mortgage
trading at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit.  Overseas investors own about $620 billion of the $5.3
trillion in U.S.-supported mortgage bonds. They will reinvest
next year only into Ginnie Mae notes, adding about $100 billion,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts forecasted in a Nov. 23 report.
Their Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac investments, which now are
about half of the holdings, will shrink by about $75 billion,
the analysts said.  Capital Standards  Banks across the world are also favoring Ginnie Mae “more
and more” as they prepare for tougher capital standards under
the Basel III international accord, as well as proposed rules
demanding they hold specific amounts of liquid assets, RBC’s
Hirsch said.  Bank of America, the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
sold $24 billion of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac notes last
quarter and bought $26 billion of Ginnie Mae bonds, “likely to
optimize its risk-weighted assets,” Barclays Capital analysts
said in a Nov. 28 report based on data released last month.
The lender held $234 billion of U.S. government-tied mortgage
bonds as of Sept. 30, the most among domestic banks.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment.  While lenders don’t have to hold any capital against Ginnie
Mae bonds under risk-based rules, regulators assign weightings
of 20 percent to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt. That’s even
with the U.S. promising unlimited aid to the mortgage-finance
firms through 2012 and then $274 billion in extra capital.  Mortgage-Debt Returns  Ginnie Mae, which is based in  Washington  and formally named
the Government National Mortgage Association, was created in
1968 as a U.S. government-owned corporation and issued the first
mortgage-backed security two years later. Loans insured by the
 Federal Housing Administration , which allow down payments of as
low as 3.5 percent for home purchases, account for most of the
mortgages in its $1.2 trillion of bonds.  Ginnie Mae securities have returned 7.2 percent this year,
with all government-supported U.S. mortgage bonds gaining 5.4
percent, compared with 3.2 percent for global corporate bonds,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Fitch lowered its outlook of the nation’s credit grade to
negative on Nov. 28 after a congressional committee failed to
agree on deficit cuts.  Fannie Mae, which is headquartered in Washington, and
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  have drawn about $185 billion
in capital from taxpayers since September 2008. Their regulator
 projected  in October that cumulative U.S. injections will range
from $220 billion to $311 billion at the end of 2014.  ‘Whatever is Needed’  Few U.S. investors doubt the nation will “do whatever is
needed” to ensure repayment of their debt, said Timothy Cunneen, a senior portfolio manager at Smith Breeden Associates
Inc. “Without Fannie and Freddie, clearly borrowing costs would
be significantly higher and that’s just not an outcome that’s
palatable to anyone.”  While many overseas investors share that view, they risk
scrutiny amid “the unresolved questions around the future of
Fannie and Freddie” when buying their bonds, said Cunneen,
whose firm oversees $6.1 billion from Durham,  North Carolina .  The JPMorgan analysts led by Matt Jozoff, who wrote in May
that Ginnie Mae-Fannie Mae price gaps had reached “nosebleed”
levels at amounts about 50 percent less than the current
difference, said last month that “growing capital
considerations for banks have also played a backseat role” in
the continued expansion.  Regulatory Requirements  Changes to  capital requirements  under Basel III begin in
2013. A bank needs to hold $475 million of capital against $25
billion of Fannie Mae bonds to achieve a risk-based ratio of 9.5
percent, the highest base required under plans for so-called
systemically important financial institutions. For Ginnie Mae
securities, the amount is zero.  “Ginnies do not appear to offer a lot of fundamental value
at present prices but if you were a bank, what would you be
doing?” said Todd Abraham, co-head of the government and
mortgage-backed fixed income group at Pittsburgh-based Federated
Investors Inc., which manages about $350 billion of assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  