-- 
Bombardier Beats Quarterly Estimates as Jet Deliveries Rise

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-12-01T23:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bombardier-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-jets-deliveries.html
Bombardier Inc. , the world’s third-
biggest commercial-jet maker, reported higher quarterly profit
than analysts estimated as plane deliveries increased.  Net income in the fiscal third quarter ended Oct. 31
increased 31 percent to $192 million from $147 million a year
earlier, Montreal-based Bombardier said today in a statement.
Adjusted profit of 11 cents a share beat the 10-cent  average
estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company delivered 68 planes during the quarter compared
with 51 a year earlier. Bombardier’s backlog was $22.3 billion
at the end of the period, up 16 percent from Jan. 31. The
company said it’s working to meet a 2013 target for the debut of
its CSeries jetliner, while trimming output of CRJ regional jets
to meet diminished demand at some airlines.  “What we are driving for is delivering for 2013,” Pierre Beaudoin, Bombardier’s chief executive said of the CSeries.
“We’re focused also on meeting the various customers, our
promises that we made through the orders and also we’re very
focused on making sure that this airplane delivers the
performance that was anticipated,” he said on a conference call
today.  Bombardier rose 5.3 percent to C$3.98 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have declined 21 percent this year.  The company has a backlog of 133 firm CSeries orders and is
working on closing agreements for 45 more at levels that don’t
require “huge compromises to start delivery in 2013,” Beaudoin
said. There will be more order announcements, he said.  Rail Deliveries  Sales climbed 16 percent to $4.62 billion during the
quarter, higher than the average analysts’ estimate of $4.54
billion. Bombardier’s train-manufacturing division saw a revenue
increase of 6.9 percent.  The company, which traditionally has lower  cash flow  in the
third quarter, has restarted deliveries for two of three stalled
train and locomotive contracts, including one for  France ’s SNCF
and another in  Sweden , and is working on a third.  In the quarter, Bombardier held on to inventory as
shipments were delayed, cutting into free cash flow by about
$300 million.  That should shift in the fourth quarter,
executives said on the call.  “With the possible exception of slightly lower-than-
expected sales at Bombardier Transportation, the company’s
overall operating performance, and especially operational
execution, remain strong,”  Nicholas Heymann , an analyst at
William Blair & Co., wrote in a note to clients today. He has an
“outperform” rating on shares.  Aerospace Sales  Liquidity available to Bombardier should rise above $4
billion in the fourth quarter, up from about $3.5 billion in the
third, the company said.  In aerospace, sales gained 26 percent to $2.31 billion as
Bombardier seeks orders for the new CSeries airliner. The jet
will compete against the smallest aircraft offered by Airbus SAS
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  when it enters service.  Bombardier also sees an advantage in its largest regional
aircraft, CRJ1000, in the market about a year, after rival
Embraer SA’s decision to upgrade its regional with new engines
and wings by 2018 rather than build an all-new model, Beaudoin
said. A new Embraer plan may have challenged the CSeries in the
smallest slice of the narrow-body commercial jet market
dominated by Airbus SAS and Boeing Co., he said.  “When we compete for an order on the CSeries, we never see
the Embraer 190 in competition with the CSeries, that’s a
different category, a regional airplane,” Beaudoin said. “So,
when we compete with the CRJ1000, it’s to compete against
another regional airplane.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  