-- 
Bovespa Jumps to Two-Week High as Brazil Suspends Tax on Foreign Purchases

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-12-01T20:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bovespa-futures-jump-after-brazil-suspends-tax-on-foreign-stock-purchases.html
The Bovespa index surged to a two-
week high after  Brazil  eliminated a tax on foreigners’ stock
purchases as part of measures to shore up growth amid the global
economic slowdown.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge rose 2.2 percent to
58,143.42 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. Fifty-eight
stocks climbed on the index, led by steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , while nine fell. The real
gained 0.5 percent to 1.8001 per dollar after the central bank
cut its lending rate yesterday.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  is scrapping the
so-called IOF tax on foreigners’ equity purchases two years
after he implemented it to curb investment in the country’s
financial markets and stem a currency rally that was crimping
exports. Concerns about the real’s strength have eased after it
plunged 13 percent in the past four months as  Europe ’s debt
crisis eroded demand for emerging-market assets.  “It simplifies our lives and saves us a bit of money,”
said Urban Larson, who helps manage about $2.2 billion in
emerging-market assets at F&C Management Ltd. in  London . “Does
it dramatically change our view of Brazil? No, but it’s
definitely positive.”  Brazil is keeping the 6 percent tax on foreigners’ fixed-
income investments.  Together with the reduction in the IOF on foreign
investment in stocks, Brazil is cutting taxes on home appliances
and staple foods to help meet a target of 5 percent growth next
year, Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today. The measures
will cost 2.8 billion reais ($1.56 billion) in lost revenue next
year, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  Consumer Credit   The IOF on consumer credit will fall to 2.5 percent from 3
percent, while another tax on corporate bonds tied to
infrastructure projects will be reduced to zero, he said. Brazil
is also extending tax cuts on flour, wheat and bread, and
reducing a levy on pasta. All of the measures take effect today,
Mantega said.  The stimulus measures come a day after the central bank cut
the benchmark interest rate for the third time this year to
shield  Latin America ’s largest economy from the deepening
European debt crisis.  BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, jumped the most in three months.  Homebuilder  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA  and consumer-
goods maker  Hypermarcas SA  paced advances for companies that
depend on domestic demand. Retailers  Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar ,  Lojas Americanas SA  and
 Magazine Luiza SA  rallied on speculation sales will increase
after the tax cuts. Shopping mall operators including  BR Malls
Participacoes SA  also gained.  BM&FBovespa advanced 6.7 percent to 10.54 reais, the most
since Sept. 1. MRV gained 5.6 percent to 12.30 reais while Pao
de Acucar climbed 3.9 percent to 68.75 reais.  ‘Short-Term Relief’  “This is always positive and could provide short-term
relief,” said Augusto Lange, who helps manage 1.4 billion reais
at Neo Gestao de Recursos in Sao Paulo. Still, he said, “a more
sustained recovery in the market will only happen if the
government’s measures really manage to avoid a stronger
slowdown.”  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  entered a  bull market  in October after gaining
22 percent from a two-year low on Aug. 8 as Brazil’s interest-
rate cuts and speculation Europe was working toward solving its
debt crisis buoyed demand for equities. The index is still down
16 percent this year on concern flagging global commodity demand
and quickening inflation will hurt corporate earnings growth.  The real’s gain today brought its advance over the past
three years to 30 percent. This year’s decline spurred Brazilian
policy makers to reverse course after seeking to weaken the
currency for more than two years to protect exporters’ profits.
Since September, the central bank sold dollars in the futures
market at least four times to strengthen the real.  Identical Statement  The Bovespa gained the most in a month yesterday as central
banks worldwide moved to shore up liquidity while speculation
mounted that Brazil may employ a longer cycle of  interest-rate 
cuts. After the market closed, policy makers lowered the
benchmark  Selic  by half a percentage to 11 percent.  In a statement identical to the one from their previous
meeting, the central bank said that “moderate” rate cuts can
mitigate the effects of the worsening global economy without
putting at risk its 2012 inflation target of 4.5 percent plus or
minus two percentage points.  Brazil’s inflation will slow to 5.56 percent next year from
6.97 percent in October, according to the median forecast in the
central bank’s weekly survey published Nov. 28. Economists
expect economic expansion of 3.46 percent in 2012, up from a
projected 3.1 percent this year, the survey showed. Brazil is
slowing from last year’s growth of 7.5 percent, the fastest pace
in more than two decades.  Index Valuations  The Bovespa trades at 9.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Traders moved 7.17 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average this year of 6.52 billion reais through Nov. 24,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  