-- 
Plains Buys $1.67 Billion BP Unit to Expand Canadian Liquids Position

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-12-01T23:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bp-sells-canada-gas-assets-to-plains-pipelines-for-1-7-billion-in-cash.html
Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) 
agreed to buy  BP Plc ’s natural gas liquids business in  Canada 
for $1.67 billion in cash, expanding its footprint in the nation
and gaining the capacity to increase U.S. operations.  The acquisition includes about 4,000 kilometers (2,500
miles) of pipelines, 21 million barrels of liquefied petroleum
gas storage capacity and seven gas-processing plants, London-
based BP said in a statement today. The deal is expected to
close in the first half of 2012.  The purchase adds to Houston-based Plains’ 16,000 miles of
pipelines and makes it one of the largest U.S. liquefied
petroleum gas service providers, Chief Executive Officer Greg Armstrong said in a separate statement. Liquefied petroleum
gases are a type of gas liquids.  The location of the pipelines and plants allows for
processing of gas from U.S. formations including the Bakken in
 North Dakota  and the Marcellus in Pennsylvania, Plains Chief
Operating Officer Harry Pefanis said on a conference call today.  Liquids such as propane, butane and pentane, which can be
used for fuel and heat, have become important byproducts for gas
producers.  Propane spot prices  at Mont Belvieu,  Texas , were
$15.8775 per million British thermal units today, compared with
natural-gas futures prices of $3.645 in  New York .  The gas fractionation plants Plains bought distill the
hydrocarbons into products that can be sold separately. BP
previously used the system to transport and process liquids from
its own fields, Armstrong said on the call. In the future,
Plains may “simply use the fractionators to process third-party
volumes for a fee,” he said.  Natural Gas Liquids  Plains’ bid topped an offer from  Provident Energy Ltd. , a
Calgary-based company that co-owns some of BP’s assets, said
three people with knowledge of the sale talks. Provident rose
2.8 percent to close at C$9.98 in Toronto.  Provident “may have done a bid,” said Raina Vitanov, the
company’s investor relations manager. The purchase price is “a
pretty big number,” she said in an interview. “It
basically shows how valuable this business is.”  Plains moved into the gas liquids and liquefied petroleum
gas business on a smaller scale a few years ago, Daniel Spears,
a  fund manager  with Swank Capital LLC in  Dallas , said in an e-
mail today.  ‘Dramatically Increase’  “This transaction allows Plains to dramatically increase
its presence in the NGL and LPG segments,” said Spears, who
helps manage $1.5 billion, including shares of Plains.  The sale brings BP closer to its goal of raising almost $40
billion through asset sales to help compensate for last year’s
Gulf of Mexico disaster, the biggest offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  has overseen
divestitures in Venezuela, Vietnam and the U.S. since taking
over from  Tony Hayward  more than a year ago.  “The divestment program is positive for BP because it
generates cash quickly,” said  Jason Kenney , an oil and gas
analyst at Banco Santander SA in Edinburgh. “This also lets BP
focus on their higher-value upstream assets.”  BP fell 1.4 percent to close at 454.35 pence in  London .
Plains rose 1.7 percent to $65.98 in New York.  In a separate statement, Plains also announced it’s buying
pipelines and terminals from  Western Refining Inc. (WNR)  for $220
million. The acquisition gives Plains an 82-mile, 100,000-barrel
a day pipeline that connects fields in southeast  New Mexico  with
Plains’s existing Basin pipeline system.  SemGroup Rebuff  The purchase also included a 6.6 million barrel storage
terminal for crude oil, refined products and liquefied petroleum
gas at an idle refinery in Yorktown, Virginia.  Plains will spend $200 million upgrading those and other
recent acquisitions, Armstrong said.  Today’s acquisitions follow a rebuff from rival pipeline
owner  SemGroup Corp. (SEMG) , which rejected an unsolicited $1 billion
cash bid from Plains in October. SemGroup’s board rejected the
proposal again last month. SemGroup fell 7 percent, its biggest
decline in almost four months, to close at $26.19 in New York.  BP’s assets in the U.S. and Canada produce 48 percent of
all gas liquids in the world, according to the company’s
website.  “Canada remains an important part of our portfolio of
growth opportunities to meet North America’s energy needs,”
Dudley said in the statement. About 450 BP employees will
transfer to Plains in the deal.  BP sold other Canadian gas assets as part of a $7 billion
deal with  Apache Corp. (APA)  last year. The company is also getting
rid of half its U.S. refining capacity, including plants in
Texas City, Texas, and Carson,  California . It plans to complete
the refinery sales by the end 2012.  Credit Suisse Group AG is advising BP on the transaction.
Barclays Plc and Bennett Jones LLP are working with Plains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  