-- 
Brazil Signals No Shift Ahead in Monetary Policy After Cutting Rate to 11%

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-12-01T11:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/brazil-signals-no-shift-ahead-in-monetary-policy-after-cutting-rate-to-11-.html
Brazil’s central bank signaled it
will keep cutting  interest rates  at its current half-point pace
as it tries to prevent  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis from
stunting growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
yesterday voted unanimously to reduce the benchmark rate 50
basis points for a third straight meeting, to 11 percent,
matching the forecast by 64 of 65 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Policy makers, in a statement identical to the one from
their previous meeting, said that “moderate” rate cuts can
mitigate the effects of the worsening global economy without
putting at risk its 2012 inflation target. Tombini’s commitment
to the current pace of rate cuts may lead traders to pare bets
on bigger reductions to come, said  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “They are really comfortable with the pace they have
adopted so far, and with the strategy of being conservative in
response to these international jitters,” Santos said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Tombini was among the first policy makers to react as
Europe’s crisis deepened. The country’s surprise interest rate
cut in August, the first in more than two years, has since been
followed by  Australia ,  Israel  and the  European Central Bank .
Traders are betting Tombini will cut the Selic rate as low as
9.25 percent by July, according to Bloomberg forecasts based on
interest rate futures contracts.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 rose 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
9.710 percent at 6:45 a.m.  New York  time.  Slowdown, Yields  The deterioration of the world economy is in line with
policy makers’ forecasts, so they don’t see a need to step up
the pace of rate cuts, said  Gray Newman , Morgan Stanley’s chief
Latin America economist.  “When the central bank first embarked on rate cuts they
were already expecting a pretty difficult global scenario,”
Newman said, speaking by phone from New York.  More than $3 trillion was  wiped off  world stock markets
last month, as yields on Italian and Spanish sovereign debt rose
to Euro-era highs, and a failed German bond auction signaled
that the debt crisis has spread to core European nations.  The real weakened 5.1 percent in November, the most of
seven major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation Forecasts  Annual inflation in  Brazil  slowed for a second straight
month in mid-November, to 6.69 percent. Tombini said last week
that inflation rates will “fall sharply” by the second quarter
of next year. Inflation has been above the 6.5 percent upper
limit of its target range since April.  Breakeven rates, the difference between yields on 2015
inflation-linked and fixed rate bonds, show that traders are
wagering on average annual inflation of 5.6 percent over the
next four years, down from 6.2 percent at the end of September.
Inflation has exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range since April.  Even as the economy shows signs of cooling, credit growth
and full employment conditions continue to stoke consumer
demand.  Unemployment fell to 5.8 percent in October, a record low
for the month. Total  outstanding loans  expanded 18 percent in
the year through October, led by a 46.9 percent rise in mortgage
credit.  Brazilian economists in weekly central bank surveys have
reduced their forecasts for growth this year 11 times since
Tombini’s first rate cut, to 3.1 percent from 3.79 percent. Last
year, Brazil grew 7.5 percent, its fastest pace in more than two
decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  