-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Climb, Real Advances on Growth Measures

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-12-01T18:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/brazil-rate-futures-climb-real-advances-on-growth-measures.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts jumped after the government cut taxes to
bolster economic growth, prompting traders to pare back wagers
on how much the central bank will lower borrowing costs.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 rose 10
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 9.73 per dollar at
2:40 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real advanced 0.5 percent to 1.8001
per dollar, from 1.8085 yesterday. It earlier touched 1.7820,
the strongest level since Nov. 18.  Brazil  is suspending a tax on foreign investment, cutting
taxes on appliances and food staples and reducing levies on
 consumer credit  to help ensure 5 percent growth next year in
 Latin America ’s largest economy, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said today. Yields on interest-rate futures contracts rose in
anticipation of stronger domestic consumption and after the
central bank yesterday signaled it would continue its pace of 50
basis-point cuts to the benchmark rate, said Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA in Sao Paulo.  “The measures could boost consumption and are in support
of less rate-cuts,” Leal said in a telephone interview. “The
message is that this is the pace of cuts for the time being.”  The central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously yesterday to reduce the benchmark rate 50 basis
points to 11 percent, matching the forecast by 64 of 65 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers, in a statement identical to the one from
their previous meeting, said that “moderate” rate cuts can
mitigate the effects of the worsening global economy without
putting at risk their 2012 inflation target.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in the three
months through September, the slowest pace in 10 quarters, the
Finance Ministry estimates.  The government suspended a levy on foreign  stock (IBOV)  purchases,
part of more than 1 billion reais ($559 million) in tax cuts to
fuel 5 percent economic growth next year.  The so-called IOF tax on consumer credit will fall to 2.5
percent, and will be cut to zero on foreign purchases of
Brazilian equities and infrastructure debentures, Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia.  Brazil is also extending tax cuts on flour, wheat and
bread, and reducing a tax on pasta. The tax on stoves will fall
to zero, from 4 percent, the tax on refrigerators will fall to 5
percent, from 15 percent, while the tax on washing machines will
fall to 10 percent, from 20 percent, Mantega said.  The government’s stimulus measures should support bets on
higher inflation expectations in coming years,  Siobhan Morden ,
head of Latin American strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in a note to clients today.  Today’s policy announcements “reinforce a clear policy
shift to address the downside risks to growth,” Morden wrote.
“The stubborn inflation risk premium should still argue for a
steep curve.”  -- With assistance from Arnaldo Galvao and Matthew Bristow in
Brasilia. Editors: Brendan Walsh, Lester Pimentel  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  