-- 
Brazil Slashes Taxes to Protect 5% Growth From Spreading European Crisis

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-12-01T20:41:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/brazil-cuts-taxes-more-than-560-million-to-fuel-5-percent-growth-in-2012.html
Brazil suspended a levy on foreign
 stock (IBOV)  purchases as part of 2.8 billion reais ($1.5 billion) in
tax cuts intended to safeguard  Latin America ’s biggest economy
from the spreading European debt crisis.  The package of government measures announced today
targeting 5 percent growth next year also include a reduction in
levies on consumer loans, home appliances, homebuilding and
foreign purchases of corporate bonds tied to infrastructure
projects. Brazilian stocks rallied and the real strengthened.  The stimulus measures come a day after the central bank cut
the benchmark interest rate for a third consecutive meeting amid
signs the world’s sixth-largest economy is stalling. Gross
domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in the three months
through September, the slowest pace in 10 quarters, the Finance
Ministry estimates.  “We need to prevent contagion of the external crisis,”
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia.
“Brazil’s domestic market is our strength.”  Emerging markets  that have been fueling global growth since
2008 are taking action to ensure that Europe’s deepening crisis
and a slowdown in the U.S. do not ensnare their own economies.
Brazil’s moves followed  Mexico ’s decision this week to tap its
$140 billion foreign currency reserves to stanch a slide in the
peso and  China ’s lowering of reserve ratios, which will free up
more lending resources for banks.  Stocks Surge  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge rose 2.3 percent to
58,157.96 at 6:04 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . Fifty-nine stocks climbed
on the index, led by steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA, while eight fell. The real gained 0.5 percent to
1.8001 per dollar.  The stimulus measures will have a more immediate impact
than cuts in interest rates, said Enestor  Dos Santos , senior
 Brazil  economist for BBVA in  Madrid .  “They are trying to prevent a hard landing,” Dos Santos
said in a phone interview. “These measures could help the
economy to grow more in the fourth quarter.”  The suspension of the tax on foreigners’ purchases of
stocks will boost the real by stimulating capital inflows, Dos
Santos added. The real has weakened 11 percent against the
dollar since the end of August, the most among seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Opposite Direction  Today’s measures reverse steps taken last year to limit the
real’s appreciation by restricting capital inflows. The real
strengthened 46 percent from the start of 2009 to August this
year, as near-zero interest rates in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan 
led investors to seek higher returns in emerging markets.  Still, with markets remaining volatile, Mantega said today
that Brazil will hesitate to redeploy the measures to prevent
the real from strengthening again.  “We are keeping our arsenal in place and, at any time, if
there is a risk of speculation returning, we’ll adopt
measures,” Mantega said.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal said the removal of the tax on foreign investment in
stocks is positive for the Brazilian market.  Beginning today, the so-called IOF tax on  consumer credit 
will fall to 2.5 percent from 3 percent, Mantega said.  Stoking Demand  The government is also extending tax cuts on basic staples
like flour, wheat and bread, and reducing a tax on pasta. Taxes
on white goods including stoves, refrigerators and energy-
efficient home appliances will fall to as low as zero from as
high as 20 percent currently, Mantega said.  The  Finance Ministry  estimated the total cost of the
measures in an e-mailed statement, updating initial figures
given by Finance Minister Guido Mantega.  The measures will may give the central bank less space to
cut interest rates by stoking domestic demand already heated by
near record low unemployment, said  Andre Perfeito , chief
economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos.  “Perhaps this will create some challenges for the central
bank to control inflation expectations,” Perfeito said by phone
from Sao Paulo.  While inflation slowed in October, at 6.97 percent it’s
still near a six-year high and analysts in weekly central bank
surveys expect it to remain about the government’s 4.5 percent
target until at least 2013.  Fiscal Cost  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini has repeatedly
said that Brazil should strive to maintain its solid fiscal
position even if the global economic climate worsens. The bank’s
forecast that the inflation rate will fall to its target next
year assumes that the government will meet its 2012 budget goal
of delivering a fiscal surplus before interest payments of about
3.1 percent of GDP.  In 2012, Brazil will maintain the same fiscal “austerity”
implemented this year to give the central bank room to reduce
borrowing costs, Mantega said.  The central bank yesterday cut its benchmark Selic rate
half a point for the third straight meeting to 11 percent.
Traders are wagering that the central bank will cut the Selic to
as low as 9.25 percent by July, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on  interest rate  futures yields.  Homebuilder Rally  Brazilian homebuilder stocks rallied today on the stimulus
measures, led by a 5.8 percent jump for Even Construtora e
Incorporadora SA. B2W Cia. Global do Varejo and Banco do Brasil
SA paced gains for retailers and banks, advancing 2.5 percent
and 4.2 percent respectively. Financial stocks jumped 3.7
percent and companies that sell consumer staples such as
beverages and food rose 2.7 percent, according to MSCI indexes.  Falling industrial output and the lowest level of business
confidence since 2008 are weighing on investor sentiment in
Brazil. Since Tombini’s first rate cut in August, economists
have reduced their forecast for growth this year 11 times, to
3.1 percent from 3.79 percent. Last year, Brazil grew 7.5
percent, its fastest pace in more than two decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 