-- 
Brown Said to Ask Californians to Back Increased Taxes on Income, Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-12-01T22:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/brown-will-ask-california-voters-to-back-increased-taxes-on-income-sales.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  and
his Democratic allies will seek a referendum to boost income and
sales taxes to offset a looming budget deficit, according to a
legislative aide with knowledge of the plan.  The November 2012 ballot measure would propose higher
income taxes on individuals making $250,000 a year, or couples
making $500,000, and raise the statewide  sales tax  by 0.5
percentage point to 7.75 percent, said the aide, who wasn’t
authorized to discuss it on the record because it hasn’t been
officially released. Both levies would expire in 2016, the
person said.  Brown, 73, has been saying he would push a ballot measure
after he failed to win legislative approval in June to extend
$11 billion of higher taxes and fees that have since expired.  The Legislative Analyst’s Office has said  California  may
face a $13 billion shortfall in the year that begins July 1 and
that the sluggish economic recovery isn’t likely to produce $3.7
billion in revenue Brown built into the current budget. That’s
likely to trigger a round of mid-year spending cuts in addition
to the more than $12 billion slashed in June.  Under the proposal, income taxes for those making $250,000
or more would increase by 1 percentage point; $300,000 to
$500,000, 1.5 percentage points, and above $500,000, 2
percentage points, the person said.  California currently taxes income of $47,056 and above at a
rate of 9.3 percent,  according  to the Franchise Tax Board.
Income above $1 million is taxed at 10.3 percent, with the
additional 1 percentage point earmarked for mental-health
services under a ballot measure that passed in 2004.  Combined, the increases in both levies would raise an
estimated $7 billion annually.  A Brown spokesman,  Gil Duran , declined to confirm details
of the governor’s plan or comment about it.  Crowded Ballot  The November ballot, when voters also will chose the next
U.S. president, is shaping up to be one of the most crowded in
the state’s history. More than  30 individual measures  are
pending at the state Attorney General’s office, which must write
a summary and title before supporters can begin gathering
signatures. At least  30 other measures  have already been cleared
and are now circulating.  The California Federation of Teachers is pushing a ballot
measure that would increase income taxes to fund education.  Molly Munger, a Los Angeles civil rights attorney and
daughter of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s vice chairman, Charles Munger, is pushing a broader income-tax increase to raise as
much as $10 billion for education.  Corporate Taxes  A group started and financed by billionaire investor
 Nicolas Berggruen , which includes Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt , former U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  and
former Governor  Gray Davis , said it will seek ballot initiatives
to overhaul the state’s tax structure, adopt a tax on services
and to ease corporate and personal income levies.  Brown’s tax plan stands a better chance if he can get
others to withdraw their proposals, said John J. Pitney Jr., a
politics professor at  Claremont McKenna College .  “He needs to make a pitch to the sponsors of the other
measures that this is the best shot to generate revenue for the
state and that the more tax measures that are on the ballot, the
more likely it is that voters will get confused,” Pitney said
in a telephone interview from the college in Claremont,
California. “Confusion isn’t a formula for success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  