-- 
Budget Gaps Open in Fewer States as Tax Collections Rebound, Report Shows

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-12-01T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/budget-gaps-open-in-fewer-states-as-revenue-rises-report-shows.html
Fewer U.S. states have reported new
budget gaps since the start of fiscal 2012 compared with a year
earlier, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures , which cited rising tax revenue.  California ,  Missouri , New York and Washington face combined
deficits of $4.4 billion for 2012, down from $26.7 billion
confronting 15 states at this time last year, the organization
said in a report released today. Revenue is projected to rise
1.9 percent compared with fiscal 2011, the report said.  “Better revenue performance is driving the improvement in
state finances,” the Denver-based organization said in the
report. “Collections in most states have stabilized or are
growing, and the general-revenue outlook for the remainder of
the fiscal year reflects confidence in continued modest growth.”  Yet the effects of the recession that officially ended in
June 2009 still linger after lawmakers closed collective
deficits of $91 billion for 2012 and more than $500 billion in
the past four years, the organization said, citing a survey of
state legislative fiscal officers. While revenue is increasing,
growth has been below budgeted levels for some, such as
 California , leading to new projected deficits, the group said.  A $3 billion budget gap has opened in the Golden State
since the fiscal year began in July, according to the report.  Personal income-tax collections have met or beaten
forecasts in 33 states, while sales taxes have done so in 35,
according to the report. It said concerns that employment gains
will trail expectations and  Europe ’s debt crisis may also temper
growth.  Through October, 11 states were over budget in terms of
2012 spending, compared with 25 at the same point a year
earlier, according to the report. In six, Medicaid or other
health programs were consuming more resources than planned,
compared with 18 in 2011. Medicaid costs, to provide services to
the needy, are shared with the federal government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  