-- 
Bulgaria Changes Plans to Raise Retirement Age After Protests

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-01T09:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bulgaria-changes-plans-to-raise-retirement-age-after-protests.html
Bulgaria  backed off from a plan to
raise the retirement age by a year in 2012 after thousands of
people marched and rallied yesterday, blocking traffic in the
capital Sofia.  Lawmakers of the ruling Gerb party and government officials
told trade unions they would instead increase the age in four-
month increments each year starting in 2012, until it reaches 65
for men and 63 for women, from 63 and 60, respectively, Menda
Stoyanova, the head of Parliament’s budget committee said in an
interview with BTV television in Sofia today.  The trade unions will discuss the proposal later today
before a final agreement is reached, Konstantin Trenchev, leader
of the Podkrepa syndicate, the second-biggest union in Bulgaria,
told reporters. The government also abandoned plans to increase
the  retirement age  for miners, police and army, Stoyanova said.  Bulgaria, the  European Union’s  poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, weathered the global crisis without
borrowing from international lenders. The country aims to narrow
next year’s  budget gap  to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product
in 2012, from 2 percent this year, in an effort to contain the
impact from the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis.  Planned spending cuts triggered protests in the past four
days by farmers who have blocked major highways for several
hours each day. A railways workers’ strike went into its eighth
day, idling dozens of trains each day between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m.
after the  Bulgarian State Railways EAD  said it will dismiss
2,500 workers and cancel 150 train lines by the end of the year.  The  International Monetary Fund  begins an eight-day visit
to Bulgaria today as part of a regular review of the
government’s economic policies. The IMF urged the government
last year to make sweeping changes in its public pension system
to narrow a 2 billion-lev ($1.37 billion) deficit in the state
pension fund.  The EU cut Bulgaria’s 2012  economic growth  forecast to 2.3
percent from 3.6 percent, while the government calculated next
year’s budget on a 1 percent growth assumption to compensate for
declining exports to the EU. Parliament will complete voting on
next year’s budget in a second, final reading by the end of the
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  