-- 
Bullard Says Fed Shouldn’t Rush to Ease Further as Recovery Picks Up Speed

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-12-01T19:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/bullard-says-fed-shouldn-t-rush-to-ease-further-as-recovery-picks-up-speed.html
James Bullard , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , said recent economic reports
point to stronger economic growth, and policy makers shouldn’t
rush to ease further.  “The data have come in stronger than expected, so I think
the logical thing now is to wait and see,” Bullard said in an
interview in New York today at the Bloomberg Hedge Fund
Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link. “See if we continue to get
a good read on the holiday season and start out the New Year
stronger or weaker, and also assess the situation in Europe and
see how that feeds back to the  United States .”  Fed officials are debating whether the central bank should
resume large-scale purchases of securities to push down an
 unemployment rate  that has been stuck near 9 percent or higher
for more than two years. The central bank has said the European
sovereign-debt crisis poses a risk to the U.S. expansion, and
some policy makers at the last meeting Nov. 1-2 said the Fed
should consider easing further, according to minutes of the
session.  Bullard said growth next year will probably accelerate to a
pace of 3 percent to 3.5 percent. The world’s largest economy
expanded at a 2 percent annual pace in the third quarter,
compared with 1.3 percent in the second quarter and 0.4 percent
in the first three months of the year.  “I think we can grow somewhat stronger in 2012 than we
have in the second half of 2011,” Bullard, 50, said. “The real
question is what is this tail risk in  Europe  and how big is this
tail risk coming from Europe.”  Moderating Inflation  The Fed should also wait to see how much the rate of
inflation moderates, Bullard said in a separate interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  “Inflation is higher now than it was a year ago,” Bullard
said. “It is moderating but it really hasn’t moderated all that
much yet. And so I’d like to see further evidence that inflation
is going to moderate.”  The consumer price index rose 3.5 percent in the 12 months
through October compared with a 3.9 percent increase in the 12
months through September. In October 2010 the index had risen
1.2 percent over a year.  Manufacturing in November expanded faster than forecast, a
report from the Institute for Supply Management showed today.
The Tempe, Arizona-based institute’s manufacturing index rose to
52.7 last month from 50.8 a month earlier. Fifty is the dividing
line between growth and contraction, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the gauge would climb to 51.8.  Construction Spending  The Commerce Department said today construction spending in
the U.S. rose in October for a third consecutive month on gains
in housing and commercial projects.  U.S. stocks fell following the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,245.95 at 2:32 p.m. in
 New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose 3 basis
points to 2.11 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Many U.S. firms may be able to weather Europe’s debt crisis
because of their focus on economies in  Asia , Bullard said.  “A lot of the big U.S. companies, their growth strategy is
in Asia,” Bullard said. “They’ve got businesses in Europe,
stable businesses in Europe, that is part of their portfolio.
But as far as growth, they’re looking to Asia, and I see Asia as
continuing to grow.”  ‘Wake-Up Call’  Europe’s debt crisis is “a complete wake-up call for the
U.S. fiscal situation,” Bullard said. “You’re talking about
economies that were previously considered AAA having tremendous
fiscal problems, having trouble borrowing on international
markets. Our day will come if we do not address this issue.”  Bullard said he backs yesterday’s decision by the Fed and
five other central banks to lower the cost of emergency dollar
borrowing by overseas banks.  “I’m happy to support the chairman on this effort to lower
the penalty rate on these dollar swaps,” he said, referring to
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Bullard spoke a day after the show of force by central
banks sparked a global rally in stocks on optimism it will help
Europe overcome its debt crisis. The euro rose for a second day
today and European bonds climbed, pushing the yield on the
French 10-year note down by the most since 1991.  The Fed joined with the  European Central Bank  and the
central banks of  Canada ,  Switzerland ,  Japan  and the U.K. to cut
the pricing on dollar liquidity swaps.  Under the program, the Fed lends dollars to the ECB and
other central banks in exchange for currencies including euros.
The central banks then lend dollars to commercial banks in their
jurisdictions through an auction process.  Debt Crisis  The swap arrangements were revived in May 2010 when the
debt crisis in Europe worsened. The Fed three months earlier had
closed all swap lines opened during the financial crisis
triggered by the subprime-mortgage meltdown in 2007.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  The St. Louis Fed district is home to companies such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in Bentonville, Arkansas, the world’s
largest retailer, St. Louis-based  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s
biggest seed company and  Memphis , Tennessee-based  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,
operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  