-- 
Canadian Dollar Gains for 6th Day in Longest Winning Streak Since January

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-12-01T22:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/canadian-dollar-rises-for-6th-day-in-longest-winning-streak-since-january.html
The Canadian dollar advanced for a
sixth straight day in the longest winning streak since January
before a report tomorrow forecast by economists to show
employers resumed adding jobs.  Canada’s currency rallied yesterday the most since August
versus the U.S. dollar as the  Federal Reserve  and five central
banks including the  Bank of Canada  acted to make it cheaper for
lenders to borrow in dollars to contain European sovereign-debt
turmoil.  “People are positioning themselves long Canada ahead of
the Canadian payroll numbers tomorrow, which are expected to be
decent,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. A long position is a bet an asset will rise. “We may
be seeing a little bit of fast money in that respect. Longer-
term, the global backdrop is still challenging, so this is just
intraday noise.”  The loonie, as the currency is also known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent to
C$1.0139 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. One Canadian
dollar buys 98.63 U.S. cents. The loonie gained yesterday to
C$1.0124, the strongest level since Nov. 14.  Yields on 10-year Government of Canada bonds fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.13 percent. The price of
the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021 increased 12
cents to C$109.52.  Employment Report  Canadian  employers  probably added 20,000 jobs in November
after eliminating 54,000 positions in the previous month,
according to the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before tomorrow’s report from  Statistics Canada . The
 unemployment rate  may have held at 7.3 percent.  The Canadian dollar is headed for a 3.2 percent weekly gain
versus the greenback on speculation yesterday’s move by central
banks will help contain European sovereign-debt turmoil and
encourage demand for higher-yielding assets.  European leaders are due to meet Dec. 9 after a series of
stop-gap accords failed to protect Italy and  Spain  from surging
bond yields. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
today that the bank’s bond-buying program was “limited” and
that euro-region governments unifying their fiscal policies
would be a more effective way to end the crisis.  The loonie may struggle to sustain recent gains until
European Union leaders take concrete measures to stem the
region’s crisis, according to Blake Jespersen, director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  ‘Headline Risk’  “There’s too much headline risk out of  Europe  over the
next several days to really continue this move,” Jespersen said
in a telephone interview. “A lot of accounts have told us they
are on hold for a few days until there is more clarity out of
Europe. We’ve seen several rallies in the past few months stall
and go back the other way.”  Canada ’s dollar got a boost earlier today as the Tempe,
Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory
index increased to 52.7 last month from 50.8 in October.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a gain to 51.8. America is Canada’s
biggest trading partner.  “Potentially this is just a short-term distraction because
there are bigger issues at play in Europe,” Greg Moore,
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities,
said in a telephone interview from Toronto.  The loonie has gained 1.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback has
gained 1.8 percent, and the yen has advanced 2.32 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  