-- 
Canadian Exporter Confidence Drops to Second-Lowest on Record

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-12-01T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/canadian-exporter-confidence-drops-to-second-lowest-on-record.html
Canadian exporter confidence plunged
to the second-lowest on record amid concern the global economy
is worsening, the country’s export-financing agency said.  Export Development Canada ’s semi-annual trade confidence
index fell to 67 from 76.2 in the survey published June 29,
Ottawa-based EDC said today. The index, which dates to 2000, hit
a record low of 61 in 2008.  “Canadian exporters appear frustrated by the uncertainty
in the global economy and the world’s markets,”  Peter Hall , the
agency’s chief economist, said in a statement.  Exports make up one third of Canada’s economy with three-
quarters of the shipments bound for the U.S. Sales abroad have
been threatened by a Canadian dollar trading near parity with
its U.S. counterpart, a drop in demand for building products and
automobiles and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  EDC’s own forecast is that the Canadian dollar will weaken
from three cents above parity with the  U.S. dollar  this year to
two cents weaker than parity next year.  “The day-to-day volatility is hurting their bottom
lines,” the report said about the  exchange rate . Exporters
“feel the higher dollar is here to stay, and they’ve accepted
that and incorporated it into their operational plans.”  The survey with 785 complete responses was done from Oct. 3
to Oct. 14, and the biggest drop in confidence was seen in the
so-called balance of opinion on the global economy. That measure
plunged to negative 51 percent from 4 percent in the last
survey, the report said.  All five questions in the survey showed a drop in the
balance of opinion. The international opportunities measure fell
to 5 percent from 25 percent, and export sales declined to 35
percent from 44 percent, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 