-- 
Catherine the Great Rides to Glory in Bio: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-12-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/catherine-the-great-rides-to-glory-in-bio-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Energetic until her death in 1796,
she would rise at six a.m., let the greyhounds into the garden,
drink the first of five cups of black coffee and start on her
letters.  “I still love to laugh,” Catherine the Great wrote to a
confidante who had grown old with her.  That most appealing human quality illuminates “ Catherine
the Great: Portrait of a Woman ,” a new biography of the Russian
empress by  Robert K. Massie .  In 625 pages, Massie describes how Sophia, the young
daughter of a noble German nobody, became -- after a religious
conversion, name change, marriage and murder -- the remarkable
tsarina who deserves a big book.  Lots of Annas, Annes, Catherines and Peters, many Orlovs,
assorted princes, kings and decrepit dukes animate Massie’s
meticulously detailed study of the complex state of European
affairs in the last 50 years of the 18th century.  For a while, there was also a deranged teen tsar locked up
in a fortress, until the poor thing was no more.  Hovering in the background was the malicious little
Prussian, Frederick, also called “the Great,” though he was
less deserving of the honorific.  It was the lot of this flute-playing, women-loathing
martinet to soldier through life at a time when two queens who
hated him occupied important thrones.  Frederick’s destructive campaigns against Maria Theresa of
Austria and Elizabeth, the Russian empress, nearly bankrupted
Prussia, until the tsarina suddenly died and his luck changed.  Holstein-Gottorp  Her successor, Peter III, husband of Catherine, now bumbled
into view, a Prussia-adoring dimwit who hailed from the
geographically tormented duchy of Holstein-Gottorp, known also
as the birthplace of Catherine’s mother, and many pretty cows.  I know that was quite a bit of information to absorb. And
I’ve yet to mention the Swedish king, also a player, or poor
Stanislaus Poniatowski, who took a shortcut from Catherine’s
bedroom to  Poland ’s throne. He was not happy with the promotion
and wrote her importuning letters as in “Please, Matushka! Not
Poland!”  Back to Peter III. A pitiful presence, unlike his uncle,
Peter the Great, he spent his nights commanding an army of
Prussian toy soldiers on the mammoth bed he shared with
Catherine, who might wearily maneuver tiny hussars around the
pillows before falling asleep.  Their sexless charade continued for nine years, Catherine
recalled in her memoir.  Peter’s Peter  There’s some evidence Peter suffered from phimosis until a
surgical intercession helped him out.  Regardless, he comes across as hard to love: disfigured by
smallpox, passive-aggressive and prone to sawing away at the
violin at odd hours. He smoked, drank and sulked when Catherine
beat him at cards, which she learned not to do.  Finally, Catherine took a lover, Sergei Saltykov, the first
of several. The list is actually fairly short and exclusively
human, never mind the scurrilous obsession with her sex life
that enemies promoted.  She chose shrewdly: Gregory Orlov helped make her empress;
Gregory Potemkin enlarged her empire all the way to the Crimea.
Massie, by the way, notes there’s no evidence this overachiever
tried to fool his smart sovereign by putting up “Potemkin
villages” -- mere facades with nothing behind.  Moving Quickly  Peter ruled for just a few months. When it became obvious
that he hoped to shove her aside in favor of his mistress,
Catherine moved quickly late one night.  As the legendary Preobrazhensky Guards cheered, Catherine
dressed herself in their uniform and jumped astride a white
steed to lead the coup, sword at her side.  Peter lasted barely a week once he was cornered and locked
up in a stone house in Ropsha. You almost feel sorry for the
poor wretch as he whimpered and wrote groveling letters to his
soon-to-be widow. A few of the officers strangled him with a
scarf, perhaps accidentally, during a drunken dinner. Catherine
accepted their apologies.  Massie, who has written prize-winning biographies of Peter
the Great and the Romanovs, gives an exciting account of the
chaotic days that changed the history of  Russia . Now in his 80s,
he has lost none of his taste for the delicious convolutions of
court intrigue.  Catherine ordered up a fine large crown and quickly got on
with the business of capably ruling a huge empire. Blue-eyed and
slimly voluptuous, the empress captivated rough soldiers and
brainy philosophers.  French Librarian  At a time when Russians were still considered socially
retarded, she corresponded in perfect French with the
intellectuals of the Enlightenment, especially Voltaire, who
thought she was a goddess, and  Diderot , the impoverished if
celebrated editor of  Europe ’s first great encyclopedia.  Hearing Diderot couldn’t afford a dowry for his daughter,
she bought his library. Then she insisted he keep all the books,
since he needed them more.  In thanks, Diderot undertook the difficult journey to  St.
Petersburg , losing his wig en route, and amused his patron by
banging on her thighs when he wished to make a point.  Every day for two hours, editor and empress conversed on
topics that included the benefits of commercial competition and
the usefulness of anatomy classes for girls (helps thwart
seducers).  No Torture  Catherine would affectionately remember the French
eccentric for his “brown eyes, heavy and sad, as if recalling
un-recallable errors, or realizing the indestructibility of
superstition, or noting the high birth rate of simpletons.”  Inspired by Enlightenment ideas, Catherine turned to
composing her Nakaz, a revision of Russia’s legal code, setting
out her rules for enlightened governance.  Channeling Locke and Montesquieu and so many of her adoring
European pen pals, she argued against excessive punishment,
decried slavery and spoke ardently for a free press.  Then she fumed for months as she -- shrouded by curtains --
observed her ungrateful regional representatives tear the
document to shreds. They did not wish to be quite so
enlightened! Even the Europeanized nobles, who were usually her
greatest supporters, loved their serfs.  The French Revolution also encouraged a course correction.
(Massie offers a bizarrely amusing discourse on severed heads
still blinking at the world).  Unsurprisingly, the empress adopted a more conservative
style as she aged, though her disgust with torture remained
steadfast and makes for interesting reading in our own time.  “All punishments by which the human body might be maimed
are barbarous,” she wrote.  ‘A Kind Heart’  Before a stroke killed her after 34 years of rule, she
described herself in an epitaph: “She forgave easily and hated
no one. She was good-natured, easy-going, tolerant,
understanding and of a happy disposition. She had a republican
spirit and a kind heart.”  Massie writes that he wished to present a portrait of the
empress as woman. More than that, he has given us a portrait of
a remarkable human being.  “Catherine the Great” is published by  Random House  (625
pages, $35). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net . 