-- 
Celesio to Distribute Merck KGaA’s Fertility Products in U.K.

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-12-01T11:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/celesio-to-distribute-merck-kgaa-s-fertility-products-in-u-k-.html
Celesio AG (CLS1) ,  Europe ’s biggest drug
wholesaler, will be the exclusive distributor of fertility
products in the U.K. for German drugmaker  Merck KGaA  beginning
in January, Chief Executive Officer Markus Pinger said.  Profit will rebound in 2012 due to restructuring and the
company’s German business will improve once a new fee system
takes effect in January, Pinger told reporters during a dinner
yesterday. Merck sells 63 percent of fertility drugs in the
U.K., according to Celesio.  Celesio reduced its 2011 profit forecast on Oct. 26 for the
second time this year, citing increased regulation in the U.K.
and competition in France and  Germany . Pinger, who became CEO in
August, is overhauling the Stuttgart, Germany-based company and
may sell units that handle logistics and sales and marketing for
drugmakers. He is also reviewing the DocMorris mail-order brand.  Profit next year will be “significantly better” as 2011
results include a “dramatic” effect from one-time expenses of
as much as 100 million euros ($134 million), Pinger said.  New Rules  Celesio’s German business should improve when new rules
give wholesalers a fixed payment for each package they deliver
to pharmacists, he said. Wholesalers will receive 70 cents per
package and 3.15 percent of the cost of the medication, compared
with an average of 6 percent per package previously. Wholesalers
were hurt over the last year when drugmakers were forced to
offer mandatory rebates in Germany. The fee-per-package
wholesalers receive goes toward buying and storing product from
drugmakers and distributing it to pharmacies.  Celesio’s German wholesale unit GEHE and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  are in
talks about an ongoing delivery dispute, Pinger said. Novartis
stopped deliveries of certain medicines to Celesio in mid-
October, as well as to Germany’s biggest wholesaler Phoenix
Pharmahandel GmbH in November, over a disagreement on prices and
delivery conditions.  Novartis has been “optimizing” its contracts with
wholesalers and adjusting “many-years-old discount rules” that
were outdated and no longer in line with the market,  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for the Basel-based drugmaker, said in an
e-mailed statement to Bloomberg on Nov. 9.  Celesio doesn’t expect to make any acquisitions before 2013
as it restructures “unless a really good deal presents
itself,” Pinger said.  GEHE’s pilot program with pharmacists, which offers
software to manage ordering and inventories as well as marketing
and consulting services, has been successful, he said.  “The program has great potential for us and the
pharmacies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  