-- 
Central Bank Crisis Plan, India CDSs, Olympus: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-12-01T13:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/central-bank-crisis-plan-india-cds-trades-olympus-compliance.html
The  Federal Reserve  and five other
central banks set up agreements to distribute each other’s
currencies in the event of a global funding crisis.  Central banks agreed to establish temporary bilateral
currency swap arrangements “so that liquidity can be provided
in each jurisdiction in any of their currencies should market
conditions so warrant,” the Fed said yesterday in a press
release, calling the agreement a “contingency measure.” The
 European Central Bank  and the central banks of Canada, Japan,
Switzerland and the U.K. agreed to the arrangements.  The bilateral agreements were announced alongside
coordinated action by the six central banks aimed at boosting
dollar liquidity. Bilateral swaps would enable, for example, the
Fed to provide euros, Swiss francs or British pounds to U.S.
banks if needed. The accord allows a broader distribution of
liquidity and allows a bank to deal directly with its home
central bank, said Dino Kos, a former  New York  Fed executive
vice president in charge of open market operations.  The central banks also agreed yesterday to lower the cost
of dollar swap arrangements. The premium banks pay to borrow
dollars overnight from central banks will fall by half a
percentage point to 50 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percent.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Consumer Bureau to Publish Data on Credit-Card Complaints  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed
publishing data on consumer complaints about credit cards,
including the names of firms that issued the cards.  Under the proposal released yesterday, the bureau would
exclude personal data of complainants and release information on
the type of complaint, the issuer involved, the date of the
complaint and the postal ZIP code of the consumer. The agency
will also publish “periodic reports about trends and patterns
in complaint data,” according to the proposal.  The bureau anticipates that if it publishes the data it
would most likely be used by academics and consumer groups to
look for “trends and patterns,” according to the proposal.  The publication could affect card issuers including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America Corp. and  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  These firms worked with the bureau beginning
early this year to set up the consumer response system.  Even before the agency’s system began taking complaints
about credit cards on July 21, industry groups including the
American Bankers association were pushing to keep data
confidential, arguing that publication would allow frivolous
complaints to damage reputable brands. Consumer groups argued
that many firms, such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , publish unedited
consumer complaints with no apparent harm.  For more, click here.  Obama Is Watering Down Regulations More Than Bush, Study Shows  President  Barack Obama , criticized by Republicans for
slowing job growth by over-regulating, has weakened proposed
rules at a greater rate than President George W. Bush, according
to a new study.  The White House  Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs  changed 76 percent of agency rules submitted for review
under Obama, compared with 64 percent under his Republican
predecessor, according to the study from the Center for
Progressive Reform. Obama also has ignored requirements that he
disclose documents exchanged between OIRA and federal agencies,
the report said.  The scope of  government regulation  has emerged as a major
issue in the 2012 presidential race and on  Capitol Hill .
Republican presidential candidates have accused Obama of
stifling job creation by imposing rules on business, and House
Republicans have vowed to rein in proposed regulations on
everything from the environment to health care to banking.  The regulatory affairs office’s 1,080 meetings over the
past decade have been heavily dominated by business interests,
according to the study. Groups that met with OIRA were 29
percent more likely to get a rule changed than those who were
not, according to the study released Nov. 29.  For more, click here.  House Panel Approves Measure to Restrict CFTC’s Swap-Trade Rules  A U.S. House committee approved legislation that would bar
regulators from dictating how many traders would have to compete
for transactions that fall under Dodd-Frank Act rules aimed at
increasing transparency in the $708 trillion over-the-counter
swaps market.  The  House Financial Services Committee  moved in a voice
vote yesterday to advance the bill, which is designed to allow
more flexibility in trading methods on so-called swap-execution
facilities and align rules drafted by the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  and  Securities and Exchange Commission .  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
seeks to bolster oversight of the swaps market by having trades
guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded publicly. The
legislation approved yesterday would prevent the CFTC from
completing a requirement that swap-buyers seek quotes from at
least five participants before executing a trade. The SEC
proposed requiring price quotes from at least one participant.  In separate votes, the House panel backed measures barring
regulators from imposing margin requirement on swaps end-users
and exempting swaps between subsidiaries of the same firm from
clearing and trading rules.  For more, click here.  Italy, Greece Worst Among Euro Countries in Corruption Ranking  Italy and Greece scored the lowest among euro-area
countries in a global corruption ranking as their inability to
tackle graft and tax evasion exacerbated the debt crisis,
watchdog group  Transparency International  said.  Italy came in 69th and Greece placed 80th, down from 67th
and 78th respectively in the 2010 ranking, the Berlin-based
group’s  Corruption Perceptions Index  showed yesterday. Ireland
dropped five places to 19th, earning a score of 7.5 out of 10, a
drop from 8 points in last year’s ranking, Transparency said.  “Euro-zone countries suffering debt crises, partly because
of public authorities’ failure to tackle the bribery and tax
evasion that are key drivers of debt crisis, are among the
lowest-scoring EU countries,” the group said in the report.  Europe ’s engulfment in the sovereign-debt crisis has
exposed the failure of indebted governments to raise revenue and
tackle reforms, prompting crowds of protesters to fill the
streets to demand their ouster.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  India Introduces Trading in Credit-Default Swaps, Limits Market  India introduced trading in credit-default swaps and set
rules limiting the scope of the market, eight years after first
proposing the derivatives as part of efforts to lure investors
to the nation’s corporate bond market.  Local lenders and units of foreign banks will be allowed to
buy CDS contracts to “hedge” assets and trading positions, the
 Reserve Bank of India  said in a notification Nov. 29, adding the
guidelines become effective immediately. The central bank
postponed a decision in 2003, citing the need for banks to
improve risk management, and held off again in 2008 as global
credit markets seized up following the financial crisis.  Confining trading in the derivative contracts to lenders
based in India may not help attract capital needed to build
roads, ports and  power plants , and policy makers need to throw
open the market to overseas traders, according to  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh plans to spend $1
trillion by 2017 to upgrade the nation’s infrastructure and
boost growth.  The  Reserve Bank , which was expected to start CDS on Oct.
24, delayed the start pending establishment of infrastructure.  Olympus Probe Panel Said to Issue Report as Soon as This Week  Olympus Corp.’s independent panel investigating
acquisitions and accounting by the Japanese camera maker may
release findings as early as this week, a person involved in the
investigation said.  The committee plans to complete its report before Olympus
announces earnings, the person said, asking not to be identified
because the probe is confidential. The investigation is ongoing,
so the report could be delayed, the person said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange has said that 92-year-old Olympus
must submit second-quarter results by Dec. 14 or it will be
delisted. Olympus has said it plans to correct previous earnings
 statements  after admitting on Nov. 8 that it had falsified its
accounts to hide investment losses dating back decades.  Olympus reaffirmed it plans to meet the deadline in a
statement to the exchange yesterday. The shares  fell  as much as
13 percent in early Tokyo trading after the Wall Street Journal
reported the company may struggle to file in time.  The company set up the panel on Nov. 1 to investigate
questions raised by losses and transactions related to
acquisitions, including $687 million in payments to advisers in
the purchase of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008.  For more, click here.  SEC, Finra Issue Risk Alert on Broker-Dealer Office Inspections  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority issued a risk alert and
regulatory notice on broker-dealer branch inspections, according
to an e-mailed statement.  The actions are intended to alert the securities industry
to risks identified by the SEC’s national examination staff, so
that industry members can more effectively address those risks.  Unannounced branch inspections were among the
recommendations issued by the agencies.  Courts  Ex-Ropes & Gray Lawyer Gets 6 Months in Goffer Tipping Case  Brien Santarlas, a former lawyer at  Ropes & Gray LLP , was
sentenced to six months in prison for passing information on
pending mergers to stock traders.  Santarlas, 34, pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges in
December 2009 and cooperated with the U.S. investigation of
illegal tips to hedge funds.  Calling that cooperation “very, very important,” U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan yesterday said that
as a lawyer, Santarlas should be held to a high standard and his
sentence should send a message to other attorneys.  Santarlas and another attorney passed tips about two
pending mergers to a former trader at Galleon Group LLC. The
deals were Bain Capital Partners’ acquisition of 3Com Corp. and
TPG Capital’s purchase of Axcan Pharma Inc.  Santarlas pleaded guilty to securities fraud and agreed to
forfeit $32,500.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  CFTC to Propose Foreign Swap Reach Rules in 2012, O’Malia Says  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  next year
will propose regulations that govern the international reach of
Dodd-Frank Act rules for the $708 trillion swaps market, said
 Scott O’Malia , a commission member.  The over-the-counter “derivatives industry is global and
defining where U.S. jurisdiction starts and ends will involve
considerable debate,” O’Malia, a Republican, said in a speech
prepared for a  Futures Industry Association  conference held in
Singapore.  Wall Street’s largest swap dealers have lobbied the CFTC
and Securities and Exchange Commission to restrict the reach of
Dodd-Frank rules so their foreign-based subsidiaries aren’t put
at a disadvantage compared with overseas rivals that don’t fall
under U.S. law.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other
firms said in a June 29 letter that proposed Dodd-Frank
regulations threaten to “damage the competitiveness” of the
foreign-based business of U.S. banks. The banks have argued that
proposed regulations for margin, or collateral, in non-cleared
trades will encourage customers to do business with overseas
firms.  International regulators, including the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, are planning to publish a document for
common margin requirements in non-cleared trades by the middle
of next year, O’Malia said.  Dominion Chief Urges More Time to Comply With EPA Pollution Rule  U.S. regulators should give utilities upgrading their
plants at least one additional year to meet restrictions on
power-plant pollution,  Dominion Resources Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer Thomas F. Farrell said.  “The compressed three-year time frame for compliance is
not sufficient,” Farrell, who is also the company’s chairman,
said yesterday at a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
conference in Washington. President Barack Obama has the
authority to issue an executive order to extend the deadline,
Farrell said.  FERC, which regulates the interstate transport of
electricity, is examining the effect on the grid’s reliability
of rules planned by the Environmental Protection Agency. The EPA
will issue power-plant standards for mercury and air toxics by
Dec. 16,  Gina McCarthy , the agency’s assistant administrator for
the Office of Air and Radiation, said at yesterday’s conference.  The EPA has proposed letting individual power plants apply
for more time to meet the pollution standards, according to
people familiar with the process. The process for delaying
compliance “must be in place at the time the rule is issued,”
Farrell said. He’s chairman of the Edison Electric Institute, a
Washington-based industry group.  For more, click here.  King Says Resolving Wider Problems Is Beyond U.K. Authorities  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said resolving the
wider problems of global financial imbalances are beyond the
U.K. authorities to deal with on their own.  U.K. banks “should give further consideration to building
up capital further in the coming months,” King said at a press
conference in  London  today to present the Financial Stability
Report. Still, “U.K. banks are better capitalized than their
European peers.”  King added that the crisis in the Euro area “is one of
solvency and not liquidity.”  While he said that “only the governments directly involved
can find a way out of this crisis,” he added that “here in the
U.K. we must try and find a way to bolster the resilience” of
the financial system.  U.K. authorities are making a wide range of contingency
plans against the potential intensification of the euro-area
debt crisis and a breakup of the single currency, King said.  “We are certainly making a contingency plan,” he said.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Olympus Whistle-Blower, Ex-CEO Woodford Resigns as Director  Ex- Olympus Corp. (7733)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Woodford,
the whistle-blower who questioned fees paid by the camera maker,
said he resigned as a director after earlier offering to return
to the top post.  Woodford was fired as president and CEO on Oct. 14 after he
confronted the Olympus board about oversized payments made to
advisers in the acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008.  Olympus revealed this month that it used the purchase of
Gyrus and three other takeovers to hide decades-old investment
losses.  He had remained a director of the Tokyo-based company after
being fired and has met with prosecutors and regulators in
Japan, the U.K. and the U.S. He said those investigations
weren’t related to his decision to resign from the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 