-- 
Centro Properties Plan to Wipe Out $3 Billion of Debt Is Approved by Judge

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-12-01T06:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/centro-properties-proposal-to-erase-3-billion-of-debt-approved-by-judge.html
Centro Properties Group (CNP) , whose
shareholders and debt holders agreed to a plan to wipe out A$2.9
billion ($3 billion) of debt last week, won court approval for
the proposal, avoiding receivership.  New South Wales Supreme Court Justice Ian Barrett today
approved the plan. He ordered Centro to hold off filing
documents with the Australian Securities & Investment Commission
until 11 a.m. tomorrow in Sydney to give PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, which objected to the proposal, time to consider an appeal.  “Upsetting of any or one element could be fatal to the
whole plan,” Barrett said in delivering his ruling in New South
Wales Supreme Court today.  Centro has A$2.9 billion of debt maturing Dec. 15, and
failure to win approval for the reorganization plan would likely
have pushed the company into receivership, Centro Properties
Group Chairman  Paul Cooper  told security holders on Nov. 22.
Current shareholders wouldn’t have received any payments, he
said.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said the company improperly
transferred A$100 million with almost half benefiting
shareholders at the expense of creditors.  Once the plan is filed with ASIC it goes into effect,
Centro’s lawyer Fabian Gleeson told the judge.  Filing Deadline  Centro must file the papers with ASIC before noon tomorrow
to meet a Dec. 14 deadline to complete the reorganization and
erase the debt before it’s due, he said.  “If this scheme falls over because of an impediment put in
place at the last minute,” people may lose the A$100 million,
he said. “If we can’t repay the debt on Dec. 15, we would have
to put the company into administration.”  Damages as a result would run into the hundreds of millions
of dollars, he said.  Centro first announced a restructuring plan in 2009 after a
debt-fueled U.S. buying spree backfired when the global
financial crisis caused property values to plummet and borrowing
costs to soar, leaving the company unable to refinance its
liabilities.  Share and debt holders of Centro Properties and listed unit
Centro Retail Trust approved the restructuring last week, which
will give senior lenders control of the new Centro Retail
 Australia  trust in exchange for forgiving the company’s debt
maturing Dec. 15.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds that have bought Centro’s debt from its
original lenders would own 72.3 percent of Centro Retail
Australia. Centro Properties investors would get 5.03 Australian
cents for each security they own. Holders of hybrid securities
would receive A$20 million and convertible bond holders A$21
million, it said. The rest would be set aside to pay other
creditors.  PricewaterhouseCoopers alleged the money set aside under
the plan to pay Centro shareholders should have been retained to
pay contingent creditors, who rank ahead of equity holders in a
default.  Centro Properties,  Centro Retail Group (CER)  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers are facing class action lawsuits from
former investors who alleged the companies and their auditor
misled them and the stock exchange about the full extent of both
groups’ maturing debt obligations and their ability to refinance
them.  Class Action Payouts  Payouts related to class action lawsuits faced by Centro
and the auditor could exceed the A$10 million the company had
allocated for contingent creditors in the plan, Richard McHugh,
PricewaterhouseCoopers’s lawyer, told the judge last week. The
company shouldn’t have allocated A$49 million for shareholders
when it had a “very significant outstanding claim,” he said.  Centro’s former director Andrew Scott was fined A$30,000 in
August and former Chief Financial Officer Romano Nenna was
barred from serving as a director for two years after a judge
found they failed to fully disclose the company’s debts in
financial statements. Four other former directors and two
current directors were reprimanded.  Centro’s 2007 annual report failed to disclose A$1.5
billion of short-term liabilities by classifying them as non-
current, and the company didn’t declare $1.75 billion of short-
term debt guarantees of an associated company, Justice John
Middleton said in a June 27 ruling finding the directors liable.  Centro, which managed about A$16.5 billion of shopping
malls in Australia,  New Zealand  and the U.S., had about A$16
billion of debt across its businesses as of Dec. 31, according
to the company’s first-half results released Feb. 24.  The case is In the matter of Centro Properties Ltd.
2011/00283647. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  