-- 
Cheapest Primary in Decade Defies Forecast

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-12-01T15:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/cheapest-primary-in-a-decade-defies-campaign-spending-prediction.html
Even as experts predict that the 2012
presidential race will be the most expensive in U.S. history, a
funny thing is happening on the way to the Republican
nomination: It’s becoming one of the cheapest primaries in a
more than a decade.  The top nine Republican candidates spent $53 million
through September, compared with $132 million spent at the same
time four years ago. The sum is even lower than totals reported
during the same period in the 2004 and 2000 primaries -- when
most candidates still were abiding by campaign spending limits
in order to receive public matching money.  In the crowded Democratic primary in 2004, the candidates
had spent $58 million through Sept. 30, 2003. Four years
earlier, a primary field of 10 Republican candidates had spent
$68 million in the first three quarters of 1999.  One major difference is a profusion of televised debates --
11 so far -- negating the need for costly commercials.  “The debates and the daily drama of the Republican
presidential primary are the new TV,” said  Ken Goldstein ,
president of Kantar Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group in
Arlington, Virginia.  The spending slump is having an effect on the campaign
trail. Advertising in the first two states to hold contests,
Iowa and New Hampshire, has plummeted 75 percent. And candidates
who have barely registered in what’s sometimes called “the
money primary” are vaulting into the lead.  Debtors and Front-Runners  Republicans  Newt Gingrich  and  Herman Cain , once footnotes
in the race, have both taken recent turns in polling leads. As
of Sept. 30, Gingrich was $1.2 million in debt and Cain had
$658,779 in cash after accounting for his bills to pay.  “Money is not the coin of the realm this time,” said Alex Vogel, a Republican strategist and lobbyist not aligned with any
of the candidates. “They’re not really being judged on the
money the way we used to judge people on the money.”  The debates have played a more prominent role this year,
and candidates have increasingly recognized the limits of early
political spending such as advertising, Vogel said. There has
also been less time to collect cash because fundraising started
months later in the primary season than usual and many donors
haven’t yet picked a candidate.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  didn’t announce
his candidacy until June 2; four years ago, he opened his
campaign’s doors in January 2007, and his first event on Jan. 9,
2007, featured 400 volunteers making fundraising phone calls
that generated $6.5 million in pledged donations.  ‘Newt’s Resurgence’  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia , may be
the biggest beneficiary of the new environment. Almost written
off in June as he faced mounting campaign debt and mass
resignations of aides, Gingrich trudged on with a shoestring
budget and attracted attention in the series of nationally
televised debates. He led in four polls last month, having spent
just $2.5 million on his campaign through Sept. 30.  “Newt’s resurgence has proved that you can get by on very
little money for a long time,” Vogel said.  Romney, the long-time front-runner, spent $18 million
through September. That compares with almost $54 million he
spent on a failed run for the nomination in the same period in
2007 -- more than the top nine candidates combined in 2011.  “Every day of debates, every day of drama, is a day when
Romney doesn’t need to advertise in  Iowa ,” Goldstein said.  Ad Spending  The Republican candidates and their allied political action
committees spent $2.5 million on television ads in Iowa and New
Hampshire through Nov. 27, according to Goldstein’s data. That’s
compared with $10 million spent by the candidates alone through
Nov. 27, 2007.  Romney spent $3.7 million in Iowa and $3.2 million in New
Hampshire on political commercials four years ago. In the
current race, he spent nothing in Iowa and $56,620 in New
Hampshire through Nov. 27, Goldstein’s figures show.  Romney today announced his first ad in Iowa, which promotes
his credentials as a “conservative businessman” and talks
about the need to cut spending.  “Mitt Romney has always said that he would campaign and
compete in Iowa,” said Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman.
“He looks forward to participating in the two upcoming Iowa
debates. Going on television is just another tool in getting
Mitt Romney’s message out that  Barack Obama  has failed as a
president, and that he is the best choice to grow the economy,
cut spending and create jobs.”  Support Costs  Most of the candidates’ other spending goes toward travel,
staff salaries, rent, printing and other support operations.
Romney spent $1.2 million on payroll in the third quarter of
2011, compared with more than $2 million in the same period of
2007, Federal Election Commission data show. He paid more than
$600,000 for get-out-the-vote consulting in 2007, compared with
$112,000 for “field consulting” in 2011.  “The Romney campaign is actually better organized in their
ground game than four years ago, but they have done it with
fewer resources and they have spent their money wisely,” said
former New Hampshire Republican chairman Steve Duprey, who isn’t
affiliated with a candidate. “The other camps are less well
organized, I think, primarily because of scarce resources.”  Paul Bucks Trend  One of the few candidates bucking the trend is U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas . He has spent $820,610 on ads
in New Hampshire and Iowa, more than anyone else. And through
September, his campaign had spent a total of $9.1 million,
compared with $2.8 million in the same period during his last
bid for the nomination.  Paul was tied for fourth place with Texas Governor  Rick Perry  in a Nov. 14-20 Quinnipiac University poll of registered
Republicans nationally. Gingrich led, followed by Romney and
Cain, a former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza.  Perry spent $600,570 on ads in Iowa and $45,750 in New
Hampshire through Nov. 27. He spent $2.1 million altogether for
his campaign through September, according to FEC records.
Gingrich hasn’t run any ads in the two early states; Cain also
has avoided airing ads while spending $4 million.  To some extent, the change in focus in this year’s primary
may be because Romney has been the front-runner for so long and
few people doubt his fundraising ability, Vogel said.  The Anti-Romney  “You have one candidate that everyone knows can raise the
money and a bunch of other candidates competing to be the anti-
that person,” Vogel said.  Most new political action committees that are officially
independent and can take unlimited contributions to help a
candidate won’t report spending until January. Their ad spending
accounted for less than $700,000 of the total $2.5 million
through Nov. 27.  Make Us Great Again, which is backing Perry, spent $196,990
in Iowa, and Our Destiny PAC, supporting former Utah Governor
 Jon Huntsman , spent $492,880 in  New Hampshire .  The dynamics will change as the race moves beyond Iowa and
New Hampshire, where more of a premium is placed on face-to-face
contact, Goldstein said. Indeed,  Sheila Krumholz , executive
director of the Center for Responsive Politics in  Washington ,
has predicted that spending on the 2012 elections will reach a
record $6 billion.  “The fact that we’ve seen much less advertising this year
than last says absolutely nothing about what’s going to be a
huge television war in 2012,” Goldstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 