-- 
GM’s Chevrolet Volt Will Miss 2011 Sales Target

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-12-01T21:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/chevrolet-volt-sales-rise-2-8-as-u-s-probes-gm-plug-in-hybrid.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt
will miss its sales target of 10,000 cars this year, the company
said. While dealers sold 1,139 of the plug-in hybrids last
month, the company is more than 3,800 shy of its 2011 goal.  “It appears we will deliver the 10,000th Volt in early
2012,” GM Vice President of U.S. Sales  Don Johnson  said today
in a conference call with reporters. “We’re not at all
disappointed. You have to continue to build awareness.”  While GM is expanding annual production to 60,000 units
starting in January, the Volt is being investigated by the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  because its
batteries caught on fire in the weeks following three government
crash tests. NHTSA announced a safety probe of the Volt Nov. 25.  Chevrolet  has been making a marketing push as dealers begin
the third month of selling the Volt in all 50 states. GM last
month allowed dealers to sell as many as 2,300 demonstration
models to retail buyers, helping spur a 2.8 percent increase
from October and the model’s best month yet. Volt sales through
November totaled 6,142, the company said.  “That’s not as much as I would have expected,” said Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, a research firm in West
Bloomfield, Michigan. “I would think that they would have been
able to work down their waiting list. That’s not a good
result.”  More Inventory  Baum said he didn’t think the safety probe hurt Volt sales
because NHTSA’s official investigation was announced late in the
month.  GM aims to sell 45,000 Volts in the U.S. next year and
export the remaining 15,000.  At the end of November, Chevy had 4,000 Volts in inventory,
said Alan Batey, vice president for Chevrolet U.S. sales. The
demonstration cars built up inventory later in the month and
will have a bigger impact on December sales, Batey said.  Chevy sold 600 Volts to fleet customers this year, Johnson
said.  The Volt investigation has the potential to harm the
reputation of electrified vehicles. Lithium-ion batteries, such
as those used in the Volt, are also installed in all-electric
cars, such as  Nissan (7201)  Motor Co.’s Leaf and models made by  Tesla
Motors Inc. (TSLA)   Automakers and U.S. and California regulators are looking
to increased use of electric power to meet tightening U.S. fuel-
efficiency standards.  A Volt caught fire three weeks after a May 12 side-impact
crash test while parked at a NHTSA testing center in  Wisconsin ,
leading regulators to conduct more tests.  Nissan, Tesla  Nissan has said that it has had no reports of fires in its
Leaf electric car. Tesla also said it hasn’t had a fire in its
Roadster electric car.  The Volt can go about 40 miles on electricity before its
gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator, which recharges
the battery. It has a range of 379 miles with electric and
gasoline power combined. The Volt’s battery can also be
recharged at an electrical outlet.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency last year
estimated the Volt would average 60 miles per gallon in combined
gasoline-electric driving, compared with 50 mpg for  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Prius. Volt’s range is about four times what Nissan’s
Leaf travels on a single charge.  Loaner Cars  GM is trying to reassure customers. North America President
 Mark Reuss  sent a letter to Volt owners on Nov. 28 saying that
if they have concerns about their safety, the Detroit-based
company will provide them with another model as a loaner until
the U.S. investigation concludes.  So far, 33 Volt owners have asked for a loaner, Batey said.  GM also is willing to buy back Volts from any owners who
are concerned for their safety, said  Greg Martin , a spokesman.
The  Associated Press  reported the development earlier, citing an
interview with Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson.  The automaker has engineers working with NHTSA to establish
the cause of the fires and no conclusions have been reached, the
company said this week.  The Volt was the highest-ranked car in  Consumer Reports ’
owner-satisfaction survey, taken before the U.S. probe was
announced. The magazine said 93 percent of Volt owners who
responded said they would buy the car again. The plug-in hybrid
finished ahead of the Dodge Challenger and Porsche 911 sports
cars, each of which had 91 percent owner-satisfaction scores.  The Volt’s technology and its recent accolade from Consumer
Reports make the Volt a marketing tool for Chevy, Batey said.  “This vehicle is about more than how many we sell,” Batey
said. “This vehicle is a magnet around everything we are trying
to do to showcase our brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  