-- 
China Stocks Rally, Rate Swaps Slide on Reserve Requirement Cut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-01T09:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/china-stocks-rally-most-in-5-weeks.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in five
weeks, the yuan gained and interest-rate swaps fell as lenders’
reserve-ratio requirement was cut for the first time since 2008
and six central banks took action on Europe’s debt crisis.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.3 percent to
2,386.86 at the close, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong rallied 8.3 percent.
Financial companies and commodity producers advanced the most in
Shanghai, with China Life Insurance Co. rising more than 7
percent and  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  jumping the most in six months.
The yuan advanced the most in seven weeks while interest-rate
swaps dropped to a one-year low.  “This RRR cut is very positive for the banks,” Daphne Roth, Singapore-based head of Asian equity research at ABN Amro
Private Bank, said in a telephone interview. “They timed it
with the other central banks to inject liquidity into the
system” in a move that will help spur a rebound for stocks.  A report today showed China’s manufacturing contracted for
the first time since February 2009. The Purchasing Managers’
Index fell to 49.0 in November from 50.4 in October, the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was
49.8. A level above 50 indicates expansion.  Chinese banks’ reserve ratios will decline by half a
percentage point effective Dec. 5, the People’s Bank of China
 said  yesterday after local markets closed. The level for the
biggest banks falls to 21 percent from a record 21.5 percent.
The move may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to the financial
system, according to UBS AG.  Easing Inflation  The central bank cut the requirement amid signs that
inflation is slowing, manufacturing data is “disappointing”
and the European debt crisis has worsened, said Hao Hong, global
equity strategist of China International Capital Corp., the top-
ranked provider of China research in Asiamoney’s survey.  “For this rebound to evolve into a sustainable rally, we
need to see some concrete steps to resolve the sovereign crisis
and stem the possibility of a global economic relapse,’ he said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the
monetary authorities of the U.K., Canada, Japan and Switzerland
said they were cutting the cost of emergency dollar funding to
ease strains in financial markets. Global markets rallied, with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising 4.3 percent yesterday.  Slowing Growth  Growth in China’s economy, the world’s second largest, will
slow to 8.5 percent next year, the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said, down from its May
forecast of 9.2 percent. The economy  expanded  9.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the least in two years. UBS
this week lowered its prediction for growth in 2012 to 8 percent
from its previous call of 8.3 percent, and Citigroup Inc. cut
its forecast to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 15 percent this year
after the central bank raised interest rates three times and
lifted the reserve-requirement ratio six times to curb inflation
that reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July. The gauge
is  valued  at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with a
four-year average of 17.3 times, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s decision to cut the reserve-requirement ratio will
benefit small banks, brokerages, material producers, property
developers and insurance companies the most, CICC’s Hong wrote
in a note.  Financials Rally  China Life Insurance gained 7.9 percent, the most since
July 2009, while rival Ping An Insurance Group Co. added 5.5
percent. Huaxia Bank Co., partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG,
gained 3.7 percent, while China Merchants rallied 3.9 percent.
China Vanke Co., the biggest Chinese developer, rose 4.7
percent. Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s largest producer of the
metal, jumped 6.1 percent.  ‘‘The PBOC’s move will provide the needed liquidity for the
market to ensure economic growth,” said Daniel Chan, chief
economist at BWC Capital Markets in Hong Kong. “The yuan also
gained on the dollar’s weakness given the co-ordinated moves
among the world’s major central banks. These measures boosted
the appeal of Chinese assets.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, declined 0.2 percentage point to 2.81
percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on the government’s benchmark three-year bond dropped
14 basis points to 2.93 percent. Both rates were the lowest
since November 2010.  The yuan gained 0.24 percent to close at 6.3635 per dollar
in Shanghai, the biggest one-day advance since Oct. 12,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
People’s Bank of China raised its daily reference rate 0.2
percent, the most in a month, to 6.3353. The currency is allowed
to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the reference rate.  Stocks Outlook  UBS forecasts a gain of up to 30 percent for the Shanghai
Composite next year as liquidity is expected to improve and the
cost of capital may decrease, according to a report today.  “We expect a modest recovery in the A-share market,” Li
Chen, UBS’s Shanghai-based head of China equity strategy, said
in a report. While the stock market’s price-earnings ratio will
increase, corporate profit growth may continue to decline for
the next two-to-three quarters, Chen said. The strategist didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls or an e-mail message on
whether the forecasts were made before the reserve-ratio cut.  Premier Wen Jiabao aims to sustain China’s economic
expansion as Europe’s debt crisis saps exports, a credit squeeze
hits small businesses and a crackdown on real-estate speculation
sends home sales sliding.  China’s reduction in reserve requirements for bank signals
a “shift in focus” from anti-inflation to economic growth
stability, Citigroup Inc. said.  Easing Inflation  The inflation rate may have fallen to 4.3 percent in
November from 5.5 percent the previous month, CICC’s Hong said.
The November data are due on Dec. 9. The government’s full-year
inflation target is 4 percent.  “The reserve requirement ratio cut came earlier than
expected and that’s definitely a short-term positive,” said
Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“This will attract more liquidity into stocks. Still, this pre-
emptive move probably means the government is seeing a weaker
economy than usual.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  