-- 
China Home Prices Drop for Third Month in November Amid Curbs, SouFun Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-01T08:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/china-home-prices-drop-for-third-month-in-november-amid-curbs-soufun-says.html
China’s home prices fell for a third
month in November as developers started to cut prices to boost
sales amid the government’s housing curbs, according to  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Home prices dropped 0.28 percent last month from October,
when they retreated 0.23 percent, according to SouFun, the
nation’s biggest real estate website owner. Prices slid in 57 of
100 cities tracked by the company, including in all 10 of the
country’s biggest cities such as  Shanghai  and Beijing, it said
in an e-mailed statement.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the government won’t relax
property curbs after raising down-payment and mortgage
requirements and imposing home purchase restrictions in about 40
cities this year to avert a bubble. The central bank also
increased  interest rates  three times and reserves ratio six
times in 2011, before announcing yesterday it’s planning to cut
the reserve requirement for the first time in three years.  “The  home prices  are falling at a faster pace since
turning points appeared in September,” Shen Jian-guang, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said by
phone today, predicting further declines in prices next year.
“The government’s tightening measures on the real estate market
will continue as bank loans for the sector won’t be loosened
despite the reserve ratio cut announcement last night.”  Shanghai, Beijing  Prices in Shanghai declined 0.47 percent, and those in
Beijing slipped 0.08 percent, according to SouFun. Ningbo,
located south of Shanghai, posted the biggest drop of 2.25
percent, while the coastal city of Weihai in Shandong province
climbed the most, adding 1.78 percent, SouFun said. The data
comes ahead of the government’s figures for 70 cities it
monitors, which is scheduled to be released on Dec. 18.  The retreat for Shanghai’s new home prices was 1.1 percent
in November from October, Shanghai UWin Real Estate Information
Services Co. said today. The average price dropped to 21,069
yuan ($3,310) per square meter (10.76 square feet), and new home
sales rose 7.4 percent to 491,300 square meters, the real estate
data company said in an e-mailed statement.  More affluent or tier-one and two cities were affected by
the government’s curbs, with developers such as  China Vanke Co. (000002) ,
the country’s biggest publicly traded real estate company,
Shanghai Greenland Group and  Longfor Properties Co. (960)  cutting
prices for projects in cities including Shanghai and Beijing,
SouFun said.  ‘Just the Beginning’  “This is just the beginning,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said before the release
of the data. “The property price will continue to come down
next year. Transaction volume will also continue to be weak even
after property companies cut prices.”  Du said nationwide home prices may fall 10 percent by the
end of the year, and predicted a similar decline in 2012.  China’s  property market  has reached a “tipping point” and
the slowdown in the housing industry will have a spillover
effect on demand for steel and other construction materials,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The risk of economic growth
falling to less than 8 percent in the first quarter is also
higher than before because of the housing market, Zhang Zhiwei,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura, said last week.  Residential property investments accounted for 6.1 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product last year, according to
Citigroup Inc. The nation’s manufacturing also contracted for
the first time since February 2009 as the property market cooled
and  Europe ’s crisis cut export demand, according to the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing’s  survey  today.  Reserve Ratio Cut  The reserve ratios for banks will decline by 50 basis
points effective Dec. 5, the central bank said on its website
yesterday. The move may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to
the financial system, according to UBS AG.  The cut drove China’s property stocks higher, with the
 gauge (SHPROP)  tracking real estate companies on the benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  surging 3.2 percent at the close, the most in
five weeks.  China’s home prices fell in 33 of 70 cities monitored by
the government in October, the worst performance since it
expanded property curbs and scrapped the reporting of national
average housing data this year, according to figures from the
statistics bureau on Nov. 18.  Price Declines  Home prices will fall between 15 percent to 30 percent in
the next two years,  Mark Mobius , who oversees $40 billion as
Hong Kong-based executive chairman of Franklin Templeton
Investments’ Emerging Markets Group, said last month, while BNP
Paribas predicted a 10 percent decline by the second half of
next year.  “Once the price comes down, the transaction volume will
actually weaken even more,” Du at Credit Suisse said. “People
buy on the way up, they don’t buy on the way down.”  The government is likely to “micro-adjust” or even
reverse policy restrictions if home prices drop by 20 percent,
Barclays Capital Research’s Hong Kong-based economist  Huang Yiping  said last month. CBRE Global Investors, manager of $94.8
billion of real estate assets, is mulling its first investment
in  China ’s housing market in four years in anticipation the
government will start easing its property curbs, Greater China
Country Manager Richard van den Berg said on Nov. 14.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jin Jing in Shanghai at 
 jjin32@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  