-- 
China’s Zhu Sees ‘Grimmer’ World Situation Than in 2008 Crisis

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-01T05:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/china-s-zhu-sees-grimmer-world-situation-than-in-2008-crisis.html
Zhu Guangyao, a vice Chinese finance
minister, said the world is in a “grimmer and more
challenging” situation than during the global financial crisis
that started in 2008. He spoke at an economic conference in
Beijing today.  On the global economic situation:  “The world economy is facing severe challenges. The most
prominent risk is that the world recovery halts. Major developed
economies may risk recession.  “There has been a notable increase in uncertainties and
unstable factors in the world economy, challenging  China ’s
effort to maintain steady and relatively fast growth. Therefore
we must closely monitor changes in the world economy, especially
China’s two largest trading partners -- Europe and the U.S.  “The current crisis is grimmer and more challenging than
the global financial crisis triggered by the Lehman Brothers
bankruptcy in 2008. At that time, the world economy maintained
growth, and world leaders, especially G-20 countries, rolled out
massive fiscal stimulus and monetary measures in a timely manner,
and adopted other counter-cyclical economic policies so that the
crisis was to a large extent contained and economic recovery was
achieved in a relatively short time.  “Now, however, some countries face very difficult fiscal
conditions and some economies are contracting. The room for
monetary policy maneuvering is also limited.  “Under such circumstances, we must make policies more
focused, flexible and preemptive and manage the pace and
strength of macro-economic controls. Countries around the world
should work together to tackle the difficulties.  “The key is to turn policy pledges into detailed and
appropriate measures, and to win more trust from the market
because market confidence is very important.  “So the most imperative task now is to try our best to
stimulate global economic growth and to direct world growth back
onto the right track.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  