-- 
China’s Manufacturing at Weakest Since 2009 Augurs Further Easing: Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-01T04:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/china-s-manufacturing-at-weakest-since-2009-augurs-further-easing-economy.html
China’s manufacturing  recorded the
weakest performance since the global recession eased in 2009,
underscoring the case for monetary stimulus as  Europe ’s crisis
weighs on the world’s second-largest economy.  A purchasing managers’ index compiled by the  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing slid to 49 in November,
lower than all but two of 18 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings below 50 signal a contraction. Separate reports
showed slowing retail sales and an industrial slump in
Australia, which relies on China as its biggest export customer.  Premier Wen Jiabao is shifting policy gears as Europe’s
woes combine with a domestic real-estate slowdown to impair the
outlook for growth, with China’s central bank yesterday lowering
lenders’ reserve ratios. Asian nations from China to  India  to
South Korea will cut key interest rates next year as the global
economy deteriorates,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  predicted today.  “China’s economy will slow sharply in coming months,’ said
Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura International Hong
Kong Ltd., who correctly predicted the PMI reading. Zhang said
growth may slow to less than 8 percent and forecast another
reserve-ratio cut in January, with stronger policy steps likely
if Europe’s crisis worsens.  A separate PMI released by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
Economics slid to 47.7, the lowest level since March 2009.  ‘‘An across-the-board policy easing” may come as early as
year-end as inflation cools, said  Qu Hongbin , an economist at
HSBC in Hong Kong. The economy can grow more than 8 percent next
year after a 10.4 percent expansion last year, he said.  ‘Grimmer’ Than 2008  Stocks in  Asia  climbed even with the weaker data after the
U.S. Federal Reserve joined with Japanese, European and Canadian
central banks overnight to boost dollar liquidity. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index rose 3.3 percent as of 12:45 p.m. in  Tokyo .  The global economy faces a “grimmer and more challenging”
situation than in 2008 because of constraints on fiscal stimulus
and monetary policy, China’s Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao 
said at a forum in Beijing today. Goldman Sachs cut its global
growth forecast for 2012 to 3.2 percent from 3.4 percent in a
report dated today.  Indian export and manufacturing data will be released
today, while the Philippine central bank may announce at 4 p.m.
local time that it is keeping  interest rates  on hold, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Manufacturing reports today for the euro zone,  Germany ,
 France , Italy and the U.K. will show contractions, analysts’
median forecasts show.  U.S. Reports  Even as the European outlook sours, American data are
signaling sustained expansion in the world’s largest economy.
The Institute of Supply Management’s manufacturing PMI, due for
release today, is forecast to reach a five-month high. Other
data this week showed  consumer confidence  jumped the most since
2003 in November.  In Australia, manufacturing shrank for a fifth straight
month, according to a survey released by the Australian Industry
Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers today. Retail sales gained 0.2
percent in October, half the increase economists estimated, and
home-building approvals fell.  South Korea ’s factory gauge slid
to the lowest since October last year, a report from Markit and
HSBC showed today.  Premier Wen aims to sustain the Chinese economy’s expansion
as Europe’s debt crisis saps exports, a credit squeeze hits
small businesses and a crackdown on real-estate speculation
limits asset-bubble risks and sends home sales sliding.  Barclays
Capital  forecasts at least three more reserve-ratio cuts by
mid-2012 and says two interest-rate reductions are likely next
year. Benchmark one-year borrowing costs stand at 6.56 percent.  Easing Inflation  The economic slowdown may further ease inflation that has
already moderated to 5.5 percent in China from a three-year high
of 6.5 percent in July. That may give officials more room for
resource price reforms, with the government yesterday increasing
electricity prices for the first time in six months. The cost of
power-station coal will also be capped in an attempt to reduce
outages in coming months.  “The measures are aimed at easing cost pressure on
utilities and making them generate more electricity,” said Dave Dai, regional head of clean energy and utilities research at
Daiwa Capital Markets  Hong Kong  Ltd.  In the property market, officials aim to make housing more
affordable without triggering a slump in construction. October
housing transactions declined 25 percent from September and
prices fell in 33 of 70 cities, according to government data.  Domestic Demand  “China’s exports are expected not to grow next year as
external demand weakens on a euro-zone recession, and property
construction is also projected to slow markedly,” UBS AG
economist  Wang Tao  said in a report today. “On the other hand,
the government is expected to increase fiscal spending and ease
credit policy to support domestic demand, with a boost to social
and infrastructure investment.”  The government will be “cautious” about easing property
curbs or allowing “another major credit expansion,” said Wang,
who is based in Hong Kong.  Officials are still grappling with the aftermath of record
lending in 2009 and 2010 which fueled price gains and led to
credit risks for banks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  