-- 
China PMI Falls for First Time Since 2009

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-01T01:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/china-s-manufacturing-shrinks-for-first-time-since-2009-on-europe-impact.html
China ’s manufacturing contracted for
the first time since February 2009 as the  property market  cooled
and  Europe ’s crisis cut export demand, a survey showed.  The  Purchasing Managers’ Index   fell to 49.0 in November
from 50.4 in October, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 49.8. A level above
50 indicates expansion.  The central bank last night announced the first cut in
banks’ reserve requirements since 2008, moving two hours before
the U.S. Federal Reserve led a global effort to ease Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis. The move will add about 370 billion yuan
($58 billion) to the financial system and more reductions may
follow as the government seeks to support growth, Citigroup Inc.
said.  Today’s report “clearly adds to the urgency for easing,”
said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale
SA. “The PMI is showing weakness across the board and this
would seem to be the reason the government cut banks’ reserve
requirements. If this trend continues we should see another cut
pretty soon.”  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 3.3 percent yesterday,
the biggest decline in almost four months.  India  yesterday
reported that its economy grew the least in two years and
Thailand cut  interest rates  as a slowdown in Asia limits the
region’s ability to support a faltering world recovery.  Weaker Demand  The manufacturing index compiled by the logistics
federation and National Bureau of Statistics is based on a
survey of purchasing managers in more than 820 companies in 20
industries.  A gauge of new orders contracted for the first time since
January 2009 and the output index expanded at the slowest pace
since the same month, today’s survey showed. New export orders
fell below 50 for a second straight month.  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS) , a Chinese maker of solar panels,
said last week third-quarter net income fell 74 percent from a
year earlier on slumping prices. The company, based in eastern
Jiangxi province, also cut its full-year shipment estimate by as
much as 23 percent citing weaker demand from Europe.  “China’s growth will slow further over the next six
months,”  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist with Standard
Chartered Plc said before the data. “If the deterioration in
Europe and the U.S. accelerates in the first half of next year,
the government will have to put maintaining growth as its top
priority.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  