-- 
Christie to Make Campaign Stop in Iowa Next Week for Romney

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-01T14:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/christie-to-make-iowa-trip-next-week-to-campaign-for-romney.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  is
scheduled to travel to  Iowa  next week to campaign for Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney in the state where the first
votes in the party’s nomination race will be cast on Jan. 3.  News of the visit coincides with the start today of
Romney’s television advertising in Iowa promoting his
credentials as a “conservative businessman.”  The two developments offer the latest signs that Romney is
ramping up efforts to more aggressively compete in the Iowa
caucuses as former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who is
campaigning in the state today, is getting a second look from
the state’s Republican activists.  “Mitt Romney has always said that he would campaign and
compete in Iowa,” Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said in
announcing the commercial. “He looks forward to participating
in the two upcoming Iowa debates. Going on television is just
another tool in getting  Mitt Romney ’s message out that Barack Obama has failed as a president.”  Christie is to appear on Romney’s behalf on Dec. 7,
according to a Romney campaign official who wasn’t authorized to
publicly discuss the event. No details of Christie’s Iowa stop
were available.  Romney gained Christie’s endorsement on Oct. 11, just hours
before a Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire
sponsored by Bloomberg News and the  Washington  Post. Christie’s
backing came a few days after he announced he wouldn’t undertake
his own presidential bid, dashing the hopes of some Republican
leaders and donors who had sought an alternative to Romney and
the party’s other candidates.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and business
executive, had signaled during most of this year that he
wouldn’t make an all-out push to win the caucuses. He has
visited Iowa just five times in 2011. His most recent campaign
foray in the state was Nov. 23, after he skipped a Nov. 19 forum
in  Des Moines  that was sponsored by social-conservative groups
and drew 3,000 people.  A  Bloomberg News poll  conducted in Iowa Nov. 10-12 showed
Romney in a statistical tie in the state with businessman  Herman Cain , U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas and Gingrich. Since
then, Gingrich has gained in national polls as Cain has fallen
amid allegations that he sexually harassed  four women and had
an extramarital affair with an Atlanta woman.  In Romney’s presidential bid four years ago, social
conservatives in Iowa balked at his past support of abortion
rights and the Massachusetts health-care overhaul he signed into
law. Romney’s second-place finish to former Arkansas Governor
 Mike Huckabee  in the caucuses helped to derail his 2008 bid.  A Romney win in the 2012 caucuses followed by a victory in
the  New Hampshire  primary a week later would put him in a strong
position to capture the party’s nomination. Romney, who owns
property in New Hampshire and was governor of a neighboring
state, has led polls in that state all year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 