-- 
Toyota Gains as U.S. Auto Sales Accelerate

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-12-01T21:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/chrysler-nissan-u-s-sales-top-estimates-on-compass-rogue-suvs.html
Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp., posting its first
monthly sales increase since April, joined Chrysler Group LLC
and Nissan Motor Co. in topping analysts’ estimates, leading to
the best U.S. light-vehicle sales pace in more than two years.  Toyota deliveries rose 6.7 percent in November to 137,960
cars and light trucks, the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker
said in a statement. Chrysler sales soared 45 percent to 107,172
and Nissan increased 19 percent to 85,182.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM) , boosted by demand for F-Series and Silverado
pickups, also posted gains.  Four of the six largest automakers by U.S. sales beat
expectations, boosting industry sales to a 13.6 million
seasonally adjusted annualized  rate , according to Autodata Corp.
The pace exceeded the 13.4 million average estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and is the best month since sales
were helped by “cash for clunkers” in August 2009.  “Consumers have been waiting for this,” Jessica Caldwell,
an analyst for the researcher Edmunds.com, said today in a phone
interview. “Cars are getting old, and people are getting to the
point where they need to replace them. There’s recession fatigue
and people want to buy. We’re getting tired of being in this
saving pattern.”  Sales of Toyota’s Prius hybrid rose 49 percent to 15,208,
while deliveries of its Camry sedan climbed 13 percent to
23,440. The automaker exceeded five analysts’ average estimate
for a 5 percent increase in November deliveries.  Jeep Surges  Chrysler, the automaker controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , topped the
37 percent gain predicted by eight analysts as its Jeep brand
sales rose 50 percent. Nissan deliveries exceeded five analysts’
average estimate for a 12 percent rise.  Ford sales rose 13 percent, beating estimates for a 10
percent increase, while GM’s gain of 6.9 percent missed
estimates for a 7.4 percent gain, both the average of eight
estimates. Ford’s F-Series pickup deliveries climbed 24 percent
and GM’s Silverado sales increased 34 percent.  “You’re seeing some elements of housing stabilize, the
commercial sector is showing a bit of growth, gas prices have
moderated and there’s some support on those vehicles from an
incentive standpoint,”  Paul Ballew , chief economist for
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., said in a phone interview.  Ford plans to build 675,000 cars and trucks in 2012’s first
quarter, a 3 percent increase from the year-earlier period,
according to a company statement. Ford’s sport-utility vehicle
sales climbed 29 percent, while car deliveries fell 8.8 percent,
with the Focus declining for a fifth-consecutive month.  Away From Cars  “We’re moving away from cars because we are finding
crossovers that exceed our miles per gallon expectations,”
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with researcher IHS Automotive,
said in a phone interview. “We’ve discovered we don’t have to
compromise on space to get fuel economy. The Explorer and Escape
are perfect examples.”  Sales for Honda Motor Co.,  Japan ’s third-largest automaker,
missed estimates, dropping 6.4 percent to 83,925 in November,
the company said in a  statement  on its website. The automaker
cited reduced production at North American plants resulting from
floods in Thailand that disrupted parts supply. Analysts
expected Tokyo-based Honda to report a 2.6 percent increase, the
average of five estimates.  Toyota’s Supply  Toyota’s inventories are recovering from Thailand’s floods
and the March earthquake and tsunami in Japan,  Bob Carter , vice
president of U.S. sales, said today in a conference call.  “We’re confident our volumes and our share will recover
throughout 2012,” Carter said.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, and its
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , combined to sell 29 percent more
vehicles than a year earlier, beating three analysts’ average
estimate for a 24 percent increase. Kia’s Optima sedan sales
surged more than sixfold to 9,533.  Consumers spent a record $52.4 billion during the holiday
weekend, excluding autos, according to the  National Retail
Federation .  Consumer confidence  surged in November by the most
in more than eight years, and the portion of consumers planning
to buy a new vehicle within six months climbed to the highest
since April, data from The Conference Board showed Nov. 29.  “We’re encouraged by the industry’s recent performance and
the developments that we’ve seen in the economy,”  Don Johnson ,
vice president of U.S. sales, said on a conference call. The
Conference Board’s figures “drives even more support for our
belief in the continued growing of the  U.S. economy  next year.”  GM’s Pickups  GM’s inventory of full-size pickups rose on a selling-day
basis to 105 days as of Nov. 30, from 104 days at the end of
October, the Detroit-based automaker said today in a statement.
Full-size truck supply was 202,720 at the end of November, from
207,596 as of Oct. 31.  Ford’s sales accelerated through the end of the month,
culminating with the best results the day after Thanksgiving,
which retailers call “Black Friday,” said  Ken Czubay , Ford’s
U.S. sales chief.  “The dealers enjoyed the same uplift that the other
merchants enjoyed,” Czubay said today on a conference call.  GM fell 1.6 percent to $20.96 at the close in  New York .
Ford fell less than 0.1 percent to $10.59.  Chrysler’s deliveries of its 200 midsize sedan increased to
8,065 in November, almost six times the year-earlier sales of
the Sebring model that it replaced, the company said in a
statement. Sales of Nissan’s Rogue compact SUV rose 27 percent
to 10,845, according to an e-mailed statement.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
U.S. sales unit said deliveries of its VW brand surged 41
percent to 28,412, boosted by demand for its Passat sedan.  Sales Pace  U.S. light-vehicle sales exceeded a 13 million annualized
rate for the third consecutive month as Toyota and Honda
inventories recover from Japan’s tsunami in March, which
disrupted auto-parts supply and vehicle output. The sales pace
failed to exceed 12.2 million in the prior four months.  Industrywide car inventory rebounded to 53 days supply at
the beginning of November, from 43 days a month earlier,
according to LMC Automotive. That’s the biggest sequential
increase since February, said  Jeff Schuster , a Troy, Michigan-
based analyst.  “It looks like the close of the month was definitely a
strong one and it’s setting up a positive story for the industry
as the year closes,” Schuster said today in a phone interview.  The U.S. averaged annual sales of 16.8 million vehicles
from 2000 to 2007, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata. Deliveries may rise about 9.5 percent to 12.7 million
cars and light trucks this year, the average of 18 analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  