-- 
Clearwire Surges After Payment, Sprint Deal

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-12-01T21:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/clearwire-makes-interest-payment-after-striking-sharing-accord-with-sprint.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless carrier, gained 14 percent after making a $237 million
interest payment to creditors and striking a new network-sharing
agreement with partner  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Clearwire, based in Bellevue,  Washington , rose to $2.03 at
the close in New York. It has declined 61 percent this year.  The companies said Clearwire will get as much as
$1.6 billion over the next four years, helping address its cash
needs as it shifts to higher-speed wireless technology. Founded
by wireless pioneer  Craig McCaw  in 2003, Clearwire has posted
widening losses for years amid competition from larger rivals.  “This is a significantly positive development for
Clearwire,” said  Michael Nelson , a Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
analyst in  New York . “One could argue whether it spared them
from bankruptcy, but it certainly extended the runway.”  The companies will extend an agreement under which Sprint
buys wholesale WiMax wireless capacity from Clearwire and then
resells the 4G services to its own customers.  The deal comes after a standoff over how the two would work
together when their current network deal ends at the end of
2012. Sprint, which is Clearwire’s largest shareholder and
wholesale customer, had said it would stop selling devices that
use WiMax, Clearwire’s existing technology, after next year.  ‘Important Piece’  Clearwire has said needs about $1 billion to roll out a
long-term evolution, or LTE, wireless network and fund
operations. And while the Sprint deal is significant, Clearwire
said it plans to raise additional funding, too.  “This is an important piece in the mix of capital we
need,” Clearwire Chief Executive Officer Erik Prusch said in a
phone interview today. “This piece was critical.”  Clearwire will get $926 million for WiMax services in 2012
and 2013 and up to $350 million in prepayments for LTE services
from Sprint under the agreement, the companies said. Sprint also
agreed to provide up to $347 million in equity funding if
Clearwire sells new shares.  Clearwire will sell equity “sooner rather than later,”
Joe Euteneuer, Sprint’s finance chief, said today at a
conference in  Orlando , Florida.  As part of its fundraising plans, Clearwire has also
considered options like selling wireless spectrum and loans from
equipment suppliers to pay for gear purchases.  “We are considering a complement of approaches,” Prusch
said. He declined to comment on what option the company will
take next.  ‘Increased Challenges’  Prusch also said Clearwire is committed to building its LTE
network on time. One of the conditions of the agreement with
Sprint is that Clearwire achieves certain buildout targets and
network specifications by June 2013.  “Without this deal, there would have been increased
challenges for them to raise additional funding,” said Nelson,
who rates Clearwire shares “buy” and Sprint “neutral.”  Without the new agreement, Clearwire would have had only
$350 million to $400 million left for next year’s operations
after paying creditors, according to  Standard & Poor’s . S&P
downgraded Clearwire’s debt to CCC last week, which means
Clearwire is dependent on economic conditions if it needs to
access debt markets.  Today, Moody’s Investors Service raised the outlook for
Clearwire’s credit rating to “stable” from “negative.”  ‘Competitive Spirit’  “Right now, Sprint needs Clearwire and Clearwire needs
Sprint,” David Novosel, an analyst at  Gimme Credit  in  Chicago ,
said before the agreement.  Sprint couldn’t afford to lose access to Clearwire’s
spectrum, Novosel said. If Clearwire had failed to pay creditors
and needed to restructure its debt, the spectrum Sprint uses
might have been auctioned off to the highest bidder.  The peace between the two partners came at a cost as the
companies compete against larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless , said Ned Zachar, a portfolio manager at KLS
Diversified Asset Management in New York.  “It would have been better if they had gotten to this deal
six months or nine months ago,” Zachar said. “The uncertainty
and the very mixed signals obviously hurt both companies.
Sprint’s competitive spirit should have been directed at AT&T or
Verizon rather than at Clearwire.”  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , was unchanged at
$2.70 at the close in New York and has lost 36 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  