-- 
ClearPar Reduces Loan-Settlement Fee by 37% After Traders Balk at Increase

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-12-01T18:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/clearpar-reduces-loan-settlement-fee-by-37-after-traders-balk-at-increase.html
ClearPar, the automated loan-
processing business that settles most trades in the $500 billion
U.S. market, reduced a newly imposed fee by 37 percent after
some customers complained and stopped using the service.  ClearPar, owned by London-based Markit Group Ltd., will
lower its settlement fee to $19 per trade starting today,
according to its website. The transactions had been free to
investors since the company’s founding more than 10 years ago
until Oct. 3, when it began charging $30 to clear a trade.  Some  loan  managers protested the fees, which may cost the
largest $100,000 or more a year, by asking investment banks to
handle the process manually, slowing settlement times, or by
using a smaller competitor. The resistance comes even as
ClearPar dominates the market, with banks funneling trades into
a system partially owned by many of those same institutions.  “Most sell-side banks direct all electronic loan
settlement to ClearPar, creating an effective monopoly,” Andrew Sveen, head loan trader at  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  in  Boston , said in
an interview. “We agreed to the new ClearPar fee arrangement
out of necessity.” The firm oversees $177.8 billion, including
$23.6 billion in leveraged loans.  Markit said it put the fee in place to recoup a large
investment it made in its loan-settlement system, according to a
March 3  presentation  posted on its website.  “The efficiency, speed and added functionality made
possible by Markit for the loan market far outweighs the nominal
cost, particularly when one considers the benefits gained by
reducing settlement times,” the company says on its website.
ClearPar continues to charge a fee to banks for using the
service. Alex Paidas, a Markit spokesman, declined to comment.  Markit Acquisitions  Markit built its loan business through several
acquisitions. It agreed to buy ClearPar from Fidelity National
Information Services Inc. in 2009, and last year, it  purchased 
technology assets from Storm Networks LLC, a trade-settlement
program. In October 2010, Markit agreed to  buy  the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.’s Loan/SERV messaging program.  Founded in 2001 by Lance Uggla and members of the credit
trading group at TD Securities, Markit was started to create
credit-default swap valuation and information products that
could improve transparency and help with risk management,
according to its  website .  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among banks
that own a stake of Markit, according to a May filing with U.K.
Companies House. Spokesmen for the banks declined to comment.  Settlement Time  ClearPar says on its  website  that its goal is to settle
loans in three days. The average settlement time for par, or
performing, loans on the system was 19 days, according to a
second March 3  presentation.   Under guidelines from the Loan Syndications and Trading
Association, all performing or so-called par loans should settle
in seven days and in 20 days for distressed loans  “Settlement issues in secondary loans have been a front
burner topic for at least 10 years,” Jonathan Calder, co-
founder and managing partner at North Sea Partners LLC, an
investment banking firm that provides advisory services, said in
a telephone interview.  In the last quarter, the mean settlement time for
performing loans was 18 days, according to the LSTA’s third-
quarter trading and settlement study. The mean settlement time
for distressed loans was 67 days, according to the study by the
New York-based trade organization.  Counterparty Risk  “However you break it down, it’s frustrating that the loan
market has been unable to make significant progress on trade
settlements and as a result the counterparty risk issue
continues to loom large,” said Calder, who previously ran
fixed-income credit sales at Citigroup and served as chairman of
the LSTA’s board, where he helped develop rules for loan
settlements.  Counterparty risk can be an issue for loans especially in a
volatile market when prices can move significantly while a trade
is outstanding. The longer a loan trade is unsettled, the larger
the risk involved.  Under ClearPar’s new fee system, if an investor buys $3
million of a loan and wants to put $1 million into three
separate collateralized loan obligations, it would be charged
$19 per each CLO, for a total of $57 for the transaction. That
amount will increase if settlement times decrease.  ‘Wrong Direction’  “We have been looking to reduce transaction costs in the
loan market, that is the point of technology,” Barry Zamore,
head loan trader at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , said in a telephone
interview. “ClearPar made closing loans a less manual process.
We were looking to reduce fees to do loan trades, not increase
fees.”  Before the the majority of the loan-settlement process ran
through ClearPar, banks had large back offices that manually
closed, or settled, trades. Loans are different than other asset
classes that have a set settlement period.  Stocks generally clear and settle within three days through
the National Securities Clearing Corp., a subsidiary of the
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Bond trades also typically
close in three days.  “Closing loans on paper is impractical,”  Eaton Vance ’s
Sveen said. “Charging a fee for a back-office function that has
always been free seems like a step in the wrong direction.”  Since the new fee was imposed, Trade Settlement Inc.,
another automated loan-settlement company, has handled a number
of trades that would have previously been completed by ClearPar.  Set up in 2000 by former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker Pat Loret de Mola, managers are asking banks to use TSI because it
doesn’t charge a buy-side fee. The pickup in business has been
“very significant,” Loret de Mola said.  “What this has done is raised market awareness to have two
electronic-settlement providers in the market, not just one,”
she said in a telephone interview. “When you have a single
dominant player, they have complete pricing power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  