-- 
Clinton Meets Aung San Suu Kyi, Presses Myanmar on Links With North Korea

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-01T14:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/clinton-meets-aung-san-suu-kyi-presses-myanmar-on-links-with-north-korea.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
met Myanmar civil rights icon  Aung San Suu Kyi  after pressing
the nation’s leaders over concerns about links to  North Korea 
and the country’s lack of internal freedoms.  The visit by Clinton comes as Suu Kyi confirmed yesterday
she will run for parliament in upcoming elections, one of the
steps the new government has taken to loosen restrictions in the
military-dominated country. Clinton told Myanmar’s rulers the
U.S. is prepared to enhance ties if democratic changes progress,
the  Associated Press  reported.  Clinton, who arrived yesterday in the capital of Naypyidaw,
is the highest ranking U.S. official in half a century to visit
Myanmar, dominated since 1962 by a repressive military regime
that still exerts control through a new civilian government.  She will discuss specific steps the U.S. would like to see
Myanmar’s leaders undertake, and also will meet with ethnic
minorities and democracy advocates, according to a State
Department official who briefed reporters on condition of
anonymity.  The overall U.S. desire is to be in listening mode and to
test the seriousness of the Myanmar government’s intent to
reform in the period ahead, the official said in a briefing with
reporters en route to Myanmar. Clinton told the country’s
civilian government that as a first step toward encouraging
progress the U.S. would provide incentives including not
preventing increased cooperation with the  International Monetary
Fund , AP said.  Releasing Prisoners  The country’s leaders have reached out to the U.S. and made
a series of changes, releasing hundreds of prisoners, allowing
greater press freedom and passing a law that permits public
protests. President Thein Sein, a former general, has opened
communication with pro-democracy advocates, changed a law to
persuade Suu Kyi’s party to participate in elections and
consulted her.  Myanmar must release political prisoners and end ethnic
violence by pushing for national reconciliation in order for
U.S. relations to improve, Clinton said, according to the AP.  In a video webcast to the  Council on Foreign Relations  in
Washington, Suu Kyi said she backed the U.S. involvement in her
country and confirmed that she will take part in as-yet-
unscheduled parliamentary elections.  “I will certainly run for the elections when they take
place,” said Suu Kyi, who has called for the government to
release 525 political prisoners who are still locked up.  Recent Steps  The U.S. has been surprised by some of the steps Myanmar
has taken recently, the State Department official said. He added
that Clinton will tell  Thein Sein  and other leaders that this is
a first step and that several other things will need to happen
for the U.S. to be able to support their efforts.  That includes a discussion about concerns that Myanmar may
be engaged in weapons trade with North Korea. The U.S. has
blocked North Korean ships thought to be carrying weapons to
Myanmar, also known by its previous name Burma.  The official said the chief U.S. concern is missile
technology, not nuclear weapons. Even so, Clinton will ask
Myanmar leaders to sign an International Atomic Energy Agency
protocol that would allow nuclear inspections, the official
said.  Clinton arrived late today in the former capital Yangon and
toured the Shwedagon Pagoda, the nation’s holiest Buddhist
shrine and the site of a crackdown on protests by monks in 2007.  Walking Barefoot  Locals, tourists and monks strained against a line of
security guards to take Clinton’s picture as she walked through
the temple, stopping to sign a guest book, ring a bell three
times and pour water over the head of a Buddha statue. Clinton
smiled and waved to the crowd, which applauded on three separate
occasions as she and senior State Department officials walked
barefoot through the temple grounds.  Suu Kyi later briefly greeted Clinton before an official
dinner in Yangon.  “This year I’ve seen more foreigners than any other,”
said Aung Than Oo, 47, who has been a  taxi driver  for 21 years.
“We like this government because it’s given us a little bit of
democracy. Things are slowly changing.”  Amnesty International  said Myanmar has released at least
318 political prisoners this year and that more than 1,000
remain imprisoned. The Myanmar army continues to commit human
rights violations against civilians in ethnic minority areas on
a “widespread and systematic basis,” the group said on its
 website .  ‘Improved Modestly’  “Myanmar’s human rights situation has improved modestly in
some respects but is significantly worsening in others,” said
Benjamin Zawacki, Amnesty International’s Myanmar specialist.  Clinton’s visit also makes the resource-rich Asian nation a
new focus in the struggle between the U.S. and  China  for
influence in the Asia-Pacific region. Myanmar has made a
concerted effort to reach out to the U.S. to improve relations.
In a recent  Washington  Post opinion article, Zaw Htay, director
of the president’s office, asked the U.S. to have patience as
Myanmar goes about making changes.  “The  United States  must recognize that Myanmar’s politics
will transform in steps,” Zaw Htay wrote. He called for strong
support from the U.S. if it wants Myanmar “to become a
democratic country as measured by their values and norms.”  He pointed to the government’s September decision to
suspend construction of a $3.6 billion Chinese-backed dam in the
northern part of the country, saying it “signaled to the world
what he stands for.”  ‘Chinese Province’  Douglas Paal, director of the Asia program at Washington’s
 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , said Myanmar’s
leaders are looking for a counterweight to Beijing.  “China has been so overwhelmingly involved in  Burma  that
it’s looked like a Chinese province,” he said. “They want some
balance.” Rejection of the dam “was seen as an important step
in defying Chinese influence,” Paal said.  Myanmar’s moves to engage the West are “not really” about
reducing reliance on China, Nay Zin Latt, a political adviser to
Thein Sein, said in an e-mail interview on Nov. 26.  “We should have warm relations with our neighboring
countries such as China, India and  Thailand ,” he said. “In the
meantime we should also be on good terms with the Western
world.”  Ahead of Clinton’s visit, China’s Vice President  Xi Jinping 
hosted Min Aung Hlaing, head of the Myanmar armed forces, in
Beijing on Nov. 28 and discussed boosting military cooperation.  China welcomed the moves by Myanmar “to improve its
relations with western countries and hopes its measures help
Myanmar’s stability and development,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said yesterday.  In China, some see Clinton’s visit as “another move to
encircle” the country, said Sun Zhe, a professor of
international relations at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing. “A
lot of people think we don’t have to worry that much because we
also have historical friendship and historical ties with
Myanmar,” Sun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Ten Kate in Naypyidaw at  dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  