-- 
Clinton Offers Path to Ease Myanmar Sanctions, Hails Opposition’s Suu Ky

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-12-02T17:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/clinton-meets-suu-kyi-says-end-to-myanmar-sanctions-depends-on-reforms.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  laid out a path to ease sanctions during a trip to
Myanmar as she aimed to embolden reformers trying to roll back
five decades of military rule.  Clinton met separately with Myanmar’s president, Thein Sein, and its most prominent dissident and democracy icon, Aung San Suu Kyi, during her three-day visit, telling both that the
U.S. stands ready to lift punitive measures if the government
builds upon moves to grant greater political freedoms. Suu Kyi,
who Clinton called an “inspiration,” said the visit may pave
the way for a “new future” in Myanmar.  “I am cautiously hopeful,” Clinton told reporters in
Yangon yesterday before departing. “Reformers both inside and
outside the government have our support, and it will increase as
we see actions taken that will further the hopes and aspirations
of the people.”  Clinton’s visit may help ease the international isolation
of Myanmar, one of  Asia ’s  poorest countries , where Internet and
phone usage is sparse and cash is required for most
transactions. Thein Sein has released hundreds of political
prisoners, eased censorship and started a dialogue with Suu Kyi
since his junta-backed party won an election last year to end
five decades of military rule.  “This will be the beginning of a new future for all of us
provided we can maintain it,” Suu Kyi said before embracing
Clinton yesterday on the veranda of the lakeside home, where she
spent 15 years under house arrest. “Because of this engagement,
our way ahead will be clearer and we will be able to trust that
the process of democratization will move forward.”  U.S. Assistance  Clinton said the U.S. would provide  assistance  to groups
providing microcredit, health care, English-language training
and help for land-mine victims. The programs will cost the U.S.
$1.2 million, according to an administration official who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  Clinton’s “confidence-building measures” may help
reformers come forward, said Derek Tonkin, a former U.K.
ambassador to Vietnam,  Thailand  and  Laos  and now chairman of
Network Myanmar, a U.K.-based group that promotes
reconciliation.  “There are probably many people sitting on the fence,
wondering what they ought to be doing,” Tonkin said of reform-
minded members of the government. “What she has done is very
important. The longer this process is maintained the more likely
that the changes that we’ve seen will be sustained and in due
course be irreversible.”  Market Access   A political breakthrough would allow U.S. and European
companies greater access to a market of 62 million people who
are dependent on neighbors China,  India  and Thailand to grow one
of Asia’s smallest economies. Those countries poured more than
$25 billion into ports,  power plants  and pipelines to capitalize
on Myanmar’s rich natural resources and strategic location on
the  Indian Ocean .  U.S. sanctions against Myanmar, formerly known as  Burma ,
have been tightening since 1988, when President  Ronald Reagan 
suspended aid and banned arms sales after soldiers killed about
3,000 student protesters, according to an estimate by  Human
Rights Watch . A series of congressional acts and presidential
orders since then have banned imports, restricted money
transfers, curbed aid money, frozen assets, prevented engagement
by the  World Bank  and other agencies and targeted jewelry with
gemstones originating in Myanmar.  Easing Sanctions  Before President  Bill Clinton  banned new investment in
1997, boycott threats prompted U.S. companies such as  PepsiCo 
Inc., Levi-Strauss & Co. and Apple Inc. to leave Myanmar.
Chevron Corp., based in  San Ramon ,  California , is one of the few
U.S. businesses operating in the country, having obtained a 28.3
percent stake in a  gas field  and pipeline that stretches to
Thailand through its 2005 purchase of Unocal Corp., which made
its investment prior to the 1997 ban.  Clinton told  Thein Sein  that the U.S. would loosen
restrictions on engagement by the World Bank and the  United
Nations , she told reporters on Dec. 1. Other measures leading
toward an end to sanctions, including an upgrade in diplomatic
relations, would occur if Myanmar takes additional steps, such
as releasing more than 1,000 political prisoners still behind
bars, she said.  “We agreed that an important test of the government’s
stated commitment to reform and change will be the unconditional
release of all prisoners of conscience,” Clinton said after
meeting with Suu Kyi.  Thein Sein told Clinton that his government would release
more political prisoners, sever military ties with  North Korea 
and seek new ways to ease violence with ethnic groups seeking
more autonomy, according to a U.S. official speaking on
condition of anonymity.  Political Freedom  At a Dec. 1 dinner with Clinton, Suu Kyi said the U.S.
should support reformers in Myanmar’s government and encourage
officials who are still unsure to join them in fighting
hardliners opposed to more political freedom, the official said.  Yesterday, Clinton and Suu Kyi strolled through the yard in
front of her two-story paint-chipped house, where dozens of
local and foreign journalists had gathered. During their
meeting, Suu Kyi acknowledged opposition in some parts of the
U.S. to engagement with Myanmar, and made the point that it was
important to listen to voices inside the country, the U.S.
official said.  Suu Kyi, 66, will run in an election for the first time
after her party voted to rejoin the political process on Nov.
18. Last month, she said Thein Sein was “very genuine in his
desire for the process of democratization.”  The Nobel laureate called for international agencies to
help improve health and education in Myanmar. She also said her
country aims to maintain “good, friendly” relations with
 China .  “If we go forward together, I’m confident that there will
be no turning back from the road towards democracy,” Suu Kyi
told reporters in a 10-minute joint appearance with Clinton.
“We are not on that road yet, but we hope to get there as soon
as possible with the help and understanding of our friends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  