-- 
Coffee May Extend Gains on Rain in Latin America, Goldman Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-12-01T11:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/coffee-may-extend-gains-on-rain-in-latin-america-goldman-says.html
Arabica coffee prices may extend
gains as rain disrupts supplies from  Colombia  and Central
America, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Coffee will be at $2.35 a pound in three months, the bank
forecast in a report dated today. “We see risk to our short-
term price forecast as skewed to the upside,” Damien Courvalin,
an analyst at Goldman, said in the report. Prices have climbed
5.2 percent on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  over the past month.  “Colombia has revised its production estimate lower for
2011 for the second time in two weeks on disease outbreak and
adverse weather,” Courvalin said. “Recent torrential rains in
Central America have likely caused damage to both the local
crops and infrastructure.”  Colombia’s crop will be about 8 million bags in 2011,
according to Luis Munoz, chief executive officer of Colombia’s
National Federation of Coffee Growers. Output next year may not
increase if adverse weather persists, he said yesterday.  The return of the La Nina weather pattern, a cooling of the
 Pacific Ocean  that can affect weather around the world, may
damage production in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer of
coffee, Goldman’s Courvalin wrote.  Prices may fall to $2 a pound in six months and to $1.75
cents a pound in 12 months, according to the report.  “We expect a continued supply response to the current high
coffee prices during the 2012-13 crop year,” Courvalin said.  Arabica coffee for March delivery was down 0.4 percent to
$2.359 a pound by 6:20 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Arabica is grown mainly in  Latin America  and favored by
Starbucks Corp., the world’s largest coffee shop owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 