-- 
Construction Spending in U.S. Rose for Third Consecutive Month in October

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-01T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-rises-for-third-consecutive-month.html
Construction spending in the U.S. rose
in October for a third consecutive month on gains in housing and
commercial projects like office buildings and  power plants .  Building outlays  increased  0.8 percent, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The  median  estimate of 52
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.3 percent gain.  New activity in the housing market, driven by low  interest
rates  and home improvement projects, is starting to tug the
industry up from decade lows. Even so, overall weakness in
residential construction alongside declines in  government
spending  mean the industry will take a long time to strengthen.  “Construction will contribute positively to growth,” Aneta
Markowska, a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in  New
York , said before the report. “The problem is that (home)
construction right now is 2 percent of gross domestic product, so
even if you get big percent increases year-on-year, the impact
would be marginal.”  Estimates  in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.7
percent to an increase of 1 percent. Spending in September
increased by 0.2 percent, the same as previously estimated. The
August reading was revised up to show a 2.2 percent gain from a
previously estimated 1.6 percent increase.  Private construction spending climbed 2.3 percent in October
from the prior month.  Homebuilding outlays  increased 3.4 percent,
including a 6.7 percent gain in home improvement.  Government Projects  Spending on public construction dropped 1.8 percent, the
report said. Federal construction outlays decreased 5 percent to
$26.4 billion, the lowest level since May 2009.  In October, builders broke ground on more homes than
forecast and construction permits climbed to the highest level
since March 2010, evidence that housing may become less of a drag
as the U.S. recovery enters its third year.  Housing starts were at a 628,000 annual rate that month,
Commerce Department figures showed Nov. 17. Building permits, a
proxy for future construction, increased 11 percent.  Homebuilder sentiment has began to turn up as well. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index
 increased  to 20 last month, the highest level since May 2010.
Readings less than 50 mean more respondents said conditions were
poor.  Part of that brightening sentiment may be due to a jump in
construction of apartments and other multifamily dwellings as
foreclosures turn more Americans into renters. At the same time,
the single-family market has not joined the rebound. At 163,000,
the number of new one-family homes for sale in October was the
 lowest  on records going back to 1963.  ‘Tough’ Environment  “We have a macroeconomic environment that is tough,” Jim Roberts, chief executive officer at  Granite Construction Inc. (GVA) ,
said during a Nov. 15 investor conference. “We are still seeing
a very slow private sector market, both at the residential and
commercial side. We do not expect that to change in the next 12
to 18 months. Until that private sector rebounds, you will not
see a significant increase in the overall spending.”  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said this week
there’s a “strong case” for more steps to be taken to remedy a
“dysfunctional” U.S. housing market, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  