-- 
Correlation Breaks for Canada Phone Stocks Rising Most Since ’99

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/correlation-breaks-for-canada-phone-stocks-beating-s-p-tsx-most-since-1999.html
Canadian telephone stocks are beating
the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index by the most in 12
years, providing a haven for fund managers whose returns are
trailing benchmark indexes by the most in a decade.  An index of companies from  BCE Inc. (BCE)  to  Telus Corp. (T)  gained
 14 percent  in 2011 to a 42-month high, compared with a 9.2
percent decline in the benchmark measure of Canadian equities,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Phone companies’ correlation
with the Canadian index, a measure of how much assets are moving
in tandem, has declined over the past four months, while the
other nine groups have moved more in sync with the S&P/TSX.  Phone companies are avoiding the lockstep moves that have
prevented money managers from profiting through stock selection.
Fewer than 24 percent of 542 global fund categories tracked by
Morningstar Inc. have topped their benchmark indexes this year,
the fewest since at least 1999, as speculation about the
European debt crisis outweighed company news such as earnings.  “People wake up in the morning not knowing what’s going to
happen in  Europe  or in the U.S.,” Jason Gibbs, co-manager of
the C$506 million ($496 million) Dynamic Dividend Fund, said in
a telephone interview last month. With telecommunication shares,
“you can own a business where you know you’re going to get paid
something every month,” he said. “It’s a business where you
know they’re going to be around in a year, two years, five
years.”  BCE,  Canada ’s largest phone company, and Telus, the
country’s third-biggest wireless carrier, moved in the opposite
direction from the S&P/TSX each of the four weeks ending Nov.
11. The companies climbed after reporting earnings that beat
average analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Out of Lockstep  The link between price moves in telecommunications stocks
and the S&P/TSX has weakened in the past four months, while it
has grown among the nine other industries in the index. The so-
called correlation coefficient for phone companies is 0.53,
compared with an average of 0.79 for the other S&P/TSX groups.
In the 10 years ending in July, the average correlation for the
other nine groups was lower than that 98 percent of the time,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. A reading of 1 means two assets
are moving in the same direction all the time.  Equity prices worldwide have been more closely tied since
July than in any time since at least 1995, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. None of the  10 industries (SPX)  in the  S&P 500  has a
60-day coefficient with the index below 0.85, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. For the MSCI World Index of shares in
developed nations, the lowest value is 0.92.  ‘Risk as Binary’  “It’s a world where investors see risk as binary,” said
 Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $350 billion. “They
either see today as one to take on more risk or not depending on
the news flow.”  The dividend payments of phone companies reduce their risk,
Gibbs said. Telephone stock dividends averaging 4.26 percent
compare with payouts of 2.76 percent for the S&P/TSX Composite.
Dividends have accounted for 66 percent of the industry index’s
 total return  over the past 10 years, compared with 43 percent
for the broader gauge.  “Investors are increasingly placing more value on stocks
that give you above-average dividend yields, stocks that are
easy to understand and businesses that are stable and
defensive,” Gibbs said.  Gibbs said he owns a greater proportion of telephone stocks
than their representation in the S&P/TSX, including shares of
BCE, Telus and  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)   Smaller Losses  The group has fared better than others during some previous
bear markets. During the  2000-2001 dot-com crash , Canadian
telephone stocks dropped 29 percent, and the S&P/TSX’s
predecessor, known as the TSE 300, declined 43 percent. In the
2008-2009  bear market , the industry index lost 33 percent, while
the broader gauge plunged 50 percent.  Telecommunications companies have less room for growth than
other industries in Canada, said Mathieu Roy, investment manager
at Louisbourg Investments Inc. in Moncton,  New Brunswick , which
oversees about C$1.5 billion.  About 80 percent of Canadian households have  Internet
access  and mobile phones and  89 percent  have cable or satellite
television, according to government agencies. Analysts  forecast 
earnings for the industry index will increase 3.9 percent next
year, compared with  14 percent (STTELS)  for the S&P/TSX Composite.  Telecommunications companies’  earnings  are more stable than
other industries’. Annual earnings for phone companies fell no
more than 11 percent between 2003 and 2010. Among the S&P/TSX
industries, only consumer staples did not have a larger annual
drop in profits. Neither BCE nor Telus has had a quarterly loss
since 2001.  Risk-Adjusted Returns  All five S&P/TSX telecommunications stocks have had
positive risk-adjusted returns in both the last six months and
the last three years, according to Bloomberg data. Among the
other 251 companies in the S&P/TSX Composite, 16 percent have
done the same. The gauge measures returns balanced against the
degree of risk given a stock’s historical volatility.  “With telecom, you have a true staple,”  Paul Taylor ,
chief investment officer at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Harris
Private Banking unit, said in a telephone interview from
Toronto. The unit oversees about C$14.5 billion, with a larger
proportion of some portfolios invested in telephone stocks than
the industry’s share of the S&P/TSX. “You may lose your job.
You’re still going to need your cellphone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  