-- 
Credicorp to Buy Correval Stake After BTG Pactual Talks End

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-12-01T21:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/credicorp-unit-to-acquire-51-stake-in-brokerage-correval-1-.html
Banco de Credito del Peru (CREDITC1) , the Andean
country’s biggest bank, agreed to buy 51 percent of  Colombia ’s
Correval SA to expand its brokerage and corporate finance
businesses as the two countries integrate securities trading.  The unit of  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP) , Peru’s largest financial
services company, beat six other potential buyers, said Correval
President Diego Jimenez Posada. Banco BTG Pactual SA, founded by
Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves , also had been in “very
preliminary” talks earlier this year, he said.  “Correval and its founding partners have for many years
had a vision that requires a strong and strategic partner,”
Jimenez said in a telephone interview from Bogota. Credicorp
“wants to develop a big regional investment bank vehicle and
Correval has experience in buying and selling stocks and
developing other products,” he said.  Colombian, Peruvian and Chilean financial firms are
expanding in the region, while the three countries develop  Latin
America ’s first stock market combination, as economic growth
spurs demand for securities. Banco de Credito will focus on
expanding Correval’s cross-border activities to support the
growth of the bank’s existing customers, said Credicorp.  Regional Platform  The acquisition values Correval at $150 million, Credicorp
said in an e-mailed statement today. The alliance “adds
significant value to the group’s capacities within the Colombian
market,” the company said. A Credicorp spokeswoman didn’t
immediately provide further comment.  The partnership for a “regional business platform” is
pending approval from Peruvian and Colombian regulatory
authorities, Correval’s Jimenez said.  Correval will maintain its brand, management, employees and
infrastructure developed over 25 years in the Colombian market,
he said. He said JP Morgan advised Correval on the acquisition.  Jimenez said other potential buyers of the shareholding
were based in the U.S.,  Canada , Colombia and other Latin
American countries, without giving further details.  “With Pactual we found that they were seeking a business
model that was different from Correval’s,” Jimenez said.  BTG Pactual is in merger talks with Chilean asset
management and brokerage firm Celfin Capital SA, the latter
confirmed in an e-mailed statement today.  Credicorp shares rose 2 percent to $110.75 at 4 p.m. Lima
time.  Banco de Credito may become the Andean country’s first
issuer of bonds in  Asia  next year, Chief Executive Officer
Walter Bayly said Nov. 25. The Lima-based bank, which sold bonds
in  Chile  in 2009, is also considering issuances in Mexico and
Colombia, he told a banking conference in the Peruvian capital.  -- Editor: Marie-France Han, James Attwood.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  