-- 
Crystal Palace Upsets Manchester United 2-1 in Carling Cup Quarterfinals

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-01T00:06:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/crystal-palace-upsets-manchester-united-2-1-in-carling-cup-quarterfinals.html
Crystal Palace, which plays in
 England ’s second-tier Championship, ousted four-time champion
Manchester United 2-1 to reach the semifinals of soccer’s
Carling Cup.  Glenn Murray headed in the winning goal in extra time
yesterday at United’s Old Trafford stadium. Darren Ambrose had
given Palace a 65th-minute lead, with Federico Macheda replying
for the hosts from the penalty spot four minutes later.  “We thought if we came with a game plan that could be stuck
to and everybody played eight, nine, 10 out of 10 we could do
it,” Palace manager Dougie Freedman told  Sky Sports . “To play
at Old Trafford, we’re privileged. The lads learned a lot.”  Palace will play Cardiff City, also of the Championship,
for a place in the final, while record seven-time winner
Liverpool faces  Manchester City .  United has exited in the quarterfinals for two straight
seasons, following defeat to West Ham a year ago. Prior to that,
it won the second-tier cup in 2009 and 2010.  The Red Devils are second in the elite Premier League,
while Palace is 12th in the Championship and had failed to score
in its past five matches.  Mame Biram Diouf had the host’s best chance in the first
half when he volleyed over with an overhead kick. Wilfried Zaha
fired over from close range for Palace.  Injuries  Both teams suffered injury problems during the match.
United’s fullbacks Fabio da Silva and his twin brother Rafael
had to be replaced, while Sean Scannell and Dean Moxey came off
for Palace.  United pushed for a goal early in the second half with
 Antonio Valencia  firing a low shot just wide in the 52nd minute
after stealing the ball from Anthony Gardner.  Ravel Morrison then had a shot saved by Palace goalkeeper
Lewis Price before the visitors took the lead on 65 minutes.  Ambrose, who replaced Moxey at halftime, took possession 40
yards (36.6 meters) out and fired the ball past Ben Amos in the
United goal.  United tied it within four minutes as Patrick McCarthy
tugged Macheda’s jersey in the penalty area. Macheda scored from
the spot-kick.  With no more goals in regulation play there were 30 minutes
of extra time. Eight minutes in, Murray headed a free kick from
Ambrose past Amos for the winning goal.  Two days ago, Liverpool beat Chelsea 2-0, Premier League
leader Manchester City defeated Arsenal 1-0, and  Cardiff City 
beat Blackburn 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 