-- 
Del Monte Foods Wins Final Approval of Settlement of KKR Buyout Suits

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T18:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/del-monte-wins-approval-of-settlement-of-kkr-buyout-suits-1-.html
Del Monte Foods Co. and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
won a judge’s approval of a $89.4 million settlement of investor
lawsuits over the buyout of the pet-food maker by a group of
private-equity firms led by KKR & Co.  The accord, which gave Del Monte investors about 50 cents
more a share, “provides excellent consideration,”  Delaware 
Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster said before approving the
settlement today at a hearing in Wilmington.  Investors in San Francisco-based Del Monte, maker of  Meow
Mix  cat food and  Milk Bone  dog biscuits, alleged they were
shortchanged in KKR’s buyout, for which London-based Barclays
provided some financing. Shareholders received a total $19.50 a
share as a result of the accord, according to court filings.  Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, couldn’t immediately
comment on Laster’s decision to approve the settlement today and
Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a Barclays spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Chrissy Stengel, a Del Monte spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The accord resolves claims that Barclays, which also served
as Del Monte’s financial adviser, had conflicting interests in
the $5.3 billion deal because of its financing for the buyers.
The private-equity group led by New York-based KKR included
 Vestar Capital Partners  and  Centerview Partners  LLP.  Collusion Alleged  Other Del Monte investors alleged that KKR and Vestar
colluded on the offer for Del Monte and filed an antitrust suit
in federal court in  California . The private-equity firms at one
time vied against each other to buy the consumer-products maker,
the suit contends.  The U.S.  Justice Department  has launched a probe of the
antitrust claims over the Del Monte buyout,  Stuart Grant , a
lawyer for investors who sued in Delaware, said last week in
court papers.  The Del Monte shareholders who’d sued Del Monte and KKR in
California sought to have Laster reject the state-court
settlement because it would wipe out their claims.  The judge refused, finding the allegation of collusion
didn’t amount to a “meaty case” and federal prosecutors were
better able to press antitrust claims if they exist.  Grant, who represented a pension fund who’d invested in  Del
Monte , said he was proud of the settlement because it threw a
spotlight on the conflicting roles banks sometimes play in
buyouts.  ‘Message Sent’  Del Monte investors noted in their suit that Barclays was
paid $23.5 million to advise Del Monte on the deal while also
receiving as much as $24 million for providing loans to the
buyers. Wall Street firms have shied away from providing such
loans in the wake of Laster’s rulings in the Del Monte case,
Grant noted.  “We’ve been able to change a Wall Street practice that was
more prevalent than people thought,” he said. “A message was
sent through your honor’s opinion that this kind of interested
transaction” won’t be tolerated, Grant added.  As part of the settlement, Laster today approved a total of
$22.3 million to cover Del Monte investors’ legal fees and costs
in bringing the case.  The case is In re  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 