-- 
Diageo Seeks Africa Boost With Ethiopia, Angola Expansion

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-12-01T11:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/diageo-seeks-africa-boost-with-ethiopia-angola-expansion.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, is seeking to boost its market share in  Africa ,
appointing a new regional head to expand its products in
countries where it sees potential to grow.  Ekwunife Okoli, who spent two years as managing director of
Diageo’s Ghanaian unit,  Guinness Ghana Breweries Ltd. (GGBL) , will
become head of Africa Regional Markets on Dec. 5, an area that
encompasses markets outside of Nigeria,  South Africa , and the
five nations of the East African Community.  “These four markets are at different levels of development
and require different strategies to run,” he said in an
interview in Accra yesterday.  Companies are seeking to tap into expanding economies and a
growing consumer base in sub-Saharan Africa, where per capita
gross national incomes rose 12 percent from 2000 to 2009 to
$1,130, according to the  World Bank . Gross domestic product grew
4.6 percent in the same period.  Okoli will oversee the conclusion of a $225 million
purchase of Ethiopia’s Meta Abo Breweries and its popular beer
of the same name. The company may introduce other products into
the Ethiopian market when the takeover of the state-owned brewer
is finished, he said.  Diageo plans to set up a distributing company in Angola,
Africa’s second-biggest oil producer, to introduce Guinness
beer, Okoli said. The drink will also be brought into Botswana
and whisky and vodka into Mozambique, he said. Diageo’s products
include Johnnie Walker whisky and Smirnoff vodka.  In Ghana, where it brews the popular Star lager, the
company wants to increase its 25 percent share of the country’s
beverage market, he said, without giving a specific target.
Diageo also runs a brewery in  Cameroon , where it has 17 percent
of the market, Okoli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 