-- 
Euro Gains on Report Central Banks Will Step Up Aid to Europe

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-02T13:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/dollar-yen-poised-for-weekly-declines-on-signs-of-u-s-economic-recovery.html
The euro rose versus the yen and
dollar after people familiar said a proposal to channel central
bank loans through the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver
up to 200 billion euros ($271 billion) to fight the debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency extended its biggest weekly gain in
a month against the greenback as European stocks rallied,
fueling demand for the region’s assets. The yen and dollar
weakened versus a majority of their major counterparts before a
U.S. report today that economists said will show employers
increased hiring last month.  “This goes to the heart of the day-to-day financing of
these nations,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “It’s a much more
meaningful step than a lot of the monetary intervention that
they had been doing.”  The euro gained 0.6 percent to 105.27 yen at 8:05 a.m. in
 New York , extending this week’s gain to 2.3 percent, the most
since the period ended Oct. 14. The shared currency strengthened
0.4 percent to $1.3518, having risen 2.1 percent this week, also
the most since Oct. 14. The yen weakened 0.2 percent to 77.89
per dollar.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index  gained 1.5 percent, and futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  expiring in December advanced
1.3 percent.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , euro-area finance ministers gave the go-
ahead for work on the plan, said the two people, who declined to
be named because the talks are at an early stage. The need for a
new crisis-containment tool emerged as the effort to boost the
440 billion-euro rescue fund to 1 trillion euros fell short.  U.S. Employment  U.S. employers hired 125,000 workers in November after
adding 80,000 the previous month, according to a Bloomberg
survey before today’s Labor Department report. The  Institute for
Supply Management  said yesterday its gauge of manufacturing rose
to 52.7 in November, the most in five months. Readings above 50
indicate growth.  ‘We’re actually seeing the  U.S. economy  being one of the
few bright spots out there,’’ said  Robert Rennie , Sydney-based
chief currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s
second-largest lender. “Better U.S. data is in the short term a
modest negative for the  U.S. dollar .”  The euro rose for a third day versus the dollar as Germany
and  France  lead the push for closer economic ties among the
region’s nations and lock in tougher enforcement of budget rules
to counter the debt crisis.  Merkel, Sarkozy  German Chancellor Angela Merkel today welcomed French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s “important” speech yesterday in
which he warned that the euro region’s fissures threaten to blow
the 17-nation shared currency apart. She is due to hold talks
with the French leader in Paris on Dec. 5 to coordinate their
approach to a Dec. 9 summit.  ECB policy makers will meet on Dec. 8 to review  interest
rates . All but one of the 33 economists in a Bloomberg  survey 
predict the central bank will cut borrowing costs by at least 25
basis points from the current 1.25 percent. The ECB unexpectedly
lowered the key rate at its November meeting.  The yen weakened against all but one of its 16 major
counterparts as Finance Minister Jun Azumi said he’ll take
action on speculative currency moves  The yen climbed to a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar on
Oct. 31, prompting  Japan  to intervene in markets for the third
time this year to stem gains that endangered an export-led
economic recovery. The nation sold 9.09 trillion yen from Oct.
28 to Nov. 28, the Ministry of Finance said this week, the most
on a monthly basis in data going back to 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  