-- 
Dollar Proves Best Bet for Investors

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-12-01T16:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/dollar-proves-best-bet-as-investors-reject-stocks-for-safety-of-treasuries.html
The  dollar (DXY)  was the best place for
investors to be in November, beating returns on worldwide bonds,
commodities and stocks as Europe’s debt crisis threatened to
derail global growth.  The Dollar Index tracking the U.S. currency against six
foreign-exchange peers rose 2.9 percent last month, leaving it
down less than 1 percent for the year. Even as Treasuries gained
0.7 percent, fixed-income securities around the world lost 0.5
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of commodities rose
1.4 percent, and the  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares fell
2.9 percent with dividends.  “There’s been a flight to quality, which means investors
are keeping their money in U.S. dollars and Treasuries,” said
 Sean Callow , a Sydney-based senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp., the second-most-accurate foreign-exchange
forecaster measured by Bloomberg News. “The U.S. hasn’t been a
bad bet, whether you’re on the safe-haven side or you see signs
of life in the economy,” he said in a phone interview Nov. 29.  Contagion in Europe’s debt markets spread to Italy last
month, boosting yields to euro-era record highs, and curbed
demand for German bunds. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development this week cited doubts about the
survival of Europe’s monetary union as the main risk to the
world economy.  OECD Forecasts  The 34 OECD nations will grow 1.9 percent this year and 1.6
percent next, the Paris-based organization said in its twice-
annual global economic outlook released Nov. 28, down from 2.3
percent and 2.8 percent predicted in May.  To alleviate stresses in the financial system, six central
banks led by the  Federal Reserve  made it cheaper for banks to
borrow dollars in emergencies. The premium banks pay to borrow
dollars overnight from central banks will fall by half a
percentage point to 50 basis points, the Fed said yesterday in a
statement in  Washington .  The Fed coordinated the move with the  European Central Bank 
and the central banks of Canada, Switzerland,  Japan  and the
U.K., sparking gains in stocks and commodities, and losses in
Treasuries and the dollar.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index rebounded from
a 3 percent loss in October to 78.388 as of yesterday, and it’s
up from the low this year of 72.696 in May. It will climb to 80
by year-end, Callow said. The index fell 0.2 percent to 78.256
at 11:57 a.m. in  New York .  Dollar Forecasts  The U.S. currency will trade at $1.35 on Dec. 31 against
its 17-nation European counterpart, from $1.3446 yesterday, and
77 versus Japan’s currency from 77.62, according to the median
estimate of strategist and economists in Bloomberg surveys.  The euro fell 2.97 percent against the dollar in November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yen advanced 0.71
versus the dollar, even after Japan sold its currency for the
third time this year on Oct. 31 and Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
indicated he may do so again. The Brazilian real was the biggest
loser among the 16 most-widely traded currencies, depreciating
5.14 percent.  The haven appeal of U.S. assets has been burnished amid
signs of strength in the world’s largest economy. The New York-
based Conference Board said last month that its index of
consumer confidence rose in November by the most since April
2003.  ‘Favorite Strategy’  “The favorite strategy will be to locate the cleanest
dirty shirts -- the United States,  Canada , United Kingdom and
 Australia  at the moment,” Bill Gross, who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund as co-chief investment officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California , wrote in
his monthly  commentary  this week.  Bond markets in November showed that a debt crisis that
began in Europe’s so-called peripheral markets of Greece and
Portugal is starting to impact core economies.  Germany  failed to
get bids for 35 percent of the 6 billion euros ($8 billion) of
bonds it planned to sell on Nov. 23. Italy issued bonds this
week with coupons that exceeded 7 percent, the threshold that
preceded bailouts for Greece, Portugal and Ireland.  Euro-area finance ministers approved enhancements this week
to their rescue fund, though they refrained from setting a
target for its size.  Europe ’s woes helped send Bank of America’s Global Broad
Market Index, which consists of more than 19,000 sovereign,
corporate, asset-backed and other debt securities with a value
of $41.4 trillion, down for the second straight month. The
losses trimmed this year’s gains through Nov. 29 to 4.3 percent,
after reinvested interest.  Government Bonds  America’s government bonds are up 8.8 percent in 2011, set
for the best year since returning 14 percent in 2008. The debt
extended gains in November even after the U.S. lost its last
stable outlook from the three biggest credit-ranking companies.
 Fitch Ratings  on Nov. 28 lowered its outlook on the U.S.’s AAA
grade to “negative” following a congressional committee’s
failure to agree on deficit cuts.  Treasuries due in 10 years and more have returned 25
percent in 2011, the second most after Sweden among 144 bond
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  “Confusion in Europe will help the Treasury market,” said
Tsutomu Komiya, a bond investor at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo , which oversees the equivalent of $118.7 billion and is a
unit of Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. Demand for safety will
help keep U.S. yields low, he said.  Yield Forecasts  The nation’s 10-year yield will finish 2011 at 2.20 percent
from 2.07 percent yesterday, according to a Bloomberg survey of
banks and securities companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings. The record low of 1.67 percent
was set on Sept. 23.  Investment-grade corporate bonds lost 1.8 percent last
month, while junk-rated debt plunged 2.7 percent, based on the
Bank of America indexes. High-yield, high-risk securities are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB-
at S&P.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24  commodities  advanced
in November after surging 9.8 percent in October for its best
monthly performance since May 2009.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures traded in New
York had some of the biggest gains among raw materials, rallying
7.7 percent to $100.36 a barrel. The futures rose after Enbridge
Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP announced plans to
start shipping oil from Cushing,  Oklahoma , the contract’s
delivery point, in 2012.  Crude Outlet  The change would add an outlet for North American crude at
Gulf Coast refineries, easing a glut at the hub that helped cut
the price of the U.S. benchmark against London-traded Brent
crude. Brent  cost  $10.16 per barrel more than West Texas
Intermediate oil as of yesterday. The gap has narrowed from a
record $27.88 a barrel Oct. 14.  West Texas Intermediate will average $90 a barrel and Brent
will average $108.50 a barrel in the fourth quarter, based on
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of banks.  Concern that Europe’s crisis will curb global growth
weighed on demand for other raw materials, with cocoa and nickel
posting the biggest losses for the month.  Cocoa futures traded in the U.S. slumped 14.5 percent as
exports from Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest producer, resumed
after a civil war. Nickel on the London Metal Exchange tumbled
about 11 percent as global stockpiles swelled.  No ‘Great Market’  “You can’t get really optimistic or really bullish about
the commodity markets,” Jeremy Friesen, commodity strategist at
Societe Generale SA, said by phone from  Hong Kong  on Nov. 29. As
long as Europe’s crisis lingers, he said, “it’s not going to be
a great market for anything that’s levered to global growth.”  The  MSCI All Country World Index  retreated after October’s
11 percent rally. The equity benchmark tracking 45 global
markets has declined 6.2 percent this  year .  The MSCI index is  valued  at 12.4 times reported profit, 18
percent below the median from the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price-earnings ratio reached
10.4 in September, the lowest in more than two years.  Denmark’s OMX Copenhagen 20 Index rose 6.2 percent and
Ireland’s ISEQ Overall Index climbed 0.9 percent, for the only
monthly advances among 24 developed markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Venezuela’s  IBC Index (IBVC)  was the biggest
gainer among benchmark emerging market indexes, climbing 7.3
percent.  S&P 500 Retreats  The S&P 500 retreated 0.2 percent in November, after the
U.S. equity benchmark posted the worst Thanksgiving-week loss
since 1932 as American policy makers failed to reach agreement
on reducing the federal budget.  A gauge of financial stocks in the S&P 500 tumbled 4.8
percent as Fitch said Europe’s debt crisis poses a threat to
American banks and S&P cut credit ratings of large lenders
including Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Analysts have reduced 2012  profit estimates (SPX)  for companies
in the S&P 500 by 4.2 percent since Aug. 4 to $108.93 a share.
The projections now imply earnings will increase 10 percent next
year, the  slowest pace  of growth since 2009.  The S&P 500 will rise to 1,265 by Dec. 31 from 1,246.96
yesterday, the median forecast of banks surveyed by Bloomberg
shows.  “We’re concerned that we have lower levels to plumb before
we’re through with this, given what’s happening with the
economies in Europe,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland, told Adam Johnson
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” Nov. 29. “We have a
harder time seeing positive catalysts than negative ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  