-- 
Draghi Signals ECB May Step Up Debt Measures If EU Considers Fiscal Union

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-01T12:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/draghi-says-ecb-bond-purchases-can-only-be-limited-pushes-fiscal-union.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB could do more to fight the debt crisis
as long as governments push the euro area toward a fiscal union.  “A new fiscal compact” is “definitely the most important
element to start restoring credibility,” Draghi said in an
address to the European Parliament in Brussels today. “Other
elements might follow, but the sequencing matters. It is first
and foremost important to get a commonly shared fiscal compact
right.” Draghi didn’t specify what more the ECB could do and
said the central bank’s bond purchases “can only be limited.”  Still, he “appeared implicitly to hold up the offer of a
significantly higher pace of debt purchases” and “potentially
other measures, provided that euro-area governments were to
commit to a new fiscal pact,” said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  The ECB yesterday joined forces with the Federal Reserve to
cut the cost of emergency dollar loans to banks outside the U.S.
While the coordinated action fuelled a global stock market
rally, the yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond is still close to 7
percent as contagion spreads to the euro region’s core.  The euro initially fell on Draghi’s remarks before
rebounding to trade at $1.3486 at 1:25 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  also recouped its losses.  Managing Expectations  “Draghi is trying to manage market expectations to make
people understand the ECB won’t behave like the  Bank of England 
and the  Federal Reserve ,” Michala Marcussen, global head of
economics at  Societe Generale  in Paris, told Bloomberg
Television. “It doesn’t mean it can’t be supportive.”  The ECB unexpectedly cut its  benchmark interest rate  by a
quarter point to 1.25 percent earlier this month, and all but
one of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict another
quarter-point reduction when policy makers meet on Dec. 8.  Draghi said the central bank’s bond purchases aim solely to
ensure its rates are transmitted on markets, not to create new
money or “subsidize governments.”  The ECB is already lending banks as much money as they ask
for in an attempt to stimulate the flow of credit to households
and businesses.  Not Circulating  “The ECB has created an enormous amount of liquidity, and
we see now that this liquidity is being redeposited with the ECB
deposit facility,” Draghi said. “Which means it is not so much
the amount of liquidity that is the matter, but it’s the fact
that this liquidity is not actually circulating.”  The most important thing for the ECB to do is restore the
flow of credit to the economy, he said.  “We have observed serious credit tightening in the most
recent period, which combined with the weakening of the business
cycle doesn’t bode at all well for the months to come,” Draghi
said.  European leaders will meet next week to discuss the next
steps in stopping a crisis that will soon enter a third year.
Draghi’s approach is backed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
who says politicians must drive the euro region toward a fiscal
union rather than rely on the ECB’s bond purchases.  “Governments must restore their credibility vis-a-vis
financial markets,” Draghi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Black at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  