-- 
East Europe Risk Rising From Euro Crisis, Development Bank Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-01T10:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/east-europe-risk-rising-from-euro-crisis-development-bank-says.html
Risks are rising for eastern  Europe 
from the debt crisis as European banks are squeezed by
deteriorating loan quality and slowing growth, European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development President Thomas Mirow said.  Central and southeastern Europe are exposed because they
are “heavily dependent on the euro area as their major trade
partner, and this comes on top of contagion risks through the
banking sector,” Mirow said yesterday in a phone interview from
 London .  The 17-nation euro region is edging closer to a recession
as the fiscal crisis envelops larger economies. International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in Moscow
last month that eastern Europe may face a credit squeeze as
banks mired in the debt turmoil withdraw liquidity from the
region.  Eastern European countries need to “stabilize their own
financial sector to any degree possible and in the medium-term
of course to diversify their economies and also trading
partners,” Mirow said. Commodity-reliant countries further east
like  Russia  may be affected by reduced demand in Europe.  Hungary, which is in talks to get assistance from the IMF
and had its debt rating cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service
on Nov. 25, is particularly vulnerable, said Mirow.  ‘Pocket of Vulnerability’  “Hungary is clearly seen as a pocket of vulnerability for
the region” because of its higher government debt, weaker
policies and high proportion of foreign-currency loans for small
businesses and individuals, the EBRD head said.  The London-based lender in a  report  last month said the
weakness of the Hungarian forint against the Swiss franc has
become a “major concern” because about two-thirds of mortgages
are denominated in the Swiss currency.  Hungary remains vulnerable to external shocks, such as the
loss of access to  capital markets  because of investor risk
aversion or from exchange-rate depreciation, the report said.  The EBRD in October cut its 2012 growth forecast for the 29
east European and central Asian nations in which it invests to
3.2 percent from 4.4 percent in July.  Eastern Europe’s banks may face a new credit crunch should
western parent banks suffering losses on Greek bonds cut
financing to units in the east. Western lenders, including as
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , own
about three-quarters of the region’s banking industry.  The EBRD, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries to help them transform their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  