-- 
Mediterranean Shipping, CMA CGM Start Container Partnership as Rates Fall

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-01T14:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/mediterranean-shipping-cma-cgm-start-container-partnership-as-rates-fall.html
Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA
CGM SA, the world’s second- and third-largest container lines,
agreed to a vessel-sharing accord meant to fight falling rates
as overcapacity makes the industry unprofitable.  The deal includes cooperation on Asia-Northern  Europe ,
Asia-Southern Africa and South American routes, Marseille,
France-based CMA CGM said today in a statement.  The partnership will compete with industry leader  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S , which in September merged some of its  Asia 
to Europe trades into a fixed daily service with a fleet of 70
ships. Maersk has said it is prepared to outlast rivals as the
industry faces four years of overcapacity, and will reduce
prices to preserve market share.  “The partnership is a result of the incredible tough
competition we see in the container market with falling rates
and overcapacity,” Janne V. Kjaer, a transport analyst at
Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank A/S, said by phone. “The
industry will have more of these partnerships going forward as
the market conditions force container lines into action.”  Maersk’s Copenhagen-based container unit has a global
market share of 15.8 percent, according to estimates released
today by Alphaliner. MSC, based in Geneva, has 13.2 percent and
CMA CGM has 8.5 percent, according to Alphaliner. The smaller
rivals are closely held.  “The agreement, which is designed to improve the two
partners’ respective performance, will help to drive extensive
operating synergies and enhance quality of service,” CMA CGM
said. The companies will be able to “deploy the best ships in
each of their fleets, while increasing the number of ports of
call and frequency of sailing.”  Maersk Prediction  Maersk’s container unit last month lowered its full-year
forecast to a net loss from an August prediction of a “modest”
profit. The unit lost 1.58 billion kroner ($287 million) in the
third quarter versus a 5.9 billion kroner profit a year earlier.  “It’s not unlikely that we will see some container lines
going out of business in this unprofitable market,” said
Jyske’s Kjaer, who has a “buy” recommendation on Maersk
shares.  Maersk declined 580 kroner, or 1.5 percent, to 37,220
kroner at 3:46 p.m. in Copenhagen. The stock has lost 26 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  