-- 
Egypt’s Islamist Blocs Claim 70% Vote Share During Delayed Election Count

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-12-02T21:25:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/egypt-s-islamist-blocs-claim-70-vote-share-in-delayed-count.html
Egypt’s two main Islamist blocs said
they may have won about 70 percent of the votes in parliamentary
elections this week that are the first major test of public
opinion since the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak .  The alliance dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party won about 40 percent in the first round of the
elections, which took place in one-third of the country’s
provinces, according to party spokesman Ahmed Sobea. Two
individual candidates backed by the alliance won seats and 47
others will contest re-runs, he said.  The more conservative Salafi Al-Nour Party said it may have
gotten 30 percent while the secular Egyptian Bloc said it may
have won as much as 20 percent of the vote.  About 62 percent of eligible voters, or 8.4 million people,
turned out to vote, Abdel Moez Ibrahim, the chairman of the
election commission, said in a televised press conference today.
The turnout “is the highest percentage that  Egypt  has witnessed
since the days of the pharaohs,” he said.  Full results of the first round weren’t announced at the
press conference. Run-offs in closely contested seats will begin
on Dec. 5. With two more rounds of voting in the rest of the
country to come after that, the assembly’s make-up won’t be
clear until January.  Next Phase  The initial results offer an early indication that Islamic
parties are set to play a leading role in the next phase of
Egypt’s transition toward democracy, which may bring the
political groups in parliament into conflict with the ruling
army council. The generals last week appointed former Premier
Kamal el-Ganzouri to form a government, and say they won’t cede
power until a president is elected in June.  “These parties have succeeded in articulating broad
sentiments that are widely appealing,”  Jon Alterman , director
of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington , said of the Islamist
groups. “The problem that all these parties will have is, how
do you convert those sentiments into laws and policy? I don’t
think they figured that out.”  The Freedom and Justice Party said yesterday that it hasn’t
made any kind of pact with the Salafi group to act together
after elections. Any talk of alliances is “premature and mere
media speculation,” Secretary-General Saad El Katatny said,
according to the Brotherhood’s website.  Army’s Power  The army’s reluctance to cede power sparked a week of
clashes that left more than 40 people dead and overshadowed the
run-up to the two-day balloting, which ended on Nov. 29.
Protesters accused the ruling generals of stifling freedoms
while failing to restore security or revive a struggling
economy.  At a rally in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  today to commemorate
those who died in the uprising, thousands demanded the departure
of the ruling military council.  “The real issue is civilian rule,” said Karim El-Attar, a
34-year-old marketing manager. “I want a civilian state,
neither a religion-based nor a military state.”  The unrest before and since Mubarak’s ouster has weighed
down the economy, which grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year
through June, the slowest in at least a decade. While the
benchmark  stock index  rallied more than 8 percent this week,
boosted by the high voter turnout and lack of violence, it’s
still down 43 percent this year. Egypt’s dollar bonds due in
2020 are trading at about 7 percent, close to a 10-month high.  Economic Factors  The Brotherhood’s party campaigned on a platform of
reviving the economy by boosting investment in industry,
agriculture and technology, and trimming the  budget deficit .  There’s no reason investors should worry about a
Brotherhood election victory, because Islamist politics aren’t
“inconsistent with a flourishing market economy,” Said Hirsh,
Middle East economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said in an
e-mailed note yesterday. Investors should be more concerned
about Egypt’s likely need for more than $10 billion in external
financing next year, he said.  As it claimed an election victory, the Brotherhood also
said that the powers of the elected assembly should be enhanced
at the military’s expense. “We reject any kind of guardianship
over parliament,” said Mohammed el-Beltagy, an official with
the Freedom and Justice party.  ‘Electoral Bribes’  Samer Soliman, a member of one of the parties in the
Egyptian Bloc, said Islamists’ gains so far may “scare” many
Egyptians and help secular groups mobilize more voters for the
two upcoming rounds. The bloc said it filed complaints against
some violations marring the vote, such as “electoral bribes”
and the use of “religious slogans” in some polling stations
where it wants a repeat.  For now, the military-appointed el-Ganzouri is seeking to
form a Cabinet. He said yesterday that he expects to complete
that process by Dec. 3, adding that it’s the army council and
not Parliament that has the right to appoint governments.  The Cairo protesters say el-Ganzouri’s administration won’t
be legitimate.  “The people now realize that the parliament will be the
body that has the power, that represents the people, and not
necessarily Tahrir Square,” said Hazem El-Sisi, a 33-year-old
engineer who’s camping with other protesters in a tent on the
plaza. “Our main concern now is to ensure that the new
government should represent the revolution, and not be made up
of figures from the former regime. What we can do now is keep
the pressure up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  