-- 
Telefonica Sees Sales Growth in Home Market 2012, Chief Says

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-12-01T17:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/telefonica-sees-sales-growth-in-home-market-2012-spanish-unit-chief-says.html
Telefonica SA ,  Spain ’s largest phone
company, predicts revenue from its domestic operations will grow
in 2012 as efforts to stop customers from switching to rivals
start to pay off.  Telefonica, whose sales in Spain have declined since the
fourth quarter of 2008, may report a boost in sales in its home
market next year, said Luis Miguel Gilperez, president of
Telefonica Spain.  “There is a change in consumer habits toward
telecommunications and we are at the base of the consumption
pyramid,” Gilperez said in an interview in Madrid yesterday.
“2012 is our year of growth,” he said, referring to revenue.
This may be “derived from our market revival or from our
competitors being in a worse position.”  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is counting on
economic growth in  Latin America , which accounts for 47 percent
of sales, to attract investors discouraged by Spain’s
unemployment rate, the highest in the  euro zone . The Madrid-
based operator is also slashing jobs and identifying
underperforming assets for sale to cut debt and stem an 18
percent slide of its stock this year.  The shares fell 0.7 percent as of the 5:30 p.m. close in
Madrid, valuing the company at 63 billion euros ($85 billion).  Broadband Clients  Telefonica may have added Spanish residential broadband
clients in October and November, a spokesman said today, and
additions in November may have been higher than in October. In
September, Telefonica lost nearly 2,400 broadband lines in Spain
and its market share declined to 50 percent, market regulator
CMT said Nov. 10  Telefonica posted a third-quarter net loss of 429 million
euros weighed down by 2.6 billion euros in job-cut expenses.
That was the first quarterly loss since 2002. Third-quarter
revenue in Spain, slid 8.8 percent to 4.31 billion euros from a
year earlier, while total sales climbed 3.7 percent to 15.8
billion euros.  “I’ve been quite bearish on Telefonica’s Spanish
operations, and forecast revenue declines and margin compression
to continue, but if they really can see some traction on the
revenue line, if not the Ebitda line, then they would start to
beat my bearish assumptions,” said Kevin Yates, a London-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “A lot is already
priced in for investors because we all know the situation in
Spain is bad.”  Yates recommends clients to buy the  shares. (TEF)   Shuffled Heads  Gilperez, who formerly led Telefonica’s operations in
 Brazil , was named head of Spain in September as the former
monopoly folded its struggling domestic unit into a European
division and shuffled the heads of its regional businesses amid
efforts boost the business.  “Trends are still complicated because we probably reached
bottom in the third quarter and from there we made the firm
decision of trying to recover our position in the market,”
Gilperez said after a joint event in Madrid with Microsoft
Iberian President Maria Garana. “I don’t think sales are
falling. I’ve got more activity than ever. I’m confident that,
without a doubt, 2012 won’t be as bad as expected or forecast.”  Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete, head of the company’s European
operations, told investors on Nov. 11 he doesn’t expect any
short-term improvement in Telefonica’s domestic market as it
will continue to face pressure from competitors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  