-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance in Biggest Four-Day Increase Since May 2009

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-12-01T22:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/emerging-stocks-rise-index-heads-for-biggest-four-day-advance-since-2009.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to its steepest four-day gain in 2 1/2
years, as U.S. manufacturing expanded in November at the fastest
pace in five months and central banks’ measures to ease the
European debt crisis boosted the outlook for global markets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 3.3 percent to 959.12
at 5:18 p.m.  New York  time, bringing the measure’s increase this
week to 9.3 percent, the biggest four-day jump since May 2009.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index gained 2.2 percent after the government
lowered taxes to bolster growth. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  jumped 8.1 percent after the Chinese government cut the
reserve-ratio requirement for lenders.  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt fell for a third day after Spain and  France  sold 8.1
billion euros ($10.9 billion) of bonds. Six central banks led by
the  Federal Reserve  agreed to cut the cost of providing dollar
funding via swap agreements yesterday and to make other
currencies available as needed.  “The U.S. manufacturing data and the Fed’s move have been
important in setting a better tone for the  emerging markets ,”
Greg Lesko, managing director of Deltec Asset Management Corp.
in New York, said by phone. “Stronger data in the U.S. is good
news for people who were worried about the global recession and
it’s not surprising that the emerging markets have responded
well to that.”  Benchmarks in  South Korea  and  Taiwan  advanced more than 3.7
percent. South African, Czech, Hungarian and Polish stocks sank
after rising more than 3.7 percent yesterday.  Brazil, Hungary, Poland  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rallied to the highest in two weeks after
Brazil reduced to zero the tax on foreigners’ stock purchases as
part of measures to shore up economic growth.  BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, rose 6.7 percent. Online retailer  B2W Cia.
Global do Varejo  paced advances for companies that depend on
domestic demand, rising as much as 4.1 percent.  Hungary’s benchmark  BUX Index (BUX)  fell 2.8 percent, led by
declines in  Mol Hungarian Oil And Gas Plc (MOL)  and  OTP Bank Plc (OTP)  of
more than 4 percent. Poland’s  WIG 20 Index (WIG20)  dropped 1 percent as
bourse operator  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  slid as much as 3.6
percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its estimate for the
stock to 43 zloty from 46 zloty. In Prague, the PX Index slid
0.6 percent, with  Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT)  falling 1.4
percent.  South Africa ’s All Share Index retreated 0.2 percent, after
climbing 3.7 percent yesterday, as platinum producer  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  slipped 2.4 percent.  MSCI’s developing-nation index has slid 17 percent this
year as concerns over the European debt crisis and U.S. economic
growth prompted fund managers to seek less risky investments.
Companies in the MSCI index trade at 10.4 times estimated
earnings, less than the four-year average multiple of 12.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Reserves, PMI  Brazil’s real appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar,
and the South  Korean won  gained 1.5 percent.  Mexico ’s peso rose
0.1 percent and the Polish zloty appreciated 0.6 percent. The
 Indian rupee  gained 1.4 percent.  China  lowered  reserve requirements  for banks, allowing more
lending, for the first time since 2008. The central bank’s
decision to cut reserve ratios may add 350 billion yuan ($55
billion) to the financial system, according to UBS AG.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 49.0 in November
from 50.4 in October, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 49.8. A level above
50 indicates expansion.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis points, 0.07 percentage
point, to 407, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko at  kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  