-- 
Tepco May Scrap Plans to Build Reactors, Yomiuri Reports

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-12-01T09:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/tepco-may-scrap-plans-to-build-reactors-yomiuri-reports-1-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  may cancel
plans to build nuclear reactors in northern  Japan  because the
company needs funds to pay compensation for the Fukushima
disaster, the Yomiuri newspaper reported.  The utility known as Tepco stopped building the 1,385-
megawatt No. 1 Higashidori reactor after the March earthquake
and tsunami wrecked its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, the Yomiuri
 said , without saying where it obtained the information. The
company may also scrap plans to build a second reactor there,
the paper said. Tepco issued a  statement  denying the report.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in September it
will be difficult to build new nuclear reactors after the
catastrophe, the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl 25 years
ago, because of opposition from local residents. Fukushima’s
government wants Tepco and the Japanese government to scrap all
10 reactors in the prefecture, according to a draft
reconstruction plan released today.  Building a 1,200-megawatt reactor costs about 420 billion
yen ($5.4 billion), a Japanese government committee said in a
report last month. Construction of the first Higashidori reactor
started on Jan. 25 and commercial operations were expected to
begin by March 2017, Tepco said in January.  “There is no truth to the Yomiuri report,” Chie Hosoda,
spokeswoman for the utility, said by phone. She declined to
comment on the status of plans for Higashidori.  Compensation Payments  Tepco may have to pay 4.5 trillion yen in compensation to
those affected by the disaster by March 2013, a government panel
said in October. Decommissioning the four damaged reactors at
the Dai-Ichi plant may cost more than 1.15 trillion yen, the
panel said.  Fukushima prefecture called for the decommissioning of all
six reactors at Dai-Ichi and the four reactors at the Fukushima
Dai-Ni station, located about 10 kilometers (6 miles) to the
south of the other plant.  Tepco hasn’t decided yet whether to decommission the
remaining two reactors at Dai-Ichi and the units at Dai-Ni, said
Hosoda, declining to comment further.  The utility has seven more reactors at its Kashiwazaki
Kariwa plant, three of which remain shut down after the station
was damaged in an earthquake in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  