-- 
Mercator May Wait for Copper Gain Before Seeking Mine Funds

-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 
2011-12-01T21:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/mercator-may-wait-for-higher-copper-before-seeking-mine-funds.html
Mercator Minerals Ltd. (ML) , an operator
of an  Arizona  mine, may wait for copper prices to rise before
securing financing to build its El Pilar project.  “There is debt available to the project today, it’s just
not on terms that I think our shareholders would be enamored
with,” Bruce McLeod, chief executive officer of the Vancouver-
based company, said in an interview in Toronto yesterday. “The
hedging component at these prices would be too high for us to
consider,” he said.  Mercator will study a range of options to fund the project,
including combinations of debt finance, off-take agreements,
potential partnerships and profits from the Mineral Park mine in
Arizona, he said.  The El Pilar project will more than double Mercator’s
annual copper output when production begins at the mine.
Mercator aims to expand into intermediate base-metals production
by 2015, according to a presentation posted on the company’s
website.  Debt financing for El Pilar would be more attractive with
copper prices around $3.80 a pound, McLeod said. The company
won’t finance the project using equity at current valuations, he
said.  Copper futures for March delivery fell 1.1 percent to
$3.538 a pound at 4:41 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .  Private Placement  The El Pilar project in northern Mexico may produce an
average of 73 million pounds of copper a year, according to a
feasibility study published on Sept. 27. The mine may cost $245
million, Mercator said at the time.  The company said on Nov. 17 it had arranged a $20 million
private placement. The funds will be used to prepare the project
for construction when financing becomes available, McLeod said.  Mercator expects to produce 43 million pounds of copper and
7 million pounds of molybdenum this year at Mineral Park and
will ramp up to 55 million pounds and 10 million pounds,
respectively, in 2012, McLeod said. The company also owns the El
Creston molybdenum and copper project in  Mexico , and will
complete a feasibility study in the first quarter of 2012.  Mercator fell 1.1 percent to C$1.81 in Toronto. The shares
have declined 54 percent this year after increasing 60 percent
in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  