-- 
Eritrea Faces Diluted UN Sanctions Resolution in December Vote

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-12-01T00:44:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eritrea-faces-diluted-un-sanctions-resolution-in-december-vote.html
Eritrea, one of the world’s poorest
economies, faces additional sanctions at the  United Nations  as
mining companies are told to exercise greater “vigilance” in
doing business with the African nation.  UN member states “shall undertake appropriate measures to
promote the exercise of vigilance” in their dealings with
Eritrea’s mining industry, according to a copy of the draft
resolution, which adds to 2009 sanctions that included an asset
freeze and a travel ban on government leaders.  Eritrea’s $2.59 billion economy relies on mining and gold
that has drawn investment from companies including  Canada ’s
Nevsun Resources Ltd. The push to punish Eritrea was triggered
by a UN report in July that said its government planned a failed
plot in January to disrupt the African Union summit in  Addis
Ababa  by bombing civilian and governmental targets. The
resolution ties Eritrea directly to the attack.  The current text was watered down from an October draft
that banned companies from investing in mineral resources and
prohibited the payment of a remittances tax.  The resolution now “condemns” the use of a 2 percent tax
paid by Eritreans abroad “for purposes such as procuring arms
and related materiel for transfer to armed opposition groups”
and “decides Eritrea shall cease these practices.” The
Eritrean government is suspected of raising money with the so-
called Diaspora tax to fund terrorism.  At the urging of Ethiopia,  Gabon  introduced the measure as
one of the council’s three African members. The U.S. had pushed
for a vote today, while  Russia  said Eritrean President Isaias
Afwerki should be allowed to present his case in person to the
15-member panel. The vote may take place on Dec. 5 when Russia
takes over the rotating presidency of the council.  Council ‘Spectacle’  “We still think it’s redundant and likely
counterproductive to have a spectacle in the  Security Council  in
which heads of state make emotional statements on the eve of, on
the same day as the vote,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice told
reporters in  New York . “But if that’s what they choose to do,
it’ll happen, and we’ll vote on Monday.”  Eritrea has been ruled byAfeworki, a former rebel leader,
since it gained independence from  Ethiopia  in 1993. The UN has
already sanctioned the country in the Horn of  Africa  for
supporting al-Qaeda-linked terrorists fighting to topple the
Western-backed government of Somalia.  Al-Shabaab, a Somalia-based terrorist organization that the
U.S. says has links to al-Qaeda, generates between $70 million
and $100 million a year in revenue from taxation and extortion
in areas under its control, according to the UN report.  Gaining Control  Islamist groups including al-Shabaab and the Hisb-ul-Islam
movement, previously based in  Eritrea , have gained control of
most of southern and central Somalia in their bid to oust
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s UN-backed transitional
government. Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central
administration since the removal of Mohamed Siad Barre, the
former dictator, in 1991.  U.S.-backed Ethiopian troops invaded  Somalia  in December
2006, ousting the Islamic Courts Union government that had
briefly captured southern Somalia. The troops withdrew in
January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  