-- 
Merkel Shuns ECB Role in Favor of Budget Limits

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-12-01T17:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/merkel-rejects-ecb-role-in-favor-of-budget-limits-as-route-to-stem-crisis.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
set to snub investor pleas to back an expanded European Central
Bank role in solving the debt crisis, as she pushes her demand
for tighter economic ties in Europe as the only way forward.  In the days before a speech to German lawmakers tomorrow
outlining her stance for a Dec. 9 European summit, Merkel has
repeated her push to rework European Union rules to lock in
budget monitoring and enforcement and seal off the ECB from
political pressure. That risks a showdown with fellow EU leaders
and extends her conflict with financial markets looking for
immediate measures to end the contagion.  “The market is questioning Merkel’s tough approach,”
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by phone today. Investors
want “clarity on what the framework will look like and what the
financial bridge will look like” to fund euro-area governments
and banks that need aid while fiscal ties are negotiated.  Merkel’s refusal to deploy the ECB is a rebuff to President
 Barack Obama  after he exhorted Europe’s leaders to take more
action to combat the crisis. The chancellor is loath to agree to
follow the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of England  in policies
she views as akin to fighting debt with more debt. Enlisting the
ECB in battling the crisis would violate the central bank’s
independence and set it on a course of action that might not
work, destroying its credibility.  ‘Damaging’ Solution  The ECB is independent and must choose its own method of
ensuring the euro’s stability “without being praised or
criticized” and states must protect that independence by
improving their finances, the Westdeutsche Zeitung quoted Merkel
as saying in an interview released today. The government sees
joint euro bonds as “the wrong remedy in this phase of European
development and even damaging,” she told the newspaper.  Underscoring the focus on debt cutting, Germany will
propose that each euro country set up a national debt-reduction
fund as one way to boost market confidence, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Berlin today. Each country could pay
into the fund every year until its debt level returns to the
euro-area limit of 60 percent of gross domestic product, he told
reporters.  Merkel’s drive to pursue economic and political convergence
may still not be the final word. “You can’t put the cart before
the horse,” she said in a Nov. 23 speech to parliament.  Draghi Signals  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled today that the central
bank could do more to fight the crisis in return for fiscal
union, one day after the ECB joined the Fed and four other
central banks to lower financing costs for banks. Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s party,
has said that greater integration is a precondition for any
German rethink of its opposition to “joint liability.”  “If the  euro zone  succeeds in agreeing on more political
integration with clear consequences for breaching fiscal and
economic rules, the German government should eventually give up
its resistance to euro bonds,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at
ING Group in Brussels, said in a commentary for Bloomberg Brief.  Throughout the market turbulence and conflict with allies,
Merkel hasn’t budged, saying that euro bonds aren’t the answer
for now. Her refusal to sanction using the ECB clashes with
French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s government, while her focus
on changing  Europe ’s rules irks countries such as the U.K. and
Ireland, where voters twice rejected EU treaties in referendums.  ‘More Strictly’  “Not everyone is enthusiastic about treaty change because
that requires a difficult process of consensus in individual
governments, parliaments and populations for some,” Merkel told
reporters on Nov. 29. “Still, I believe that those who give us
money for  government bonds  in Europe expect that we have to
ensure enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact more
strictly than in the past.”  Germany is seeking changes to the EU’s rulebook to allow
closer monitoring of euro countries’ budgets, with sanctions
against persistent offenders and potential veto power over
national spending plans wielded by the EU Commission, the EU’s
Brussels-based executive. EU President Herman van Rompuy is due
to present proposals for treaty change at the Dec. 9 summit.  Merkel, who has signaled she doesn’t want financial markets
or even her own economic advisers imposing solutions for the
debt crisis, is sticking to the crisis-fighting arsenal built up
since  Greece , the euro area’s most indebted country, was bailed
out in May 2010. Six months later, as Ireland prepared to join
Greece in requesting a bailout, Merkel said policy makers have
to assert “primacy” over the markets in “a kind of battle.”  No Bazooka  Germany  and Europe don’t have “unlimited financial
strength” to counter the crisis, Merkel’s chief spokesman,
Steffen Seibert, told reporters Nov. 28. That’s “why the German
government reacts so skeptically to the many calls for Europe to
finally free up the really big, final financial reserves, which
the Anglo-Saxon world likes to call showing the bazooka.”  In the latest bid to tame the crisis, European finance
ministers said yesterday they would seek a greater role for the
 International Monetary Fund  alongside their own bailout fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility.  Schaeuble said the IMF option, along with the EFSF’s
ability to buy sovereign bonds and guarantee as much as 30
percent of bond issues by troubled governments, guarantees that
all euro-area members will meet their financing needs well
beyond the first quarter of 2012.  ‘Game of Chicken’  The EFSF looks like “yesterday’s story” as German policy
makers play a “huge game of chicken” over future economic and
monetary union to achieve their budget-tightening aims, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  “How close to the edge do you want to take this?” O’Neill
said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview with Francine Lacqua. “It needs Germany and the ECB to decide whether they
want EMU to exist or not, because that’s how it’s going.”  Merkel and Sarkozy, at a Nov. 24 meeting in Strasbourg with
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , agreed to stop discussing
the ECB’s role in the debt crisis. Three days later, French
Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse, who is also the government’s
spokeswoman, suggested that more help from the ECB may be
forthcoming if euro states implement tougher budget rules.  “A new fiscal compact” is “definitely the most important
element to start restoring credibility,” Draghi told European
lawmakers in Brussels today. “Other elements might follow, but
the sequencing matters.”  Merkel’s insistence on debt and  deficit reduction  is
yielding results. Crisis-driven government changes in Italy and
 Spain  ushered in leaders who pledge budget cuts, while EU states
including  France  agreed to look at locking debt reduction into
its constitution. Forecast growth in Germany, Europe’s biggest
economy, of 2.9 percent compares with a euro-region average of
1.6 percent this year, according to the Paris-based Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Merkel’s refusal to put more German wealth on the line to
save the euro area “is not a categorical rejection,” said
Brzeski of ING Group. “It is all about the sequence of events
and decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  