-- 
EU Bail-In Plan Won’t Restore Bond Buyers’ Confidence in Banks, Avoca Says

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-12-01T15:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-bail-in-plan-won-t-restore-bond-buyers-confidence-in-banks-avoca-says.html
The European Union’s plan to exempt
bank bonds issued before 2013 from taking losses at failing
lenders probably won’t persuade investors to buy their debt,
said analysts and investors including Paul Owens at Avoca
Capital Holdings Ltd.  The proposal is designed to prevent lenders’ funding costs
from rising, according to a person familiar with the plan who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Short-term debt and derivatives should only be written down by
regulators as a last resort, according to a draft of so-called
bail-in proposals seen by Bloomberg News.  “I don’t see how this changes things,” said Owens, the
co-head of research at Avoca Capital in  London , which manages
about $8.2 billion. “The issue is all about where the capital
comes from in the next 18 months. There is little here that can
restore investor confidence and that is what is in woeful
supply.”  Regulators’ plans to ensure creditors of failing lenders
take losses before taxpayers have combined with  Greece ’s
flirtation with default to spook buyers of financial company
bonds. The average yield on bank debt in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro Corporates, Banking Index is 6 percent, up from 4.2
percent at the start of the year.  ‘Spraying Foam’  “This is policymakers spraying foam on the landing
strip,” said Alberto Gallo, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “They are increasing access to
liquidity in case a bank needs to do an emergency landing. But
liquidity alone is not a solution.”  Bank sales of senior unsecured bonds evaporated in the
second half of the year amid investor concern  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis may cause some lenders to default on their debt.
Funding channels in the U.S. money markets have also dried up as
prime funds cut lending to Europe’s financial system, according
to  Fitch Ratings .  While the proposals may make it easier for lenders to raise
funds, they are unlikely to revive issuance, said Roger Francis,
a strategist at Mizuho International in London.  “This is a helpful structural clarification,” he said.
“It doesn’t mean that banks are going to steam into the market
and issue loads of bonds next week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  