-- 
EU Bank Writedown Plan Is Said to Exclude Pre-2013 Debt

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-12-01T15:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-bank-writedown-plan-is-said-to-exclude-forcing-losses-on-pre-2013-debt.html
The European Union may exempt bank
debt issued before 2013 from proposals forcing investors to take
losses at failing lenders, said a person familiar with the plan.  Excluding the debt is designed to prevent lenders’ funding
costs from rising, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. The exemption
could be extended if banks struggle to raise funds, the person
said. The law would need approval from national governments and
the European Parliament before taking effect.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has
promised to propose draft rules to end the need for taxpayer
bailouts of failing banks. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has fallen more than 33 percent in the
past year on concern lenders have been weakened by the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  “From a funding point of view it brings two words to mind
-- cliff effect,” Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at
Allen & Overy LLP, said in a telephone interview in London
today. “There’ll be swathes of bank-funding issuance and then
it will fall off a cliff” when the so-called bail-in rules are
implemented.  Under draft proposals obtained by Bloomberg News, holders
of long-term unsecured senior debt in a collapsing bank would be
first in line to take losses once a lender’s capital and other
subordinated debt is exhausted. Long-term bonds would be those
with a maturity of more than one year.  A spokeswoman for the European Commission declined to
comment on the draft law.  Last Resort  Short-term debt, with a less than one-year maturity, and
derivatives should only be written down by regulators as a last
resort if losses from longer-term debt aren’t “sufficient to
restore the capital of the institution and enable it to operate
as a going concern,” according to the draft.  “Exempting short-term debt and derivatives may be
justifiable, but this would increase the use of systemically
risky derivatives and excessive levels of short-term debt that
contributed to the ongoing crisis,” said Sony Kapoor, managing
director of policy advisory firm Re-Define. Taxing them “may
help alleviate some of these distortions.”  Regulators would also have the power to forcibly convert a
bank’s bonds into ordinary shares, according to the draft.  Forced Conversions  Authorities could intervene to impose losses if a bank was
“likely, in the near future,” to breach its minimum required
capital levels, or be unable to meet its obligations to
creditors, according to the EU document.  There is a “growing acceptance on the part of regulators”
that the wind-down plans “have to be implemented in a way which
does not overly conflict with the ability of financial
institutions to refinance themselves in the near-term,”  Richard Reid , research director for the International Centre for
Financial Regulation, said in an e-mail.  The cost of insuring debt sold by financial companies fell
on speculation the European Union will ease bank-funding costs.
The  Markit iTraxx Financial Index  linked to senior debt of 25
banks and insurers declined 12.5 basis points to 285.5 and the
subordinated gauge was 20 lower at 507. The benchmarks are down
for a fourth day after falling yesterday by the most in five
weeks.  Crisis Disputes  Efforts amid the debt crisis to force investors to share in
bailout costs have roiled markets and sparked disputes among
policy makers. Last week, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  suggested European governments may ease provisions in
a planned permanent rescue fund requiring bondholders to share
losses in sovereign bailouts.  Other parts of the commission plans include giving
regulators the power to force healthy banks to sell off parts of
their business so that they could be wound up in a crisis. This
process is known as bank “resolution.”  “We need to put resolution regimes in place for every type
of institution,”  Paul Tucker , deputy governor of the  Bank of
England , told reporters at a Financial Policy Committee press
conference in London today.  Tucker said he expected the EU’s rules “to be compliant
with the Financial Stability Board’s standards in this area.”  Euro-area banks need to refinance 35 percent more debt in
2012 than they did this year, the Bank of England said in its
financial stability report today. Lenders have more than 600
billion euros ($808 billion) of debt maturing next year, around
three quarters of which is unsecured, according to the study.  ‘Funding Strains’  “That will be expensive to replace if current funding
strains persist,” the bank said in the report. “The volume of
prospective bank refinancing, at the same time as significant
sovereign-debt refinancing, means bank-funding markets are
vulnerable to future shocks.”  EU leaders last month agreed to offer their banks temporary
guarantees on their debt issuance as part of a package of
measures to restore confidence in lenders. Finance ministers
agreed yesterday to coordinate the national guarantee programs,
while rejecting proposals to pool them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 