-- 
EU Banks May Escape Some Costs of State Aid in Rule Overhaul

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-12-01T10:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-overhauls-bank-state-aid-rules-amid-crisis.html
Banks will be shielded from extra
costs for guarantees from governments roiled by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis under an overhaul of the region’s state-
aid rules  published  today.  The European Commission said its system for setting the
fees that banks pay to governments for guarantees will “reflect
their intrinsic risk, rather than the risk related to the member
state concerned or the market as a whole,” according to an e-
mailed statement. The aid rules “will apply as long as required
by market conditions.”  “The exacerbation of tensions in sovereign debt markets
has put banks in the union under renewed pressure, justifying
the extension of the crisis rules,” said European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  in the statement.  EU governments spent 757 billion euros ($1 trillion) in
state guarantees for banks from October 2008 until December
2010. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS) 
has fallen more than 33 percent in the past year on concerns
lenders have been weakened by the European debt crisis.  The new pricing system will reduce the guarantee fees by
about 20 basis points, with banks paying an average of 1 percent
of the value of the guarantee to the government that granted it,
an EU official said. It won’t compensate entirely for the wide
spreads on bonds for euro area governments.  Banks should pay “market-based” values in remuneration to
governments that take shares in lenders, regulators said.  Hybrid Capital  “Shares should be subscribed by the state at an
appropriate discount to the latest share price,” the commission
said. Hybrid capital instruments should include an
“alternative” measure to allow coupons to be paid in shares
instead of cash if necessary, it said.  “Ordinary shares will be a common way to inject capital
into banks” under new moves to increase quality of capital,
Almunia said in Brussels earlier today.  EU regulators have until now ordered banks that received
bailouts to shrink their balance sheets and change their
business models.  Under the new rules, they won’t require restructuring for
banks that solely receive state-guaranteed funding and will take
account of capital losses caused by the fall in the value of
European  government bonds .  Restructuring plans will be required from “heavy users”
of state guarantees and banks that accept state
recapitalizations or use impaired-asset programs.  Subordinated Debt Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said this week that banks in
15 European nations, including the largest lenders in France,
Italy and  Spain , may have their subordinated debt ratings cut to
reflect the potential removal of government support.  Under current rules, a bank that gets a state guarantee
pays a fee to the government according to a pricing formula
partly based on the lender’s credit-default swaps between
January 2007 and August 2008.  Leaders from the 27 EU nations agreed last month to
temporarily guarantee banks’ bond issuance and to force 70
lenders to boost their core capital to 9 percent in an effort to
restore confidence in the banking system.  Temporarily protecting creditors from losses “would help
banks continue their lending activities in 2012,” the European
Banking Authority said on Oct. 26. “Banks may find it difficult
to address their funding needs” next year without support, the
EBA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 