-- 
EU Sees Chance for Deal With China Over Climate Road Map, Kyoto

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-01T12:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-sees-chance-for-deal-with-china-over-climate-road-map-kyoto.html
The European Union hopes to win
 China ’s agreement on a road map to a global greenhouse gas-
lowering treaty after the world’s second-biggest economy said a
rift over post-2012 goals risk the collapse of climate talks.  The EU wants the largest emitters to agree by 2015 on a
binding pact to be enacted in 2020 at the latest and offered in
exchange an extension to its carbon-reduction goals under the
United Nations Kyoto Protocol. The bloc said it hopes to find
“common ground” with China, which objects to any binding goals
for poorer countries and increased pressure on industrialized
nations to adopt further emissions-reduction targets at a summit
that started this week in Durban,  South Africa .  “There’s room for compromise and we hope there will be
willingness,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, an EU climate spokesman,
said by phone yesterday from Brussels. “China and other
countries say that they are not ready to adopt binding targets
now. We then want them to tell us in Durban when they will be
ready to do so. That will allow us to extend our Kyoto goals and
agree the details of the new treaty by 2015.”  The future of the  Kyoto Protocol , the only treaty that
imposes binding carbon-reduction goals on almost 40 developed
nations, is a central issue in the UN climate talks that have
stalled amid differences between richer and poorer countries.
China, the world’s biggest emitter, said this week it’s
essential for industrial nations to sign up for another round of
emissions reductions under the pact, whose limits expire next
year.  Developing countries  have no binding commitments under the
protocol.  No U.S. Ratification  While the EU is the biggest group of nations still open to
a continuation of Kyoto after  Japan ,  Canada  and  Russia  declared
they won’t adopt further goals, the bloc has stressed that its
unilateral adoption of new internationally-binding targets
without any commitments on future action by other countries
won’t be enough to prevent global warming. The U.S. has never
ratified the protocol.  A failure to extend the Kyoto pollution limits by developed
nations would mean “the whole international system on  climate
change  will be placed in peril,” China’s lead negotiator  Su Wei 
said Nov. 29 in an interview with Bloomberg and two other news
organizations.  While he said that China is “willing to consider
accommodating the concerns of the EU so as to assure a real,
legally binding second commitment period under the Kyoto
Protocol,” his comments showed little common ground on how to
maintain momentum on the issue.  Extend Kyoto Targets?  A potential declaration by China and other major economies
on the timeline for a new global climate treaty would pave the
way for  Europe  to extend its Kyoto goals until 2020 or at least
adopt a political declaration that it’s willing to do so,
according to two EU diplomats who declined to be named because
the negotiations are confidential.  Poland , which holds the rotating EU presidency until the
end of this year, ruled out the possibility of approving
voluntary emission-reduction commitments by major emitters in
the coming years. A binding agreement in force by 2020 is
necessary to prevent global warming, Environment Minister Marcin
Korolec said yesterday in an interview.  The world has to keep the increase in global temperatures
below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-
industrial levels to avoid more heat waves, flooding and intense
storms, according to UN scientists.  ‘Map a Way’  “We need to map a way to 2 degrees and voluntary
declarations won’t take us there,” Korolec said in a phone
interview from Warsaw. “If the world is serious about climate
protection, there’s no other option than to act and we have a
chance to decide about details in Durban.”  The EU already has an internal target of reducing
 greenhouse gases  by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels
and is on track to achieve it. Submitting this goal as its so-
called second-period Kyoto commitment would be a political
decision, the bloc’s regulatory arm has said.  The EU proposal "contains some of the elements needed for a
satisfactory outcome,’’ Ambassador Dessima Williams of Grenada,
who speaks on behalf of the 42-member  Alliance of Small Island
States , said in a Nov. 29 interview.  "Everything needs a plan,’’ she said. “But a road map with
a date that takes us away from the urgency of decision-making in
Durban, no. We want a Durban mandate from Durban, and that must
take a decision here and now that in 2012, a year from now, we
will have a firm commitment to the second commitment period of
the Kyoto Protocol."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  