-- 
EU Sees Resistance From U.S. to China for Its Climate ‘Road Map’

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-01T15:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-sees-resistance-from-u-s-to-china-for-its-climate-road-map-.html
The European Union said the world’s
three nations that pollute the most are the biggest obstacles to
setting a time line to a legally binding pact on global warming
and that it won’t “cave in” on its demands.  China , the U.S. and India seem the most reluctant to sign
up to the EU’s “road map” pointing toward the next climate
treaty after the limits in the current one expire next year,
said Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU’s lead envoy on the
environment.  “The biggest barriers are the major emitters when it comes
to the road map,” Runge-Metzger said today in an interview at
United Nations talks in Durban, South Africa. “Legally-binding
is a red line. It’s absolutely essential to get that road map.”  The fate of the EU’s time line is the key toward preserving
the Kyoto Protocol, which restricts fossil fuel emissions
through 2012. China, India and  Brazil  say extending that treaty
is essential to keeping the international system of rules on
 climate change . Japan, Russia and  Canada  refuse to sign up for
new commitments under Kyoto. The U.S. never adopted the treaty.  The EU is part of a “coalition of ambition” seeking a
time line at the talks, said Kelly Dent, chief climate policy
adviser for the development charity Oxfam, noting support for
the proposal from African and island nations and the bloc of
least developed countries.  “If India, China or Brazil joined them, it would put
enormous pressure on the others and the U.S.,” Dent said. “We
can’t have the Kyoto Protocol die on African soil.”  EU Proposal  The EU wants the largest emitters to agree by 2015 on a
binding pact to be enacted in 2020 at the latest and offered in
exchange an extension to its carbon-reduction goals under Kyoto.
That would require China and other developing nations whose
emissions weren’t capped under Kyoto to accept mandatory
targets.  Debate over Kyoto is the biggest political source of
friction at the talks this year and nearly derailed last year’s
agreement in Cancun,  Mexico . The envoys also are debating a
package of technical measures that would advance the fight
against global warming, including details about how a Green
Climate Fund would work, channeling as much as $100 billion a
year to developing nations by 2020.  The U.S. clubbed together with  Saudi Arabia  and  Venezuela 
yesterday in raising concerns about the fund, forcing the UN to
undertake informal consultations to find a resolution. Envoys
had hoped to endorse the proposal this week.  The EU comments indicate little room for flexibility over
the road map plan. The EU has done the most to trim  carbon
emissions  since the pact was negotiated in 1997, and its support
for the measure is important for Kyoto’s preservation.  ‘Will Not Cave’  “There must be a clear understanding that the result of
this roadmap is going to bind all countries,” Runge-Metzger
said. The EU “will not cave in” on its request, he said,
adding that the  Kyoto treaty  is insufficient as it stands.  “The  Kyoto Protocol  with 11, 12, 13, 14 percent of
emissions is just not going to win the fight against climate
change,” he said.  Earlier this week, Chinese envoy  Su Wei  said the EU’s
request is “shifting the goal posts” and leaving the climate
talks “in peril.” Brazil’s delegate said his country couldn’t
envision an agreement this year without an extension for Kyoto.  Runge-Metzger said “China thinks it’s too early for the
roadmap” and that the world should wait on a broader system of
greenhouse gas limits until a review of climate science by the
UN is complete in 2014.  U.S. and India  The U.S. has said it wouldn’t commit to a road map
promising a treaty until it had a sense what that agreement
would look like.  India  has said developed nations should move
first in making cuts in recognition of their “historic
responsibilities” for creating global warming.  “What we observe is there as an interest to discuss and
explore in terms of what would it mean, what would it look like,
what would it entail for the different parts of the world, what
type of time lines, so it’s quite constructive in that
respect,” Runge-Metzger said.  “We need to find a way forward with them,” he said.
“There are many other  developing countries  who are with us and
saying ‘we want to embark on that journey, and we want to see a
legally binding instrument in a few years time.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban,  South Africa  via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 