-- 
EU Says It Has Complied With WTO Ruling on Airbus Subsidies

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-12-01T18:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-says-it-has-complied-with-wto-ruling-on-airbus-subsidies.html
The European Union said it has
complied with terms of a World Trade Organization ruling that
 Airbus SAS (EAD)  got billions of dollars in illegal aid from EU
governments to build aircraft including the A380 superjumbo.  WTO judges found that loans by EU governments including
Spain, the U.K., France and Germany were unfair subsidies that
had an adverse effect on U.S. rival  Boeing Co. (BA)  While the trade
arbiter can’t force nations or companies to scrap illegal aid,
it can authorize retaliatory sanctions against governments that
fail to comply with its rulings.  “We are comfortable that this is a substantive response to
the requirements that the WTO put on us,” EU Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in New York yesterday. The EU is dealing with subsidies “on all
models that are the topic of this litigation.”  The EU’s compliance report was submitted to the U.S. and
the Geneva-based WTO today in the seven-year legal battle over
aid to Airbus and Boeing, the world’s two biggest commercial
planemakers. The report wasn’t immediately made public.  The U.S. will review the EU statement before deciding on
its next step, Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The EU must “withdraw its subsidies or remove
their adverse effects” to comply, according to the statement.  Illegal Subsidies  WTO judges ruled in June 2010 that EU governments provided
illegal subsidies to Airbus in the form of so-called launch-aid
loans as well through as infrastructure support and equity
infusions.  Boeing has said Airbus received $18 billion in illegal
subsidies, including $15 billion in launch aid, while the EU has
called that a “fantasy figure.” WTO judges concluded in March
that Chicago-based Boeing received at least $5.3 billion in
illegal U.S. support, unfairly tilting the $70 billion civil-
aviation industry. Both the EU and U.S. appealed that judgment.  “We expect the U.S. to do the same, to also give a
substantive reply to what will be the result of the procedure
before the body on the other case,”  De Gucht  said.  The EU and U.S. haven’t had talks on a settlement in
response to the separate findings against Airbus and Boeing, De
Gucht said.  “We are ready to engage in negotiations but without
preconditions, and up to now the U.S. are not ready to do so,”
he said.  ‘Limited Changes’  The plane industry should develop guidelines to regulate
state support to planemakers, rather than the U.S. and EU
“punching each other in the nose about the WTO,” Airbus Chief
Operating Officer  John Leahy  said today on a call with reporters
from  Washington . “The best way forward in this whole WTO issue
is to sit at the table and get this thing sorted out,” he said.  Boeing said EU launch aid for Airbus must end to comply
with the trade arbiter’s decision.  “We expect Airbus and its government sponsors to
demonstrate that the practice of market-distorting launch aid --
the most pernicious form of subsidy Airbus was found to have
received -- has ended,” Chicago-based Boeing said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The two WTO panel reports finding that both aircraft makers
got illegal subsidies may establish industry-defining guidelines
for government support that become even more important as
competitors from  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and elsewhere emerge.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. Boeing lost its industry lead to Toulouse, France-based
Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., in
2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in  New York  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  