-- 
EU’s Almunia Says New Bank-Guarantee Rules ‘Better Reflect’ Risk

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-12-01T08:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-s-almunia-says-new-bank-guarantee-rules-better-reflect-risk.html
Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s
antitrust chief, said that overhauled state-aid rules on bank
guarantees to be published today better reflect the risks to the
government of providing the support.  The “pricing formula fees for guarantees better reflect
underlying” risk, he said at a conference in Brussels today.
Almunia also said that revised rules would also cover the
remuneration for states that buy ordinary shares in lenders to
boost their capital.  “Ordinary shares will be a common way to inject capital
into banks” under new moves to increase quality of capital,
Almunia said.  The European Commission’s updated rules on state aid for
lenders may dilute the effect of turmoil in the euro area on the
fees that banks have to pay for guarantees on their loans and
bonds, according to two people familiar with the situation.
Under the plans, the formula for setting the fees would reduce
the impact of soaring debt-insurance costs faced by the country
giving the backstops, one of the people said.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said this week that banks in
15 European nations, including the largest lenders in France,
Italy and  Spain , may have their subordinated debt ratings cut to
reflect the potential removal of government support.  The EU may ease restructuring requirements for banks with
capital shortfalls that are a direct result of European
sovereign debt losses, the Financial Times Deutschland  reported 
yesterday, citing details of the draft measures.  EU governments spent 757 billion euros ($1 trillion) in
state guarantees for banks from October 2008 until December
2010. EU regulators have ordered banks that received bailouts to
shrink their balance sheets and change their business models.  Under current rules, a bank that gets a state guarantee
pays a fee to the government according to a pricing formula
partly based on the lender’s credit-default swaps between
January 2007 and August 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 