-- 
EU, U.S. Toughen Sanctions Against Syria

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/eu-u-s-toughen-syria-sanctions-as-un-says-crackdown-death-toll-increases.html
The European Union and the U.S.
toughened sanctions against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government, while the  United Nations  said the estimated death
toll from his crackdown on dissenters this year exceeds 4,000.  “Trade in Syrian public bonds and the provision of
insurance and reinsurance to the Syrian government will be
prohibited in the EU,” the 27-nation bloc said yesterday in a
statement. “Syrian banks will no more be allowed to open new
branches in the Union nor establish joint ventures or
correspondent banking relations with European financial
institutions.”  The EU also halted new commitments for grants and
concessional loans by EU countries to the Syrian government,
except for humanitarian purposes. The  U.S. Treasury  said
yesterday it imposed economic sanctions on the maternal uncle of
al-Assad, Muhammad Makhlouf, and on a commander of  Syria ’s elite
4th Armored Division, General Aus Aslan.  Al-Assad faces growing economic and political pressure to
end the crackdown on protests that began in mid-March, inspired
by movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .
The violence has moved Syria closer to a civil war as military
personnel defect and take up arms against the government.  Kuwait advised its citizens to leave Syria because of the
“unstable” situation, state news agency KUNA reported, citing
a foreign ministry statement.  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay told
journalists in Geneva yesterday that her organization estimates
that more than 4,000 people have been killed since the uprising
against al-Assad began. Human-rights activists put the figure at
more than 4,500.  ‘Proxies’ for al-Assad  Makhlouf, father of Syria businessman  Rami Makhlouf , has
been one of the people “al-Assad used to make and move money,”
according to an e-mailed U.S. Treasury statement. “Makhlouf
ensured that assets in nearly all sectors were controlled by
businessmen who were willing to act as proxies for the al-Assad
regime in return for profits.”  Aslan is a commander of the “key regime protection unit,”
the Treasury said.  The U.S. also applied sanctions on Syria’s Military Housing
Establishment, a company controlled by the  Defense Ministry  that
provides funding for the regime, and the Real Estate Bank, the
country’s second-largest bank, which administers the
government’s borrowings, the Treasury said.  The sanctions bar “U.S. persons” from engaging in
transactions with the designated entities and blocks any assets
they may have under U.S. jurisdiction, the Treasury said.  Turkish Sanctions  Turkey  imposed sanctions on Syria Nov. 30 and will expand
the punitive measures if al-Assad fails to halt his crackdown on
dissent, Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said. Syrian
government assets held in Turkey are being frozen, al-Assad’s
leadership team is banned from entry, transactions with Syria’s
central bank and trade bank are prohibited, credit agreements
are suspended, and arms sales and shipments have been halted, he
told reporters in Ankara.  The latest measures follow sanctions adopted by the  Arab
League  against Syria on Nov. 27, after the Damascus government
refused to admit Arab observers into the country. The measures
include a freeze on Syrian assets, a travel ban on senior
officials in al-Assad’s government and dealings with the Central
Bank of Syria.  Free Trade Accord  Syria suspended yesterday its free trade agreement with
Turkey, and its membership in the  Union for the Mediterranean  in
response to the sanctions imposed by the EU, which the foreign
ministry in Damascus said were a “flagrant violation” of the
country’s sovereignty, the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency 
reported. The union is an initiative that aims to strengthen
relations between the EU and countries in North Africa and the
 Middle East .  Syria’s $60 billion economy, which grew 5.5 percent in
2010, may shrink 2 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , or at least 5 percent, according to
the  Institute of International Finance . The government expects
growth of 1 percent, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said
in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  