-- 
Euro Pares Advance Amid Wagers Progress on Debt Crisis Will Stay Elusive

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-01T22:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/euro-pares-advance-amid-wagers-leaders-will-struggle-to-solve-debt-crisis.html
The euro pared gains versus the
dollar and yen as concern increased that European leaders will
struggle to resolve the region’s debt crisis even after central
banks moved to ease dollar borrowing for banks.  The 17-nation currency had the biggest intraday jump
yesterday against the greenback since October after six central
banks led by the  Federal Reserve  lowered the premium for lenders
to borrow dollars overnight.  Australia ’s currency fell on bets
the central bank may cut  interest rates . The Dollar Index stayed
lower after a report showed U.S. manufacturing expanded.  “Although the knee-jerk move has been to buy risk and buy
the euro, the pressure will remain, as there is no silver bullet
or bazooka yet in sight,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “The question is, can
the European leaders form a plan that can provide relief for the
market and is credible in solving the euro area debt issue?”  The euro appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.3461 at 5 p.m. in
New York after surging as much as 1.6 percent yesterday, the
most on an intraday basis since Oct. 27. It gained earlier today
as much as 0.6 percent. The shared currency rose 0.2 percent to
104.60 yen and touched 105.06 yen, the strongest level since
Nov. 15. The yen fell 0.1 percent to 77.70 per dollar.  The  Standard & Poor’s Index (SPX)  declined 0.2 percent after
capping a three-day gain of 7.6 percent yesterday, the biggest
since March 2009.  Swiss Franc  The  franc  fell the most in almost a week against the euro a
day after Switzerland said it may consider more steps to support
the nation’s central bank in its fight against currency gains.
The measures, which could include negative interest rates, would
help prop up the Swiss National Bank’s successful defense of a
1.20 ceiling versus the euro since Sept. 6.  The franc depreciated as much as 0.7 percent, the most
since Nov. 25, to 1.2394 per euro today, before trading 0.4
percent weaker at 1.2324.  The Fed said yesterday it had agreed with the central banks
of Europe,  Canada ,  Switzerland , the U.K. and  Japan  to reduce the
premium to borrow dollars overnight by half a percentage point
to 50 basis points. The so-called dollar swap lines will be
extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, fell for a second
day, shrinking to 1.21 percentage points below the euro
interbank offered rate. It touched 1.63 percentage points before
the central banks’ announcement yesterday, the most expensive
level on an intraday basis since October 2008. The average this
year is 0.54 percentage point.  ‘Mounting Concern’  The  European Central Bank  holds its next  policy meeting  on
Dec. 8. European  heads of government  will meet the following day
in Brussels.  “The overall trend is still one for the downside in the
euro, based on mounting concern about whether or not the
Europeans can get a hand on the crisis,” said  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel is set to snub investor
pleas to back an expanded ECB role in solving the debt crisis as
she pushes her demand for tighter economic ties in  Europe  as the
only way forward.  In the days before a speech to German lawmakers tomorrow
outlining her stance for the Dec. 9 summit, Merkel has repeated
her call to rework European Union rules to lock in budget
monitoring and enforcement and seal off the ECB from political
pressure. That risks a showdown with fellow EU leaders and
extends her conflict with financial markets looking for
immediate measures to end contagion.  ‘Disaster’ for  France   The demise of the euro would be a “disaster” for France
by making its debt “unmanageable,” President Nicolas Sarkozy
said. France “would be paying a debt denominated in a strong
euro with a weakened currency,” he said in a speech in Toulon.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the U.S. currency against those of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell for a fourth day, the longest losing stretch
since October. It declined 0.1 percent to 78.294.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index , a
gauge of U.S. manufacturing, increased to 52.7 in November from
50.8 a month earlier, data showed today. Fifty is the dividing
line between growth and contraction in the Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s gauge, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
estimated the reading would rise to 51.8.  U.S. employers added 125,000 workers last month after
hiring 80,000 in October, a separate survey showed before Labor
Department data due tomorrow.  ‘More Solid’  “The U.S. data has been a little bit more solid
recently,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “We know there’s widespread
weakness in many parts of the world, and that’s definitely a
concern, but the one modest bright spot is the  U.S. economy  for
the time being.”  Consumer confidence jumped to 56 in November from 40.9 the
previous month, the biggest monthly gain since April 2003, the
Conference Board reported Nov. 29. Retail sales rose 0.5 percent
in October, more than forecast, Commerce Department figures
showed Nov. 15.  Australia’s dollar and Norway’s krone were the biggest
losers among the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts.  The Aussie slid as signs Australia’s economy is slowing
fueled speculation the  Reserve Bank  will cut rates. Data showed
the number of building permits fell 10.7 percent in October and
growth in  retail sales  slowed to 0.2 percent. The currency fell
0.4 percent to $1.0244 and declined 0.3 percent to 79.59 yen.  The krone dropped 0.7 percent to 5.8088 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  