-- 
European Union Widens Sanctions on Iran, Remains Divided Over Oil Embargo

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-12-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/european-union-widens-sanctions-on-iran-remains-divided-over-oil-embargo.html
European Union governments  tightened
sanctions  on  Iran  in a clampdown on the country’s nuclear
program, while divisions festered over a possible halt to
purchases of Iranian oil.  Following up on penalties imposed by the U.S. last month,
the EU added 180 Iranian officials and companies to a blacklist
and started work on sanctions on the country’s oil exports,
banks, transport sector and the Revolutionary Guard Corps.  “ Greece  has a certain number of reservations” about an
oil cutoff, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters
at an EU meeting in Brussels yesterday. “We have to take
account of them and work with the different partners so that the
interruption of Iranian deliveries can be offset by higher
production in other countries.”  Renewed international pressure brought the diplomatic
tangle over Iran’s nuclear ambitions into a decisive phase,
potentially igniting tensions in the  Middle East  that might
threaten the flow of oil to the increasingly fragile world
economy.  Europe  joined the U.S. in deepening Iran’s political
and economic isolation as the furor continued over this week’s
sacking of the U.K. Embassy in Tehran -- a provocation that
European officials said had the blessing of Iran’s government.  Italy recalled its ambassador from Iran, Foreign Minister
Giulio Terzi said after yesterday’s meeting.  France  and  Germany 
announced the day before that they were recalling their
ambassadors.  Europe was “appalled and alarmed” by the embassy attack,
Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said. “That is a very
worrying sign of certain political forces and trends in Iran.”  Blacklist  The names of the 37 people and 143 companies and groups
placed on the blacklist will be released tomorrow. In a
statement, the EU said the measures will strike at  Iran’s
nuclear program , the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Line and
members and affiliates of the Revolutionary Guard Corps.  The EU will freeze the assets of the targets and bar them
from traveling to Europe. With France’s Juppe calling for
“tough and unprecedented sanctions” on Iranian banks and the
oil business, the ministers aimed to hammer out the tougher
measures by their next meeting in January.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  declined to say
whether an oil-purchase halt will be part of the package.
Speaking to reporters afterward, she said the bloc will “look
at a range of issues including the energy sector, but the detail
of exactly what shall be done now goes to the technical
experts.”  Oil Prices  Rise  Tumult in the Muslim world has pushed up oil prices this
year, with Libya’s rebellion boosting the price of European
benchmark Brent crude to more than $125 a barrel in April. Brent
has risen 16 percent this year.  “The energy sector is certainly an area that has to be
worked on and the financial area overall,” German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said. “There are links to Europe
that from our perspective have to be severed. What’s most
important is to dry up the financial sources for the nuclear
program.”  The latest confrontation was triggered by a Nov. 8 report
by  United Nations  atomic inspectors that drew on “credible”
intelligence to argue that Iran’s efforts to build a nuclear
bomb “may be ongoing.”  U.S. Measures  The U.S., which has spearheaded efforts to contain Iran
since the country’s 2003 admission that it covered up nuclear
work, took the lead on the latest round of sanctions as well.
Iran denies western allegations that it is seeking to build
nuclear weapons.  On Nov. 21, the Obama administration declared the entire
Iranian financial sector, including its central bank, guilty of
 money laundering  and imposed curbs on suppliers of goods or
services to Iran’s energy industries.  Iran is the third-largest oil supplier in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, earning $56 billion in the
first seven months of 2011, according to U.S. Energy Department
estimates. Iran pumped 3.6 million barrels a day last month, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  European restrictions would cut into Iran’s oil revenue,
probably forcing it to sell more cheaply to refiners in  Asia ,
its biggest market,  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Oberwil,
Switzerland-based Petromatrix GmbH, said in a Nov. 28 note to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 