-- 
Europe, China Manufacturing Declines on Crisis

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 
2011-12-01T11:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/europe-china-manufacturing-declines-on-crisis.html
Manufacturing weakened from China to
 Europe  last month as the euro region’s debt crisis darkened the
outlook for the global economy.  China’s  manufacturing  contracted in November for the first
time since February 2009 as the  property market  cooled and
Europe’s turmoil cut export demand. In Britain and the 17-nation
euro area, manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace in about 2
1/2 years as the region edged toward recession.  This is “more evidence that the global economic recovery
is running out of steam,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “It’s clear that
manufacturing across a range of countries is being affected by a
renewed slowdown in global trade.”  Manufacturers are suffering as the global economy cools.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
yesterday that trade in merchandise stalled in most major
economies in the third quarter. The Paris-based OECD cut growth
forecasts for its 34  member states  this week to reflect doubts
that European monetary union will survive the debt crisis.  While production slows in  Asia  and Europe, it probably grew
in the U.S. in November at the fastest pace in five months,
showing factories will keep supporting the economic expansion
through the end of the year, economists said before a report
today from the Institute for Supply Management.  ‘Bumbling Along’  The ISM’s factory index rose to 51.8 last month from 50.8
in October, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News  forecast  the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data to show today. Fifty is the
dividing line between growth and contraction. Jobless claims
fell last week and construction spending increased in October,
other data may show.  “The U.S. seems to be bumbling along OK,” Loynes said.
“But clearly PMIs and other indicators are pointing to a
recession in the euro zone,” he said. “We think it will be
much more severe than a near-term technical recession. If the
debt crisis escalates over next year or two and we see some form
of breakup” of the single-currency area, “the economic effects
associated with that will be pretty severe.”  Manufacturing declined across Europe, according to today’s
reports. In the U.K., a gauge of factory output, based on a
survey by  Markit Economics  and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply, fell to 47.6 from 47.8 in October. New
orders fell for a fifth month.  ‘Mild Recession’  A  manufacturing gauge  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the euro region fell to 46.4, the lowest since July
2009, according to Markit.  European companies are under increasing pressure to cut
costs to protect earnings as faltering global demand erodes
exports just as euro-region governments toughen spending cuts.
Unemployment rose to 10.3 percent in October, the highest in
more than 13 years and  manufacturers  were the most pessimistic
in almost two years last month.  “We now expect a mild recession in first half of 2012 in
the  euro zone , ahead of a modest pickup in the second part of
the year,”  Standard & Poor’s  chief economist in Europe Jean- Michel Six said today in an e-mailed statement.  “But we stress that the downside risk remains very
significant,” he said. “We estimate that our baseline forecast
of a mild recession has a 60 percent probability, while a more
severe recession has a 40 percent probability.”  Reserve Requirements  Norway’s manufacturing contracted for the first time in
almost two years, while Sweden’s slumped for a fourth
consecutive month as the export-dependent Nordic countries
suffer from falling demand for their products.  In Asia, the Purchasing Managers’ Index for China fell to
49.0 in November from 50.4 in October, according to the  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. A level above 50
indicates expansion.  China’s central bank last night announced the first cut in
banks’ reserve requirements since 2008, moving two hours before
the U.S. Federal Reserve led a global effort to ease Europe’s
debt crisis. The move will add about 370 billion yuan ($58
billion) to the financial system and more reductions may follow
as the government seeks to boost growth, Citigroup Inc. said.  South Korean manufacturing output also contracted last
month, according to Markit.  In the Philippines, the central bank kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 4.5 percent for a fifth meeting today
as persistent inflation prevented the country from joining
Indonesia and  Thailand  in cutting borrowing costs to bolster
growth.  “The global outlook has worsened,” said  Christoph Weil , a
senior economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “We don’t see
a global recession at the moment, however. Risks have increased
with the escalating debt crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  