-- 
Euro-Area Manufacturing Production Declines to 28-Month Low

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-01T09:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/euro-area-manufacturing-production-declines-to-28-month-low-1-.html
Europe ’s manufacturing industry
contracted in November, as the region edged toward recession and
global demand weakened.  A  manufacturing gauge  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 46.4 from 47.1 in
October, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
lowest since July 2009 and in line with an initial estimate
published on Nov. 23. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  European companies are under increasing pressure to cut
costs to protect earnings as faltering global demand erodes
exports just as euro-region governments toughen spending cuts.
Unemployment rose to 10.3 percent in October, the highest in
more than 13 years and  manufacturers  were the most pessimistic
in almost two years last month.  The euro-region economy “will be in recession soon,” said
 Klaus Baader , co-head of euro-region economic research at
Societe Generale SA, told Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg’s Radio
“Bloomberg Surveillance” from  London  yesterday. Still, “it’s
likely to be mild rather than severe.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3472 at 10:30 a.m. in Brussels on the day.  In  China , a  manufacturing index  fell to a 32-month low of
47.7 in November, Markit said. U.K. factory output probably
contracted, while the Institute of Supply Management’s U.S.
index probably rose to 51.7 in November from 50.8 in the
previous month, according to Bloomberg News surveys.  German Contraction  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Nov. 28 lowered the growth forecast for its 34 member nations
to 1.9 percent this year and to 1.6 percent in 2012. It had
previously forecast growth of 2.3 percent and 2.8 percent this
year and next, respectively. The euro region “represents the
key risk to the world economy,” the Paris-based group said.  The  German economy , Europe’s largest which has powered the
region’s expansion, may shrink 0.2 percent in the current
quarter, led by a slump in industrial output, the DIW Economic
institute said yesterday. A decline in gross domestic product in
the first quarter of 2012 “can’t be excluded,” it said.  A gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ export order books
fell to minus 15.8 in November from minus 12.7 in the previous
month, while companies also grew more pessimistic about the
production outlook, the European Commission said on Nov. 29. An
indicator of employment expectations also declined.  Limited Growth  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin
said on Nov. 23 that European market conditions are tough and
that he doesn’t expect a lot of growth in the next few years.
 Sergio Marchionne , head of Italy’s  Fiat SpA (F) , said he’s
“cautious on what is possible in Europe” in 2012.  While the  European Central Bank  last month unexpectedly cut
its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points to 1.25 percent,
it has so far ignored calls to step up purchases of  government
bonds  to counter the turmoil. The Frankfurt-based central bank,
led by  Mario Draghi , will publish its latest economic
projections when council members meet on Dec. 8.  “There’s a fairly good chance of the ECB delivering a 25
basis point cut next week,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist
at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam. “The immediate threat in the euro
zone is not inflation, but financial instability.”  Markit will publish final data for the composite and
services indicators on Dec. 5. It previously reported a gain in
the  services gauge  to 47.8 in November from 46.4 in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  