-- 
European Stocks Snap Four-Day Rally as China Slowdown Adds to Debt Concern

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-12-01T16:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/european-stock-index-futures-advance-before-spain-france-auction-debt.html
European stocks  declined, snapping a
four-day rally in the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as
 China ’s manufacturing contracted in November adding to concern
global economic growth is slowing down.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  and Vinci SA retreated after a report said an
airport deal between them fell through.  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  dropped
2.9 percent after predicting aluminum demand growth will weaken.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  led health-care companies
higher, gaining at least 1.2 percent.  The Stoxx 600 fell 0.7 percent to 238.49 at the close in
 London , after having swung between gains and losses more than 15
times.  European stocks (SXXP)  yesterday rose 3.6 percent to post their
biggest four-day rally since November 2008 after the  Federal
Reserve  and five other central banks lowered the cost of dollar
funding for banks squeezed by the euro-area debt crisis.  “With the European situation still unresolved, if Chinese
growth worsens, it adds to the woe,” said  Manish Singh , the
London-based head of investment at Crossbridge Capital, which
has more than $2 billion under management. “The market may be
too occupied with action in Europe, but China concerns are not
too far back in everyone’s mind.”  China’s manufacturing recorded the weakest performance
since the global recession eased in 2009, underscoring the case
for monetary stimulus.  A purchasing managers’ index compiled by the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing slid to 49 in November,
lower than all but two of 18 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings below 50 signal a contraction.  U.S. Factory Index  European stocks briefly pared their losses as a U.S. report
showed that manufacturing in the world’s largest economy grew at
the fastest pace in five months in November.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to
52.7 last month from 50.8 in October, beating the median
economist forecast of 51.8 in a Bloomberg News survey.  The figures “join the previous robust U.S. data,” Viola Stork, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail. “With a value still above the
expansion wave of 50 points, it becomes apparent that the  U.S.
economy  will show modest growth in the last quarter of the
year.”  Separately, a Labor Department report showed more Americans
than forecast filed for  unemployment benefits  last week,
signaling limited recovery in the labor market, as jobless
claims climbed by 6,000 to 402,000.  Spanish, French Debt  Spain sold the maximum amount of debt planned at an
auction. France sold 4.3 billion euros of securities, compared
with a maximum 4.5 billion euros of debt available on offer as
10-year bonds sold were priced to yield 3.18 percent, less than
at a previous auction on Nov. 3.  “The French and Spanish bond auctions were well received
and priced,” said Matthias Fankhauser,  fund manager  at Clariden
Leu in Zurich. “Until now, we just had disasters on that
front.”  National benchmark equity indexes declined in every
western-European market except Switzerland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index dropped 0.3 percent, France’s CAC 40 Index fell 0.8
percent and Germany’s DAX Index fell 0.9 percent.  BNP Paribas SA and  Societe Generale  SA, the biggest French
lenders, declined 2 percent to 28.88 euros and 3.2 percent to
17.50 euros, respectively. Goldman’s Chief Global Equity
Strategist Peter Oppenheimer cut the European banking sector to
’underweight’ from ’sell’ as he expects sector to remain under
pressure to shore up balance sheets.  Hochtief, Norsk Hydro  Hochtief fell 1.5 percent to 41.78 euros and  Vinci SA (DG) ,
Europe’s biggest builder, slipped 2 percent to 32.44 euros.
Vinci pulled out of bidding for the purchase of Hochtief’s
airport-operating business, Societe Generale said in a research
note today, citing Vinci’s chief financial officer.  Norsk Hydro, Europe’s third-largest aluminum maker, fell
2.9 percent to 26.86 kroner after forecasting lower global
growth in demand for the metal. Goldman Sachs recommended
selling the shares on low returns and near-term weakness.  Novartis climbed 1.2 percent to 49.80 Swiss francs and
Roche advanced 1.6 percent to 147.30 francs as a gauge of
health-care companies was the only  group not to fall  in the
Stoxx 600 index.  Zurich Financial Gains  Zurich Financial rose 1.4 percent to 202.80 francs after
the company confirmed its targets for return on equity. It also
said that achieving a return of 2 percentage points below the
target “is more realistic” if current economic conditions
persist.  Salzgitter advanced 2.5 percent to 39.32 euros after the
German steelmaker said a tax gain will boost 2011 profit after
taxes. The benefit resulted from a combination of its domestic
holdings into a single unit. The company’s forecast of about 200
million euros in fiscal 2011 pretax profit is unchanged.  Burberry Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker,
rallied 3 percent to 1,308 pence. The company plans to add more
stores in Paris after its opening on rue Saint Honore,  Les Echos 
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  