-- 
Euro Debt Crisis May Grind World Economy to a Halt, UN Says

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-12-01T17:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/euro-debt-crisis-may-grind-world-economy-to-a-halt-un-says-1-.html
The world economy would grind to a
standstill should the 17-nation euro economy fail to overcome
its sovereign-debt crisis, as risks of a double-dip recession in
the U.S. and  Europe  loom, the United Nations said.  In a worst-case scenario, where European leaders cannot
prevent a member state from defaulting on its debt, the U.S. and
Europe will plunge back into recession and the world economy
will only grow 0.5 percent next year, according to UN forecasts
released today that slash growth predictions made in May.  “There is a danger that the unthinkable is now
thinkable,” UN chief economist Rob Vos said in an interview. He
said there is a 50 percent chance of the more pessimistic
scenario materializing, citing an unraveling Italy as the
biggest concern for policy makers.  Should the debt crisis not be contained, the UN 2012 world
growth predictions drop by 2.1 percentage points, with the 27-
nation European Union contracting 1.6 percent and the  U.S.
economy  shrinking 0.8 percent.  This week, six central banks led by the U.S. Federal
Reserve made it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in
emergencies in a global effort to ease Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. In Europe,  Germany  has been resisted pressure to broaden
the role of the  European Central Bank  to save the euro area’s
economy.  To prevent Italy, the euro area’s third-biggest economy
from succumbing to the debt crisis, the country’s new government
will unveil emergency austerity measures next week.  On the Brink  “The developed economies are on the brink of a downward
spiral,” according to the report.  Apart from the containment of the sovereign-debt crisis,
more optimistic UN predictions also hinge on the U.S. being able
to pull off a debt reduction package to cut $1.2 trillion in
 government spending  over the next decade and on Congress
extending lower payroll tax rates.  In this scenario, U.S. projections for 2011 and 2012 were
still revised downward by 0.9 percentage points, to growth of
1.7 percent this year and 1.5 percent for 2012. The U.S.
unemployment rate has been near 9 percent or higher for more
than two years.  “Continued high unemployment is at the core of the
problem,” Vos said. “It’s keeping demand down. It’s
threatening to create more problems in the housing market and
spark more foreclosures.”  ‘Ominous’ Signs  Growth in emerging economic superpowers,  China  and  India ,
is preventing the world economy from dipping into recession, the
forecasts show. In a situation where Europe overcomes its debt
woes, the world economy will “muddle through” and expand 2.6
percent, the report said.  Still, the UN top economists said there are “ominous”
signs ahead for the fastest-growing economies sustaining world
growth. China’s manufacturing today recorded the  weakest 
performance since the global recession eased in 2009.  Developing countries of  Africa ,  Asia  and  Latin America  will
be the drivers of the world’s economic growth, the UN said,
forecasting 5.6 percent growth next year. China’s economy will
expand by 9.3 percent in 2011 and 8.7 percent in 2012, according
to this forecast. Figures for India are 7.6 percent and 7.7
percent, respectively.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  