-- 
Ex-Glitnir Chief Welding Said to Be Held in Iceland Probe

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-01T12:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ex-glitnir-chief-welding-said-to-be-held-in-iceland-probe-1-.html
Three former  Glitnir Bank hf 
executives have been arrested and placed in solitary confinement
in an investigation involving the failed lender, three people
familiar with the matter said.  The Reykjavik District Court ruled yesterday that Glitnir’s
former Chief Executive Officer Larus Welding be held for one
week at the demand of Iceland’s Special Prosecutor’s Office.
Ingi Rafnar Juliusson, former executive director of  capital
markets  at Glitnir, and Johannes Baldursson, former head of
capital markets, where also held.  Iceland’s special prosecutor said in a statement yesterday
that officials searched houses and arrested an unspecified
number of people in an investigation into loans and share
transactions at Glitnir. Welding, Baldursson and Juliusson were
among those arrested, said the people, who didn’t want to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  The arrests involved matters related to Glitnir’s
proprietary trading of shares issued by the bank and purchases
and arrangements related to shares issued by FL Group hf,
according to a statement from the special prosecutor’s office
yesterday. The investigation also concerns Reykjavik-based
Glitnir’s share issues in 2007 and 2008 and transactions related
to future contracts, prosecutors said.  Glitnir  was the first of Iceland’s biggest banks to fail in
October 2008, precipitating the collapse of the island’s
financial system and sending the krona down as much as 80
percent against the euro on the offshore market.  Ottar Palsson, Welding’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return
phone calls seeking comment on the arrest. Birgir Tjorvi
Petursson, Juliusson’s lawyer, and Reimar Petursson,
Baldursson’s lawyer, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  