-- 
MF Global Accounting Technique Under Review, Schapiro Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-01T19:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/mf-global-accounting-technique-may-require-more-disclosure-schapiro-says.html
An accounting technique used by MF
Global Inc., the failed broker-dealer, is being reviewed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, agency Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said.  The SEC is in talks with the  Financial Accounting Standards
Board , which sets accounting standards, about “repurchase-to-
maturity” agreements that MF Global used in off-balance-sheet
accounting, Schapiro said today during a hearing before the U.S.
Senate Agriculture Committee in  Washington .  “We are talking with FASB about whether we need more
disclosure of those,” Schapiro said. They are the only type of
repurchase agreements that can be used off balance sheet, she
said, speaking alongside Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler .  Both the SEC and FASB also are looking into whether the
methods MF Global used to account for its investments in
European debt were legal.  “How is it possible that someone is able to bet the farm
here, multiple times, and it disappears from the balance sheet
because of this repo-to-maturity technique?” asked Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, noting that the technique made
it appear as though the risk had been “sold.”  “That is a loophole so big you can drive a Mack truck
through it,” Conrad said. “If that’s not closed, we should ask
ourselves what we’re doing.”  European Bet  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the parent company of the broker
once run by former New Jersey Governor and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  co-chairman  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion bet on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most indebted nations.  To execute his European debt trade, Corzine used repurchase
agreements, or agreements to repurchase in the near future at an
agreed-upon price. In earnings calls, MF Global said it was
seeking to profit from the difference between the yield it
received on the European bonds and the  interest rates  it paid
under the  repurchase agreements .  While MF Global disclosed in a May 20 filing that its net
holdings among five European countries was $6.3 billion, it also
said the figure was “net of hedging transactions.” The firm
had actually expanded its bets to $11.5 billion as of June 30,
according to data in the SEC filings.  Account Shortfall  James Giddens, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
the broker-dealer, has said the shortfall in MF Global’s U.S.
segregated customer accounts may exceed $1.2 billion. Many of MF
Global’s customers were farmers who used futures accounts to
hedge prices for grain and other products.  “The economic welfare of the U.S. relies on people being
able to protect themselves against price risks -- of corn or oil
or wheat or interest rates going up or down,” Gensler said when
asked about the importance of restoring confidence in commodity
markets.  Separately, Gensler said the CFTC may consider tightening
regulations on how segregated accounts are defined.  “It’s pretty straightforward; segregated accounts are
meant to be segregated,” Gensler said. “We did as an agency
back in 2005 widen that. It’s my hope we can narrow that back
down again.”  SEC Examiners  Other regulatory changes that may help prevent another  MF
Global (MF)  include periodic checks on segregated accounts, the two
chairmen said. Schapiro said her agency has 300 examiners for
5,000 broker-dealers and Gensler said his has fewer than 20.
Both rely on self-regulating bodies, such as the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, which oversees futures commission merchants
such as MF Global.  “We have 125 futures commission merchants. We don’t
examine any of them,” Gensler said, adding that he’s urging
Congress to give the CFTC more resources next year. The CFTC
needs 30 percent to 40 percent more people, he said.  Gensler has recused himself from the CFTC’s investigation
into MF Global. When asked today whether he met with Corzine
over rule 1.25, which governs investments of segregated
accounts, Gensler said that he took part in a staff phone call
in July that included Corzine.  CFTC Commissioner Jill E. Sommers said MF Global’s trustee
Giddens’s work returning 60 percent of customer funds is a first
step.  “We are hopeful we’ll be able to return all customer
money,” Sommers said. “To make them whole, that is our goal.”  The bankruptcy case is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-
bk-15059; and the brokerage case is In re MF Global Inc., 11-
ap-2790,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  