-- 
Bullard Says Fed Shouldn’t Rush to Ease Further as Recovery Picks Up Speed

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-12-01T15:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/fed-s-bullard-says-he-supports-six-central-banks-dollar-swap-arrangement.html
James Bullard , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , said recent economic reports
point to stronger economic growth, and policy makers shouldn’t
rush to ease further.  “The data have come in stronger than expected, so I think
the logical thing now is to wait and see,” Bullard said in an
interview in  New York  today at the Bloomberg Hedge Fund
Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link. “See if we continue to get
a good read on the holiday season and start out the New Year
stronger or weaker, and also assess the situation in Europe and
see how that feeds back to the United States.”  Fed officials are debating whether the central bank should
resume large-scale purchases of securities to push down an
 unemployment rate  that has been stuck near 9 percent or higher
for more than two years. The central bank has said the European
sovereign-debt crisis poses a risk to the U.S. expansion, and
some policy makers at the last meeting Nov. 1-2 said the Fed
should consider easing further, according to minutes of the
session.  Bullard said growth next year will probably accelerate to a
pace of 3 percent to 3.5 percent. The world’s largest economy
expanded at a 2 percent annual pace in the third quarter,
compared with 1.3 percent in the second quarter and 0.4 percent
in the first three months of the year.  “I think we can grow somewhat stronger in 2012 than we
have in the second half of 2011,” Bullard, 50, said. “The real
question is what is this tail risk in  Europe  and how big is this
tail risk coming from Europe.”  Manufacturing Index  Manufacturing in November expanded faster than forecast, a
report from the Institute for Supply Management showed today.
The Tempe, Arizona-based institute’s manufacturing index rose to
52.7 last month from 50.8 a month earlier. Fifty is the dividing
line between growth and contraction, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the gauge would climb to 51.8.  Reports yesterday on private employment, business activity
and contract signings for purchases of existing homes all
exceeded forecasts.  Bullard also said he backs yesterday’s decision by the Fed
and five other central banks to lower the cost of emergency
dollar borrowing by overseas banks.  “I’m happy to support the chairman on this effort to lower
the penalty rate on these dollar swaps,” he said, referring to
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Global Rally  Bullard spoke a day after the show of force by central
banks sparked a global rally in stocks on optimism it will help
Europe overcome its debt crisis. The euro rose for a second day
today and European bonds climbed, pushing the yield on the
French 10-year note down by the most since 1991.  The Fed joined with the  European Central Bank  and the
central banks of  Canada , Switzerland,  Japan  and the U.K. to cut
the pricing on dollar liquidity swaps.  Under the program, the Fed lends dollars to the ECB and
other central banks in exchange for currencies including euros.
The central banks then lend dollars to commercial banks in their
jurisdictions through an auction process.  The swap arrangements were revived in May 2010 when the
debt crisis in Europe worsened. The Fed three months earlier had
closed all swap lines opened during the financial crisis
triggered by the subprime-mortgage meltdown in 2007.  The Fed’s policy making Open Market Committee voted 9-1 for
the swap action in a Nov. 28 videoconference, with Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissenting. Fed Presidents rotate
voting on the FOMC, with Bullard next voting in 2013.  ‘Fiscal Policy’  Lacker said he opposed the Fed decision because “such
lending amounts to fiscal policy, which I believe is the
responsibility of the U.S. Treasury.”  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  The St. Louis Fed district is home to companies such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in Bentonville, Arkansas, the world’s
largest retailer, St. Louis-based  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s
biggest seed company and Memphis, Tennessee-based  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,
operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  