-- 
Fed Dollar-Funding Cut Shows Limits of Action

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-12-01T11:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/fed-dollar-funding-cost-cut-shows-limits-of-action-on-europe.html
The Federal Reserve-led global effort
to ease borrowing costs for financial firms shows both the
central bank’s power to jolt markets -- and the limits of its
ability to alleviate the European debt crisis.  Stocks rallied worldwide, commodities rose and yields on
most European debt fell after the Fed and five other central
banks yesterday cut the cost of emergency dollar loans to banks
outside the U.S. At the same time, the action falls short of
more-drastic moves that central banks are reluctant to take,
including purchases or guarantees of countries’ bonds.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his counterparts are
revisiting their playbook from the U.S. housing-induced
financial crisis that started in 2007 to cushion markets and
economies from Europe’s fiscal turmoil today. Yesterday’s move
deals with the consequences of the crisis without addressing the
causes, said  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC.  “You have to do something to stabilize the sovereign-debt
situation,” Ryding, a former Fed and  Bank of England  economist
who is based in New York, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. That requires European Central Bank bond purchases
that are “far beyond what they’ve been willing to do so far,”
he said.  Stocks Rally  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 4.2 percent to
12,045.68 in the biggest gain since March 2009, boosted in part
by reports on U.S. private employment, business activity and
home-purchase contract signings that all exceeded forecasts. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of 24 raw materials gained 0.7
percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which surged 3.6 percent
yesterday, was little changed today. Yields on 10-year French
debt fell to 3.13 percent from 3.5 percent on Nov. 29, while
Italy’s dropped 42 basis points to 6.76 percent.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  of stocks is still 9 percent below its
2011 high in May. Italy’s bond yields need to fall below 6
percent, where they haven’t been for more than a month, to calm
the debt turmoil, Ryding said.  The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will fall by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points, the Fed said yesterday in a statement in  Washington . The
so-called dollar swap lines will be extended by six months to
Feb. 1, 2013. The Fed coordinated the move with the ECB and the
central banks of Canada, Switzerland, Japan and the U.K.  ‘Not a Solution’  “Central banks appear to be willing to respond to the
situation with the tools that they have,” said Roberto Perli, a
former economist in the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs.
Investors probably understand that cheaper dollar funding is
“not something that can fix the problem” in  Europe , said
Perli, now a managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington.  Bank of  England  Governor Mervyn King also said today that
lowering the cost of dollar funding won’t solve imbalances in
the global financial system.  “This is not a solution,” King said at a press conference
in  London  to present the Financial Stability Report. “All this
can be is to help with temporary relief for liquidity problems,
but those problems are a result of solvency issues.”  The Fed has additional tools available, including cutting
the U.S. discount lending rate or restarting crisis programs
such as the Term Auction Facility, said Michelle Girard, senior
U.S. economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford , Connecticut.  ‘Zero Probability’  Still, the central bank will want to avoid the appearance
of bailing out foreign banks or shifting U.S. monetary policy,
said  Robert Eisenbeis , former research director at the Atlanta
Fed and now chief monetary economist in Atlanta for Sarasota,
Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc. He put “zero
probability” on buying foreign debt.  In yesterday’s move, the Fed and the other five central
banks also agreed to create temporary bilateral swap programs so
funding can be provided in any of their currencies, “should
market conditions so warrant.” Those swap lines were also
authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  Fed policy makers voted 9-1 for the action in a Nov. 28
videoconference, with Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker 
dissenting. Lacker said in a statement that the swaps amount to
“fiscal policy, which I believe is the responsibility of the
U.S. Treasury.”  Markets also got a boost from  China ’s decision, two hours
before the Fed’s announcement at 8 a.m. New York time, to cut
the amount of cash the nation’s banks must set aside as
reserves. The level for the biggest lenders will fall to 21
percent from a record 21.5 percent in the first reduction since
2008.  Easing Moves  The moves from the Fed-led group and China both take effect
Dec. 5.  Brazil  cut its benchmark interest rate late yesterday by
50 basis points to 11 percent.  The decisions by Brazil and China are the latest in a round
of easing moves by central banks seeking to shield their
economies from the consequences of the European crisis.  The U.S., the U.K. and nine other nations, along with the
 European Central Bank , have bolstered monetary stimulus in the
past three months. Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Romania, Serbia,
Israel, Indonesia, Georgia and Pakistan have all reduced
 interest rates .  “The Europeans in particular, but also all central
bankers, appreciate the urgency of the moment,” said  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International Monetary Fund 
and a former French finance minister. Leaders inside and outside
Europe “will also understand that timing is of the essence”
and the need for an “urgent resolution of the current crisis,”
Lagarde said at a press conference in Mexico City.  Swap Revival  Under the liquidity-swap program, the Fed lends dollars to
the ECB and other central banks in exchange for collateral in
other currencies, including euros. The central banks lend the
dollars to commercial banks in their jurisdictions through an
auction process.  The swap arrangements were revived in May 2010 when the
debt crisis in Europe worsened. The Fed three months earlier had
closed all swap lines opened during the financial crisis
triggered by the subprime-mortgage meltdown in 2007.  Fed lending in the second round of swaps has been a
fraction of the first round. The swap lines had $2.4 billion
 outstanding  as of Nov. 23, the most since the program was
revived in 2010, compared with a peak of about $583 billion in
December 2008.  Credit Shortage  “There has been a real constriction of credit within the
European community and the banking system,”  Stephen Schwarzman ,
chairman of Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-
equity firm, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “That
has to be addressed because if you grind lending to a halt, a
variety of predictable, very bad things happen throughout not
just the eurozone but also around the world.”  Yesterday’s decision will help European banks that need
dollar funding, letting them borrow money instead of having to
sell U.S.-denominated assets, including mortgages and corporate
loans, said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse in  New
York . Still, the involvement of central banks outside the Fed
and ECB made the joint announcement appear more potent than it
actually was, said Soss, who was an aide to former Fed Chairman
Paul Volcker.  “It doesn’t mean it’s not important, but the atmospherics
of this were in that sense quite brilliant,” Soss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  