-- 
Fed Lays Trap for Itself With Bank Stress Tests: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/fed-lays-trap-for-itself-with-bank-stress-tests-jonathan-weil.html
Last week gave us one of the oddest
pairings of financial news stories in some time. The better the
 earnings  of U.S. banks, it seems, the more nervous investors get
about the banks’ health.  First, we  learned  from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
on Nov. 22 that U.S. lenders had their most profitable quarter
since mid-2007. The same day, the  Federal Reserve  sought to
bolster confidence in the financial system with new  stress tests 
at the 31 largest U.S. banks. The Fed said it will publish the
results for the 19 biggest bank-holding companies next year,
marking its first such exercise since spring 2009.  Ordinarily, those two developments shouldn’t be coming at
the same time. If U.S. banks’ profits and capital levels were
robust, there would be no need for stress tests of this sort.
Investors might believe the banks’ numbers. And the Fed wouldn’t
have to make a display of convincing anyone the system is
strong.  Yet here we are again. FDIC-insured institutions reported
third-quarter net income of $35.3 billion, up 49 percent from a
year earlier. Meanwhile,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  shares are down to March 2009 levels. The 24 companies in
the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which has fallen 27 percent this year, on
average trade for just 69 percent of book value, or common
shareholder equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Quality  Partly that’s because the quality of earnings at many large
banks has been weak, just as  Europe ’s debt crisis is threatening
global economic growth. Bank of America, Citigroup and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , for example, booked large accounting gains last
quarter from declines in the market values of their own debt.
Put another way, their profits were higher because the market
deemed them more likely to go bust. Likewise, the low price-to-
book ratios tell you the market believes huge writedowns lie
ahead and that the industry has been too slow to recognize its
losses.  As for the stress tests, we probably can count on the Fed
to do a more credible job than Europe’s regulators have done
with theirs, though that isn’t saying much. The French-Belgian
lender  Dexia SA (DEXB)  passed its European Banking Authority stress
test with ease in July, and needed a government rescue three
months later. Last year the biggest Irish banks got passing
marks shortly before taking bailouts.  The Fed avoided those kinds of embarrassing errors in 2009.
Although its tests were widely criticized as too soft at the
time, that mattered little in the end. The government had
expressly  committed  to provide additional capital to any of the
banks on the stress-test list that needed it and couldn’t raise
enough on their own. By making clear they wouldn’t let anyone go
under, the Fed and the Treasury Department made it far easier
for some of the biggest U.S. banks to raise new equity from the
public markets, which was the main goal all along.  Ten of the 19 companies tested in May 2009 were found to
have inadequate capital. Within six months all but one of the 10
had met or exceeded their required capital buffers, through
stock sales, converting preferred shares to common equity, or
other means.  Wells Fargo & Co ., for example, sold $8.6 billion
of common stock the same week it was told it needed more
capital.  This time the regulators can’t promise such backstops, at
least not explicitly. The Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program expired in 2010, and the Dodd-Frank Act passed by
Congress last year restricts the government’s ability to take
equity stakes in financial companies. If a bank’s capital is
deemed inadequate, the Fed can direct the company to take
actions to improve it, but not much else. So what happens if the
bank is unable to boost its capital enough? When I put that
question to a Fed spokeswoman,  Barbara Hagenbaugh , she declined
to comment.  Severe Stress  The most severe stress-test scenarios outlined by the Fed
include an unemployment rate of as much as 13 percent and an 8
percent drop in gross domestic product. There will be plenty of
other benchmarks available for investors to gauge the tests’
credibility, too.  Shares of Bank of America, for instance, trade for just 26
percent of book value.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , another company
on the list, trades for 37 percent of book -- and still hasn’t
repaid its TARP money from three years ago.  If those banks somehow get passing marks, investors may
well conclude the tests were a farce. Yet if Regions or Bank of
America flunks, and can’t raise enough capital to meet the Fed’s
requirements, well, then what? The answer is anyone’s guess.  Sure, we can assume Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  will try
everything in his power to ensure that no systemically important
bank fails, whether through secret  liquidity lifelines  or other
tricks. Yet the point of the stress tests is to boost
confidence. For that to happen, skittish investors will need to
be convinced that it’s safe to put fresh capital in weak banks,
when the government no longer has the discretion to do so
itself.  That could prove to be a tough sell. It would be nice if
the Fed would tell us what its backup plan is.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 