-- 
Fekter ‘Very Confident’ Austria’s AAA Rating Can Be Maintained

-- B y   N e j r a   C e h i c
-- 
2011-12-01T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/fekter-very-confident-austria-s-aaa-rating-can-be-maintained.html
Austria ’s Finance Minister Maria Fekter said she is “very confident” that the Alpine republic
will maintain its AAA rating.  “I’m very confident because the fundamental data is good
in Austria, we have full employment, we have excellent growth,
we have a very stable situation in our economy,” Fekter said in
a Bloomberg Television interview in Brussels. “We have very low
sovereign risk because we are financed very, very
conservatively.”  The extra interest Austria must pay investors to hold its
bonds instead of German ones has soared this year, even as the
country’s debt and deficit is below the European average.
Concern the government may have to bail out lenders because of
eastern European losses have weighed on the country’s AAA
sovereign-credit rating and raised its refinancing costs.  Austrian banks have lent $266 billion to borrowers in the
formerly communist parts of  Europe , the most of all countries
reporting to the  Bank for International Settlements  and
equivalent to about 70 percent of Austria’s gross domestic
product.  The extra interest the country has to pay investors to hold
its 10-year bonds instead of  Germany ’s rose to a euro-era high
of 191 basis points on Nov. 15 and stood at 122 yesterday.  The counterbalance this trend the government last month
announced that it was aiming to introduce a debt brake into the
constitution that limits Austria’s structural deficit to 0.35
percent of gross domestic product as of 2017. Additionally, the
country’s financial regulators on Nov. 21 announced new rules
that will prevent the country’s top three banks from lending
significantly more in eastern Europe than they raise in local
deposits.  The recent increase in spreads was because of “irritated”
markets, Fekter said in the interview yesterday in the Belgium
capital. While she doesn’t think about a possible loss of the
Austria’s top rating, it would be a “huge problem if our
spreads” went up and “if we have to pay more money on the
markets for our refinancing,” Fekter said. “I am confident it
will not happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nejra Cehic in London at 
 ncehic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anastasia Ellis at 
 aclubb@bloomberg.net  