-- 
FHA Insurance Fund May Need Fannie-like Bailout, Hensarling Says

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-12-01T18:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/fha-insurance-fund-may-need-fannie-like-bailout-hensarling-says.html
The  Federal Housing Administration ,
which backs about a third of U.S. home loans, could require
billions of dollars in taxpayer aid if the housing market
continues to deteriorate, a Republican lawmaker said.  The agency, which provides liquidity by protecting lenders
against borrower defaults, could follow in the footsteps of
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the mortgage companies that were
taken into government conservatorship in 2008, Representative
 Jeb Hensarling  said at a House hearing today.  “FHA is a disaster in the making and if we don’t do
something it may become the next Fannie and Freddie,” said
Hensarling, the fourth-ranking House Republican. “If the FHA
was a private financial institution, likely someone would be
fired or fined and the institution would find itself in
receivership.”  Hensarling made his remarks during a hearing by the House
Financial Services Committee, where lawmakers questioned Obama
Administration officials about a report that showed the FHA’s
insurance fund could run out of money if  home prices  continue to
fall.  Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
acknowledged risks facing the FHA, which is a part of his
agency.  “We have significant concerns about the level of the
fund,” Donovan told the committee. He also said the agency’s
condition “is remarkably resilient in the wake of the
extraordinary turmoil in the housing market.”  Chance of Failure  Last month, House and Senate lawmakers increased the
maximum size of FHA-insured loans to $729,750 from $625,500, a
move opposed by Hensarling and other Republican leaders. For the
first time in history, loan limits are higher at FHA than at
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , Donovan said, which could cause more
homebuyers to seek FHA loans. The limits “need to come down,”
he told the committee.  The FHA’s insurance fund is fed from premiums paid by
borrowers. Last month, an independent actuarial analysis
concluded that the net worth of the fund stood a 50 percent
chance of falling to zero or near zero, which could force it to
seek taxpayer support for the first time.  The agency’s capital ratio, a measure of the FHA’s Mutual
Mortgage Insurance fund’s ability to withstand losses, fell to
0.24 percent from 0.50 percent a year earlier and 3 percent in
2008. The FHA has failed to meet the legal minimum 2 percent
ratio for three straight years.  For the year ended Sept. 30, the fund held $33.7 billion,
up $400 million from a year earlier.  Growing Share  The FHA has increased its share of the mortgage market in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis as private funding for
mortgages has dried up. To boost reserves, it raised its
insurance premiums to their highest ever and improved the
quality of its loans by holding borrowers and lenders to higher
standards.  If the mortgage fund can’t cover losses on loans, a 1990
law gives the agency “permanent and indefinite” funding from
the Treasury to cover outstanding loan guarantees, Donovan said.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the companies that own or
guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans, have drawn more
than $170 billion from a U.S. Treasury Department lifeline since
they were seized by regulators in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 