-- 
Finmeccanica Chairman Guarguaglini Resigns Amid Probe; Orsi Assumes Role

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-12-01T22:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/finmeccanica-s-guarguaglini-faces-showdown-with-board-amid-probe.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  Chairman Pier Francesco Guarguaglini resigned following Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s call for the state-controlled company to swiftly address
a corruption probe involving company executives.  Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi, 66, assumed the
chairman’s position at  Italy ’s biggest defense company,
according to a statement distributed by the Italian Exchange.  Guarguaglini faced a showdown with his board over the
extent of his powers at a meeting today, the latest attempt to
limit his role after the government named Orsi to take over as
CEO from Guarguaglini in April. Finmeccanica also appointed
General Manager Alessandro Pansa to the board today.  Monti said yesterday it was up to the board to decide the
chairman’s fate, when asked whether Guarguaglini should resign.
The  Finance Ministry  owns about 32 percent of the company and
nominated Guarguaglini to his position.  “It’s important to have clarity in such an important
moment for Finmeccanica’s leadership,” said Marco Cristofori,
an analyst at Centrobanca in Milan, who has a “hold” rating on
the stock before the announcement.  Directors approved the payment of about 4 million euros
($5.38 million) to Guarguaglini as compensation for the early
end of his employment, according to an e-mailed statement. He
will receive 1.5 million euros more after finishing a one-year
non-compete agreement, the company said.  Strained Relations  Guarguaglini had been chairman since 2002 and kept
responsibility over strategy, acquisitions and asset sales and
government relations since Orsi’s appointment as CEO. The two
men have sparred over strategy and relations have been strained
since Guarguaglini came under fire after several corruption
investigations.  In the latest case, prosecutors are investigating whether
executives at a division, Selex Sistemi Integrati, inflated the
value of contracts with civil air-traffic manager Enav SpA and
then used the funds to pay off politicians. Selex is run by
Guarguaglini’s wife, Marina Grossi.  Guarguaglini on Nov. 22 denied allegations that he set up
slush funds or gave orders to pay off politicians. Finmeccanica
isn’t a subject of the probe. The investigation has led to calls
from politicians and union leaders for the chairman to quit.  Rome Probe  The allegations by the Rome prosecutors led to the arrests
of Guido Pugliesi, the CEO of Enav, and Manlio Fiore, a director
at Selex. Finmeccanica’s director of external relations Lorenzo Borgogni resigned his post over the probe.  The investigations have contributed to a 61 percent slide
in Finmeccanica shares this year. The board unanimously gave
Orsi powers on Nov. 14 to implement broad restructuring,
including 1 billion euros ($1.33 billion) in asset sales, after
the company reported a record 790 million-euro third-quarter
loss. Guarguaglini didn’t attend that board meeting, prompting a
letter from directors requesting a discussion of management
powers, newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported.  Guarguaglini, 74, led acquisitions that helped make the
company less reliant on Italian defense spending. Finmeccanica
gained full control of helicopter-maker AgustaWestland in 2004
and purchased U.S. electronics maker DRS Technologies Inc. in
2008.  Consultant’s Role  Guarguaglini has been under investigation since last year
in a separate Rome graft investigation into a consultant’s role
in acquiring a stake in a Finmeccanica venture. Rome-based
Finmeccanica, which wasn’t the subject of that probe, has said
that it never set aside illegal funds and has repeatedly denied
wrongdoing, as has Guarguaglini.  Finmeccanica’s businesses include helicopters and defense
electronics and its aeronautic unit makes fuselage sections for
Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner and Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo.
CEO Orsi plans to merge defense electronics activities and sell
a stake to an industrial partner in its loss-making train unit
AnsaldoBreda.  Finmeccanica closed up 2.7 percent to 3.3 euros earlier
today, extending yesterday’s 7.3 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  