-- 
Flawed Rules Added to Bank Losses in Crisis, Pension Group Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/flawed-rules-added-to-bank-losses-in-crisis-pension-group-says.html
Flawed accounting rules stopped U.K.
and Irish banks from booking potential bad loans and led to a
“misdiagnosis” of the 2008 banking crisis, contributing to the
loss of 150 billion pounds ($236 billion) of capital, according
to a pension fund lobby group.  The IAS 39 International Financial Reporting Standards rule
prevents banks from using their own data to anticipate future
losses from loans before they occur, said the report by the
Local Authority Pension Fund Forum. That meant loan books looked
more appealing than they actually were and banks appeared to
have sufficient capital, said the report.  “Banks that appeared to be solvent within a few months
required an enormous amount of taxpayer support in order to
survive,” said the LAPFF. “The failure to identify accounting
standard setting as a root cause of the initial phase of the
banking crisis led to a misdiagnosis of the problem as one of
liquidity rather than solvency.”  British banks were propped up by about 1 trillion pounds in
capital and guarantees after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008. Two of Britain’s largest banks,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  ceded stakes to
the government, while Northern Rock Plc was seized by the state.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said in June’s
 Financial Stability Report  that the IAS 39 rule “represents a
change from the accounting regime that U.K. banks followed at
the time of previous recessions, which was generally viewed as
less restrictive on the level of provisions allowed.”  New rules are  being discussed  by IFRS to allow a more
forward-looking approach which could allow quicker writedowns,
the BOE said.  Illiquid Assets  U.K. and Irish banks lost more than 150 billion pounds of
capital during the crisis, the report estimates, using amounts
stated in 2007 accounts. Other problems during the crisis posed
by the rules related to the classification of equity and the
mark-to-market pricing of illiquid assets, the report said. The
actual sale of such assets would cut the price, the study said.  “Significant reform of both accounting standards and the
standard setters is required,” the forum’s chairman, Ian
Greenwood, said in the report. The LAPFF represents 54 U.K.
pension funds with combined assets of more than 100 billion
pounds.  The report was written by Tim Bush, head of governance and
financial analysis at Pensions & Investment Research Consultants
Ltd., an investment adviser and research unit of the LAPFF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  