-- 
Florida Tax-Cut Plan Almost Erased by Medicaid Costs, Scott Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/florida-tax-relief-plan-crippled-by-unforseen-medicaid-costs-scott-says.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said he
has whittled down a corporate tax-relief plan compared with what
he sought last year because of a ballooning deficit driven by
health-care spending.  “Medicaid is growing way faster than we thought,” the
former hospital executive said yesterday. “Reducing taxes, as
you would expect, when you walk in with budget deficits, is
harder than when you don’t have budget deficits.”  Florida, which closed a $3.8 billion budget gap for fiscal
2012, is facing another of as much as $2.3 billion next year.
in an interview in  Orlando , Scott said he hadn’t anticipated a
2013 deficit, partly because he expected to get a federal waiver
letting the state expand its use of managed care for recipients
of Medicaid, the health-insurance program for the needy. The
state hasn’t gotten the permission needed to make the changes.  In February, a month after the first-term Republican took
office, he proposed $4.1 billion in tax cuts spread over two
years, including $1.1 billion in corporate relief. Lawmakers
passed about $300 million of that, including about $30 million
in reduced business levies.  In October, Scott, who turns 59 today, scaled back the plan
to $8.4 million in corporate income-tax reductions and a $21.6
million cut in tangible personal property tithes. The first-term
governor may call for more cuts next week, when he introduces
his 2013 budget, said Amy Graham, a spokeswoman.  Surging Medicaid Costs  Medicaid costs rose to about $20.3 billion projected for
this fiscal year in  Florida , from about $19.8 billion in 2011,
with the state’s share surging 23 percent to $9.48 billion from
$7.7 billion, legislative analysts said in an October report.
The state’s share of the joint program partly funded by the
federal government is forecast to rise 2.7 percent to $9.74
billion in 2013 and total costs may rise 15 percent by 2015.  “Revenues are growing because our economy is getting
better, but Medicaid is growing faster,’’ said Scott, who
started what became one of the nation’s largest hospital chains.
He said he remains committed to cutting taxes and reducing
regulation to increase the number of jobs in the state by
700,000, a central promise of his 2010 campaign.  Florida’s jobless rate in October was 10.3 percent, down
from 11.8 percent a year earlier while still higher than the
national average of 9 percent. The state’s economy has added
almost 107,000 jobs since January, government figures show. The
end of federal economic-stimulus funds for schools and a court
decision blocking plans to privatize some prisons have put more
stress on his budget, Scott said.  “The federal government has over $500 million in our
education system they allocated, now they’re taking that back,’’
Scott said, calling the situation “frustrating.”  “That’s a lot of money,’’ the governor said.  The failure of Congress’s deficit-cutting supercommittee,
producing a threat of automatic cuts in Medicare funding in
2013, also will put pressure on Florida’s budget, Scott said.  “There are going to be a lot of tough choices,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at  simonebaribeau@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  