-- 
Food Supply Faces ‘Rough’ Two Decades, Crop Diversity Trust Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-01T16:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/food-supply-faces-rough-two-decades-crop-diversity-trust-says.html
World food supply faces a “rough and
volatile” 20 years as  climate change , resource limits and a
lack of innovation hold back farming, said Cary Fowler,
executive director of the Global Crop Diversity Trust.  While global  food production  is still rising, yield
increases are slowing “noticeably,” Fowler wrote in an e-
mailed newsletter today.  Global wheat yields on average rose 0.52 percent a year
from 1990 to 2007, down from 2.95 percent in 1961-1990, Fowler
wrote, citing researchers from three U.S. universities. Rice
yield growth slowed to 0.96 percent from 2.19 percent, while
corn yields fell to 1.77 percent from 2.2 percent.  “Yields of rice and wheat no longer keep up with
 population growth ,” Fowler wrote. “This can’t be a good
sign.”  The Rome-based trust funds seed banks designed to save
plant varieties that may carry useful traits from disappearence,
and gets funding from donors including the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation .  Governments and development agencies are starting to
realize “production itself” is becoming a problem, in addition
to poverty, the director said. Mismatched supply and demand
trends means food price volatility and increasing hunger and
food security are “unavoidable.”  “The next decade or two will be rough and volatile,”
Fowler wrote. “Climate variability, physical constraints and
the lack of innovation in the pipeline will see to that.”  Production limits including cropland availability, water
for irrigation and affordable fertilizer will “shape our world
and future profoundly,” Fowler said.  ‘Productive Varieties’  Most governments “rested on these successes” of the so-
called  Green Revolution  in the 1960s and 1970s that boosted
production, resulting in a lack of crop-research funding in the
1990s that is affecting output, Fowler said.  “Yields stagnate unless you replace current varieties with
more productive varieties,” Fowler wrote. “Failure to fund
research in the 1990s is being felt now.”  The trust plans to move its headquarters to Bonn,  Germany 
in the middle of 2012, according to Fowler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 