-- 
Fracturing-Pollution Rule to Burden Gas Producers, API Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-12-01T22:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/fracturing-pollution-rule-to-burden-u-s-gas-producers-api-says.html
Air-pollution limits proposed by the
Environmental Protection Agency for U.S. oil and gas production,
including hydraulic fracturing, will be costly and waste time,
the  American Petroleum Institute  said.  The EPA’s plan to cut emissions of smog-forming volatile
organic compounds by about a quarter, with an almost 95 percent
reduction from new and updated gas wells using fracturing, or
fracking, will require too many tests and reports, said Howard
Feldman, API director of regulatory and scientific affairs.  “These requirements will be overly burdensome,” Feldman
said today on a conference call from Washington.  “They will
waste time and resources of the industry and the EPA.”  Fracking is a technique used by companies such as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Chesapeake Energy Corp. and Southwestern Energy Co.
that injects chemicals and water into rock formations to free
trapped gas. It has been tied to an increase in smog pollution
in rural areas such as western  Wyoming .  The emission limits, incorporating four air  regulations 
issued on Oct. 28, will trigger too much monitoring, and
performance testing, and might cause a shortage of equipment
necessary to abide by the rules, according to the industry
group.  The EPA under President Barack Obama also is working on
rules regarding water discharges from drilling operations, which
are scheduled to take effect in 2014, and the use of diesel in
hydraulic fracturing.  Fracking Study  A comprehensive study of fracking and its effect on
drinking water, ordered by Congress, will produce two reports,
to be released in 2012 and 2014, Cynthia Dougherty, a director
at the EPA, told the Senate Natural Resources Committee on Oct.
20. The Interior Department plans to require the disclosure of
chemicals used to fracture shale formations on public lands.  The American Petroleum Institute expects a final rule on
emissions from production in April.  “EPA’s schedule will not allow adequate time to review and
analyze all stakeholder comments, develop necessary revisions to
the rules, and complete internal and interagency reviews,” API
said in comments filed to the agency yesterday.  The EPA works to ensure that U.S. shale resources are
developed without harming the public’s health and the
environment, according to an agency statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  