-- 
Franco-German Push for Budget Policing Meets Resistance

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-12-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/franco-german-push-for-budget-rules-snubs-investor-bid-for-ecb-crisis-role.html
Germany and France are pushing for
closer economic ties among euro nations and tougher enforcement
of budget rules to counter the debt crisis, snubbing investor
pleas to back an expanded European Central Bank role.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who will use a speech 
lawmakers today at 9. a.m. to outline her stance before a Dec. 9
European Union summit, has repeated her push to rework EU rules
to lock in budget monitoring and seal off the ECB from political
pressure. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  late yesterday called
for “more discipline” and automatic penalties for nations that
break fiscal rules.  Merkel’s refusal to deploy the ECB is a rebuff to President
 Barack Obama  after he exhorted Europe’s leaders to take more
action to combat the crisis. The chancellor is loath to agree to
follow the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of England  in policies
she views as akin to fighting debt with more debt. Enlisting the
ECB in battling the crisis would violate the central bank’s
independence and set it on a course of action that might not
work, destroying its credibility.  “The market is questioning Merkel’s tough approach,”
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in a telephone interview.
Investors want “clarity on what the framework will look like
and what the financial bridge will look like” to fund euro-area
governments and banks that need aid while fiscal ties are
negotiated, he said.  ‘A Lot of Time’  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  has questioned imposing
policy through a treaty, saying the process doesn’t move quickly
enough to satisfy markets. “It can take a lot of time,” he
said late yesterday in Brussels. “We are looking for something
that can be handled much quicker” to restore investor
confidence.  Throughout almost two years of market turbulence and
conflict with allies, Merkel hasn’t budged, rejecting joint euro
bonds and a greater ECB role, at times clashing with Sarkozy.  Merkel will travel to Paris on Dec. 5 as the two leaders
prepare the proposed overhaul of European institutions. It’s a
required step before considering more aggressive measures, she
says. “You can’t put the cart before the horse,” Merkel said
on Nov. 23.  In his last night speech in Toulon,  France , Sarkozy said
the 17-nation euro area, bound by a currency introduced a decade
ago and intended to be permanent, risks “exploding” if members
fail to converge economically.  Sarkozy’s Convergence  The countries sharing the currency must prepare their
budgets in common, narrow competitiveness gaps and face tougher
automatic penalties for fiscal rule-breaking, Sarkozy said.  “There can’t be a single currency without economies
heading toward more convergence,” Sarkozy told 5,000 supporters
in a 50-minute speech in the Mediterranean port. “If  living
standards , productivity, and competitiveness gaps widen among
euro-zone countries, the euro will sooner rather than later be
too strong for some and too weak for others, and the euro zone
will explode.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled yesterday that the
central bank could do more to fight the crisis in return for
closer fiscal union.  “The sequencing matters,” Draghi told the European
Parliament in Brussels. “It is first and foremost important to
get a commonly shared fiscal compact right.”  ‘More Strictly’  Germany  is seeking changes to the EU’s rulebook to allow
closer monitoring of euro countries’ budgets, with sanctions
against persistent offenders and potential veto power over
national spending plans wielded by the EU Commission, the EU’s
Brussels-based executive.  Van Rompuy  is due to present proposals
for treaty change at the Dec. 9 summit.  Merkel, who has signaled she doesn’t want financial markets
or even her own economic advisers imposing solutions for the
debt crisis, is sticking to the crisis-fighting arsenal built up
since  Greece , the euro area’s most-indebted country, was bailed
out in May 2010. Six months later, as Ireland prepared to join
Greece in requesting a rescue, Merkel said policy makers have to
assert “primacy” over the markets in “a kind of battle.”  Germany and  Europe  don’t have “unlimited financial
strength” to counter the crisis, Merkel’s chief spokesman,
Steffen Seibert, told reporters Nov. 28. That’s “why the German
government reacts so skeptically to the many calls for Europe to
finally free up the really big, final financial reserves, which
the Anglo-Saxon world likes to call showing the bazooka.”  IMF Role  In the latest bid to tame the crisis, European finance
ministers said this week they would seek a greater role for the
 International Monetary Fund  alongside their own bailout fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the IMF
option, along with the EFSF’s ability to buy sovereign bonds and
guarantee as much as 30 percent of bond issues by troubled
governments, guarantees that all euro-area members will meet
their financing needs well beyond the first quarter of 2012.  The EFSF looks like “yesterday’s story” as German policy
makers play a “huge game of chicken” over future economic and
monetary union to achieve their budget-tightening aims, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  “How close to the edge do you want to take this?” O’Neill
said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Francine Lacqua.
“It needs Germany and the ECB to decide whether they want EMU
to exist or not, because that’s how it’s going.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  