-- 
Gingrich Said Freddie Mac Could Be Good Model for Mars Travel

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/freddie-mac-efficiency-could-put-man-on-mars-gingrich-once-said.html
Newt Gingrich  in 2007 extolled the
virtues of  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , saying he would be “very cautious”
about changing the way the mortgage-finance company’s public-
private business plan operated.  In an  interview  placed on Freddie Mac’s website, the
Republican presidential candidate said the U.S. government-
sponsored enterprise, or GSE, could serve as a guide for
rebuilding the hurricane-ravaged  Gulf of Mexico , improving
health care and funding space exploration. For decades, Freddie
Mac collected profits while benefiting from an implicit taxpayer
guarantee of its debt,  “I’m convinced that, if  NASA  were a GSE, we probably would
be on Mars today,” Gingrich said in the April 24, 2007, web
post.  “While we need to improve the regulation of the GSEs, I
would be very cautious about fundamentally changing their role
or the model itself,” he said. It “marries private enterprise
to a public purpose.”  At the time of his comments, Freddie Mac and its larger
rival  Fannie Mae  were under fire from Republicans, who said
their government charters allowed them to make profits for
shareholders while putting taxpayers at risk. Gingrich, a former
U.S. House speaker, has voiced criticism of the companies in
recent years.  The companies’ government backing made home loans
artificially inexpensive and allowed the companies to squeeze
private players out of the mortgage-lending business, their
critics said.  Half of Home Loans  In 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee
more than half of U.S. home loans, collapsed under the weight of
failing subprime loans. They were forced into government
conservatorship and have since survived on taxpayer aid, drawing
more than $170 billion from a U.S. Treasury Department lifeline.  Gingrich was an adviser to  Freddie Mac  when the company
published his comments. His consulting company, the Gingrich
Group, received between $1.6 million and $1.8 million in fees
from the mortgage company.  “I recognize that there are times when you need government
to help spur private enterprise and economic development,” he
said in the 2007 interview, which was previously reported by the
blog Verum Serum.  Gingrich’s contract with Freddie Mac ended in 2008.
Campaign spokesman R.C. Hammond said it isn’t surprising that
Gingrich’s views have changed since 2007.  Aggressive Overhaul  “As to whether Newt now advocates a more aggressive
overhaul of Fannie and Freddie than he previously did -- of
course he does,” Hammond said in an e-mail. “The total
collapse of the global financial system has a tendency to make
one look at a situation with a fresh set of eyes.”  In a book published this year, Gingrich called for broad
change to the mortgage system.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae “are so thoroughly politicized
and preside over such irresponsible lending policies that they
need to be replaced with smaller, private companies operating
without government guarantees, whose leaders focus on making a
profit, not manipulating politicians,” he wrote in “To Save
America.”  In the 2007 interview, Gingrich endorsed the public-private
partnerships used to build railroads and supply telephone
service and electricity to rural Americans.  “All of these are examples of government bringing about
desired public purposes without creating massive, taxpayer-
funded bureaucracies,” Gingrich said. “To me, that is a
pragmatic and effective conservative approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 