-- 
Gazprom Says Not Involved in Croatian Corruption Case

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-12-01T16:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/gazprom-not-involved-in-croatian-corruption-case-official-says.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas export
monopoly, wasn’t related to two Cyprus-based affiliates at the
time they were allegedly involved in a bribery case that led to
the trial of former Croatian Premier Ivo Sanader, a Gazprom
official said.  Hungarian weekly  Heti Valasz  wrote in an article published
today that Gazprom was linked to companies that allegedly paid a
10 million-euro ($13.5 million) bribe to Sanader when Croatian
refiner  INA (INARA)  Industrija Nafte d.d was partially sold by the
government.  “Gazprom Group has no relation to the events described in
the article of the Hungarian newspaper Heti Valasz,” the
official said, who declined to be identified because of
corporate policy.  Croatian prosecutors are accusing  Zsolt Hernadi , chief
executive officer of Hungarian refiner  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , of paying the
bribe to Sanader for a controlling stake in INA through two
companies, Hangarn Oil Products Trading Ltd. and Ceroma Holdings
Ltd. The two are controlled by Gazprom through Atlas Alpha
Services Ltd. and Potassa Holdings Ltd., Heti Valasz reported.  “The companies mentioned in the media report only became
affiliated to Gazprom after the alleged facts in October 2011,”
the official said. “Gazprom bears no responsibility whatsoever
for any activities undertaken by these companies before this
date.”  Commenting on the Hungarian article, Croatian prosecutors
said they have been acquainted with the ownership records of the
two Cyprus-based companies. These findings have no impact on the
Sanader case, the  Office for Suppression of Corruption and
Organized Crime  said today in a statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  