-- 
French Bond Yields Decline Most in 20 Years, Spanish Debt Rises on Auction

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-01T16:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/german-10-year-bonds-fall-as-crisis-optimism-curbs-safety-demand.html
French and Spanish bonds advanced,
leading gains in euro-region debt, as optimism regional leaders
are moving closer to containing the debt crisis boosted demand
for higher-yielding  government securities .  France ’s 10-year  yields  fell the most since 1991 as the
nation sold 4.3 billion euros ($5.79 billion) of bonds due
between 2017 and 2041. Spanish notes rose for a fourth day as it
auctioned 3.75 billion euros of securities, the maximum target.
 Italy ’s 10-year yields fell below 7 percent for the first time
in a week as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
signaled the ECB may do more to fight the crisis as long as
governments push the euro area toward a fiscal union.  “There’s a generally brighter sentiment at the moment and
Spain’s was a very good auction with strong demand,” said
Norbert Aul, a European rates strategist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in London. “There’s still fuel in the tank from policy actions
and the ECB will offer more next week.”  French  10-year yields  dropped 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 3.09 percent at 4:43 p.m. London time. The
3.25 percent bond due October 2021 rose 2.49, or 24.90 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 101.31.  Ten-year  Spanish rates  fell 49 basis points to 5.74 percent
after falling to 5.70 percent, the lowest since Nov. 9. Similar-
maturity Italian  yields  declined 37 basis points to 6.65
percent, dropping below the 7 percent level for the first time
since Nov. 24.  French Sale  France sold 10-year bonds at an average yield of 3.18
percent, down from 3.22 percent at the previous offer of the
securities on Nov. 3. Investors ordered more than twice the
amount on offer at  Spain ’s auction, as the nation paid the most
since at least 2005 to borrow for five years.  “The Spanish auctions were well received with the maximum
raised,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “There’s a growing
feeling that European officials are beginning to grasp the
severity of the situation.”  Spain’s 10-year rate has fallen almost 1 percentage point
this week, after  increasing  more than a percentage point in the
past two months as investors bet contagion from the crisis would
push up the nation’s borrowing costs to unsustainable levels.  The ECB,  Federal Reserve  and four other central banks made
it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars this week in a
coordinated action to stem the global turmoil. Their
announcement yesterday boosted optimism policy makers will
intensify efforts to contain the crisis that began in  Greece ,
engulfed Ireland and  Portugal , and increased borrowing costs in
Spain and Italy.  ‘Restoring Credibility’  “A new fiscal compact” is “definitely the most important
element to start restoring credibility,” ECB President Draghi
said today in an address to the European Parliament in Brussels.
“Other elements might follow, but the sequencing matters. It is
first and foremost important to get a commonly shared fiscal
compact right.”  All but one of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predict the ECB will cut  interest rates  by a quarter-point when
policy makers meet on Dec. 8.  The joint central-bank action pushed German  one-year yields 
below zero for the first time yesterday. They climbed one basis
point to 0.003 percent today, compared with an average 0.91
percent over the past year.  Bunds Gain  German  bunds  rose for a second day with 10-year yields
declining 10 basis points to 2.18 percent.  The euro-region manufacturing industry contracted in
November, data showed today. A manufacturing gauge based on a
survey of purchasing managers in the 17-nation euro region fell
to 46.4 from 47.1 in October, London-based Markit Economics
said. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Belgium ’s  10-year bonds  gained for a fourth day as the
nation’s leaders agreed to form a coalition government, ending a
536-day impasse.  French-speaking Socialist Elio Di Rupo will take office
next week in charge of a six-party group, political leaders said
after the governing program was completed yesterday. A cut in
Belgium’s credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s  last week triggered
the final push to end the stalemate.  Ten-year Belgian bond yields declined 26 basis points to
4.75 percent.  German bonds have returned 6.5 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds were little changed
and French debt advanced 2.3 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  