-- 
Germany’s Christa Wolf, Author of ‘Divided Heaven,’ Dies, 82

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T13:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/german-author-christa-wolf-writer-of-cassandra-medea-dies-at-age-82.html
Christa Wolf, one of  Germany ’s most
important writers, died today in Berlin after a long illness,
according to her publisher,  Suhrkamp Verlag . She was 82.  A citizen of East Germany and a committed socialist, Wolf
managed to keep a critical distance from the communist regime.
Her best-known novels included “Der Geteilte Himmel” (Divided
Heaven, 1963), addressing the divisions of Germany, and
“Kassandra” (Cassandra, 1983), which depicted the Trojan War.  She won awards in East, West and reunited Germany for her 
work, including the Thomas Mann Prize in 2010. The jury praised
her life’s work for “critically questioning the hopes and errors 
of her time, and portraying them with deep moral seriousness and 
narrative power.”  Born in 1929 in a part of Germany that is now in  Poland ,
she moved to East Germany in 1945 and joined the Socialist Unity
Party in 1949. She studied German literature in Jena and
Leipzig, and became a publisher and editor.  “Der Geteilte Himmel,” her first success, was published
in 1963 and described a couple torn apart by the division of
Germany. The book drew notice in  West Germany .  She took part in an open protest against the exile the East
German regime forced on the singer Wolf Biermann in 1976 and
campaigned for reform in East Germany. Her privileged status
there allowed her to travel extensively in the west after 1978.  Stasi Surveillance  Wolf was, though, an opponent of German reunification, and
remained a member of Erich Honecker’s Socialist Unity Party
until 1989. She delivered a speech to demonstrators at
Alexanderplatz in November that year, days before the  Berlin
Wall  fell. She welcomed the calls for democracy, yet made clear
she did not support German unification or capitalism.  Her 1990 short story, “Was Bleibt” (What Remains),
provoked a two-year battle over the merit of East German
literature, fought out in the arts pages and chat shows of
Germany’s newspapers and television channels.  In her story, Wolf described a female East German author
under close surveillance from the Stasi. She was criticized for
waiting until the end of the East German regime to publish it
and accused of hypocrisy in her tolerance of that regime.  In 1993, Wolf announced that she had worked as an informal
collaborator for the Stasi between 1959 and 1962 and published
her own files for that period.  Her latest book, “City of Angels or The Overcoat of Dr.
Freud” published in 2010, was a semi-autobiographical account
of a visit to Los Angeles Wolf made in the early 1990s.  The novel recounts how the narrator deals with the
discovery of her Stasi file, first inspected a few months
earlier, and the media storm that it unleashed.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 