-- 
Gingrich Says His Rise Is ‘Disorienting’ as He Steps Up Iowa Bid

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-02T18:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/gingrich-seeks-momentum-in-iowa.html
Newt Gingrich , expressing confidence
he will be the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, said he is
unsettled by his campaign’s rapid rise in recent weeks and
doesn’t intend to answer criticism from rivals.  “I have to confess, this is disorienting,” he told
reporters after a dinner speech to party activists yesterday in
Johnston, Iowa. “This is such a rapid change that we are having
to rethink our own internal operations right now.”  Seeking to emerge as the main challenger to former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in the Republican race,
Gingrich argued that he would offer the clearest conservative
alternative to President  Barack Obama . He drew an implicit
contrast with Romney, whom he didn’t mention by name in any of
three  Iowa  speeches.  “I’m not interested in distinguishing myself from
Romney,” he told reporters. “I’m happy to be who I am. I think
that distinguishes me from Romney.”  As he campaigned ahead of the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, which
start the Republican nomination contests, Gingrich said he
intends to stay focused on Obama rather than his primary
challengers. In one of his speeches, he said a general election
between him and Obama would offer voters the “widest choice in
American history.”  He made his case as the campaign pace in Iowa quickened
with new television ads yesterday from two other candidates.  ‘Conservative Businessman’  Romney, who has visited the state infrequently, started his
 television advertising  in Iowa with a spot promoting his
credentials as a “conservative businessman.” Romney is the
former head of the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , seeking to revive a struggling
candidacy, was to air an ad aimed at the state’s social
conservatives in which he discusses his Christian faith.  “Some liberals say that faith is a sign of weakness. Well,
they’re wrong,” Perry says in the spot. “I’m Rick Perry and
I’m not ashamed to talk about my faith.”  Predicting Victory  Gingrich, 68, expressed confidence about his chances of
winning the nomination in an ABC News interview yesterday.  “I’m going to be the nominee,” he said. “It’s very hard
not to look at the recent polls and think that the odds are very
high I’m going to be the nominee.”  Romney, 64, said today that “self-aggrandizing statements
about polls are not going to win elections.”  Appearing on  Fox News , he noted that in the Republican race
“there’ve been a lot of people who’ve been real high in the
polls that are not high in the polls anymore.”  Romney also pressed his case against Gingrich, a former
U.S. House speaker who has earned millions of dollars since
leaving Congress, as a Washington insider.  “This is not a matter that America needs better lobbyists
or better deal-makers, better insiders. I think America needs a
leader,” Romney said, offering himself as that candidate.  Gingrich lacks the campaign infrastructure that
traditionally has been required to win the caucuses. His three
appearances yesterday were all at gatherings with built-in
audiences that didn’t require much organizing in advance.  First Office  His campaign this week opened its first office in Iowa --
the last major candidate to do so -- and may add staff members
in the coming days. In mid-November, Gingrich  added  two advisers
in Iowa, individuals who had left his campaign in June when more
than a dozen staff members, including his national co-chairman
and campaign manager, resigned following discord over strategy.  “I was, supposedly, in June and July, dead,” Gingrich
said in his dinner speech. “So, it’s great to be back. And I
have to confess that while I was hoping wave, we’ve had sort of
a tsunami.”  Gingrich started his campaigning yesterday with a speech to
a standing-room-only audience of about 400 employees at
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in  Des Moines , Gingrich said he
would bring dramatic change to Washington.  “We need a serious, in-depth conversation about the mess
we’re in, which is far beyond President Obama,” Gingrich said.
“This mess has been growing for 30 years. He is only a symptom
of it.”  Paying Children  Gingrich also reiterated his suggestion that low-income
children get paid to clean and perform other tasks at schools --
a proposal critics say would violate child labor laws -- as a
way to break a cycle of poverty.  “Really poor children in really poor neighborhoods have no
habits of working and have nobody around them who works,” he
said. “They have no habit of staying all day. They have no
habit of, ‘I do this, and you give me cash,’ unless it’s
illegal.”  Gingrich will need a strong showing in Iowa to establish
himself as Romney’s prime challenger. The two are the leaders in
recent national polls of Republican voters.  “I think he has some momentum here,” said Steve Scheffler, a Republican National Committee member from Iowa who
plans to remain neutral in the race. “Whether they have enough
time for a turnout effort, I don’t know.”  Scheffler, who also leads the socially conservative Iowa
Faith & Freedom Coalition, said it remains “anyone’s guess who
will win the caucuses.” He said he has seen no evidence that
social conservatives are coalescing around one alternative to
Romney.  Immigration Issue  After his speech at the insurance company, Gingrich signed
a pledge promoted by a group called Americans for Securing the
Border calling for construction of a double fence along the
U.S.-Mexico border by the end of 2013.  Gingrich’s Iowa visit is his first since a Nov. 22 debate
in which he said he supports allowing some illegal immigrants
who arrived in the U.S. years ago and have raised families and
pay taxes to legally remain in the country, a stance that could
prove unpopular among some Iowa Republicans.  Romney and Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann ,
another presidential contender, accused Gingrich of favoring a
form of amnesty that they have suggested would create a magnet
for more illegal immigrants. Romney has also started to paint
Gingrich as a  Washington  insider.  Scheffler said he doesn’t think the immigration issue will
hurt Gingrich that much.  “A lot of us don’t totally agree with Newt’s stand, but
when he explains it from beginning to end, I think a lot of
people can say that they could live with it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Johnston, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  