-- 
GM’s Volt Ranked No. 1 in Consumer Reports Satisfaction Survey

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-12-01T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/gm-s-volt-ranked-no-1-in-consumer-reports-satisfaction-survey.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt
plug-in hybrid is the highest-rated car in Consumer Reports’
latest owner-satisfaction survey, the magazine said.  In the annual survey, 93 percent of Volt owners who
responded said they would buy the car again. The Volt finished
ahead of the Dodge Challenger and Porsche 911 sports cars, each
of which had 91 percent owner-satisfaction scores, the
publication said in an e-mailed statement.  The top ranking is a boost for the Volt, which is the
subject of a safety investigation by the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration . Volt batteries caught on fire
more than a week after NHTSA conducted three separate crash
tests on the car or its stand-alone battery pack. NHTSA has said
Volt owners don’t need to worry about the safety of their cars.  “I think the survey reflects the enthusiasm of the early
adopters who bought the car,” Rik Paul, automotive editor for
 Consumer Reports , said in a phone interview. “If the
investigation turns into a recall, it could dampen enthusiasm.
But it’s a nice car.”  The Consumer Reports survey occurred before NHTSA’s Nov. 25
announcement of a safety investigation, the Yonkers,  New York ,
magazine said in the statement.  GM is ramping up production of the Volt, which debuted a
year ago. The car went on sale in all 50 U.S. states in October.
GM plans to build 60,000 Volts next year, with 45,000 earmarked
for the U.S. GM has sold 5,003 Volts in the U.S. this year
through October. The plug-in hybrid can go about 40 miles on
electric power before the gasoline engine kicks in and recharges
the battery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  