-- 
Goldman Says Turkey Has Highest Rates in Region After Switch

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T15:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/goldman-says-turkey-policy-rate-most-in-region-after-switch-1-.html
Turkey has the highest rates in
emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  said, after it started following the country’s overnight
money market rates instead of the central bank’s benchmark.  Goldman showed Turkish rates as the highest regionally
after switching from forecasting the  one-week repo lending rate ,
which the central bank labels as its benchmark rate, according
to the e-mailed report today. Goldman expects the overnight
rate, which it says is now the policy rate for Turkey, to
decline to 9.5 percent by the end of next year compared to the
current 11.27 percent, it said.  “We expect overnight Istanbul Stock Exchange interest
rates to hover around 13 percent over the next six months,”
Goldman economist for the region Ahmet Akarli said in the report
from  London . “However, if we are right about Europe, the
central bank would likely ease policy once again in the second
half of 2012, as balance of payments pressures subside and the
lira finds better fundamental support. Between six to 12 months
therefore we expect the bank to ease overnight ISE rates to
around 9.5 percent.”  Turkey’s central bank introduced a more flexible interest
rate policy on Oct. 26, lending to banks at rates between the
5.75 percent one-week repo rate and overnight rates of as much
as 12.5 percent. Governor Erdem Basci labeled the move as a rate
increase, though he said the 5.75 percent rate was still his
benchmark.  Turkey now has the highest  interest rates  in the region
followed by  Hungary  on 6.5 percent and  South Africa  on 5.5
percent, Goldman said in the report.  The central bank may widen its so-called interest rate
corridor to between 5 percent and 14 percent from between 5
percent and 12.5 percent to “reinforce tight monetary
conditions,” Goldman said.  Yields on Turkey’s  two-year lira bonds  fell 7 basis points
to 10.32 percent at 5 p.m. in Istanbul. The yield was 9.62
percent before the central bank switched to its more flexible
policy in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  