-- 
Goldman Joins HSBC in Forecasting China Rate Cut as Rivals Demur: Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-02T02:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/goldman-joins-hsbc-bucking-china-economist-majority-with-12-rate-cut-call.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc forecast that  China  will cut interest rates in
2012, putting the banks at odds with most of their rivals, who
see elevated  inflation  preventing a reduction.  The People’s Bank of China reduced lenders’ reserve
requirements on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008 as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepened. Eleven economists of 20 in a
Bloomberg News survey conducted yesterday and today say rates
will stay unchanged through next year and another four predict
increases. Goldman and HSBC are among five that see cuts.  China’s challenge in loosening monetary policy is to
sustain the expansion of the world’s second-largest economy
without spurring price gains, fueling bad loans or reigniting a
real estate boom that has started to deflate. Inflation will
remain too high for the benchmark one-year deposit rate to be
lowered from the current 3.5 percent, according to Mizuho
Securities  Asia  Ltd.  “The authorities should be careful that the loosening does
not go too far in order to prevent a repeat of mistakes during
the 2008 global financial crisis,” said Ma Xiaoping, a Beijing-
based economist with HSBC. Ma said rates may be cut after
inflation falls below 3 percent in the second half of next year.  Across Asia, policy makers are moving to preserve growth.
In Tokyo, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday ordered a
fourth extra budget, a step unprecedented since postwar
reconstruction, while  Thailand  cut interest rates this week and
 Indonesia  did the same on Nov. 10.  Spending Cuts  In a signal that  Japan 's post-earthquake rebound may be
fading, companies  cut spending  at a faster pace in the most
recent quarter, data released in  Tokyo  showed today.  Capital
spending  fell 9.8 percent from a year earlier, the  Finance
Ministry  said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index swung between gains and losses
and was little changed at 11:11 a.m. in Tokyo.  Data due today may show the U.S. jobless rate holding
steady at 9 percent, according to analysts’  median estimate .
A better-than-forecast manufacturing expansion reported
yesterday indicated the world’s largest economy is weathering
the crisis that prompted a Federal Reserve-led effort this week
to ease borrowing costs for financial firms.  In the euro area, a report today may show that producer-
price inflation cooled as austerity measures and weakness in
global demand threaten to trigger a recession in the region.  Worse Than Lehman  “The current crisis is grimmer and more challenging than
the global financial crisis triggered by the Lehman Brothers
bankruptcy in 2008,”  Zhu Guangyao , a Chinese vice finance
minister, said at a forum in Beijing yesterday. “So the most
imperative task now is to try our best to stimulate global
economic growth.”  HSBC’s Ma said three more reserve-ratio cuts are likely in
the first half of next year, along with tax breaks and fiscal
stimulus, after a report yesterday indicated Chinese
manufacturing contracted for the first time since March 2009.  While China’s inflation has slowed to 5.5 percent from a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July, the rate remains 2
percentage points higher than the one-year deposit rate,
discouraging saving and adding to the risk of asset bubbles.  “Inflation will decline quickly in coming months as
cooling economic growth caps demand,” said Song Yu, a Beijing-
based economist for Goldman, who says a rate reduction may come
in the second quarter of 2012, when year-on-year consumer-price
gains may fall below the level of the benchmark deposit rate.  HSBC sees the one-year lending rate falling by a quarter
percentage point to 6.31 percent in the second half of 2012,
with the deposit rate declining to 3.25 percent. Credit Agricole
CIB,  Capital Economics  Ltd. and Hang Seng Bank also see cuts.  Property Slowdown  Besides weakness in export demand, China’s real-estate
market is cooling because of a government campaign to limit the
risk of asset bubbles and make housing more affordable after
record lending in 2009 and 2010 triggered price gains. Property
risks overshadow the economy as declines in home sales threaten
to trigger developer collapses, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said this week.  “Monetary easing and more expansionary fiscal policy is
necessary to avoid a sharp downturn as external uncertainty is
increasing and domestic growth momentum slowing,” said Shen Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund . “Yet, inflation remains high and
is expected to stay above 4 percent next year which could be
still too uncomfortable for an  interest rate  cut.”  Benchmark rates have been on hold since July after five
increases that began in October last year. Deutsche Bank AG and
Morgan Stanley are in the majority arguing that the central
bank’s pause will continue through 2012.  ‘Excessive Speculation’  Credit Suisse Group AG says the reserve-ratio move is
policy fine-turning and not a reversal of a monetary stance that
the government describes as “prudent.” Credit Suisse, Mizuho,
Citigroup Inc. and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group predict
interest rates will rise by the end of next year, the survey
showed.  Deposit rates are too low, fueling “excessive”
speculation in financial assets and making an increase
inevitable,  Dong Tao, a Credit Suisse economist in  Hong Kong ,
said in a note.  The half percentage point reserve-requirement cut that
takes effect on Dec. 5 may pump about 350 billion yuan ($55
billoin) into the financial system, according to an estimate by
UBS AG. In yesterday’s survey, Capital Economics forecast five
more reductions in reserve ratios before the end of next year.  “The speed at which the euro-zone crisis is escalating
suggests external conditions will be more challenging over the
next year than previously seemed likely,”  Mark Williams , a
London-based economist for Capital Economics, said in a note.
“In turn, policymakers are likely to respond more forcefully.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  