-- 
Goldman, BofA, Ally, SocGen, Rajaratnam in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-01T12:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/goldman-ally-deutsche-bank-socgen-rajaratnam-in-court-news.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and six others may be
questioned under oath by lawyers for the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Rajat Gupta, who was charged with insider trading
as part of the Galleon Group LLC investigation.  Lawyers for Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, sought
to depose Blankfein and other firm executives including Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar, President Gary Cohn, Managing
Director David Loeb and  John Bryan , as part of a related suit
brought by the SEC. While U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  New
York  authorized the questioning of Blankfein before the April 9
criminal trial, he said depositions of the other officers must
be conducted afterwards.  Gupta, who also sat on the board of  Procter & Gamble Co .
and led McKinsey & Co., was indicted by a federal grand jury in
October on five counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing inside
information to Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Rakoff is
presiding over Gupta’s criminal case as well as the SEC lawsuit.  In addition to Blankfein, Rakoff granted SEC requests to
question Gary Rosenbach, Galleon’s co-founder, and  Ian Horowitz ,
a former trader who worked for Rajaratnam and was recorded on a
U.S. wiretap. The judge said lawyers may also depose three other
individuals associated with Galleon -- Ananth Muniyappa, Brock
Vandervliet and Leon Shaulov. Also to be deposed is Greg Ormond
of Exemplar Wealth.  “The court sees no material argument whatsoever for
delaying the depositions,” Rakoff said in his ruling.  Gupta, 62, of Westport, Connecticut, was a close friend and
business associate of Rajaratnam, prosecutors said. He made
multimillion-dollar investments with the hedge fund manager and
also passed him inside information after attending Goldman Sachs
board meetings from 2008 through January 2009, according to the
indictment.  David Wells, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on Rakoff’s ruling.  John Nester , a spokesman
for the SEC, declined to immediately comment on the judge’s
decision.  Raj Rajaratnam was sentenced to 11 years in prison, the
longest ever for  insider trading , after he was convicted earlier
this year. He is set to surrender to prison officials Dec. 5.  The cases are U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, and SEC v. Gupta,
11-cv-07566, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Appeals Panel to Review Bid to Return BofA Accord to State  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  persuaded a federal appeals
court to review its request to return an $8.5 billion bond
settlement with Bank of America Corp. to state court from
federal court for a judge’s approval.  The Manhattan-based U.S. Court of Appeals in New York
yesterday granted the petition for expedited review.  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  had also asked the court to reverse U.S. District Judge
William Pauley’s ruling in October keeping the accord in federal
court for review, rather than remanding it to New York State
Supreme Court.  The proposed agreement, first filed in New York state
court, would settle claims from investors in the mortgage bonds
of Countrywide Financial Corp., which Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America (BAC)  bought in 2008. The deal was reached with
an institutional investor group that includes BlackRock and
Pacific Investment Management Co. and would apply to 530
mortgage-securitization trusts.  “Delay in the resolution of this appeal will prejudice the
institutional investors and other beneficiaries of the trusts,”
New York-based BlackRock said in papers filed with the appeals
court on Nov. 1.  Bank of New York, the trustee for the mortgage-bond trusts,
filed the settlement in state court and planned to seek approval
at a November hearing. Under the state proceeding, approval
would bind investors outside the group that negotiated the
agreement.  An investor group, Walnut Place LLC and related entities,
moved the case to federal court and is fighting a bid by Bank of
New York to return it to state court.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-4554, 11-4571, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  News Corp. (NWSA)  Defeats Lawsuit Over Shine Group Acquisition Records  Rupert Murdoch and his News Corp. persuaded a judge to
throw out an investor lawsuit seeking information about the $675
million purchase of a U.K.-based television production company
owned by Murdoch’s daughter.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble concluded that a
suit filed by an Illinois-based pension fund seeking to inspect
News Corp. documents about the purchase of Elisabeth Murdoch’s
Shine Group Ltd. was moot since it and other shareholders had
also sued the company’s directors over the deal.  Lawyers for Central Laborers Pension Fund can no longer
“tender a proper purpose for pursuing efforts to inspect the
books and records of News Corp.” on the acquisition, Noble
ruled yesterday.  The ruling comes as New York-based News Corp. continues to
be investigated and sued over claims that thousands of people’s
phones were hacked by its News of the World tabloid, which was
shuttered in July.  Teri Everett, a News Corp. spokeswoman, didn’t return a
call for comment on Noble’s decision to throw out the investor
suit.  News Corp. officials announced in February the media
company would acquire Shine Group, which supplies television
content to U.K. TV companies including the British Broadcasting
Corp., in an all-stock deal valued at about $675 million.  The case is Central Laborers Pension Fund v. News Corp, CA
6287, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Ally Financial Units Sued by Insurer Over Mortgage Loans  Ally Financial Inc. , the auto and home lender that received
a government bailout, was sued by Financial Guaranty Insurance
Co., which claims Ally misrepresented the quality of mortgage
loans underlying securities that Financial Guaranty insured.  In lawsuits filed Nov. 29 in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan, Ally Financial’s GMAC Mortgage and Residential
Funding units are accused of breach of contract in connection
with policies issued by New York-based  Financial Guaranty 
related to about $3.8 billion worth of residential mortgage-
backed securities.  GMAC Mortgage “fraudulently induced FGIC’s agreement to
provide this insurance through willful and material
misrepresentations and omissions concerning the nature of its
business practices and the credit quality of tens of thousands
of mortgage loans that provided the collateral” for securities,
Financial Guaranty said in court papers.  “There are substantial legal and factual defenses related
to the FGIC claims and we intend to defend our position
aggressively,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based
Ally, said in an e-mail. “We have reviewed loan level ‘put-
back’ claims from FGIC in the normal course as contractually
required and have met our contractual obligations at all times,
including repurchasing loans where a claim was valid.”  FGIC Corp., the holding company for Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co., sought bankruptcy protection from creditors in
August 2010 after suffering losses from the drop in the U.S.
housing market.  The cases are Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v. GMAC
Mortgage LLC, 653302/2011; Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. vs.
Residential Funding Co. LLC, 653303/2011; and Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co. vs. Residential Funding Co., 653304/2011, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Penn State  Sued by Man Alleging Years of Sandusky Sex Abuse  Pennsylvania State University  and its former assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky were sued by an unidentified man
who claims Sandusky sexually abused him more than 100 times over
four years.  The plaintiff sued yesterday as a John Doe in the
Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas, saying he met Sandusky
through the Second Mile youth charity at the age of 10 and was
sexually abused from 1992 to 1996. The abuse occurred in and out
of Pennsylvania, including on university property, according to
the complaint. Second Mile, which Sandusky founded, is also a
defendant.  Sandusky, 67, is charged with 40 criminal counts tied to
alleged sexual molestation of eight boys from 1994 to 2009. He
has denied wrongdoing. The plaintiff in yesterday’s suit, the
first against Penn State stemming from the Sandusky case,
accused Second Mile and the university of negligence in failing
to protect children from sexual abuse.  “I don’t want other kids to be hurt and abused by Jerry
Sandusky, or anybody like Penn State to allow people like him to
do it -- rape kids!” the accuser said yesterday in a  statement .
“I never told anybody what he did to me over 100 times at all
kinds of places until the newspapers reported that he had abused
other kids, and the people at Penn State and Second Mile didn’t
do the things they should have to protect me and the other
kids.”  Joseph Amendola, an attorney for Sandusky, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment on the suit  Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for the  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based university, declined to comment on the suit,
saying the school hadn’t received the court documents.  “We will review the lawsuit and respond appropriately when
we have done so,” Eric Herman, a spokesman for Second Mile,
said in an e-mail. “The Second Mile will adhere to its legal
responsibilities throughout this process. As always, our
thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families.”  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials  BTA Bank (BTAS)  Seeks Jail for Ex-Chairman Ablyazov at U.K. Trial  BTA Bank, the Kazakh lender that defaulted on $12 billion
of debt before restructuring last year, asked a U.K. judge to
jail its former chairman, Mukhtar Ablyazov, for contempt of
court in a fraud lawsuit.  Ablyazov, who fled Kazakhstan to escape prosecution and
lives in the U.K., violated a 2009 court order freezing his
assets by failing to reveal ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project and more than 600 shell companies used to conceal his
wealth, BTA’s lawyer said yesterday at the start of a two-week
trial in  London . Ablyazov attended the hearing with an
interpreter.  “There hasn’t quite been a case like this before,” BTA’s
lawyer, Stephen Smith of New Square Chambers, said at the
hearing. “The bank’s primary purpose is to coerce Ablyazov into
complying with the court order.”  BTA, based in Almaty, filed a series of U.K. lawsuits
against Ablyazov and Roman Solodchenko, its former chief
executive officer, claiming they took more than $5 billion from
the bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and a web of
offshore companies. The men deny the claims, while BTA has said
its accountants are still unwinding the transactions behind the
alleged theft.  Ablyazov claims the bank’s case is politically motivated
because he was part of the democratic opposition to Kazakhstan’s
president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has ruled the country for
more than two decades and was re-elected in April with 95.5
percent of the vote.  The bank’s “true motive” for seeking to put Ablyazov in
jail during the case is to win “a knockout blow in order to
impact Ablyazov’s ability to operate commercially or politically
or to defend himself,” his lawyer Duncan Matthews said at
yesterday’s hearing.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Lawyer Says HMRC Warning Didn’t Change Trade  A  Deutsche Bank AG  tax lawyer said that in 2009 the lender
considered its German carbon-trading businesses safe and wasn’t
prompted to change its policies by a warning from British tax
authorities.  After talking with a German tax investigator in December
2009 and January 2010, he had no indication that the bank’s
trades were linked to fraud, Goetz Weitbrecht, Deutsche Bank’s
head of tax for continental  Europe , said at a Frankfurt criminal
trial yesterday. That assessment was backed by the fact a tax
review by German officials wasn’t continued and Value Added Tax
refunds were paid out at the time, he said.  “I personally had an all-clear signal,” Weitbrecht said.
“Had we gotten the indication that something was wrong, we
would have stopped the trades.”  Six managers at emissions-trading companies are on trial in
Frankfurt in what prosecutors call an international scheme to
evade VAT when trading the certificates with Deutsche Bank.
Neither the bank nor Weitbrecht are accused of wrongdoing at the
trial.  The U.K. Revenue & Customs office, or HMRC, told Deutsche
Bank tax managers in London at a Nov. 18, 2009, meeting that 90
percent of emission trading in some countries was done to commit
VAT fraud, according to a memo read in the court by a defense
lawyer yesterday.  Weitbrecht said yesterday that, while he may have been
informed about the London HMRC meeting, he doesn’t remember it.
He relied on information he received from Harald Gebbers, a
German tax investigator with whom he spoke twice on the phone in
December 2009 and January 2010, and on the fact that tax
authorities paid out VAT refunds to Deutsche Bank at the time,
Weitbrecht said.  “We had a good and trusting relationship with the
authorities, so I relied on the information I got there,”
Weitbrecht said.  German prosecutors formally started their probe of the
trading on Nov. 19, 2009. Tax investigators had already looked
earlier into the issue. Prosecutors are probing 170 suspects,
including seven Deutsche Bank employees.  Presiding Judge Martin Bach said yesterday he expects
closing arguments to start tomorrow. A verdict may come before
Christmas.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  SocGen Wins Defamation Suit Over Report Questioning Solvency  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  won a defamation suit against an online
news site over a September report that France’s second biggest
bank was shut out of the interbank lending market.  ElectronLibre.info, published by Paris-based EL Publishing
SAS, must pay 1 euro ($1.35) to Societe Generale for publishing
the report, a Paris court ruled yesterday.  EL Publishing and director Emmanuel Torregano were ordered
to pay Societe Generale legal costs and to remove the Sept. 7
article from the site within three days or risk an additional
1,000-euro-a-day fine. The site must also run a paragraph on its
homepage saying the court condemned it for running the article
and to pay for that to appear in a publication of Societe
Generale’s choosing.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has hit French banks hard.
Societe Generale has fought to maintain customer confidence as
shares have dropped almost 46 percent since Aug. 1 and its
third-quarter profit fell 31 percent on a 333 million-euro
pretax writedown on Greek sovereign debt and lower trading
revenue. The bank sued  Associated Newspapers Ltd. ’s Mail on
Sunday in London in October for an August report that it was in
a “perilous” state and possibly on the “brink of disaster.”  “Given the current situation and all that we have
learned” about banks during the sovereign-debt crisis, “I will
advise my client to appeal,” ElectronLibre lawyer Hasna Boulet
said in a telephone interview.  Rajaratnam Asks Court to Let Him Remain Free During Appeal  Raj Rajaratnam, the former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
manager convicted of directing the biggest insider-trading ring
in a generation, asked a federal appeals court to let him remain
free while he challenges the government’s use of wiretaps in his
trial.  Rajaratnam, 54, scheduled to begin an 11-year sentence in a
Massachusetts prison next week, claims improper wiretapping of
his phone conversations will lead to reversal of his May
conviction and that he should remain free in the meantime. A
panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York declined to rule
immediately after a 20-minute hearing yesterday.  Patricia Millett, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, told the court
his appeal presents a “substantial question of law” and said
he’s unlikely to flee to his native Sri Lanka before the appeal
is decided.  “His passport was surrendered ages ago. All his family are
here,” Millett told a three-judge panel of the court.  “He has
nothing to go to in Sri Lanka.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who presided over the
case and sentenced Rajaratnam in October, rejected his request
for bail pending the appeal. Rajaratnam claims a March 7, 2008,
wiretap application by FBI special agent B.J. Kang contained
“glaring omissions” that would likely lead the appeals court
to reverse his conviction, justifying his release on bail.  Millett argued the omissions violated Rajaratnam’s
constitutional rights and the legal requirement that the
government show wiretapping is necessary before getting a
warrant.  “There is no substantial question of law likely to result
in a new trial,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan
Streeter, who argued that the court should let Rajaratnam begin
his prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-4416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ex-Ropes & Gray Lawyer Gets 6 Months in Goffer Tipping Case  Brien Santarlas, a former lawyer at Ropes & Gray LLP, was
sentenced to six months in prison for passing information on
pending mergers to stock traders.  Santarlas, 34, pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges in
December 2009 and cooperated with the U.S. investigation of
illegal tips to hedge funds.  Calling that cooperation “very, very important,” U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan yesterday said that
as a lawyer, Santarlas should be held to a high standard and his
sentence should send a message to other attorneys.  “It’s important that those legal professionals understand
they breach those duties at their peril,” Sullivan said before
he handed down Santarlas’s sentence. “You don’t get a pass.”  Santarlas and Arthur Cutillo, a fellow attorney at Ropes &
Gray, passed tips about two pending mergers that the firm was
working on to Cutillo’s college roommate, Jason Goldfarb, who
passed along the information to Zvi Goffer, a former trader at
Galleon Group LLC. The deals were Bain Capital Partners’
acquisition of 3Com Corp. and TPG Capital’s purchase of Axcan
Pharma Inc.  Santarlas pleaded guilty to securities fraud and agreed to
forfeit $32,500.  “I’ll never forgive myself,” Santarlas told the judge
yesterday. “I violated my oath as an attorney.”  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 