-- 
Goldman Sachs Cuts Turkey’s 2012 Growth Estimate to 0.5%

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-12-01T09:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/goldman-sachs-cuts-turkey-2012-growth-estimate-to-0-5-vs-1-5-.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its
estimate for Turkey’s gross domestic product growth next year to
0.5 percent from 1.5 percent, according to an e-mailed statement
today.  Turkey is likely to experience a “sharp economic slowdown
on the back of tightening domestic and external financing
conditions,” Goldman said in a report on central and eastern
Europe and the  Middle East  by analysts including Ahmet Akarli
dated Nov. 30. “The Euro-area crisis has recently taken a turn
for the worse,” the analysts said, adding that “the crisis
will culminate in output losses, especially in the periphery.”  Balance sheet strength and economic interconnectivity will
be key factors for emerging economies in weathering the crisis,
with interconnections being detrimental as it leaves economies
exposed to “ripple effects throughout the region.”  A resolution of the European crisis could lead to a
“significant recovery in asset prices” in  Turkey , the analysts
said, “which could be the trigger for recovery through 2013.”  The Turkish economy may rebound in the second half of 2012
as external conditions normalize, Goldman said. There is
“limited scope” for appreciation of the lira, the world’s
second worst-performing currency this year after the South
African rand, over the next six to 12 months, it said.  Turkey’s recovery from the 2008 global financial crisis was
strong though “not particularly well-balanced; it was primarily
driven by domestic demand, which led to a significant
deterioration in Turkey’s external imbalances,” the analysts
wrote.  Sticky Inflation  The coming year may be one of “two halves” for Turkey,
according to the report, with the first half of the year
characterized by economic challenges and the second possibly
bringing a “solid rebound,” depending on  Europe ’s response to
the debt crisis, it said.  Inflation is likely to remain “sticky” at around 10
percent through the middle of next year, pushing Turkey’s
central bank to reinforce tighter monetary conditions, which
will contribute to a slowdown in economic activity, the report
said.  Goldman also adjusted its forecasts for the lira downward,
predicting it weakening to 1.95 per dollar in three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  