-- 
Greenberg’s AIG Bailout Suits Pursue Unique Theories

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-12-02T00:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/greenberg-s-audacious-aig-bailout-suits-pursue-unique-theories.html
Maurice R. Greenberg, the former
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive officer, seeks
to break new ground in lawsuits challenging the U.S. takeover of
the insurer in a bailout that reached $182 billion.  Greenberg’s Starr International Co. sued the government
Nov. 21, calling the public assumption of 80 percent of stock in
the insurer in 2008 an unconstitutional “taking” of property
that requires $25 billion in compensation.  Starr also sued the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by loaning $85
billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms to banks in
a “backdoor bailout.” AIG almost collapsed after bets tied to
the housing market soured, and the bailout was revised at least
four times before reaching $182 billion.  Both complaints were filed by attorney  David Boies , who
represented the U.S. in its Microsoft Inc. 1999 antitrust trial
and  Al Gore  in the Florida presidential recount litigation in
2000.  “Any time David Boies is asking for $25 billion, I would
say this is not a normal case,” said Robert H. Thomas of the
Honolulu firm  Damon Key Leong Kupchak Hastert .  “He takes cutting edge cases in unexplored areas of law,”
said Thomas, who specializes in land-use and eminent domain.
“It’s audacious. As someone who represents plaintiffs in these
kinds of cases, I’d say more power to him. But it’s a stretch.”  Boies convinced a judge that Microsoft Corp. was a
monopolist and successfully defended Starr against an AIG claim
in 2009 that it looted the insurer of $4.3 billion in stock. He
also worked for National Basketball Association players in labor
talks that just concluded.  Boies Response  Boies didn’t respond to requests for comment on his chances
of success in the Starr cases.  He sued the Federal Reserve in U.S. District Court in New
York, and the takings case is in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims in  Washington . That court handles cases against the
federal government for money, including claims that the U.S.
took private property for public use without just compensation
in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.  Most of those cases involve the loss of property value
through regulation, Thomas said.  Starr, AIG’s largest shareholder at the time of the
bailout, claims that in the midst of the financial crisis in
September 2008, the U.S. took 80 percent of AIG’s equity while
violating the constitutional rights of shareholders to due
process and equal protection of the law.  Bailout’s Flaws  While the bailout was “ostensibly designed to protect the
 United States  economy and rescue the country’s financial
system,” Starr claims, “the ends could not and did not justify
the unlawful means employed by the government to achieve that
goal.”  Greenberg led AIG for almost four decades though 2005,
resigning amid an investigation by  New York  Attorney General
 Eliot Spitzer  into accounting practices. Greenberg is also
chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co.  Before recovering compensation for a taking, Starr must
accept the government’s underlying premise for the action and
not challenge its validity, according to attorney Jerry Stouck
of Greenberg Traurig LLP in Washington.  “It’s assumed that if they took your property, they did it
for a good reason,” Stouck said. “The issue is whether the 80
percent equity in AIG was taken from its owner under
circumstances that require the government to pay for that
stake.”  Power to Take  Takings cases have produced mixed results at the  Supreme
Court  in recent years. In 1992, it ruled in Lucas v. South
Carolina Coastal Council that a landowner is entitled to
compensation when regulators  bar all development  on a parcel.  In 2005, the court gave local governments broad power to
take over private property to make way for shopping malls,
office parks and sports stadiums.  Government agencies can constitutionally take property as
part of an economic development plan and transfer it to another
party, as long as the landowner is compensated, the court ruled
in a case involving development in  New London ,  Connecticut .  Starr argues that AIG was caught in a liquidity crisis
hastened by the Fed’s denying the insurer access to lending
through its so-called discount window.  The central bank struck the AIG equity deal a day after the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008.
Starr claims the U.S. could have lent money without demanding
equity, as it did with foreign banks and other lenders.  Treasury Official  “It is important to remember that the government provided
assistance to AIG -- and stopped it from collapsing -- in order
to prevent a meltdown of the entire global financial system,”
said Tim Massad, assistant secretary for financial stability at
the  U.S. Treasury . “Our actions were necessary, legal and
constitutional. We are reviewing the lawsuit and expect to
defend our actions vigorously.”  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, said the
allegations have no merit.  “AIG’s board of directors had an alternative choice to
borrowing from the  Federal Reserve , and that choice was
bankruptcy,” Gutt said. “Bankruptcy would have left all AIG
shareholders with worthless stock. The Federal Reserve’s actions
with regard to AIG helped to restore financial stability in the
United States during a period of intense volatility and
vulnerability in the  U.S. economy .”  Starr must show that it suffered an injury that requires
compensation, said Vermont Law School professor  John Echeverria .  Assets’ Value  “That depends on a showing that the assets were worth X
before the government acted and X minus Y after the government
acted,” Echeverria said. “The suit is on its face unappealing
and unattractive. The court will look with great skepticism on a
claim seeking billions of dollars in taxpayer funds.”  Regulators have “tremendous discretion” to act, said
attorney Thomas M. Buchanan of Winston & Strawn LLP in
Washington.  “I don’t think I’ve seen any takings cases that have
succeeded in a financial crisis,” Buchanan said. “This is
obviously a pretty novel theory.”  Winning a regulatory takings case is very difficult, said
 Robert H. Freilich , an attorney at Freilich & Popowitz in  Los
Angeles . Starr must show that a regulatory taking meant that it
lost “all or substantially all use and value of the property
from the imposition of a regulation,” Freilich said.  “AIG entered into a voluntary contractual relationship and
was not the subject of Federal Reserve or Treasury regulatory
power,” he said. “How could the shareholders have been denied
all use and value of their property when the government itself
had value in its 80 percent stake?”  Foreseeing Failure  Professor  Richard Epstein  of  New York University School of
Law  assessed the lawsuit’s prospects more bluntly.  “It’s going to lose,” Epstein said. “The basic rule is
when you sue the Federal Reserve acting in its regulatory
capacity, even for outrageous things, they win. It’s an
inescapable reality that, in effect, the government holds all
the high cards in litigation.”  AIG fell 31 cents, 1.3 percent, to $23 in trading in New
York today.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v.  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 