-- 
Greek-Style Cuts Widen Lithuanian Income Gap: Chart of the Day

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-12-01T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/greek-style-cuts-widen-lithuanian-income-gap-chart-of-the-day.html
Lithuania ’s austerity measures, which
are similar in size to those facing Greece, boosted  income
inequality  to the widest in the European Union.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the proportion of people at
risk of poverty in Lithuania surged to the highest level among
the bloc’s 27 members after state spending was cut. The lower
panel shows the gap between the nation’s highest and lowest
earners is the EU’s widest after budget savings hurt the poor.  Lithuania implemented austerity measures equal to 12
percent of gross domestic product in 2009-2010. Pension cuts may
be reversed after the economy grew 6.7 percent in the third
quarter, the second-fastest pace in the EU.  Greece , where GDP
contracted 5.2 percent in the same period, is in the midst of
budget cuts worth 16 percent of economic output, data from the
International Monetary Fund show.  “The blow was very painful to the poor,” said Vilija Tauraite, an economist for SEB Bank in the capital, Vilnius.
“Lithuania’s fiscal discipline has been extremely severe in the
past three years and it’s now crucial to ease the burden because
these people are hanging on the precipice of poverty. Their
quality of life is far worse than the situation of pensioners in
southern  Europe .”  Pensioners’ costs surged faster than the average inflation
rate because the consumer basket for retirees includes more
spending on food and utilities, Tauraite said. On average,
prices have risen 4.3 percent for retirees since pension cuts
began in January 2010, during which time the average inflation
rate was 2.5 percent, she added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  