-- 
IMF Likely to Cut Growth Forecasts Amid Financial Turmoil

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-12-01T18:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/imf-likely-to-cut-growth-forecasts-amid-financial-turmoil-2-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  will
probably lower its global growth forecasts next month as the
European debt crisis rocks financial markets and slows output, a
spokesman said.  Since the latest projections were released in September
“there’s been a marked slowdown in economic activity,”
particularly in  Europe , IMF spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters
in  Washington  today. “We will likely be revising downwards the
forecast” near the end of January, he said.  The IMF in September cut  its forecast  for global growth to
4 percent this year and the same amount for 2012, predicting
“severe” repercussions if Europe failed to contain its debt
crisis. The turmoil has since worsened, with Italian and French
bond yields rising and  Germany  failing to attract bids for 35
percent of bonds it offered for sale Nov. 23.  Rice also said the lender will meet Dec. 5 to authorize the
next 2.2-billion euro ($3 billion) disbursement to  Greece  under
a joint bailout plan with the European Union. An IMF team will
go to Athens Dec. 12-16, he said.  The IMF is not in talks with Italy about any funding, Rice
said. There’s no date set yet for an unprecedented mission that
was agreed to last month to audit the country’s efforts to cut
 its debt , he said, as the IMF wants to take into account
“important deadlines” coming up for Italy. The review will be
quarterly and similar to the yearly assessment of the nation’s
economy, he said.  Italian Measures  The Italian Cabinet will approve on Dec. 5 a package of
debt-reducing measures and structural reforms aimed at boosting
economic growth and balancing the budget in 2013, Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  has said.  European heads of government also meet on Dec. 9 in
Brussels, with Germany pushing for governance changes that would
tighten enforcement of budget rules.  European finance ministers said this week they would seek a
greater role for the IMF alongside their own bailout fund in
their latest effort at taming the euro zone’s sovereign debt
turmoil. The IMF is co-financing bailouts to Greece, Portugal
and Ireland.  Asked whether the  European Central Bank  could lend funds to
the IMF, Rice said that while it’s legally feasible for central
banks to do so, no discussions are taking place on the subject.  The IMF is confident that member states will increase the
fund’s resources when and if needed, Rice said. Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  has said the $390 billion currently
available may not suffice to meet loan demands if the global
outlook worsened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  