-- 
Limited, Macy’s Monthly Sales Top Estimates on Holiday Deals

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-12-01T21:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/limited-macy-s-november-sales-top-analysts-estimates-on-holiday-crowds.html
Limited Brands Inc. (LTD)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
posted November same-store sales that topped analysts’ estimates
as Thanksgiving weekend deals drew record crowds, while stores
that missed out on the shopping blitz trailed expectations.  Sales at Limited Brands, operator of the Victoria’s Secret
lingerie chain, climbed 7 percent, beating the average
projection for a 4.9 percent gain from analysts surveyed by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Macy’s posted a 4.8 percent
increase in same-store sales, topping the 4.1 percent estimate.  Some retailers are getting a sales lift from shoppers that
leaped at holiday discounts to buy gifts for others and treat
themselves, while chains such as  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
failed to take advantage of the pent-up demand. Consumers spent
a record $52.4 billion during Thanksgiving weekend, 16 percent
more than last year, the  National Retail Federation  has said.  “Black Friday might have improved the number,” said
 Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst at NPD Group in  Port
Washington , New York. “We saw a lot of business during a bad
economy.”  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose a combined
3.2 percent, topping the estimate for a 3.1 percent increase.  Sales at  Saks Inc. (SKS) , the luxury department store based in
New York, increased 9.3 percent in November, exceeding the
estimate of 5.9 percent, the company said in a statement today.  ‘People Were Excited’  “What you saw on Black Friday is people were excited
early,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Sadove said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. Luxury consumers continue
to spend on the most expensive items, such as fine jewelry and
exotic-skin handbags, he said. The direction of the stock
markets will be key to sales for the remainder of the holiday
season, he said.  Limited climbed 0.7 percent to $42.61 at the close in New
York. Macy’s fell 0.5 percent to $32.16. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Retailing Index gained 0.4 percent.  Kohl’s reported sales that declined 6.2 percent, trailing
the average estimate for a 2.1 percent gain. Monthly sales for
the  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based company were
“disappointing,” CEO Kevin Mansell said in a statement.  Target, the second-largest discount chain in the U.S.,
reported sales gained 1.8 percent, trailing the estimate for a
2.9 percent increase. CEO  Gregg Steinhafel  said in a statement
that Minneapolis-based Target had trouble living up to a
“strong performance” last year.  Kohl’s tumbled 6.4 percent to $50.37, while Target fell 1
percent to $52.15.  High-End Promotions  Shoppers may have been attracted to the promotions for
higher-end items and shied away from some discounters, said
David Bassuk, head of the global retail practice at consultant
AlixPartners.  “Sixty percent off a high-ticket item is a lot more money
in their pocket than 60 percent off a low-cost item,” Bassuk
said in a telephone interview from  New York . Many shoppers felt
they could wait to make their mid-tier purchases later, he said.  Limited Brands also said it would pay a $2 special dividend
to shareholders on Dec. 23. Victoria’s Secret, Columbus, Ohio-
based Limited Brands’ largest chain, reported November sales
climbed 11 percent, beating the average estimate for a 6.3
percent gain.  ‘Increasingly Important’  “Black Friday through Cyber Monday has become an
increasingly important part of the  holiday shopping season , and
I am pleased with our results for the weekend,” CEO Leslie Wexner said in an e-mail.  Sales at Cincinnati-based Macy’s were aided by strong Black
Friday sales, CEO  Terry Lundgren  said in a statement today.  Consumers had put off their own shopping to wait for
expected heavy holiday promotions, the Washington-based NRF
said. Shoppers spent $398.62 on average, compared with $365.34 a
year earlier, the NRF said. A record 226 million people went
shopping during the Thanksgiving weekend, compared with 212
million last year.  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, grew at a 2.3 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, the fastest pace of 2011, the Commerce Department said
Nov. 22.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  The strong Black Friday sales are unlikely spur momentum
during the holiday season, Cohen said in a telephone interview
before today’s results.  “Just because the deals are good doesn’t mean that
consumers have a bigger paycheck or more money in the bank to
spend,” Cohen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  