-- 
India Traders Strike as Singh Rejects Calls to Scrap Retail Plan

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-12-01T07:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/india-traders-strike-as-singh-rejects-calls-to-scrap-retail-plan.html
Shops and markets across  India  were
shut today as traders supported a daylong strike demanding the
government scrap its decision to allow foreign retailers like
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open outlets.  The nationwide protest by members of thousands of trade
unions adds to pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  who is
fending off calls from opposition parties and coalition allies
to roll back the policy. Opening the country’s $396 billion
retail market to overseas companies, the biggest change to
foreign ownership rules in six years, has triggered a political
storm just as Singh was attempting to kick start a legislative
agenda stalled by corruption charges.  “The strike demonstrates the anger and resentment of the
trading community to foreign investment,” said Praveen
Khandelwal, secretary general of the  Confederation of All India
Traders , by phone in the capital today.  Shopkeepers in states including Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka
joined the stoppage, he said. While it was not immediately
possible to verify the extent of the strike, about 90 percent of
stores in  New Delhi ’s normally bustling Karol Bagh market were
shut late morning.  Owners of family run stores, the backbone of an Indian
retail market that London-based Business Monitor International
expects to double in size by 2015, fear they will be forced out
of business by foreign companies. Parties including Singh’s main
rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , cite job losses as a central
reason for their opposition.  “Foreign companies have so much more resources and
money,” said Amarjit Singh, sitting outside his shut
electronics and car-equipment shop in Karol Bagh which employs
seven people. “I don’t think we will close down but it will be
very hard,” Singh said, adding he didn’t expect the government
to change its mind.  Slowing Growth  Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said last week the FDI
proposals will create up to 10 million jobs and reduce the
amount of farm produce that rots before it can be sold.  Overseas investment will help lower the highest  inflation 
among  Asia ’s largest economies and have a “multiplier effect”
on an economy that  grew  6.9 percent in the last quarter, its
slowest pace in more than two years, Sharma said.  Singh’s government, which has been assailed by charges of
graft and policy drift for more than a year, had been discussing
the opening of the retail sector for years.  Its decision to do so has sparked eight days of protests in
parliament, forcing repeated adjournments. Members of Singh’s
two biggest allies, Trinamool Congress and the Dravida Munnetra
Kazhagam, have opposed the policy. Senior ministers and members
of the ruling Congress party were meeting with alliance partners
again today.  Vote Demand  The BJP and  Communist Party of India (Marxist) , which are
supporting today’s strike, are demanding a withdrawal of the
retail decision and a debate in parliament under a rule which
entails voting.  Singh on Nov. 29 appealed for opposition parties to end the
gridlock in parliament.  Parliament has seen repeated disruption for four sessions.
Last year’s winter sitting was the least productive in 25 years.
The government plans to pass 33 bills, including legislation to
create an anti-corruption agency with powers to prosecute most
government officials, have been sidelined by the protests over
foreign direct investment in retail.  India’s cabinet last week took the decision, which doesn’t
need parliamentary approval, to allow overseas companies to own
as much as 51 percent of retailers selling more than one brand.  The government also approved plans allowing companies that
sell a single brand such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  to own 100 percent of
their operations, removing a cap previously set at 51 percent.
Any investment by a foreign retailer would need the approval of
state governments, many of which are run by opposition parties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  