-- 
Indonesia’s Rupiah Rises by Most in Two Months on China Reserves

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-12-01T09:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/indonesia-s-rupiah-rises-by-most-in-two-months-on-china-reserves.html
The rupiah gained the most in more
than two months on optimism  China ’s decision to cut the amount
of cash that the nation’s banks must set aside as reserves will
boost Indonesian shipments to its third-biggest export market.  The currency advanced for a second day as the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional stocks rose 3 percent after six
central banks led by the  Federal Reserve  made it cheaper for
lenders to borrow dollars. Government bond yields fell after the
central bank said on Nov. 29 that it will buy the debt. Bank
Indonesia plans to boost “intervention” in the currency market
to support the rupiah, Governor Darmin Nasution said yesterday,
a day after the rupiah reached a 17-month low.  “The decisions by central banks and by China have cheered
the global financial markets,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Singapore. “All
Asian currencies are following the trend.”  The rupiah appreciated 1.6 percent to 8,995 per dollar, the
biggest gain since Sept. 27, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 9,240 on Nov.
29, the weakest level since June 2010.  Consumer prices in  Indonesia  rose 4.15 percent from a year
earlier, slowing for a third month, from a gain of 4.42 percent
in October, according to a report by the Central Bureau of
Statistics today. The median estimate of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.20 percent increase.  Bank Indonesia is committed to buying  government bonds  in
the secondary market, Perry Warjiyo, director for economic
research and monetary policy, said Nov. 29. The central bank
unexpectedly reduced its benchmark  interest rate  by 50 basis
points to 6 percent on Nov. 10 to boost growth.  The yield on the government’s 8.25 percent bonds due July
2021 fell 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 6.58
percent today, according to the Inter-Dealer Market Association.
That was the biggest drop since Oct. 7.  “The biggest buyer of the bonds is  Bank Indonesia ,” said
Handy Yunianto, a fixed-income analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas
in Jakarta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  