-- 
Indonesia Spending $200 Billion Boosts Krakatau: Freight

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g ,   F e m i   A d i   a n d   S u n i l   J a g t i a n i
-- 
2011-12-01T05:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/indonesia-spending-200-billion-boosts-krakatau-freight-1-.html
The support cables snapped and the
bridge buckled, hurling vehicles into muddy water and killing at
least 19. Built to resemble  San Francisco ’s Golden Gate, the
structure on Indonesia’s Borneo island was just 10 years old.  The Nov. 26 disaster was a reminder of how far Indonesia’s
transport system lags behind its neighbors. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono plans to spend about $195 billion on such
projects as overhauling ports, reconstructing roads and building
bridges, part of a drive to overhaul a freight-transport network
ranked among Asia’s worst.  The resulting construction may benefit businesses including
 PT Semen Gresik (SMGR) , Indonesia’s largest cement maker, and  PT
Krakatau Steel (KRAS) , its biggest steel producer. Shares in both will
rise in the next 12 months, according to forecasts from Jakarta-
based stockbroker PT Danareksa Sekuritas.  “Cement, steel, toll-road and construction companies
should experience increased demand during the building phase,”
said Kelly Chung, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at ING
Investment Management, which oversees about $445 billion.  Indonesia’s 2011-2025 development plan seeks 4,012 trillion
rupiah ($440 billion) of investment, with about 1,786 trillion
rupiah assigned to items such as highways, harbors and  power
plants . To spend the cash effectively, the government must
overcome corruption so severe that it’s rated the “most
problematic factor” for doing business in the country,
according to executives surveyed in the World Economic Forum’s
 Global Competiveness Report 2011-2012 .  Enemy Number One  “The president had said the number one enemy is
corruption,” Edy Putra Irawady, deputy minister for trade and
industry at the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, said
by telephone from Jakarta on Nov. 29. “The mechanism of
bureaucracy should be transparent and accountable.”  Yudhoyono is seeking to improve Indonesia’s roads, bridges
and ports to spur annual economic growth of as much as 9 percent,
closing the gap to Chinese and Indian rates of expansion.  “It’s reasonable to expect substantial growth of
infrastructure investments and a subsequent lowering of
logistics costs,” said Henry Sandee, a senior trade specialist
at the  World Bank  in Jakarta. “Otherwise, Indonesia may face
difficulties even in sustaining economic growth beyond 6 percent
per year. We aren’t only talking about international trade costs.
Domestic shipping rates are also high.”  Private Investment  The  push  to improve transport links within the archipelago
of more than 17,500 islands, as well as to pivotal overseas
markets, depends on the private sector for more than half the
total investment target. For ports, that signals reliance on
companies such as Hutchison Port Holdings Ltd. and  DP World Ltd. 
to deepen harbors, add cranes and train staff.  Shares in Semen Gresik, headquartered in Gresik, East Java,
will climb about 8 percent to 10,300 rupiah over 12 months from
current levels, while Cilegon, Indonesia-based Krakatau Steel
will advance about 52 percent to 1,275 rupiah in the 2012
financial year, based on Danareksa Sekuritas target prices.
Domestic spending stands to benefit both companies, it said.  For PT Maersk Indonesia, a unit of  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S ,
owner of the world’s biggest container shipping line, choked
roads and crowded ports fan delays and add to costs. Berths that
are too shallow for the biggest vessels prevent direct links to
markets such as  Europe , forcing Indonesia to feed goods overseas
through terminals in  Singapore .  Ships carrying 3,500 standard 20-foot containers, or TEU,
are currently the biggest that can berth in Indonesia at Tanjung
Priok port in Jakarta, compared with up to 13,000 TEU for those
sailing between  China  and Europe, said Jakob Friis Sorensen,
president director of PT Maersk Indonesia in Jakarta.  ‘Time is Money’  “Time is money in this business,” Sorensen said. “The
model that Indonesia chose was to rely on Singapore instead of
building enough of its own infrastructure. Otherwise, it could
have had bigger vessels calling directly.”  Last week’s collapse of the 710-meter (2,330-feet) bridge
spanning the Mahakam River in East Kalimantan province has
underscored concerns about infrastructure. Yudhoyono ordered an
investigation into the cause. Nineteen people are confirmed dead,
the National Agency for Disaster Management said today.  “We must continue rescue efforts, search for survivors and
prevent future collapse,” Yudhoyono said in Bogor, West Java,
two days after the tragedy.  Behind  Asia   Indonesia ranked 75th out of 155 economies in the World
Bank’s  Logistics Performance Index  for 2010, the most recent,
down from 43rd in 2007. The index measures the perceptions of
international freight forwarders doing business with Indonesia.  The fourth-most populous country placed below Singapore,
 Japan ,  Taiwan ,  South Korea , China,  Malaysia ,  Thailand ,  India  and
 Vietnam . Better logistics performance is strongly linked to
trade expansion and economic growth, according to the World Bank.  Indonesia has signed about $39 billion of accords with
Japanese and Indian investors since December, for projects
including ports, mass transit systems and power plants. The
government aims to add 20,000 kilometers of roads and 15,000
megawatts of power capacity by 2014.  It also plans to spend 117 trillion rupiah on 92 port
projects, including the redevelopment of the country’s 25 main
ports, Deputy Transport Minister Bambang Susantono said by
telephone from Jakarta this week.  The government’s goal is for gross domestic product in
resource-rich  Indonesia  to swell to as much as $4.5 trillion in
2025, an annual expansion of 7 percent to 9 percent. That
compares with average yearly growth of  5.2 percent  in the decade
through 2010. China expanded 10.3 percent last year while India
grew 10.1 percent, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Infrastructure Needs  Investment in infrastructure, including ports, was about 3
percent of GDP in 2000, below the more than 8 percent in 1995-
1996, the World Bank said in the June edition of its  Indonesia
Economic Quarterly . The Asian crisis in the late 1990s
contributed to the fall, the lender said. The ratio rose to 4
percent of GDP in 2008-2009, it said.  More spending relative to GDP can help Indonesia achieve
expansion of as much as 8 percent by 2020, HSBC Holdings Plc
said in a June note. Yudhoyono’s development plan also aims to
reduce inflation to 3 percent by 2025 from 6.5 percent in 2011-
2014 as better transport links curb costs.  Dubai-based DP World owns 49 percent of  PT Terminal
Petikemas Surabaya  in Surabaya, East Java, with the rest
controlled by state-owned PT Pelabuhan Indonesia III. Hutchison
Port Holdings, based in  Hong Kong , helps operate the  Jakarta
International Container Terminal . It acquired the Koja Terminal
in 2000.  ‘Sticky Web’  Indonesia’s push to increase infrastructure investment
faces obstacles. Aside from corruption, parliament has yet to
mandate land sales to aid road and port development. Europe’s
debt crisis is also casting a pall over the global economy.  Graft in complex infrastructure projects that need many
local partners over multiple years is often a bigger obstacle to
investment than in mining and oil contracts, said Allan Bell, a
lawyer in Hong Kong who specializes in helping governments
recover stolen assets and consults for the World Bank.  “The project cycle is huge,” Bell said. “With resources,
once you get your license, you go in, have your drilling or
mining operation up and, if your science was good, your resource
can be extracted and within a few years you start to see a
return. With infrastructure it could be 10 or 20 years. It’s
just much more of a sticky, sticky web.”  PPP Initiative  The National Development Agency’s 2011 book of 79
identified public-private partnerships worth $53 billion shows
only 13 are ready for offer, the World Bank said in an October
 report . “Few projects are in the advanced preparation stage,”
the lender said.  Still, investment is climbing in absolute terms. Foreign
direct investment jumped almost 173 percent to $13.3 billion in
2010 from a four-year low of $4.9 billion in the previous year,
United Nations data show. Fiscal stability under Yudhoyono has
put Indonesia on the verge of its first investment-grade  credit
rating  since the 1990s.  The country attracted 181 trillion rupiah of total
investment in the nine months through September, a 21 percent
increase from a year earlier, government data shows.  This month, a national logistics blueprint to improve
infrastructure to and from ports, reduce transport times and
uncertainty, and cut costs will be submitted to the president,
Irawady said. The goal is to cut logistics expenses to 11
percent to 12 percent of production costs by 2015, from about
14.8 percent currently, he said.  “If you increase capacity on infrastructure, there will be
so much more you can do,” said Su Sian Lim, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore. “Indonesia’s
true growth should probably be 7 percent to 8 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sunil Jagtiani in Singapore at 
 sjagtiani@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  