-- 
U.S. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Rise

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-01T13:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/initial-jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-rise-in-holiday-shortened-week.html
More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  during the holiday-
shortened week, signaling limited recovery in the labor market.  Jobless claims climbed by 6,000 to 402,000 in the week
ended Nov. 26 that included the Thanksgiving holiday, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The  median 
forecast of 43 economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for
a drop to 390,000. The number of people on unemployment benefit
rolls and those getting extended payments increased.  Some companies are still trimming staff and others are
reluctant to add workers until demand picks up and there’s more
clarity on tax breaks due to expire at year-end. Faster hiring
is needed to spur  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, and reduce a  jobless rate  stuck near 9
percent that’s a concern for Federal Reserve officials.  “Companies are still in a mode of hiring based on absolute
need,” said  Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “They’re not adding a whole lot of
workers for future growth. Employers are waiting to see what
happens with the payroll tax cut.”  Jobless benefits applications were projected to decrease
from 393,000 initially reported for the prior week, according to
the survey median. Estimates ranged from 380,000 to 415,000. The
Labor Department revised the prior week’s figure up to 396,000.  Stock-index futures were little changed after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring this
month declined 0.1 percent to 1,244.5 at 8:33 a.m. in  New York .  Effect of Holidays  A Labor Department spokesman said there was nothing unusual
in the state level data last week. Because of the holiday, the
seasonal-adjustment factors projected claims would drop by about
75,000, instead they fell by about 70,000, pushing up the
adjusted reading, the spokesman said. It’s often difficult to
account for the effect of holidays on weekly claims.  Today’s data showed the four-week moving average, a less
volatile measure than the weekly figures, rose to 395,750 last
week from 395,250, which was a seven-month low.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
climbed by 35,000 in the week ended Nov. 19 to 3.74 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Extended Payments  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
69,500 to 3.52 million in the week ended Nov. 12.  Some employers see the need for more workers.  Williams-
Sonoma Inc. (WSM) , a retailer of high-end home goods, raised its
annual profit forecast and will “continue to look for a few key
jobs” in online sales, Chief Executive Officer Laura Alber said
in a Nov. 17 conference call with analysts.  Vail Resorts Inc. (MTN)  is among those trimming their workforce.
The Broomfield, Colorado-based owner of ski resorts said
yesterday it plans to make “selected staff reductions” as it
reorganizes.  The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits
increased to 3 percent from 2.9 percent in the prior week,
today’s report showed.  Forty-six states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 6 reported a drop. These data are reported with a
one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  November Employment  Payrolls may have climbed by 125,000 workers in November,
after rising 80,000 the prior month, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected ahead of a Labor Department report due
tomorrow. The  unemployment rate  likely held at 9 percent, it may
show.  The Fed’s view is that the economy, while strong enough to
skirt a recession, remains too weak to bring down the
unemployment rate that’s been near 9 percent or higher for more
than two years.  “Hiring was generally subdued,” the central bank said in
its Beige Book survey released yesterday. “Overall economic
activity increased at a slow to moderate pace” in most of its
12 districts, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  