-- 
Neuberger, Level, Diamondback Workers Said to Face Insider-Trading Charges

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-12-01T11:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/investment-firm-employees-said-to-possibly-face-u-s-insider-trade-charges.html
Neuberger Berman Group LLC, Level
Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC
employees may face criminal charges as part of an insider-
trading probe by U.S. authorities in  New York , a person familiar
with the matter said.  The charges may be filed as early as this month, said
another person familiar with the probe who also wasn’t
authorized to speak because the matter isn’t public. The new
allegations stem from a four-year federal probe by the office of
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York, the first person said.  Bharara’s office has charged at least 56 people with
insider-trading and more than 50 have pleaded guilty or been
convicted after trial since 2009. They included Galleon Group
LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was convicted in May and
sentenced to 11 years in prison.  James Margolin, a spokesman for the FBI in New York,
declined to comment yesterday on possible new charges in the
probe.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, also
declined to comment.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Diamondback, declined to comment on the probe. A representative
for New York-based Level Global Investors also declined to
immediately comment.  The possible charges were reported earlier by the Wall
Street Journal. Rich Chimberg, an outside spokesman for New 
York-based Neuberger Berman, said, “We have not heard of any 
such allegation or investigation” against an employee named 
by the paper.  FBI Raids  On Nov. 22, 2010, FBI agents from New York and Boston
executed search warrants at the offices of Level Global and
Diamondback, firms founded by former employees of SAC Capital
Advisors LP. Agents that day also searched the offices of Loch
Capital Management in  Boston .  Anthony Scolaro, a former Diamondback portfolio manager,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in November,
2010, according to a plea agreement unsealed in May.  Scolaro admitted to conspiring with Franz Tudor, a trader
at New York-based Schottenfeld Group LLC, from October 2007 to
sometime in 2008. Tudor, who cooperated with prosecutors after
pleading guilty to securities fraud in October 2009, gave
Scolaro an illegal tip on the acquisition of Axcan Pharma Inc.,
which was announced Nov. 29, 2007, according to the criminal
charges.  ‘Unlawful Profits’  “The defendant, Franz Tudor, and others known and unknown,
executed trades in the securities of Axcan prior to the public
announcement of the acquisition, earning thousands of dollars in
unlawful profits,” the government alleged in court documents.  The charges against Scolaro made public for the first time
the connection between the federal probe of Galleon Group, where
Tudor also worked, and the November 2010 FBI raids on hedge
funds. The searches were carried out as part of an insider-
trading investigation of hedge fund and expert networking firms.  Scolaro’s plea agreement, dated Nov. 12, 2010 required him
to cooperate with the government’s investigation and to testify
as a prosecution witness at any trial in the matter.  Some of the evidence seized by FBI during last year’s
searches of hedge funds was used in the trial of James Fleishman, a former Primary Global Research LLC manager who was
convicted Sept. 20 of conspiracy and  securities fraud .  Primary Global Payments  Fleishman, a former sales manager at the  Mountain View ,
California-based firm, was accused of obtaining inside
information from certain firm consultants and providing the data
to clients. Prosecutors said he facilitated telephone calls and
meetings among consultants “knowing that inside information
would be passed by the firm consultant to the firm clients.”  During Fleishman’s trial in federal court in Manhattan,
prosecutors entered into evidence records showing that Level
Global and Diamondback paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to
Primary Global for access to its consultants and information.  Level Global paid Primary Global $231,000 in 2010 while
Diamondback spent $219,000, trial evidence showed. In 2009,
Level Global paid Primary Global’s securities unit more than
$199,000 while Diamondback paid more than $276,000, records
show.  Jurors were shown dozens of e-mails containing nonpublic
information from Primary Global consultants about their
technology companies that Fleishman sent to his firm’s clients,
including a Neuberger Berman employee. After one juror informed
the judge that he recognized the name of that Neuberger Berman
employee, prosecutors asked for a private conference with the
judge.  The record of that sidebar conference was later sealed after
Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps told the judge in open
court that the matter couldn’t be publicly discussed, citing
“law enforcement reasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  