-- 
Iran Clings to Oil Lifeline as U.S. Pushes for Tighter Financial Sanctions

-- B y   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-12-01T05:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/iran-clings-to-oil-lifeline-as-u-s-pushes-sanctions.html
Just after 3 p.m. on Nov. 29, about
200 demonstrators ransacked the  British Embassy  in Tehran,
chanting “Death to  England ,” setting fire to the Union Jack,
carting off a portrait of Queen Elizabeth, and detaining staff
as Iranian security officers stood by. It bore all the marks of
a state-orchestrated provocation.  What aroused Iranian leaders’ ire were stiff financial
penalties imposed on Nov. 21 by the U.K., the U.S., and  Canada .
The European Union may today also impose trade and travel bans
on almost 200 Iranian individuals and companies. The sanctions
punish Iran for clandestine nuclear weapons work and follow
dozens of earlier measures intended to make leaders choose
between prosperity and the bomb,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports
in its Dec. 5 issue.  The latest penalties were spurred by a Nov. 8 United
Nations atomic inspectors’ report contradicting  Iran ’s claim
that it seeks only peaceful nuclear energy. The British
sanctions hit the Iranian financial system, including its
central bank. The move makes it difficult for any company that
has banking operations with a U.K. financial institution to
trade with any company with banking operations in Iran, says
Jeanne Archibald, a former general counsel for the U.S. Treasury.  The Obama Administration has declared the Iranian banking
system guilty of  money laundering , which means U.S. financial
institutions must step up reporting requirements on foreign
correspondent banks that may be doing business with Iran. The
requirements may prove so onerous that more banks and companies
stop dealing with the Iranians.  ‘Don’t Have Jobs’  Earlier sanctions have already hurt, says Matthew Levitt, a
former  U.S. Treasury  official now at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy. “Other than oil, the economy is in very
bad shape. People have money, they have enough to eat, but they
don’t have jobs,” says Djavad Salehi-Isfahani, a professor of
economics at  Virginia Tech . Iran has suffered inflation of at
least 50 percent in the last two years, he says, and the
currency has depreciated by 30 percent in the unofficial market.  “The economic welfare of the Iranian people has never been
a top priority of the Islamic Republic,” says Karim Sadjadpour
of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.  Iran would seem to have no choice but to abandon its
nuclear program. The reality, however, is more complex. Iran has
$80 billion in annual revenue from its crude oil output of about
3.5 million barrels a day, according to the Iranians and
production estimates from the  International Energy Agency . Its
near-total reliance on energy sales is a vulnerability if oil
prices crash.  European Customers  So far they haven’t, and Iran continues to have steady
customers in  China ,  Japan , India, and South Korea. Surprisingly,
it has European customers, too:  Italy ,  Greece , and  Spain  are
especially important. With prices around $100 a barrel, Iran has,
by some estimates, foreign reserves of $60 billion. Its economy
may grow 4 percent this year, says  Kenneth Katzman , an Iran
specialist for the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service .  Mark Dubowitz, director of the Iran Energy Project at the
Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and co-author of a
confidential report on Iran circulated on Nov. 29 to the
Administration and Congress, says oil and natural gas sales
represent about 80 percent of Iran’s hard currency export
earnings.  That suggests sanctions on energy exports could deliver a
body blow to Iran. “Nobody with any sense is trying to impose an
oil embargo on Iran,” he says. The challenge is “to target
Iran’s oil sales without spooking markets.”  Strategy for Sanctions  Iran has evaded sanctions before. In June it made a deal to
barter Chinese goods and services in exchange for oil,
circumventing payment difficulties set in place by sanctions. In
September,  India  paid off an oil debt through a Turkish bank to
get around similar restrictions. Some analysts wonder what
damage the new sanctions can do.  “The Iranians have locked sanctions into their strategy,”
says Kevan Harris, a researcher at  Johns Hopkins University  who
visits Iran often. “It’s going to hurt. But if you live there,
you deal with all kinds of problems.”  The regime in Tehran has used sanctions as an excuse to
boost self-sufficiency by phasing out costly subsidies on
gasoline. That has reduced gasoline consumption and Iran’s
reliance on refined gas imports, saving the regime billions of
dollars.  Sanctions could achieve their purpose given the right
circumstances. If the price of oil slid to about $65 a barrel,
Iran’s oil dependence could leave it struggling to meet
government budgets. Dubowitz’s idea is to pressure law-abiding
companies to sever business ties with Iran, allowing the
remaining players to negotiate for deep discounts.  So if  Europe , Japan, and  South Korea  abandoned Iranian oil,
customers such as China could push for discounts as big as 40
percent, Dubowitz’s group estimates, starving the regime of
funds needed for its nuclear and missile programs. Iran is a
tough rival. Yet it’s a few short steps away from crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at  cpower3@@bloomberg.net;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  