-- 
Irish Investor Said to Buy LVMH’s Swiss Watch Shop on London’s Bond Street

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-12-01T13:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/irish-investor-said-to-buy-lvmh-s-swiss-watch-shop-on-london-s-bond-street.html
Tribeca Holdings Ltd., managed by
Irish investor Aidan Brooks, paid about 12 million pounds ($19
million) for a store on London’s New Bond Street leased by an
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  affiliate, two people with
knowledge of the transaction said.  Due West Ltd. sold the store at 31 New Bond Street
currently occupied by luxury Swiss watchmaker Hublot, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information is
private. Due West, a company incorporated in the  Cayman Islands ,
purchased the property in 2006 for 4.5 million pounds, according
to documents held by the  Land Registry . LVMH bought Hublot in
2008.  Companies like Tribeca made London the world’s top
destination for overseas property investment in the 12 months
through August as buyers sought safe bets amid financial and
political uncertainty, Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said in a report
in October. The euro zone’s sovereign-debt crisis has roiled
global markets since July, casting a pall over expectations for
economic growth.  “At the trophy end of the market, the very fact that
volatility will remain such a dominant feature of the global
economy will increase the attractiveness of these sort of assets
in global markets,” Joe Valente, head of research and strategy
at JPMorgan Asset Management’s real estate division, said in a
note to investors today.  Tribeca was advised by broker Morgan Williams. Kieran
Cotter, a partner at Morgan Williams, declined to comment.
Robert Thompson of RPM Property Management, who acted for Due
West, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 