-- 
Israel to Invest Foreign Reserves in U.S. Equities

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-01T11:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/israel-to-invest-foreign-reserves-in-u-s-equities.html
The  Bank of Israel  plans to invest
hundreds of millions of dollars of its foreign reserves in U.S.
equity index trackers in a pilot program beginning in the first
quarter of 2012.  The bank, which hasn’t been deterred by global economic
turmoil, has interviewed asset management firms and will decide
on two, said Barry Topf, senior adviser to Governor  Stanley Fischer . The firms will simultaneously invest in a chosen index,
he said in an interview yesterday at the bank’s offices in
Jerusalem.  “Whether or not this is a good time to begin or not -
that’s obviously the major question,” said Topf. “We look at
this as a long-term structural investment. We’re not trying to
time the market.”  A small number of central banks have started investing part
of their reserves in equities. About 9 percent of the foreign-
exchange reserves of  Switzerland ’s central bank were invested in
shares at the end of the third quarter, the Swiss bank said on
its website.  “A lot of what we want to achieve is  risk reduction  in the
portfolio and that’s a function of diversification,” Topf, 57,
said. “We are convinced that adding equity will reduce the
overall risk of reserves and give a better performance.”  Central banks slashed benchmark interest rates in the
aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis in an effort to
shore up growth, resulting in a decline in yields on  government
bonds . U.S. 10-year note yields and German bunds hit a three-
year low in September. In the past 12 months, the S&P index has
risen 5.6 percent, and the Nasdaq Composite Index 4.9 percent.  Spreading Crisis  The  Bank of Israel  cut its benchmark  interest rate  for the
second time in three months on Nov. 28 to cushion the economy
from the effects of a European debt crisis that the central bank
said is “becoming more severe and is spreading.”  Foreign
reserves  hit a record high of $78.1 billion in August and have
since declined to $76.9 billion.  “We’ve reduced interest rates,” Topf said. “We are not
saying this is establishing a pattern.”  Still, the “downside risks” in terms of the world
economy, trade and growth “definitely predominate,” said Topf,
who holds a degree in history.  “The major central banks are clearly going to hold
interest rates at extremely low levels for a long period of
time,” Topf said. “This is the way things look going forward.
It has to be stressed that the risks in  Europe  and the world
economy are very apparent.”  Welcome Depreciation  While the initial investment will track “one of the most
commonly used” and broadest U.S. equity indexes, the central
bank expects to expand the program to other countries in the
future, Topf said. Both managers will use the same index, so
that the central bank will be able to compare their results,
Topf said. No decision has been made on the exact amount that
will be invested and the precise timing, he said.  The Bank of Israel had been buying foreign currency since
March 2008, in an effort to moderate gains in the currency and
help exporters compete. Purchases halted four months ago when
the shekel began weakening against the dollar, sliding by more
than 9 percent since then. The Israeli currency was trading at
3.7489 at 12:24 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  “The fact that there has been some depreciation of the
shekel -- that is not an unwelcome development considering the
world economy,” said Topf, who has been at the bank for 30
years.  Home Prices  The shekel  exchange rate  is consistent with the country’s
economy, Topf said. “The fact that we haven’t intervened in a
fairly long period -- after intervention was frequent -- this
would indicate that obviously we don’t think the present rate is
inconsistent with the fundamentals of the economy,” he said.  Israel’s unemployment rate rose in the third quarter for
the first time in a year, climbing to 5.6 percent from 5.5
percent in the previous three months. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development this week cut its economic
growth forecast for  Israel  for 2012 to 2.9 percent from its May
estimate of 4.7 percent.  The economy grew an annualized 3.4 percent in the third
quarter, slowing from 3.5 percent in the previous three months,
the bureau said Nov. 16. Exports declined by an annualized 16.9
percent, after a 1.5 percent increase in the second quarter.
About 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic product is tied to
exports, with Europe buying about one-third of the goods.  Israeli inflation slowed to 2.7 percent in October, within
the government’s target of 1 percent to 3 percent for a second
month. Home prices dropped 0.2 percent in August-September, the
last period measured, the first decline since November-December
2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 