-- 
Italy, Greece Among Worst Euro Nations in Corruption Ranks, N.Z. Cleanest

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/italy-greece-among-worst-euro-countries-in-corruption-ranking.html
Italy and  Greece  scored the lowest
among euro-area countries in a global corruption ranking as
their inability to tackle graft and  tax evasion  exacerbated the
debt crisis, watchdog group  Transparency International  said.  Italy came in 69th and Greece placed 80th, down from 67th
and 78th respectively in the 2010 ranking, the Berlin-based
group’s  Corruption Perceptions Index  showed today. Ireland
dropped five places to 19th, earning a score of 7.5 out of 10, a
drop from 8 points in last year’s ranking, Transparency said.  “Euro-zone countries suffering debt crises, partly because
of public authorities’ failure to tackle the bribery and tax
evasion that are key drivers of debt crisis, are among the
lowest-scoring EU countries,” the group said in the report.  Europe’s engulfment in the sovereign-debt crisis has
exposed the failure of indebted governments to raise revenue and
tackle reforms, prompting crowds of protesters to fill the
streets to demand their ouster. Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi
resigned as prime minister last month, two days after his Greek
counterpart,  George Papandreou , was forced out.  New Zealand  maintained its top position in the ranking,
alongside Denmark and Finland. North Korea debuted on the list
with a score of 1, ranking last with Somalia, a rung lower than
Afghanistan and Myanmar, according to Transparency.  The U.S. dropped two spots to 24, though the world’s
biggest economy retained its 7.1 score. The index, which
measures the perception of corruption in the public sector,
showed that two-thirds of the 183 nations reviewed scored below
five on a 0-to-10 scale, with 10 indicating the least corrupt,
Transparency said.  Corruption Charges  Italy’s ranking placed it level with Ghana and lower than
 Saudi Arabia . Corruption allegations contributed to the slide in
popular support for Berlusconi, who is on trial for bribery,
abuse of power and paying for sex with a minor. He has faced
dozens of corruption allegations since entering politics in
1994. Berlusconi has maintained his innocence and blames the
charges on “left-wing” prosecutors who are out to destroy him
politically.  The release of the report comes as a widening corruption
probe threatens to topple the chairman of state-controlled
defense contractor  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)  The company’s board meets
today to consider limiting the powers of Chairman Pier Francesco Guarguaglini after allegations by prosecutors that company
executives set up slush funds to bribe politicians.  In Greece, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos in
September announced plans to impose a special tax on all
homeowners to meet budget targets for this year after admitting
the country’s tax-collection system was failing.  Open Wounds  “There have been failures in the tax-collection system,
tax evasion, delays, as well as the deepening recession,”
Venizelos said. Greece’s measures had “opened wounds on the
body of society,” which a “national struggle” against tax
evasion would help close, he said on Oct. 18.  Countries in the  Middle East  that have been caught in the
throes of the Arab Spring this year were also placed low on the
list, with most of them ranking below a four. With publics
rallying or fighting to overthrow governments weighed down by
nepotism, bribery and systems of patronage, Transparency said
the movement signified the proliferation of corruption.  Egypt , where a revolution ousted President  Hosni Mubarak 
from power in February, plummeted 14 places in the ranking to
112th.  Tunisia , where the movement began, fell to 73rd place
from 59th, while  Libya  slid 22 slots to 168th. Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  was killed by militia fighters in October.  “This year we have seen corruption on protesters’ banners
be they rich or poor,” Transparency International’s chief,
Huguette Labelle, said in a statement. “Whether in a  Europe  hit
by debt crisis or an Arab world starting a new political era,
leaders must heed the demands for better government.”  The index has become a benchmark gauge of perceptions of a
country’s corruption, an assessment of risks for investors. It’s
an aggregate indicator that combines data from 17 different
surveys assembled by independent institutions, including country
experts and business leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in New York at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  