-- 
Lithuania Borrowing Costs to Surge as Snoras Boosts Debt

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-12-02T15:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/lithuania-borrowing-costs-to-surge-as-snoras-payments-boost-debt.html
Lithuania may have to raise the level
of public debt to repay depositors of  Bankas Snoras AB (SRS1L) ,
exacerbating an increase in financing costs caused by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The Baltic nation may need 1 billion euros ($1.33 billion)
next year to make up for funds used to clean up after the
collapse of Snoras, Lithuania’s fifth-largest bank by assets,
said DnB Bank AB economist Jekaterina Rojaka. State debt may
surge to 40 percent of  economic output  from 33.3 percent at the
end of October at an “unfavorable time” as the crisis roils
financial markets, she said.  “The pressure in the near-term is very strong because the
government will be left with no reserves to refinance maturing
debt,” Rojaka said. “The first half isn’t looking very
cheerful for  Lithuania .”  Lithuania, which experienced the world’s second-deepest
recession in 2009 after Latvia, aims to cut the  budget deficit 
to 2.8 percent of gross domestic product next year from 9.5
percent in 2009 as it looks to switch to the euro in 2014.  The premium investors demand to hold Lithuania’s 10-year
bond instead of U.S. Treasuries rose to 473 basis points on Nov.
28, the highest on record. The yield fell 0.22 of a percentage
point today to 6.27 percent.  Bank Takeover  The government took over Snoras on Nov. 16 after the
central bank discovered assets were missing at the lender. Eight
days later, the central bank decided Snoras would file for court
protection from creditors, which triggers  deposit insurance  and
forces the government to reimburse deposits up to 100,000 euros
by the turn of the year.  The government may need to raise its borrowing ceiling from
9.5 billion litai ($3.66 billion) for next year because the
funds that were initially allocated to refinance a maturing 1
billion-euro bond in May will now be lent to the country’s
insurance facility to compensate depositors, Finance Minister
 Ingrida Simonyte  said on the Lietuvos Rytas television channel
on Nov. 27.  Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius said the country’s
borrowing needs will be at 10 billion litai next year and
failing to keep the budget deficit within 3 percent of GDP would
make borrowing for the government “intolerably expensive,” the
 Baltic News Service  reported today.  Officials may have to dip into international reserves,
which total 19.4 billion litai, as the country faces debt and
interest payments of 7.4 billion litai in 2012, according to
Bloomberg data.  Markets May Punish  International markets may “punish” Lithuania if the
government fails to agree on additional budget measures to keep
the 2012 deficit target, Kubilius said in a radio interview with
 Ziniu Radijas  yesterday. The government needs to save an
additional 800 million litai in the budget next year, he said.  “As investors do not have cash or risk capital for new
bond investments, a nice yield pick-up is needed to lure them
into a new issue,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who manages about 1
billion euros in emerging market debt at Landesbank Berlin
Investment. “The sentiment on Lithuania is not good at the
moment because of the failure of Snoras.”  Credit Rating  Lithuania’s debt, which is rated BBB at Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, is less appealing to investors because the
markets now prefer A grade “as only one downgrade from BBB will
lead to forced selling,” Roehmeyer said. Lithuania’s credit
rating is currently two steps above junk. Baltic neighbor Latvia
has a BB+ rating at S&P, two steps below Lithuania, while
Estonia has an AA- assessment, five notches above.  The government needs to plug the gap between the 1.7
billion litai currently held by the deposit insurance facility
and the 4.1 billion litai needed to compensate Snoras’ clients.
About 90 percent of deposits at Snoras will be compensated,
which will affect 387,000 clients, the central bank said on Nov.
25.  The Cabinet will use some of the funds it raised on
international markets on Nov. 8, when it sold $750 million of
10-year dollar-denominated bonds, Simonyte said. The government
will claim the money back after Snoras’ assets are sold, she
said.  Snoras filed for court protection from creditors to avoid a
costly bailout for taxpayers after the central bank discovered
some 3.4 billion litai in assets are missing. Former
shareholders Vladimir Antonov and Raimondas Baranauskas were
released on bail in  London  on Nov. 25 after Lithuanian
prosecutors issued an arrest warrant on suspicion of fraud and
embezzlement.  The collapse will shave about 0.4 of a percentage point off
economic growth in Lithuania next year, central bank Governor
Vitas Vasiliauskas said on Dec. 1, while the bankruptcy of
Snoras’ Latvian unit may erode as much as 0.3 percentage points
from that country’s 2012 GDP, Bank of  Latvia  economist Martins
Bitans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  