-- 
JA Solar Buys Chinese Wafer Maker to Boost Capacity, Cut Costs

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-12-01T22:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ja-solar-buys-chinese-wafer-maker-to-boost-capacity-cut-costs.html
JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO) , the world’s
largest solar cell maker, said it completed the purchase of a
Chinese monocrystalline wafer supplier to increase capacity and
cut costs.  The Shanghai-based company said today in a statement that
it issued 30.9 million ordinary shares to buy Solar Silicon
Valley Electronic Science and Technology Co.  When JA Solar announced the deal in July, it said it would
issue the 30.9 million shares at $5.825 each at the time of
closing, about a 5 percent premium over the price of its
American depositary receipts the day before the purchase was
disclosed. That valued the Langfang, China-based wafer maker at
$180 million.  Today’s announcement said nothing about the price of the
shares. Its ADRs, which are worth one share, closed yesterday at
$1.83 in  New York . The company did not return calls today. The
ADRs have dropped 63 percent since July 1.  The purchase will boost JA Solar’s wafer capacity,
increasing economies of scale and improving profitability, JA
Solar’s Chief Executive Officer Fang Peng said in July.
Polysilicon wafers are the basic material used to make
photovoltaic solar cells.  JA Solar acquired Solar Silicon Valley by buying its
parent, Silver Age Holdings Ltd.. The British Virgin Islands-
based holding company is 70 percent-owned by Jinglong Group,
which is controlled by JA Solar’s Chairman Baofang Jin.  Shares of JA Solar gained 2.2 percent to $1.87 in New York.
Houston-based Raymond James & Associates Inc. analyst Pavel Molchanov cut his rating today to “market ‘‘perform’’ from
‘‘outperform.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  