-- 
Japan’s ‘Window Dressing’ Hid Olympus Fraud: Douglas J. Skinner

-- B y   D o u g l a s   J .   S k i n n e r
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/japan-s-window-dressing-hid-olympus-fraud-commentary-by-douglas-skinner.html
The recent disclosure of a
longstanding accounting fraud at  Olympus Corp. (7733)  has drawn fresh
attention to Japan’s corporate-governance practices, and raises
important concerns for investors in companies there.  Based on what we know to date, Olympus sustained investment
losses of at least $1.4 billion during the 1990s, and was able
to cover up the shortfall until recently using various forms of
“window dressing.” Although large accounting frauds occur
periodically throughout the world, what is striking about
Olympus is that the losses took so long to come to light. This
raises troubling questions about Japan’s financial reporting and
auditing practices, which are historically quite different from
those in the U.S. and other Western countries.  Investors interested in  Japanese equities  -- for which
valuations appear low using conventional metrics such as price-
to-book -- are now left to wonder whether there are other
companies with nasty surprises buried in their books, and more
generally about the quality of corporate governance in  Japan .  To address this, it’s necessary to understand some of the
recent history of Japanese corporate governance. After the
bursting of the bubble in equity and real-estate prices in the
early 1990s, the Japanese economy went into a long slump. As its
economic problems deepened, a consensus began to emerge that the
country’s unusual financial system needed an overhaul.  ‘Big Bang’  Beginning in the late 1990s, a series of reforms,
collectively known as the “Big Bang,” were made to the
financial system, including changes intended to move corporate-
governance practices more into line with those in the major
Western countries.  The big question raised by  Olympus  then is whether such
reforms have had any effect, or are themselves a form of window
dressing that disguises an underlying resistance to change in
corporate Japan.  While there have been significant legal and institutional
changes in Japan -- hostile takeovers now are allowed, for
example -- there also has been much foot-dragging, most notably
from the business establishment. Because of this opposition,
those activist investors who have emerged over the past 10
years, both domestic and foreign, have had limited success in
extracting value from companies.  Recent research  I conducted with Kazuo Kato and  Meng Li 
investigated whether corporate governance has improved in
Japanese companies. We addressed this question by looking at
firms’ cash holdings, which are often used by economists as a
barometer of corporate-governance quality.  In most countries, the extent to which firms hold cash is
one of the biggest sources of tension between management and
outside investors. While managers generally like to hold as much
cash as they can (it provides them with a buffer against
unforeseen events), investors are concerned that large cash
reserves provide executives with the opportunity to engage in
value-destroying projects (such as “empire building”
acquisitions) or otherwise simply to waste that money.
Conversely, well-run companies tend to distribute excess cash to
their stockholders through dividends and share buybacks.  Historically, Japanese companies have had cash holdings
that are much larger than those of their counterparts in other
countries. Many experts view this behavior as a symptom of poor
governance.  We found evidence that Japanese enterprises still hold
large amounts of cash, often in excess of 10 percent of assets,
levels similar to those that prevailed in the early 1990s.  However, we also found that these firms are now much more
likely to manage their cash in the same way as U.S. companies,
in that these holdings are now more responsive to sensible
economic determinants.  Cash Holdings  For example, Japanese firms tend to hold more cash when
they are in industries with more volatile operating cash flows,
a relation that wasn’t evident in the 1990s. So it seems that
managers in Japan are now paying more attention to how they take
care of their firms’ cash holdings.  Perhaps more importantly, we found an inverse relationship
between changes in firms’ cash holdings and economic
performance: Companies that lower their cash holdings experience
improved performance; those that increase them did worse. This
suggests that Japanese firms that strengthen governance
practices -- by reducing cash holdings -- do better.  We also examined how investors value these holdings. The
idea here is that for well-run companies with disciplined
managers, $1 of cash should be valued at about $1 by investors.
On the other hand, for poorly run concerns, investors will value
$1 of cash at less than $1, given the risk it will be wasted.  We found that, investors in the 1990s heavily discounted
the cash holdings of Japanese companies: at less than face value
and at levels well below those of U.S. firms. Beginning in the
late 1990s, however, the valuation of the cash holdings of
Japanese companies improved steadily, consistent with better
governance and management of cash.  We concluded that a substantial fraction of Japanese
companies are doing a better job of governance today than was
the case 15 to 20 years ago, and that there is a clear payoff to
improved governance, in terms of both valuation and performance.  All of this means that Japan’s corporate governance might
be improving, so cases like  Olympus , while important, are
increasingly rare.  (Douglas J. Skinner is professor of accounting at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor
to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Douglas J. Skinner at  douglas.skinner@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  