-- 
Topix Gains to 3-Week High as Central Banks Fight Debt Crisis

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 
2011-12-01T06:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/japanese-stocks-gain-most-in-2-months-as-central-banks-fight-europe-crisis.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, sending the
Topix to its highest level in three weeks, after six central
banks took action to fight  Europe ’s debt crisis and China eased
lending curbs, boosting the outlook for economic growth in
Japan’s biggest export market.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest
publicly traded bank, gained 3.1 percent.  Komatsu Ltd. , a maker
of construction machinery that counts China as its fastest-
growing market, jumped 7.2 percent. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. led
shippers higher after SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. boosted ratings
on companies in the sector, where shares have plunged by about
half this year.  The Topix rose 1.6 percent to 740.01 at the 3 p.m. close in
 Tokyo , its highest since Nov. 9, after the  Federal Reserve  and
five other central banks made it cheaper for European lenders to
borrow in dollars. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1.9
percent to 8,597.38 today. The gauge dropped 6.2 percent last
month amid concern Europe’s crisis is spreading.  “The action by the central banks is an effective way to
address the current critical situation,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “China cut the reserve ratio for its banks
earlier than expected.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  jumped 4.3 percent in  New
York  yesterday, its biggest gain since Aug. 11, after the Fed
said it coordinated with the  European Central Bank  and central
banks of  Canada , Switzerland, Japan and the U.K. to fight
Europe’s crisis by lowering the premium banks pay to borrow
dollars overnight. Futures on the S&P slid 0.2 percent today.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial  gained 3.1 percent to 338 yen.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s No. 2 publicly
traded lender, rose 3 percent to 2,151 yen.  Rallies Have Faded  Global equity markets have rallied this year after policy-
makers unveiled measures to address Europe’s widening crisis,
only to have gains evaporate. The Nikkei 225 advanced 3.5
percent in the two days following an Oct. 27 announcement of a
deal on writedowns for Greek debt. In the next three days, the
gauge sank more than 4 percent.  “Yesterday’s joint action by the central banks isn’t
strong medicine,” said Tomokatsu Mori, an equities manager at
Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. “It’s more like a
band-aid.”  Exporters to China gained today after the People’s Bank of
 China  said it will lower a restriction on mainland lenders.
 Komatsu  jumped 7.2 percent to 2,032 yen. Smaller Hitachi
Construction Machinery Co. gained 7.3 percent to 1,423 yen.  China Eases  China yesterday said it will cut the amount of cash that
lenders must set aside as reserves for the first time since
2008. The decision to cut reserve ratios by 50 basis points may
add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to the financial system,
according to UBS AG.  Reports in the U.S. showed the world’s biggest economy is
strong enough to skirt recession. Companies boosted payrolls in
November by the most this year and U.S. businesses expanded at
the fastest pace in seven months. Separately, the Fed said gains
in manufacturing and consumer spending helped the economy expand
at a “moderate” pace in 11 of its 12 districts.  Shipping lines  gained the most among the 33 Topix industry
groups. Nippon Yusen K.K. and Mitsui O.S.K gained at least 7.1
percent after SMBC Nikko raised ratings on  Japan ’s top two
shippers to “outperform” from “neutral.” The Topix gauge of
shipping companies has dropped more than 50 percent this year.  The  Baltic Dry Index , a measure of shipping costs for
commodities, gained 1 percent yesterday, rising for a third
consecutive day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  