-- 
Japan Stock Futures Signal Halt to Rally as Europe Woe Persists

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 
2011-12-01T23:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/japanese-stock-futures-signal-halt-to-rally-as-europe-concern-persists.html
Japanese  stock (MXAP)   futures  traded little
changed, signaling stocks will fail to extend yesterday’s rally
as concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis overshadowed better-than-
forecast U.S. manufacturing growth.  American depositary receipts of Sony Corp. which depends on
Europe for about 20 percent of its sales, slipped 0.8 percent
from the closing price in Tokyo yesterday. Those of Honda Motor
Co., the country’s second-biggest carmaker by market value,
dropped 1.2 percent, following a 4 percent advance a day earlier
that came after central banks took joint action to fight
Europe’s crisis. Billabong International Ltd., a maker of
surfwear that counts the U.S. as its biggest market, rose 1.9
percent in Sydney.  “There still isn’t any improvement on the European debt
issue,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in Tokyo at Resona
Bank Ltd., which oversees the equivalent of $68 billion.
“Unless Germany -- the leading player -- changes its stance,
there can’t be a solution to the essence of the problem.”  Futures (TPX)  on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,590 in Chicago yesterday, slipping from
8,600 in Osaka, Japan. The contracts were bid in the pre-market
at 8,590 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index was little changed today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
fell 0.4 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The  S&P 500  index fell 0.2 percent yesterday in
 New York  as U.S. manufacturing expanded in November and a rally
in French and Spanish bonds were not enough to extend the
biggest three-day gain in the gauge since March 2009.  Merkel’s Stance  In the days before a speech to German lawmakers today
outlining her stance for a Dec. 9 European summit,  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  has repeated her push to rework European Union
rules to lock in budget monitoring and enforcement and seal off
the  European Central Bank  from political pressure. That risks a
showdown with EU leaders and extends her conflict with financial
markets looking for immediate measures to end the contagion.  The ECB is independent and must choose its own method of
ensuring the euro’s stability “without being praised or
criticized” and states must protect that independence by
improving their finances, the Westdeutsche Zeitung quoted Merkel
as saying in an interview released today. The government sees
joint euro bonds as “the wrong remedy in this phase of European
development and even damaging,” she told the newspaper.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 1 percent drop by the S&P 500
and a 14 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9 times estimated earnings
on average, compared with 12.6 times for the S&P 500 and 10.5
times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  