-- 
MacArthur Era Redux for Japan Planning Fourth Extra Budget to Aid Recovery

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-12-01T09:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/japan-to-compile-fourth-extra-budget-as-strong-yen-damps-quake-rebound.html
Japan  plans a fourth extra budget, a
step unprecedented since postwar reconstruction, to help shore
up a rebound that’s under threat from a surge in the yen,
Europe’s crisis and Thai floods that have disrupted production.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda today ordered the measure,
which will probably be at least 2 trillion yen ($26 billion),
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in Tokyo. The step
won’t require the sale of deficit-covering bonds, he said. Japan
has already allocated 18 trillion yen in three packages since
the record earthquake in March.  “The yen’s gains, Thailand’s flooding and the European
debt crisis are some of the factors that have increased the
uncertainty of the economic outlook,” Noda said in a press
conference in Tokyo. “I ordered the compilation of the fourth
extra budget to secure the public’s peace of mind.”  The plan is Japan’s latest effort to secure its recovery,
building on efforts including 15 trillion yen in asset purchases
by the central bank and record amounts of yen sales to counter
the currency’s surge.  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn  said yesterday his company will gradually shift
production abroad because of Japan’s challenges.  “Economic growth will probably decelerate more than
expected this quarter and next amid the global economic
slowdown,” said Chotaro Morita, chief fixed-income strategist
at  Barclays Capital  in Tokyo. “Not relying on new bond sales to
fund it means the government will be able to avoid any political
disputes about expanding fiscal spending further.”  MacArthur Era  Azumi said the supplementary budget will be drafted this
month. The last time Japan had four extra fiscal packages was
1947, when General Douglas MacArthur was head of the Allied
occupation forces after World War II. The finance chief said the
outlays will be paid for in part through left over funds from
the current fiscal-year’s budget.  The step adds to stimulus efforts under way around the
world to cope with deteriorating prospects for the global
economy next year. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  was one of five central
banks participating in an effort led by the U.S. Federal Reserve
to make it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in emergencies.
China lowered its required reserve ratio for lenders late
yesterday, and Brazil lowered  interest rates .  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.9 percent to
8,597.38, joining a global rally in equities sparked by the
dollar swaps announcement by the Fed, BOJ and central banks of
Canada, U.K., Switzerland and the euro region.  Currency Strength  Companies from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  Sony Corp. (6758)  have been
contending with a surging yen against the dollar that threatens
to crimp profits as well as flooding in  Thailand  that forced
factory closures. The currency, at 77.68, is about 3 percent off
of its highest against the dollar in the postwar era.  Authorities spent a record 9.09 trillion yen the foreign-
exchange markets from Oct. 28 to Nov. 28, the  Finance Ministry 
said yesterday, more than double what they sold when they
intervened in August.  Reports in recent weeks have indicated Japan’s rebound from
the March disaster is waning -- exports slid in October and the
unemployment rate advanced, with data yesterday showing
manufacturers planned to cut output in November.  Noda last month won parliamentary approval for his 12.1
trillion yen stimulus package, which also included 2 trillion
yen worth of measures to help companies cope with the stronger
currency. Two earlier stimulus packages totaled 6 trillion yen.  ‘Top Priorities’  The prime minister today said he aims to get his ruling
 Democratic Party of Japan  and its coalition partner to draft a
plan this month on doubling the 5 percent national sales tax by
the middle of the decade to cope with the world’s largest debt.  “Strengthening the structure of social security and
ensuring stable revenue to make the system sustainable are top
priorities,” Noda said. He said he wants to include a time
table for a gradual increase in the  consumption tax  in this
month’s draft “as much as possible.”  Thailand’s floods cost Toyota about 190,000 units of
production globally from Oct. 10 through Nov. 19, the company
said. About 30 electrical parts are still in “critical”
supply, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  