-- 
Jeep Wrangler’s $34,000 Convertible Plows Snow: Jason H. Harper

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/jeep-wrangler-s-34-000-convertible-plows-snow-digs-dirt-cars.html
A freak snowstorm frosted over the
Northeast in October when I was testing the 2012-model  Jeep 
Wrangler. Fortunate, since I was heading into  Pennsylvania ’s
Pocono mountains, where snow was falling hard.  As I turned onto a rutted dirt road in the late afternoon,
tree boughs were hanging heavy with the white stuff. The forest
was beautiful, but the road was a mess.  I slipped the $28,770, two-door Sahara model into four-
wheel drive and easily plowed through. Nothing like big knobby
tires and plenty of ground clearance to joust with mother
nature.  The word iconic gets thrown around way too often, but in
the case of the Jeep it qualifies. With roots that stem from the
World War II runabout, you’ll find generations of the vehicle
still on the road.  Ferrari  founder Enzo Ferrari famously called the Jeep
America’s only true sports car. That’s not entirely the case,
but it’s not wrong-headed either. Its boxy shape is virtually
imprinted with a go-West-and-find-adventure spirit. That
undiluted design is deeply desirable.  The brand is owned by the Chrysler Group. As  Chrysler’s
fortunes (DAI)  slid in the last few years, so too suffered the
Wrangler. Lack of innovation left it with an inefficient,
underpowered engine and creaky transmission. While the interiors
were never luxurious, the latest generations just felt cheap.  Chrysler has been sprucing up all its models, and the 2012
Wrangler’s makeover is a good one. They left alone the exterior
-- don’t mess with a classic -- and focused on the powertrain.  New Engine  The former asthmatic 3.8-liter V-6 was ousted in favor of
an all-new, 3.6-liter Pentastar V-6, also found on the latest
Grand Cherokee. Despite a smaller displacement, it has more than
80 extra horsepower and 20-plus pound-feet of torque, bringing
it to 285 and 260 respectively. Better if not great.  Buyers who want an automatic transmission will now get a
five-speed rather than a four-speed. That’s about as cutting-
edge as FM radio, but it’s also an incremental step toward
modernity. Both the automatic Wrangler and the standard six-
speed manual get 17 mpg city, 21 highway.  Several weeks after playing in the snow -- the Wrangler
looks best when dirty -- I tested the four-door model on the
same roads. This longer, pricier Jeep is called the Wrangler
Unlimited.  The four-door looks and drives like a much bigger vehicle
than the regular Wrangler. Little wonder that the extra room
entices many buyers. You can fit five passengers plus gear. With
wide flared fenders, however, it can be a beast to navigate into
garages or tight parking spaces.  Trivia Pursuit  The Unlimited Rubicon is the top of the range, starting at
$34,370. My test model had an automatic transmission and came to
$37,900 with add-ons. For that price, you’d better be serious
about your off-roading. Otherwise, a lesser Wrangler should
suffice.  Available with either a removable hard or soft top, the
Unlimited is the only four-door convertible on the market. (A
good trivia question.)  Heavy-duty axles are able to take a beating from the
roughest roads and the standard electronic locking front and
rear differentials enable the vehicle to navigate through heavy
snow or thick sand.  No matter how much of a dirt-rock-and-snow hound you might
be, at some point you’ll be driving on asphalt. And all those
throwback 4X4 elements like the body-on-frame design and live
axles take a toll on smoothness and stability when you’re doing
65 mph on the freeway.  Nonetheless, I found both the two- and four-door models to
be surprisingly forgiving on three-hour highway drives. Road
noise was significant but tolerable, and it tracked down the
road confidently. I liked the steering.  Feeling Tipsy  Drive older models with oversized tires and you feel like
you’re going to tip over every time you turn. While I wouldn’t
care to do a sudden evasive maneuver at high speed, this
generation feels stable even when quickly changing lanes.  But if you expect a high level of refinement, think again.  The automatic transmission pushes through the gears with
the subtlety of a dive-bar bouncer. Charge up a hill and the
ensuing downshift is abrupt, with a corresponding rise in engine
noise.  That’s okay, though. While a lot of customers buy a
Wrangler for the attitude and tough looks (and probably live to
regret it), many others really do rely on its go-anywhere
ability, as evidenced by my trip through the woods. You’ll see
plenty of aging Wranglers in snow country with plows attached.  And the latest interior is far easier to live with. It was
updated for the 2011 model year, and includes options like
touch-screen navigation system, automatic temperature controls,
and heated seats. Those who want their vehicle a whole lot
fancier should look at other SUVs like the Grand Cherokee or
Ford Explorer.  No, the new Wrangler isn’t perfect. You may have to wait
for the next generation for more power, more gears and better
gas mileage. But the most glaring foibles have been worked out
and its pure design remains undiluted. Enzo would have approved.  The 2012 Jeep Wrangler Sahara and Unlimited Rubicon at a Glance  Engines: 3.6-liter V-6 with 285 horsepower and 260 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual or five-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 8.4 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 17 city, 21 highway (automatic  Wrangler), 16, 20 (automatic Unlimited).  Price as tested: $33,480; $37,900.  Best features: That design; goes anywhere.  Worst feature: Gas mileage.  Target buyer: The mountain climber and snow driver.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 