-- 
Rapper Kanye West Garners 7 Grammy Nominations to Top Adele

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 
2011-12-01T18:44:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/kanye-west-with-7-grammy-nominations-tops-adele-foo-fighters.html
Rapper  Kanye West  received seven
nominations for Grammy Awards, the most of any artist, as the
 music industry  prepared to hand out its top honors.  Adele Adkins, whose 4.67 million copies of “21” lead U.S.
sales, drew six nominations, including best record, album and
song, the Recording Academy announced live last night on  CBS. (CBS)  The
Foo Fighters and Bruno Mars were also put up for six awards on
the one-hour show hosted by rapper-actor LL Cool J.  To make the Grammys more competitive, the academy last year
combined overlapping categories and increased the number of
nominees. Lady Gaga, Ludacris and Rihanna were among the
performers on last night’s broadcast, the fourth time the
nominations were aired live. The awards will be handed out Feb.
12 during a telecast, also on the CBS Corp. network.  “Now, the moment you have all been waiting for,” said Katy Perry, the pop star who introduced the album-of-the-year
nominees, including Rihanna for “Loud.” The category has been
won over the years by a “distinguished group of artists, from
 Frank Sinatra  to  Arcade Fire , from Judy Garland to  Stevie Wonder ,” said Perry, the recipient of two nominations.  Among his nominations, the 34-year-old West is a finalist
for song of the year, best rap song and best rap album for “My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,” distributed by  Universal Music
Group. (VIV)  He has two nominations in two separate categories.  West’s album, released in November 2010, sold more than 1.2
million copies and was lauded by music critics including
Bloomberg’s Mark Beech, who called it the rapper’s best work.
“All of the Lights,” a track from the album featuring West with
Rihanna, Kid Cudi and Fergie, is nominated for best song.  On Stage  The program drew an audience of 5.62 million, a 12 percent
gain from last year’s telecast, CBS said today in an e-mailed
statement, citing preliminary data from Nielsen Holdings NV. The
show attracted 12 percent more viewers ages 18 to 49, a group
targeted by advertisers, CBS said.  Lady Gaga opened the live broadcast from the Nokia Theatre
in Los Angeles with “Marry the Night” from her album-of-the-
year nominated “Born This Way.” She got three nominations
overall.  The show also featured performances from Grandmaster Flash
and country act The Band Perry.  Mars, the 26-year-old R&B performer, writer and producer who
records for  Warner Music Group (WMG) ’s Elektra label, is up for album,
record and song of the year, as well as best pop solo performance
and best pop vocal album. Record of the year recognizes a track’s
artists, engineers and producers, while song of the year credits
songwriters.  Best New Artist  The Foo Fighters, a  rock band  formed by former Nirvana
drummer Dave Grohl, is nominated for album of the year for
“Wasting Light,” which sold more than 620,000 copies in the
U.S., according to Nielsen SoundScan. The band is also up for
best rock performance and rock song for “Walk.”  The Band Perry, Bon Iver, J. Cole, Nicki Minaj and Skrillex
were nominated in the best-new-artist category.  Usher was on hand to honor the late Nick Ashford of the
song-writing duo Ashford & Simpson, singing 1968’s “You’re All I
Need to Get By” with Ashford’s widow Valerie Simpson. Tribute
was also paid to Jerry Leiber, who co-wrote 1961’s “Stand by
Me.”  The number of albums sold this year has increased for the
first time since 2004, led by deep discounting and releases from
artists such as Lady Gaga, the U.K.’s Adele and rapper Lil Wayne,
Nielsen SoundScan said last month.  Industry sales of record albums, which include digital
downloads, compact discs, some vinyl LPs and cassettes, rose 3
percent, Nielsen SoundScan said.  Artists who released albums from Oct. 1, 2010, to Sept. 30,
2011, are eligible for the 54th annual Grammys. Ballots are due
Jan. 11, when they will be tabulated before the awards show,
according to the Recording Academy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Moran in New York at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  