-- 
Kenya Shilling Falls First Day in Three After World’s Best Run

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-12-01T12:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/kenya-shilling-falls-first-day-in-three-after-world-s-best-run.html
Kenya ’s shilling, the world’s best-
performing currency against the dollar in the past month,
weakened for the first day in three.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.6 percent to 90.02 per dollar and traded 0.4
percent weaker at 89.85 at 2:58 p.m in Nairobi. The currency has
gained 9.5 percent since Nov. 1, making it the best performer
among more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s monetary policy committee is expected to keep its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 16.5 percent, according to
the median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Spurred by the worst regional drought in 60 years and higher
fuel prices, inflation accelerated 19.7 percent in November from
18.9 percent the previous month.  “The shilling has weakened largely on account of demand
with the market awaiting today’s decision by the central bank
monetary policy body,” Chris Muiga, a senior dealer at Nairobi-
based Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said by phone today.  The Tanzanian shilling strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,679
per dollar as the central bank sold dollars to meet demand from
oil importers.  “Bank of Tanzania is still providing dollars to the market
even today, which explains the appreciation of the shilling
against the dollar,” Julius Mcharo, head of treasury at
Commercial Bank of Africa Tanzania Ltd., said by phone from  Dar
es Salaam , Tanzania.  The  Uganda ’s currency appreciated for fourth day, adding 1
percent to 2,538.75 per dollar.  “The shilling has gained because of a tight monetary
position in the market following the settlement of treasury
bills auctioned yesterday,” Abbey Mutabali, a currency trader
at Centenary Bank Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  The East African nation’s central bank auctioned 120
billion shillings worth of three-, six- and 12-month Treasury
bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  