-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Ends Lower; Central Bank Raises Interest Rates

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-12-01T17:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/kenya-s-shilling-ends-lower-central-bank-raises-interest-rates.html
Kenya ’s shilling, the world’s best-
performing currency against the dollar over the past month,
weakened for the first time in three days. The market closed
before the central bank announced it increased interest rates.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.3 percent to close at 89.75 per dollar in Nairobi.
The currency has added 9.6 percent since Nov. 1, making it the
best performer worldwide against the dollar among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  for a
fourth consecutive time by 1.5 percentage points to 18 percent
to curb inflation that’s more than double the government’s
target. Inflation, spurred by the worst regional drought in 60
years and higher fuel prices, accelerated to 18.9 percent in
October from 17.3 percent in the previous month.  The Tanzanian shilling gained 0.2 percent to close at
1,680.9 per dollar. “Bank of Tanzania is still providing dollars
to the market even today, which explains the appreciation of the
shilling against the dollar,” Julius Mcharo, head of treasurer
at Commercial Bank of Africa Tanzania Ltd., said by phone from
 Dar es Salaam .  Uganda ’s currency gained for fourth day, gaining 1.2
percent to close at 2,535 per dollar.  “The shilling has gained because of a tight monetary
position in the market following the settlement of Treasury
bills auctioned yesterday,” Abbey Mutabali, a currency trader
at Centenary Bank Ltd., said by phone from Kampala. The East
African nation’s central bank auctioned 120 billion shillings
worth of three-, six- and 12-month Treasury bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  