-- 
Kenya Raises Key Lending Rate a Fourth Time to Fight Inflation

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-12-01T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/kenya-raises-key-lending-rate-a-fourth-time-to-fight-inflation.html
Kenya ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate for a fourth consecutive meeting to
bolster its fight against inflation after prices surged more
than double the government’s target.  The Monetary Policy Committee, chaired by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, lifted the  policy rate  by 1.5 percentage points to 18
percent yesterday, more than any forecast from 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Seven had predicted the rate will stay
unchanged at 16.5 percent.  Kenya has boosted its key rate by 11.75 percentage points
in the past three months to spur the shilling and curb an
inflation rate that reached 19.7 percent in November. Credit
growth at more than 35 percent reflects strong domestic demand
in  East Africa ’s largest economy, requiring further rate
increases, Ndung’u said yesterday.  “The Monetary Policy Committee is sensitive to the fact
that the economy has been affected by rising inflation fueled by
credit growth, hence the decision to sustain the fight against
inflation,” Aly Khan Satchu, head of Rich Management, a wealth
manager, said in a phone interview from Nairobi yesterday.  The shilling has reversed its decline after slumping 19
percent against the dollar in the first nine months of the year.
The currency was at 89.75 per dollar late yesterday, taking its
gain since the beginning of October to 13 percent.  While the bank’s actions are proving effective, the
inflation response “is yet to be felt,” Ndung’u said in the
MPC statement yesterday.  Borrowing Costs Climb  “Although supply shocks continued to drive domestic prices
upwards, demand driven inflation pressures arising from the
growth in private sector credit continued to persist,” he said.
The rate increase is “expected to ease inflation and contain
inflationary expectations.”  Higher  interest rates  have boosted government borrowing
costs to an 11-year high and undermined economic growth, which
Ndung’u said on Nov. 25 will slow to 5 percent this year from
5.6 percent in 2010. East Africa’s largest  economy  contracted a
seasonally adjusted 4.6 percent in the second quarter, compared
with an expansion of 2 percent in the previous three months.  “Given that we expect inflation to peak close to current
levels, before we start seeing more of an improvement over the
course of 2012, it does call into question whether we need to
see further tightening in this cycle, beyond the move seen
today,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a note to clients.  The worst regional drought in 60 years has driven up food
prices in East Africa, prompting central banks in  Uganda  and
 Rwanda  to take similar action to tighten monetary policy.
Uganda’s central bank, which raised its benchmark interest rate
10 percentage points since August, is due to announce its rate
decision at after 11 a.m. local time in the capital, Kampala,
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  