-- 
King Urges Banks to Bolster Defenses as Euro-Area ‘Systemic Crisis’ Looms

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-12-01T12:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/king-says-spiral-facing-banks-looks-like-a-systemic-crisis-.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
urged banks to enhance efforts to bolster their defenses against
the euro area’s debt turmoil, which now looks like a “systemic
crisis.”  “An erosion of confidence, lower asset prices and tighter
credit conditions are further damaging the prospects for
economic activity and will affect the ability of companies,
households and governments to repay their debts,” threatening
banks’ balance sheets, King told reporters in  London  today.
“This spiral is characteristic of a systemic crisis.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve cut the cost of dollar funding for
European financial institutions yesterday in a coordinated move
with other central banks. That measure came two days after King
said there are “early signs” of a credit crunch in the euro
region, where leaders face increasing pressure to resolve
intensifying turmoil.  “Sovereign and banking risks emanating from the euro area
have intensified and remain the most significant and immediate
threat to U.K. financial stability,” the central bank said in
its Financial Stability Report published today. It said that if
banks’ earnings aren’t enough to build capital, they should
limit payments of bonuses and dividends and “give serious
consideration” to raising external capital.  Credit Squeeze  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee restarted  bond
purchases  in October to aid the recovery and cut its growth
forecasts this month. Officials warned today that the strains in
interbank markets could threaten economic growth.  “Against a backdrop of slowing global growth prospects,
concerns about the sustainability of government debt positions
of smaller economies have broadened to larger euro-area
economies,” the central bank said. “The current funding
pressures facing banks could lead to a renewed tightening in
credit conditions for real economy borrowers.”  The central bank also published the recommendations of its
Financial Policy Committee, which met on Nov. 23. The panel said
the Financial Services Authority should encourage banks to
disclose leverage ratios to investors by the start of 2013, two
years earlier than Basel rules originally required.  The  Bank of England  said in the FSR that U.K. banks have
140 billion pounds ($220 billion) of term funding due to mature
in 2012, concentrated in the first half of the year. It said
short-term money market funding conditions have “been fragile
over the past few months, with banks finding it harder to roll
over all of their maturing funding and tenors shortening.”  Contingency Plans  U.K. authorities are working on “a wide range of
contingency plans” to deal with a further intensification of
the crisis, including a possible breakup of the euro, King said.
The central bank is working with the Financial Services
Authority and the government on plans, he said.  After a series of stop-gap accords failed to protect  Italy 
and Spain from surging bond yields,  Europe  is under growing
pressure from U.S. leaders and international financial markets.
European leaders will meet next week to discuss the next steps
in resolving the debt crisis.  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars fell for a
second day after the coordinated central bank action. The three-
month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks pay to convert
euro payments into dollars, was 118 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate at 12:24 p.m. in London. The gap had
widened to 162.5 below Euribor yesterday, the most in three
years, before the Fed move.  Underlying Problems  King said the central bank measure was “designed to deal
with clear evidence that there were problems in banks around the
world finding difficulty in accessing dollar funding in
particular.” Still, he added it can only provide “temporary
relief” and is not a “solution to the underlying problems.”  He also said that said resolving the wider problems of
global financial imbalances are beyond the U.K. authorities to
deal with on their own and “only the governments directly
involved can find a way out of this crisis,” referring to the
euro-area debt turmoil.  “The crisis in the euro area is one of solvency and not
liquidity,” he said. “Here in the U.K. we must try and find a
way to bolster the resilience” of the financial system.  While Britain’s banks have 15 billion pounds of exposure to
sovereign debt in the most vulnerable euro-area economies, they
have “significant” exposures to the private sectors of
Ireland,  Spain  and Italy, the Bank of England said. This amounts
to about 160 billion pounds, or 80 percent of their core Tier 1
capital.  “U.K. banks have made significant progress in improving
their capital and funding resilience,” the bank said. “But
progress has been set back recently and they have been affected
by strains in bank funding markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at  bmoshinky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  