-- 
KPN to Decide on ‘Difficult’ French Business Within 6 Months

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-12-02T10:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/kpn-to-decide-on-difficult-french-mobile-phone-assets-within-six-months.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the largest Dutch phone
company, will decide in the next six months whether to keep its
French business as its wireless operations in the country face
rising competition.  The French market is “difficult,” Thorsten Dirks, who
heads the company’s international mobile-phone operations, said
at a press event in Dusseldorf on Nov. 30. KPN, based in The
Hague, has to decide whether to strengthen its business in
 France  or dispose of it, he said.  Competition will increase in France next year with the
entry of a fourth mobile operator, Iliad SA. The company,
founded by billionaire Xavier Niel, has pledged to drive down
prices in the country, where  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange, Vivendi
SA’s SFR unit and Bouygues Telecom SA dominate the market. KPN
operates the Simyo brand as a so-called mobile virtual network
operator, or MVNO, using the networks of  Bouygues and Orange. (EN)   “Selling their MVNO in France, but also in Spain, would be
consistent” with KPN’s strategy of focusing on its Ortel brand,
said  Victor Bareno , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam
who has a “hold” recommendation on KPN shares. Ortel Mobile
provides prepaid mobile services in several European countries.  KPN shares rose as much as 1.8 percent to 9.19 euros and
traded at 9.18 euros as of 11:08 a.m. in Amsterdam. The stock
has lost 16 percent this year, cutting the company’s market
value to 13.6 billion euros.  Spanish Business  In Spain, where KPN also operates the Simyo brand, the
company is seeing a “great influx” of customers looking for
lower phone rates, Dirks said. The company’s Belgium unit is
doing “very well,” he said.  Vodafone’s Spanish unit is negotiating to buy KPN’s  Spain 
assets, El Economista reported last month, citing unidentified
people with knowledge of the matter. Both companies declined to
comment on the report.  In the third quarter, KPN had its first quarterly profit in
the “Rest of World” segment, which includes France and Spain,
based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. It extended the low-cost Ortel brand to
 Switzerland  on Oct. 5.  KPN’s German E-Plus division, also headed by Dirks, will
try to increase profitability next year after reaching a ratio
of Ebitda to sales of 42.2 percent in the last quarter, he said.  E-Plus will invest in its local network to compete with
other operators in the country, such as Vodafone and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , by focusing on reliable data transmission rather
than on high-speed downloads, Dirks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  