-- 
Nazi Loot Claim Fails to Hinder Planned Cologne Kandinsky Sale

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/nazi-loot-claim-fails-to-hinder-planned-cologne-kandinsky-sale.html
The Cologne auction house  Kunsthaus
Lempertz  said it will sell a Wassily Kandinsky watercolor
worth more than $1 million, dismissing a claim from heirs of a
pre-World War II owner who say it was stolen by the Nazis.  The 1923 painting, “Zwei Schwarze Flecke” (“Two Black
Marks”) is the  top lot  in Lempertz’s modern art sale
tomorrow, with a value estimated at 900,000 euros ($1.2
million) to 1 million euros. The catalog says it was a gift
from Kandinsky to Sophie Lissitzky-Kueppers, yet stops short
of mentioning that her heirs are fighting to get it back.  The dispute hinges on differing versions of events more
than 80 years ago. The heirs say the watercolor was one of 16
works Lissitzky-Kueppers loaned to Hanover’s Provinzialmuseum
that were later seized by the Nazis. Lempertz says Lissitzky-
Kueppers gave away the watercolor in the 1920s.  “The sale will go ahead,” Karl-Sax Feddersen, a member
of the Lempertz management board, said by telephone. “We
think this claim is totally unfounded.”  Kandinsky, like  Otto Dix , Max Beckmann,  Marc Chagall  and
Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, was among the artists condemned as
“degenerate” by the Nazis. Under  Joseph Goebbels ’s orders,
more than 20,000 such works were seized from German museums in
1937. Some were shown in the infamous “Degenerate Art” show
the same year in Munich, which drew more than 2 million
visitors.  ‘Degenerate’ Art  The heirs say they have persuasive evidence that the
painting was among those Lissitzky-Kueppers loaned to Hanover
in 1926 and later confiscated as “degenerate.”  Lempertz says it can prove the watercolor was in the
possession of the family of Lotte Beck, who looked after
Lissitzky-Kuepper’s children, until 1989, when the auction
house first sold it.  “So far we haven’t seen one single document to prove
this story,” said Gunnar Schnabel, a Berlin-based lawyer
representing Lissitzky-Kuepper’s heirs. “I find it
unacceptable that Lempertz is not warning its customers,
particularly the international ones, about our claim.”  Feddersen said Lempertz sees no reason to “tarnish the
painting” by alluding to the claim in the catalog.  Among the paintings Lissitzky-Kueppers is known to have
loaned to the Hanover museum was  Paul Klee ’s “Sumpflegende”
(Swamp Legend). The artwork, shown in the “Degenerate Art”
exhibition, is now in the collection of Munich’s  Lenbachhaus 
museum and the city has refused to restitute it to the heirs.  Lissitzky-Kueppers was a German art historian and
collector who emigrated to Moscow to join the Russian artist
El Lissitzky, whom she married, according to the book “Lost
Pictures, Lost Lives” by Melissa Mueller and Monika Tatzkow.  Banished to Siberia  During World War II, Lissitzky-Kueppers was banished to
Siberia by Stalin as a German living in the  Soviet Union . She
failed to recover her paintings and died in penury in
Novosibirsk in 1978.  In November 2007, Lempertz auctioned a 1632 portrait of a
bagpipe player to the  London  art dealer Philip Mould, who sold
the painting on to a  New York  gallery.  The auction house didn’t mention in the provenance
details that the work once belonged to Max Stern, a Jewish
dealer forced to liquidate his gallery in 1937. U.S. law
enforcement officials seized the portrait in New York in April
2009 and returned it to Stern’s heirs. Mould reimbursed the
U.S. dealer for his purchase.  “Selling pictures with this kind of provenance is high
risk as well as morally dubious,” Mould said by telephone
from London. “Contested provenance should also be flagged as
a matter of requirement to all potential buyers.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 