-- 
Nedbank May Swap Stakes With Togo’s Ecobank After $285 Million Loan Accord

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-12-01T15:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/nedbank-may-swap-stakes-with-togo-s-ecobank-after-285-million-loan-accord.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the South African
bank controlled by Old Mutual Plc, said it may swap stakes with
 Ecobank Transnational International Inc. (ETI)  after providing the
Togo-based lender with a $285 million loan to finance expansion.  The loan agreement allows the South African lender to take
a 20 percent stake in Ecobank over the next two to three years,
Johannesburg-based Nedbank and Lome, Togo-based Ecobank said
today in a joint e-mailed statement. Ecobank would take a
“reciprocal” stake in Nedbank, the banks said, without
disclosing potential terms of the swap.  Nedbank may double its non-South African revenue on the
continent through the deal, according to Patrice Rassou, head of
equities at Cape Town’s Sanlam Investment Management. Nedbank
said the three-year loan would help fund Ecobank’s recent
purchase of  Oceanic Bank Plc (OCEANIC)  in Nigeria. Ecobank is Africa’s
most geographically diverse lender, with operations in 35 of the
continent’s 53 countries, and has had an alliance with Nedbank
for three years.  “If they fix the price now at depressed valuation levels,
this may indeed be a lucrative option in a few years when things
recover,” said Rassou. Sanlam holds Nedbank shares.  Nedbank wants to help South African customers who are doing
business elsewhere on the continent, Chief Executive Officer
 Mike Brown  said in the statement. Lenders including the U.K.’s
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and South Africa’s Standard Bank Group Ltd. are
also expanding across Africa as economic growth among the
continent’s 1 billion people outpaces developed economies.  Ecobank has assets of $10 billion, more than twice the size
of Togo’s gross domestic product, and the bank has more than 3
million customers across Africa. Its shares are traded in
 Nigeria  and Ghana.  Togo is a francophone West African nation of about 6
million people bordering Ghana and Benin. It’s one of the
world’s poorest countries, with gross domestic product per
capita of $240, compared with the sub-Saharan African average of
$580, according to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  