-- 
New Jersey Aid Holdup May Force Towns to Borrow to Pay Workers

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/new-jersey-aid-holdup-may-force-towns-to-borrow-to-pay-workers.html
New Jersey lawmakers’ inaction on
$139 million in state funding for cities in financial distress
is forcing some local officials to delay payments to school
districts and vendors and consider borrowing to make payroll.  Six of 11 cities waiting for their share of the so-called
transitional aid operate on a calendar year, giving them a month
to make their cash last without a collective $16.2 million.
Disbursement of the assistance, promised in July, has been held
up by a dispute between Republican Governor  Chris Christie  and
Democrats who control the Legislature over how to fund the $1.5
million cost of supervising payments.  Christie cut transitional aid 13 percent from $159 million
last year to help wean municipalities off the assistance. Half
of U.S. cities have had state aid reduced since 2009 as
governors deal with budget deficits, according to a September
survey by the  National League of Cities . Mayors are struggling
to raise revenue and cut costs to balance their books.  “We’re at the point now where we have to triage the bills
we pay and how we handle our financial obligations,” Terry
Reidy, city manager of the seaside community of Asbury Park,
said in a Nov. 28 telephone interview. “Short-term borrowing is
the only option I can think of. We have to meet payroll and
there are certain obligations that we have to meet.”  Asbury Park , in line for $10.4 million of transitional aid,
has enough cash to pay bills through mid-December, Reidy said.
Harrison, home of the stadium for Major League Soccer’s New York
Red Bulls, is shifting money around its municipal accounts as it
waits for $4.5 million from the state, said chief financial
officer Gabriela Simoes.  Oversight Costs  Christie, 49, initially included $10 million for
transitional aid in the $29.7 billion budget he signed in June.
He then agreed to restore the money in a supplemental spending
bill as long as his administration got more power over it. The
Democrats’ legislation, introduced last month, calls for an
additional $1.5 million for the cost of that oversight.  The governor told reporters on Nov. 28 in Camden that he
would sign the measure “if oversight money is in the $139
million.” Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , the state’s
highest-ranking Democratic lawmaker, said Nov. 22 that the
oversight costs shouldn’t come out of the cities’ money.  “If you take another million-and-a-half dollars from these
cities, you may as well be putting a stick in their eyes,”
Sweeney, of West Deptford, said in a telephone interview. “They
are already dealing with diminished funding.”  State Aid  In a Nov. 22 e-mail to finance chiefs of the six towns,
Thomas Neff, director of the state Division of Local Government
Services, said he can’t award the aid until the bill passes.
Neff told the officials that cash advances are possible to
prevent defaulting on debt or missing other crucial payments.  The memo was provided to Bloomberg News by a person
familiar with the matter who asked for anonymity because he
wasn’t authorized to share the information.  “Please be mindful of this situation and postpone the
payment of all but the most essential bills to preserve your
 cash flow  until such time as the Legislature has acted,” Neff
wrote.  Lisa Ryan, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Department of
Community Affairs, which includes Neff’s division, said the
department “has been in constant contact with transitional aid
communities and has been working with them to manage cash flows
until such time as the Legislature has acted to appropriate
funds.”  “We will ensure that all debt payments and other critical
obligations are met on time,” Ryan said in an e-mail.  Under Review  The biggest transitional-aid awards this year are slated to
go to  Camden , with $61.4 million; Trenton, $22 million;
Paterson, $21 million and Union City, $12 million. Those cities,
whose budget years run from July to June, are under review by
Moody’s Investors Service for possible credit-rating downgrades
because of lawmakers’ inaction.  Of the six municipalities counting on the money by Dec. 31,
Harrison is the most in debt, with $53 million of obligations
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The town
of 13,620 in northern  New Jersey  had its rating on $17.5 million
of general-obligation debt cut five levels to Ba3, a junk
rating, from Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade, by Moody’s
Investors Service in May.  Debt Report  Harrison has used short-term financing for debt payments
related to the Red Bull arena’s development, lacks “a long-term
solution to its outsized debt burden and debt service,” and may
not be able to get more state and county support to meet its
obligations, Moody’s said in a report.  Josellyn Yousef, one of the Moody’s analysts who wrote the
report, said “we are monitoring” developments on transitional
aid and declined to comment further.  Simoes, the town’s CFO, said her office has received
delinquent tax payments that have “offset some of the impact”
of not getting the state aid. Should money run low in the short
term, Harrison will transfer funding among accounts, “a common
practice year after year whenever there are cash-flow
challenges,” she said.  “We don’t have any imminent payments due,” Simoes said,
when asked whether Harrison would be able to make debt service.  Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said he doesn’t think the
state would let Harrison default on debt “on kind of a
technicality.”  “I’m sure they’ll get this aid,” Schankel said.  Penns Grove  Penns Grove, a southern New Jersey borough of 5,100 that’s
part of Sweeney’s legislative district, is due $750,000 of
transitional aid. The town has withheld two school payments
totaling about $500,000 in order to pay vendors, according to
chief financial officer Stephen Labb, who said he hopes the
district doesn’t seek immediate payment to cover its own bills.  The town can meet payroll for the next two weeks, and has
considered loans to cover any additional gap in its $6.3 million
budget, Labb said.  “That would be our only other option and short-term
borrowing would have interest, so it would defeat the purpose of
this aid,” Labb said.  Christie termed the aid “transitional” because cities are
to be gradually phased out of the program. In exchange for the
aid, mayors give the state a say in local decisions, including
hiring and contract awards. Last year, 22 mayors shared $159
million in assistance.  Asbury Park  In  Asbury Park , the $10.4 million it’s counting on is a
quarter of its $40 million budget. The city outsourced
emergency-dispatch services to Monmouth County to save $500,000
this year, and as much as $300,000 in coming years, said Reidy,
the city manager. Beach fees contribute $875,000 to its budget
and parking fees add $800,000, he said.  “When transitional aid is 25 percent of your budget,
having a plan to wean yourself off that is not something you can
do overnight,” Reidy said. “The name of the game is decreasing
your costs and increasing your revenue.”  Christie, at a meeting yesterday of the  Republican
Governors Association  in  Orlando ,  Florida , said he’s asked
mayors in the affected communities to call their legislators in
Trenton and ask them to expedite passage of the measure. He
declined to say whether he’ll back tacking the $1.5 million onto
the aid or whether he’ll only approve subtracting it from
cities’ take.  “If we’re going to send $139 million of taxpayers’ money
into struggling cities that have a history of waste and abuse,
I’m only doing it if there’s sufficient money and personnel to
see that the money is not wasted,” he said.  Labb said he’s “pretty confident” that lawmakers and
Christie will come to an agreement before the end of December.
Reidy also said he expects the aid to be approved.  “I’m almost crossing my fingers right now,” Labb said.
“We cannot go until the end of the year and not get this
money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  