-- 
New York Times Eyes First Acquisition in Three Years to Bolster Growth

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-12-02T22:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/new-york-times-eyes-first-deal-in-three-years-to-bolster-growth.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of the
namesake newspaper, may make its first acquisition in more than
three years.  Times Co. is interested in deals for technology or
information companies to bolster digital growth, according to
Chief Executive Officer Janet Robinson. The company has been
paying down debt and reducing costs, giving it the financial
flexibility to strike deals, she said.  “We are in a position to invest organically or
inorganically,” Robinson said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. Any acquisitions will “depend on
really what comes through the pipeline, what becomes available
and what fits. If it’s something that has some bearing to really
rounding out our portfolio then we will do that.”  She declined to name any businesses the company may buy.  Times Co., based in  New York , has been struggling with a
slide in traditional print revenue that has led to annual sales
declines every year since 2006. The company introduced an online
paid subscription model at the New York Times in March, helping
bolster advertising and lift digital subscriptions to 324,000 at
the end of September.  Times Co. wants to build on that momentum at the New York
publication and its other newspapers, including the Boston
Globe, which started an online paid subscription in October.  “It’s working from a revenue perspective,” said Robinson,
who was joined in the interview by Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr.  Last Acquisition  Times Co.’s last acquisition was the purchase of a Florida
newspaper in March 2008, according to Bloomberg data. The
company has made investments in technology startups including
LibreDigital Inc. and Ongo Inc. since then.  In 2005, Times Co. paid about $410 million in cash for
About.com, a platform for content on topics such as home repair
and movie previews. For the nine months ending in September, the
About Group had $84.7 million in revenue, a 16 percent decline
from the same period a year earlier. About’s operating profit
was down 23 percent during the period to $35.4 million.  The About.com acquisition was instructive, helping Times
Co. understand how to manage acquisitions and learn about issues
such as optimizing stories for  search engines , Robinson said.  “We learned the lesson that if you’re going to buy a
company like that, you don’t try to make it into the New York
Times or the Boston Globe,” she said. “This is a very different
animal. Let it sing on its own.”  Huffington Post , Facebook  As digital subscribers increase, the company continues to
work to reverse the slide in overall revenue. Total advertising
revenue was down 8.8 percent in the third quarter, with print
dropping 10 percent and digital falling 4.5 percent. Revenue
during the quarter fell 3.1 percent to $537.2 million.  Times Co. can contend with competition from online news
sources such as  AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s Huffington Post and emerging
competitors for advertising revenue such as Facebook Inc., said
Sulzberger.  “We’re always going to have competitors,” he said. “As
long as we keep a direct relationship with a quality audience
and find the new tools to do that in this digital world, we’re
going to be able to offer that quality audience to
advertisers.”  The company’s stock has suffered from the newspaper
industry’s challenges, along with the economy, he said.  “We’re in a very challenged sector,” he said. “We can’t
pretend we aren’t.”  Times Co. rose 3.9 percent to $7.73 at the close in New
York and has declined 21 percent this year.  ‘Challenged Sector’  The company does have an opportunity to make money off of
its investments in online subscription technology, said
Robinson. It’s developed two different models at the New York
Times and Boston Globe, the former metered so readers get a
certain number of stories free and the latter a paid gateway for
virtually all stories.  “There’s been a Conga line of people coming in for
advice,” Robinson said.  Times Co. could generate revenue from the experiments,
perhaps through licensing its technology or consulting on other
newspaper companies’ projects, she said.  “We’re into developing new revenue streams,” she said with
a smile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 