-- 
New York Giants Have Toughest Road to Playoff Spot Among 18 NFL Contenders

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-01T16:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/new-york-giants-have-toughest-road-to-playoff-spot-among-18-nfl-contenders.html
The  New York Giants  have the most-
difficult path to the National Football League playoffs of the
18 teams within two games of a postseason berth.  The Giants have lost three straight games to fall to 6-5
and put their playoff chances in jeopardy, falling one game
behind the  Dallas Cowboys  in the National Football Conference
East division. The  Atlanta Falcons ,  Chicago Bears  and  Detroit
Lions  are one game ahead of the Giants in the race for the NFC’s
two wild-card spots, which go to the non-division winners with
the best records.  Of New York’s remaining five regular-season games, four are
against teams with winning records, including two against the
Cowboys and this week’s meeting with the 11-0  Green Bay Packers ,
the defending Super Bowl champions. The combined record of the
Giants’ opponents is 35-20, a winning percentage of .636 that’s
the highest for any of the playoff contenders. The Giants are 7-
point underdogs against Green Bay.  “We know what the schedule is, and each week the
opportunities diminish,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told
reporters. “We have to take advantage of them as best we can.”  Three of the other leading playoff contenders have a
schedule in which their five remaining regular-season opponents
have a winning percentage above .500: the  Cincinnati Bengals 
(.545),  Oakland Raiders  (.527) and Lions (.582).  The Packers and  San Francisco 49ers  could become the first
teams to clinch postseason berths with wins this weekend.  While  Green Bay  visits the Giants at  East Rutherford ,  New
Jersey , on Dec. 4, the 49ers are 13-point favorites at home
against the 2-9  St. Louis Rams . Coughlin said part of the
motivation for the Giants this week is facing an undefeated
squad that’s won three of its six road games by a touchdown or
less.  “That is what we have to cling to,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  