-- 
New Jersey National Guard Chief Resigns Amid Report of Contact With Aide

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-12-01T23:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/new-jersey-guard-chief-rieth-steps-down-amid-report-of-contact-with-aide.html
Governor Chris Christie said he
accepted the resignation of Major General Glenn Rieth,  New
Jersey ’s head of the National Guard, days before a media report
today that Rieth was observed in a physical relationship with an
office aide.  Rieth, 54, has been adjutant general of 9,000 troops
assigned to the  New Jersey  Army and Air National Guard for
almost 10 years. He served under three Democratic governors
before his reappointment by Christie, 49, a first-term
Republican and longtime personal acquaintance, in January 2010.  “Last week General Glenn Rieth offered his resignation as
adjutant general of the Department of Military and Veterans
Affairs, which I accepted,” Christie said in a statement
released this afternoon. His retirement, after 30 years of Army
service, will be effective Dec. 15, the statement said.  Kevin Roberts , a Christie spokesman, e-mailed the release
about 15 minutes after the  Associated Press  reported that Rieth,
who is married, was resigning after he and an unnamed female
aide, also married, were seen having physical contact in his
office. The report said the incident occurred last month, and
was attributed to sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the matter was of a sensitive nature.  Rieth told Christie about the incident in early November
and said it was being reported to the U.S. Army, according to
the Associated Press. The account didn’t name who had witnessed
the contact, identified only as a female aide, or who was
notifying military officials.  ‘Personal Matter’  Christie’s statement didn’t discuss the allegations.  “This is obviously a difficult time for his family and
General Rieth did the right thing by stepping down to address
this as a personal matter,” the statement said.  Roberts didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions
about when Christie received the resignation and under what
circumstances, or why the governor’s office waited to disclose a
Cabinet member’s scheduled departure.  Chief Warrant Officer Patrick Dougherty and Wayne Wooley,
press officers for the Department of Military and  Veterans
Affairs , didn’t immediately respond to phone calls for comment.
Rieth, who oversees that department, didn’t reply to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Guardsmen are trained for domestic and foreign combat,
natural disasters, reconstruction and homeland security
missions. The New Jersey governor is the commander in chief of
the state guard, and the adjutant general is the military chief
administrative officer. Christie and Rieth appeared together at
news conferences in late August, when  Hurricane Irene ’s
destruction led to the deployment of National Guard forces.  Rieth graduated from The Citadel, the Military College of
 South Carolina , in 1980, and started an Army career, according
to biographical information from the New Jersey Department of
Military and Veterans Affairs website. When Christie took office
in January 2010, he said he and Rieth had known each other
growing up in Livingston, New Jersey, and that Rieth would stay
on the job in his administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  