-- 
News Corp. Calls Highest Since 2009 on Carey Optimism: Options

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-12-01T02:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/news-corp-calls-highest-since-09-as-traders-see-carey-recovery-options.html
News Corp. options traders are making
the most bullish bets since 2009 amid speculation Chief
Operating Officer Chase Carey’s increasing influence will spur
growth at the media company.  Calls to buy News Corp., the owner of Fox Broadcasting and
the Wall Street Journal, outnumber puts to sell by  2.8-to-1 , the
most since February 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The
ratio (NWSA)  has risen 27 percent this month as traders bet that the
company will extend this year’s 20 percent gain and keep beating
returns from rivals  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , Viacom Inc. and  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)   Carey, 58, has gained influence as the U.K. government
reviews allegations that News Corp. journalists hacked into
people’s phones, according to Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , who named Carey as his successor when asked who could
replace him. That’s making investors more confident that the New
York-based company will focus on dividends and buybacks to boost
the stock price, according to Yacktman Asset Management Co.  “Chase Carey is a very capable guy,” Don Yacktman, the
Austin, Texas-based money manager’s founder, said in a phone 
interview yesterday. Yacktman’s firm owns 4.5 percent of News
Corp.’s Class A shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show. “We
expect him to do what we expect out of all management, which is
to be rational and do what’s in the best interest of the 
shareholders.”  Beating Rivals  The Class A shares rallied 5.4 percent to $17.44 yesterday.
They have rebounded after falling to a 10-month low of $13.62 on
Aug. 8 as London police began a probe into phone hacking at the
company’s defunct U.K. tabloid, News of the World. The stock’s
gain this year  compares with (S5MOVI)  a 13 percent advance for Viacom,
8.2 percent increase for Time Warner and Disney’s 4.4 percent
loss.  Open interest for News Corp. calls has jumped 41 percent
this month to 348,476 contracts, more than quadruple the 9.5
percent increase for puts, which reached 125,768 contracts.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , fell 9.3 percent to 27.80 yesterday and has decreased 19
percent over the past three days. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which
measures Euro Stoxx 50 options, slid 4.1 percent to 37.08
yesterday.  Jack Horner , a spokesman for News Corp., declined to
comment on options trading or Carey. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. and its Dow Jones
division in providing financial news and data.  ‘Under a Bus’  “ Chase Carey  and I run this company as a team,” Murdoch,
80, said in an Aug. 10 conference call with reporters. “Chase
is my partner. If anything happened to me, I’m sure he’ll get it
immediately if I went under a bus.”  Carey was chief executive officer of DirecTV until 2009,
when he returned to News Corp. He expanded DirecTV’s subscriber
base to about 18 million from about 12 million at the end of
2003. Before that, he helped News Corp. expand its television
business internationally and led talks for the  Fox network  to
buy sports rights in the U.S.  News Corp. closed News of the World in July and abandoned
its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.2 billion) bid for full control of
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc to contain the damage from
the hacking scandal. Murdoch’s company almost tripled its stock-
buyback program to $5 billion on July 12 after the company lost
$6.8 billion in market value in four days. On Aug. 10, News
Corp. boosted its quarterly dividend by 27 percent.  The Catalyst  “The scandal was a catalyst for more shareholder-friendly
activities and for Chase Carey to become more influential within
the company,”  Michael Morris , an analyst at Davenport & Co. in
Richmond,  Virginia , said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Chase Carey is one of the most highly respected leaders in the
media industry and has a very strong track record.”  News Corp. would suffer from a faltering economy that
causes a slump in the advertising market, according to  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co. in Pasadena,  California .
Revenue fell four straight quarters though September 2009 versus
the year-earlier period as the U.S. financial crisis drove ad
sales lower. Diminishing sales helped drive the Class A shares
to $4.99, a record low, in March 2009.  “This company has a lot of global exposure to the general
economy,” Martin, who rates the shares at “hold,” said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Economic weakness in the U.S., U.K.
or  Australia  will have a negative effect on all revenue streams,
including subscription purchases, pay-for-play, newspaper
subscriptions and advertising.”  Lower Risk  That risk isn’t reflected in the derivatives markets, where
News Corp. is perceived as safer than it was earlier in the
year. Implied volatility for 30-day options has fallen to 36.80
from this year’s peak of 59.56 on Aug. 8.  Trading of calls surged to this year’s second-highest level
on Nov. 21, with almost all call volume concentrated in a single
transaction. An investor bought 50,000 January 2013 $20 calls
while selling the same number of January 2013 $25 calls,
according to Fred Bethon, a managing director for strategy and
execution at X-Change Financial Access LLC in  New York .  “The hacking scandal could be the best thing that ever
happened to News Corp. shareholders,” said  David Bank , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “This stock,
unlike any other stock in its group, has traded to an absolute
worst-case-scenario level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  