-- 
NFL Loses Bid to End Suit by Super Bowl Ticket Holders

-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-12-02T01:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/nfl-loses-bid-to-dismiss-suit-by-cowboys-stadium-super-bowl-ticket-holders.html
The  National Football League  lost a
bid for dismissal of a lawsuit brought by ticket holders
displaced from their seats at February’s Super Bowl at  Cowboys
Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas . The judge threw out claims against
 Dallas  Cowboys’ owner Jerry Jones.  About 475 ticket holders had to watch the NFL title game
between the Green Bay Packers and Pittsburgh Steelers on video
screens. A group of 2,821 were given new seats or kept waiting
outside the stadium, according to court papers. The league and
Jones said refund offers they made to the fans were legally
adequate and more than what they were entitled to.  U.S. District Judge Barbara M.G. Lynn in Dallas wrote in
her ruling yesterday that “at this stage in the litigation”
the damages fans suffered have not been determined and “there
is no proof in the record that the offers of compensation were
in fact sent to the individual plaintiffs.”  The NFL and Jones installed 13,000 temporary seats at the
stadium in a bid to break the  Super Bowl  attendance record. Fire
marshals allowed 11,740 seats to be used. The league and Jones
said in an earlier filing that they offered to pay 3,296 fans
$4.5 million to $9.3 million.  “In litigation, much like football, you have to play four
quarters,” Michael Avenatti of Eagan Avenatti LLP, a lawyer for
the fans, said in a statement. He called the seating problems at
the game “a debacle.”  Contract Claim  Brian McCarthy , a spokesman for the league, said the NFL Is
pleased with the court’s dismissal of all of the claims in the
lawsuit except for a contract claim.  “We continue to believe our offers meet or exceed what the
fans are entitled to under the law,” he said in an e-mail. “We
have been encouraged by the positive response from fans who
received these offers.”  Brett Daniels, a spokesman for Jones and the Cowboys, said
they had no comment on the ruling.  Lynn dismissed all claims against Jones, giving the
plaintiffs the option to re-plead two of them, including a
breach-of-contract claim against Jones and the Cowboys.  “The fact that the Super Bowl was held at Cowboys Stadium
and that  Jerry Jones  stated afterward that he accepted
responsibility for the seating problems does not mean that the
Cowboys defendants became parties to a contract between the NFL
and the plaintiffs,” she wrote.  Avenatti said the claims would be re-pleaded in the next
three weeks.  “Jones got a temporary reprieve,” said Avenatti. He said
that because many fans bought tickets directly from the Cowboys,
the team and its owner have liability.  The case is Simms v. Jones, 3:11-cv-00248 U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  