-- 
Nokia, Philips May Benefit From EU Fakes Ruling

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-12-01T15:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/nokia-may-lose-clash-with-u-k-over-fake-phones-after-eu-ruling.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  Royal Philips Electronics
NV (PHIA)  and other companies seeking to protect their brands against
counterfeit products entering the 27-nation European Union may
benefit from the region’s top court setting limits on when EU
customs officials can detain fakes in transit.  While setting stricter limits on when EU Customs officers
can stop fake products that are passing through the bloc, the EU
court brought long-sought clarity to help companies assess how
best to protect their brands. Counterfeit phones, as in the case
concerning Nokia, can be intercepted when in transit through the
region only if there’s proof they’ll be delivered within one of
the bloc’s member nations, the EU court said.  That proof should show the fake products have been sold to
a customer in the EU, have been offered for sale or advertised
in the EU or that they are intended to be diverted to the EU
“where it is apparent from documents or correspondence,” the
Luxembourg-based EU Court of Justice said in a ruling today.  Nokia challenged the U.K.’s position that customs officials
can’t seize fake products in transit through the EU without
proof they will actually end up in one of the region’s
countries. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia argued that risks making
the EU a “safe harbor” for counterfeiters.  U.K. customs officials stopped a shipment of about 400 fake
Nokia handsets and accessories in transit from  Hong Kong  to
 Colombia . While Nokia, the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones, said the products were fakes, the U.K. officials said
they couldn’t seize them without evidence they would be diverted
back into the EU.  ‘Unsafe, Unregulated’  “Counterfeiters put consumers at risk by trading unsafe,
unregulated products, and a lot of their earnings fund organized
crime,” said  Dafydd Bevan , a lawyer at Marks & Clerk
Solicitors.  The ruling is “a blow” to brand owners because it doesn’t
go far enough in fighting counterfeiting and that, if things are
to improve, EU lawmakers need to change the law itself, Bevan
said in an e-mailed statement.  The companies in today’s cases said the ruling brought
clarity on situations in which fakes can be stopped by Customs.  The EU court “recognized the secretive nature of
traffickers in fake goods, who often exploit customs
procedures,” said Lucy Nichols, director of brand protection at
Nokia, and it “found that fake goods in transit should, under
certain circumstances, be intercepted by Customs and has
provided valuable guidance.”  U.K. Ruling  Nokia’s case was referred to the EU court by the U.K. Court
of Appeal, which will now rule on the case based on today’s
decision.  “In the light of this decision, Nokia believes that the
U.K. Court of Appeal will agree that the circumstances of this
consignment of fake phones justified its continued detention by
customs,” Nichols said.  In a related case today involving Amsterdam-based Philips,
the court said officials had more leeway to seize counterfeits
if documents don’t name a final destination for products.  “The fact that the destination of the goods is not
declared” or that there is a “lack of precise or reliable
information as to the identity or address of the manufacturer or
consignor of the goods” can be used as indications that the
goods may ultimately be delivered to EU customers, the
Luxembourg-based court said.  Philips said it was happy that the EU court “confirmed
that customs must intercept infringing goods in transit when
there are indications that these will be put on the EU market,”
according to an e-mailed statement. “Philips is confident about
a positive outcome of the case” which had been referred by a
Belgian court “and sees this ECJ ruling as a positive
development for consumers and IP owners in  Europe .”  The cases are: C-495/09, Nokia Corporation v. Her Majesty’s
Commissioners of Revenue and Customs, C-446/09, Koninklijke
Philips Electronics NV v. Lucheng Meijing Industrial Company
Ltd. and Others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  