-- 
Norway Sees Record Oil Spending in 2012, Supports Economy

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-12-01T11:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/norway-sees-record-oil-spending-in-2012-supports-economy-1-.html
Norway  expects the  petroleum industry 
to invest a record amount next year amid new field developments,
shielding the economy from the fallout of Europe’s debt crisis.  Oil and gas companies expect to invest 184.6 billion kroner
($32 billion) next year, a  quarterly survey from  Norway’s
statistics agency showed today. That’s up from a September
estimate of 172 billion kroner. Spending will be 152.6 billion
kroner this year, little changed from the September estimate.  Norway, the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter and
second-biggest natural gas exporter, has so far been shielded
from the worst of the debt crisis and boasts surpluses and
unemployment below 3 percent. Increased oil investments will
underpin economic growth next year, even as global prospects
worsen, Stein Bruun, chief economist in Oslo at SEB AB.  “We will have a booming investment in the oil sector in
Norway both this year and next,” Bruun said. “It will add
important demand impulses to the Norwegian economy and damp the
blow from the weaker cycle in  Europe .”  Norway’s overall economy will accelerate to 3 percent next
year from 1.5 percent this year, the central bank forecasts.
Petroleum accounted for about a fifth of gross domestic product
and 26 percent of total investments in 2010, according to the
Energy Ministry. The industry accounted for 47 percent of total
exports last year.  Gas Sales  “Gas is sold on long-term contracts and the volume of such
exports is little affected by relatively short-term swings in
activity,” Bruun said. “Oil exports are constrained by
production at the Norwegian shelf.”  Norway’s central bank shelved planned interest rate
increases in October because of a deepening debt crisis in
Europe. Policy makers signaled they will keep the benchmark
unchanged until the second half of next year even as house
prices rise and credit growth accelerates.  Increased petroleum investments in 2012 are mainly due to a
high crude oil price, new discoveries, and maturing fields,
 Statistics Norway  said in its report. “The  oil companies  have
extensive drilling plans, both within production and
exploration,” the office said. “Production in many fields is
falling, and many platforms are old. These facts necessitate
upgrading on a large scale.”  Prices for  Brent crude , a Benchmark in Europe, have
increased 15 percent this year, and traded at $109.23 a barrel
by 12:43 p.m. in Oslo.  Investments in exploration are estimated at 32.4 billion
kroner in 2012, which is unchanged from the previous estimates,
the statistics agency said.  Celebrated Discoveries  “The celebrated discoveries earlier this year contribute
to a greater will to invest in exploration,” SSB said. “A
shortage of rigs and a strong demand to use the same rigs for
production drilling restrict the exploration plans.”  Statoil ASA (STL) , country’s biggest oil and gas producer, and
Lundin Petroleum AB, made two major offshore finds in Norway
this year that are linked into a single deposit. Aldous Major
South and Avaldsnes in the  North Sea  are part of one “giant”
oil field, and among Norway’s top 10 discoveries, the country’s
biggest oil and gas producer said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  