-- 
Novartis Pill for Multiple Sclerosis Rejected by U.K. Health-Cost Agency

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-12-01T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/novartis-ms-pill-gilenya-rejected-by-u-k-health-cost-agency.html
Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  multiple sclerosis pill
Gilenya failed for a second time to gain the backing of the
U.K.’s health-cost agency, denting the company’s ambitions to
turn the drug into a multibillion-dollar-a-year blockbuster.  Novartis failed to show that Gilenya would be cost
effective compared with existing options available even after
the drugmaker proposed a discount, the National Institute for
Health and Clinical Excellence said in a statement today. NICE
said in August the annual cost for the medicine, also known as
fingolimod, was about 19,196 pounds ($30,134).  Gilenya, approved in  Europe  in March as the first oral
treatment for MS, is among the products that Basel, Switzerland-
based Novartis is counting on to fuel sales growth as patents
start to expire on the company’s best-selling treatments,
including the hypertension pill Diovan.  “While Novartis submitted evidence that shows fingolimod
can reduce relapses, our independent committee has not been
convinced that it is a cost effective treatment option,” Andrew Dillon, chief executive of NICE, said in the statement.  NICE advises the state-run  National Health Service  on which
medicines represent value for money as the U.K. government works
to save as much as 20 billion pounds a year on medical expenses.  Novartis “remains committed to engaging with NICE with the
goal of ensuring that appropriate patients will have access to
Gilenya,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “This is
not the final guidance from NICE.”  The company declined to disclose details on the discount it
proposed to NICE.  Public comments on the draft decision will be accepted
until Jan. 5, NICE said. The independent committee will meet in
February to review comments before publishing final guidance in
April on whether the NHS is legally obliged to pay for Gilenya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  