-- 
Obama Pledges Funds, Seeks Global Effort to Defeat AIDS ‘Once And for All’

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-12-01T16:54:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/obama-pledges-funds-seeks-global-effort-to-defeat-aids-once-and-for-all-.html
President  Barack Obama , marking World
AIDS Day, called on Congress, other countries, drug companies
and state governments to “renew our commitment to ending the
AIDS pandemic once and for all.”  “Make no mistake, we are going to win this fight -- but
the fight is not over, not by a long shot,” Obama said today at
an event for the ONE Campaign and Red, two groups battling the
disease.  Obama was joined by Bono, lead singer of U2 and co-founder
of ONE and Red, and former U.S. President  George W. Bush , along
with President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete of Tanzania, through live
video teleconference.  Obama, speaking at George Washington University in the
nation’s capital, announced an additional $15 million of funding
for a program that supports HIV medical clinics across the U.S.,
and an additional $35 million for state AIDS drug assistance
programs.  “At a time when so much in  Washington  divides us, the
fight against this disease has united us across parties and
across presidencies,” Obama said. “It shows that we can do big
things when Republicans and Democrats put their common humanity
before politics.”  The U.S. will host the 2012 International AIDS Conference
in Washington in July, as more than 25,000 scientists and
advocates gather to discuss new research, best practices and the
most effective policies to abolish the disease.  Eradicating Disease  Bush, in his remarks, said World AIDS Day is a time “to
recommit ourselves” to eradicating the disease.  The number of people living with HIV worldwide climbed to
34 million from 32.9 million in 2009, three United Nations
agencies said in a report yesterday. The report also said 20
times as many people are being treated with antiretroviral drugs
than in 2002.  “Major progress has been made in the last 10 years in the
fight against global AIDS,” Kimberly Hunter, a spokeswoman for
the One advocacy group, said in a statement. “If the world
comes together over the next few years, we could finally see the
beginning of the end of the AIDS pandemic.”  That will happen only if governments and private groups
make a more aggressive push, she said.  Even with progress around the world, the infection rate in
the U.S. “has been holding steady for over a decade,” Obama
said.  Lives Matter  “When new infections among young, black, gay men increase
by nearly 50 percent in three years, we need to do more to show
them that their lives matter,” Obama said. “When Latinos are
dying sooner than other groups, and when black women feel
forgotten even though they account for most of the new cases
among women, then we’ve got to do more.”  Human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, causes AIDS. The
virus attacks the immune system and leaves the body vulnerable
to a variety of life-threatening infections and cancers.  The virus can be spread by sexual contact, blood
transfusions, needle sharing and from pregnant mother to her
fetus or a nursing mother through her breast milk.  Bush in 2003 led a commitment to tackle the disease on a
global scale and doubling funding to $15 billion over five by
2008. Obama has continued the effort, asking Congress for almost
$7 billion in fiscal 2011, up 1.8 percent from fiscal 2010.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in a speech Nov. 8,
announced an additional $60 million commitment to the
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, known as Pepfar,
aimed at parts of four countries in sub-Saharan  Africa .  ‘AIDS-Free Generation’  “Creating an AIDS-free generation has never been a policy
priority for the United States government -- until today,”
Clinton said at the  National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  Sheila Nix, executive director of ONE, said in response
that Clinton’s pledge is a “solid step” but “we need to see
this vision translated into a bold, new global plan of action.”  Michael Elliott, president and chief executive of the ONE
campaign and Deborah Dugan, chief executive of Red called on the
Obama administration on Oct. 19 to “set specific and measurable
goals with deadlines.”  They include an AIDS-free generation by 2015, with no child
being born with the HIV virus by 2015; ensuring 15 million HIV-
positive people are on treatment by 2015 and a “drastic
reduction” in the rate of HIV infections by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  