-- 
Boston Protesters May Stay for Now While Occupy San Francisco Fears Ouster

-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/occupy-boston-protesters-may-remain-until-ruling-on-eviction-judge-says.html
Occupy  Boston  protesters were allowed
by a state court judge to remain in the city’s Dewey Square
while she considers whether to lift an order that bars their
eviction.  Suffolk Superior Court Judge Frances McIntyre in Boston
yesterday said the order will remain in place until she issues
her decision on or before Dec. 15. The judge heard testimony
from the city’s fire marshal warning that the square is a
firetrap plagued by cigarette smoking, close quarters and
flammable materials.  “People need to be removed from that site immediately if
the court allows,” Boston Fire Marshal Bart Shea testified.
“Every day that place is occupied, I fear for the life and
safety of everyone on that property.”  The Occupy Wall Street movement began in  New York  as a
protest against  income inequality  and has spread to cities
around the world. Police in New York drove the demonstrators
from their encampment in a Lower Manhattan park last month.  In  San Francisco , protesters said they expected to be
evicted from Justin Herman Plaza after they refused to move to a
new location selected by the city.  About 200 people in 100 tents and tarps are camped in the
plaza between the waterfront and the financial district.
Mohammed Nuru, the interim director of the San Francisco
Department of Public Works, visited the site on Nov. 30 and,
according to the San Francisco  Examiner , told protesters the
city wanted them to leave by noon yesterday.  Derek Whaler, a protester at the camp’s information desk,
said that when Nuru visited, he didn’t give a deadline for
leaving.  Expecting Raid  “The vast majority of the Occupy San Francisco members
believe there will be a raid,” Whaler said.  A San Francisco police spokesman said yesterday there
wasn’t police deadline to evict the protesters.  “To my knowledge, we didn’t establish a deadline,” Gloria
Chan, a spokeswoman for the public works department, said in a
phone interview.  “Right now we are waiting for Occupy SF to come up with a
unified message and tell us what they want to do,” Chan said.  Los Angeles  prosecutors charged 19 people who were arrested
Nov. 30 when police cleared the Occupy LA camp on the city hall
lawn. Eighteen protesters were charged with failing to disperse,
according to a statement by City Attorney Carmen Trutanich. One
man was charged with resisting arrest, battery and assault on a
peace officer.  291 Arrests  A total of 291 people were arrested during the nighttime
operation in downtown Los Angeles, mostly for failing to
disperse. So far, the  Los Angeles Police Department  has
submitted 150 arrest reports for review by the city attorney.
The remaining reports are expected to be filed today, according
to the statement.  Shea, the fire marshal, said he visited the Boston camp
several times and saw cigarette butts littering the ground and
flammable tarps he compared to “napalm.” He predicted people
would be trampled and burned in the tight camp if they tried to
evacuate.  Shea described confronting a man at the camp who was
lighting sage on fire.  Burning Sage  “When I tried to stop him, he got argumentative with me.
He continued to walk about the property, anointing it with his
sage and dropping his embers,” Shea testified.  The fire department has never officially notified their
clients of any fire-safety concerns, lawyers for Occupy Boston
said. The camp is home to 100 to 150 people.  The fire marshal said his department mailed two orders
seeking abatement of fire hazards to Occupy Boston at their
Dewey Square camp. Under cross-examination, he said the orders
weren’t sent by certified mail. He said he has no official
address for the group.  Howard Cooper, an Occupy Boston attorney, said First
Amendment rights should outweigh concerns about potential fire
hazards. The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees
the right to free speech and peaceful assembly. He said members
are willing to work with the fire department to make the camp
safer.  He said the fire marshal has refused to work with Occupy
Boston because of its structure as a “horizontal democracy”
governed by consensus through a General Assembly. It has no
named leader.  ‘Free Speech’  “The primary value to be balanced here is free speech,”
Cooper told the judge. “The question is whether you just take
the First Amendment considerations that are unique response to a
unique set of issues we all face yesterday and throw it out
without letting them address any of these issues.”  Michael Riciutti, a lawyer for the city, said Occupy Boston
has gone from being a political protest to an unsafe housing
development.  “The plaintiffs do not have the right to take a piece of
public property in perpetuity and establish their own society,”
he told the judge. “They cannot choose to use a limited portion
of basically public park space forever.”  Occupy Boston won a temporary restraining order on Nov. 16
blocking the city from kicking out the protesters and wants a
permanent injunction. The city, while saying it has no plans to
remove protesters, said it must retain the power to evict them
at will.  Park Conservancy  Lawyers for the Rose Kennedy Greenway Conservancy, which
oversees the park, also asked the judge not to approve an
injunction.  Boston police have spent $750,000 in overtime policing the
camp and responding 87 times various matters, according to an
affidavit.  Occupy Boston member Kristopher Martin, 25, testified that
the camp needs to remain in Dewey Square between the city’s
financial district and the Federal Bank of Reserve because the
location helps Occupy highlight economic and political
inequality.  “We are living in an egalitarian society where everyone is
equal,” he said. “We wish our country operated more like that
and we want to continue spreading that message.”  The case is Occupy Boston v. City of Boston, 2011-11-4152,
Suffolk Superior Court (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  