-- 
Loews CEO Tisch Says He Is Bullish Long-Term on Natural Gas

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-12-01T21:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/loews-ceo-tisch-says-he-is-bullish-long-term-on-natural-gas-prospects.html
James Tisch, the chief executive
officer of  Loews Corp. (L) , said he is bullish on the prospects for
natural gas, including the use of hydraulic fracturing to
extract gas from shale-rock formations.  “Gas is really, really cheap compared with oil,” Tisch
said today at a Bloomberg Hedge Fund Conference hosted by
Bloomberg Link in  New York . “On a BTU basis, gas trades at less
than 20 percent of the price of a BTU of oil. As a result, gas
consumption is going to increase significantly and oil
consumption in the  United States  is going to decline.”  U.S. natural gas reserves are growing as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and other exploration companies devote
billions to domestic shale-gas projects that rely on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking. Tisch said the industry will be able to
continue employing this process, even though environmental
groups and state officials have raised concern that the use of
chemicals to help crack shale deposits deep underground could
pollute groundwater.  “Fracking is here to stay,” Tisch said today. “It may
come with more rules and regulations, but that just becomes a
cost of drilling the well.”  Loews, based in New York, entered the offshore drilling
business in the late 1980s when rigs “looked really, really
cheap to us,” Tisch said. Loews took the company public in 1995
under the name  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  and now holds a
$4.2 billion stake in the Houston-based rig owner and operator.  Laurence Tisch, the late co-chairman of Loews, made stock
investments through the holding company, a practice that James,
his son, has continued. James said today that, although there is
“enormous volatility” in the stock market, he recommended
buying equities for the long-term.  “Chances are you will do very well over the next five to
10 years” by investing in stocks now, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  