-- 
Oil Drops for First Time in Five Days in N.Y. as U.S. Jobless Claims Rise

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-01T21:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/oil-fluctuates-on-u-s-jobless-claims-rally-in-spanish-french-bonds.html
Oil declined after more Americans
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  and as European and
Chinese manufacturing weakened last month.  Futures fell for the first time in five days in New York
after the Labor Department said U.S. jobless claims rose by
6,000 to 402,000 last week. Manufacturing in  Europe  and China
shrank to the lowest levels since 2009. Prices advanced earlier
on a report that showed U.S. industry grew more than expected.  “The uptick in the weekly jobless numbers is a reminder
that there’s a lot to do before there’s an economic rebound of
substantial strength,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital, a New York-based hedge fund focusing on energy. “The
European economy is still very weak as well. The demand picture
for oil remains very challenging.”  Crude oil for January delivery declined 16 cents to settle
at $100.20 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Futures
rose 7.7 percent in November and are up 9.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement fell $1.53, or 1.4
percent, to $108.99 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The European contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
crude traded in New York narrowed $1.37 to $8.79 a barrel today,
the smallest differential since March 8. The spread surged to a
record high of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  “Investors are trying to figure out what to do with the
WTI-Brent spread,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.3 billion. “The most important thing we’re looking at today
is the narrowing of the spread. We have to find the level
justified by the fundamentals.”  Jobless Claims  U.S. jobless claims were projected to drop to 390,000 last
week, according to the  median  forecast of 43 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 46.4 from 47.1 in
October, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
lowest level since July 2009.  China ’s  manufacturing  contracted in November for the first
time since February 2009, a purchasing managers’ index compiled
by the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing showed.  The U.S. and China were responsible for 32 percent of
global oil consumption in 2010, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy released on June 8. The 17
countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent of world
demand last year, BP figures show.  U.S. Manufacturing  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
increased to 52.7 last month, the fastest pace in five months,
from 50.8 in October, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a gain to 51.8.  Oil settled above $100 for two consecutive days for the
first time since June. Futures closed at a two-week high
yesterday after the  Federal Reserve  and five other central banks
agreed to boost liquidity to mitigate the impact of the European
debt crisis.  “I’m flabbergasted by the recent strength of the market,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-
based Schork Group Inc. “The central bank action yesterday
doesn’t solve Europe’s problems. Finding a solution to the
issues has been kicked down the road.”  Middle East   Turmoil in the Middle East has bolstered concern that the
flow of oil may be disrupted and helped send prices above $100 a
barrel. European Union governments  tightened sanctions  on Iran
in a clampdown on the country’s nuclear program, while divisions
festered over a possible halt to purchase of Iranian oil.  Following up on penalties imposed by the U.S. last month,
the EU added 180 Iranian officials and companies to a blacklist
and started work on sanctions on the country’s oil exports,
banks, transport sector and the Revolutionary Guard Corps.  Iran  is the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumping 3.56 million barrels a
day last month, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Saudi Arabia  is
the top producer.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 488,874
contracts as of 3:39 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 619,621
contracts yesterday, 7.2 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.3 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  