-- 
Stoke, Lokomotiv Moscow, Schalke Get to Knockout Rounds in Europa League

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-12-02T00:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/lokomotiv-moscow-gets-2-1-win-over-sturm-graz-to-advance-in-europa-league.html
Stoke City  and Lokomotiv Moscow
advanced to the last 32 in the Europa League, while FC Twente
defeated Fulham 1-0 to win their group in the continent’s
second-tier soccer competition.  Stoke qualified with a 1-1 home draw against Dynamo Kiev
last night as  Kenwyne Jones  headed in a cross from Jermain Pennant with nine minutes remaining after a Matthew Upson own
goal put the visitors ahead in the first half.  “What we’ve done is fantastic,” Stoke manager  Tony Pulis 
told reporters. “We’ve qualified from the hardest group we
could have been put in, not only because of the quality of the
opposition but because of the travelling.”  The top two teams from each of the 12 groups go through to
the next round, where they’re joined by the eight third-place
finishers from the elite Champions League.  Stoke has 11 points in Group E, two more than Besiktas,
which is three points ahead of Kiev. Two goals from Ricardo Quaresma and another from Ibrahim Toraman gave Besiktas a 3-2
win against Maccabi  Tel Aviv  in  Israel .  Maicon scored for Lokomotiv in the 62nd minute to break a
scoreless Group L match in Moscow. Florian Kainz tied the game a
minute later and the hosts sealed the win with a Dmitri Sychev
penalty kick and a late goal by Denis Glushakov. In the other
match in the group, Anderlecht got past AEK Athens 2-1 in  Greece .  In the Netherlands, Marc Janko scored in the 89th minute to
keep Twente at the top of Group K.  Johnson Ejected  Also in the group, Wisla Krakow beat last-place Odense 2-1.
The victory puts Krakow a point behind Fulham with one game to
play. Fulham had striker  Andy Johnson  red-carded for a second
bookable offence in added time at the end of the game, ruling
him out of the final match against Odense.  “That was not what you want,” Fulham coach  Martin Jol  told
reporters. “We need all of our players and Andy Johnson is
scoring goals.”  Sporting Lisbon will finish atop Group D after a 2-0
victory over FC Zurich yesterday. Lazio and Vaslui are tied on
six points after they drew 0-0 in Romania.  Paris Saint-Germain’s chances of advancing were hurt by a
2-0 loss in Salzburg. The hosts got goals from Jakob Jantscher
and Dusan Svento. PSG is tied with Salzburg on seven points in
Group F and will be eliminated if the Austrian team defeats
Slovan Bratislava in their last game. Bilbao will finish top of
the group after beating Bratislava 2-1 at home.  Raul Scores  In Group J, Schalke advanced with a 2-1 victory over Steaua
Bucharest, while AEK Larnaca defeated Maccabi Haifa by the same
score. Schalke got a goal from Raul, his first in the Europa
League after 71 in the  Champions League , the region’s top club
competition.  “I had a few chances and it’s a shame I didn’t score,
although I was involved in Raul’s goal,” Schalke forward Klaas-
Jan Huntelaar told reporters. “It’s great to play alongside him
because he is very experienced, clever and has seen so much.”  Sporting Lisbon, Anderlecht, PSV Eindhoven, Legia Warsaw,
Twente and  Athletic Bilbao  were already through to the round of
32 before last night’s games.  Atletico  Madrid , Braga, PAOK Salonika, Metalist Kharkiv,
Standard Liege and Hannover secured spots in the knockout rounds
two days ago.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  