-- 
Oleg Cassini Sues Serta, JC Penney Over Their Mattress Advertisements

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-01T22:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/oleg-cassini-sues-serta-jc-penney-over-their-mattress-ads-1-.html
Oleg Cassini Inc. sued  Serta Inc.  and
 JC Penney Co. (JCP)  for trademark infringement in federal court in  New
York , claiming the retailer and mattress maker used its name to
advertise products without authorization.  “The Cassini marks are famous throughout the world and are
especially well-known by those in the apparel and related home
goods and furnishings industries,” the New York-based company
named for the fashion designer who died in 2006, said in a
complaint filed today in New York.  The bed maker and the department store operator are
advertising Cassini-branded mattresses, including models called
“Perfect Day Cassini” and “Cassini Firm Cali King” without
being authorized Oleg Cassini Inc. licensees, according to the
complaint, which seeks a court order blocking the practice and
money damages.  The lawsuit follows by three weeks a Serta-filed suit in
 Chicago , which seeks a judge’s finding that its products do not
infringe the Cassini marks.  The “Cassini” designation on mattresses sold at JC Penney
does not reference late fashion designer, according to Serta’s
Nov. 10 complaint. Rather it was one of several products in a
line sharing space exploration-related names. Serta said it
dropped its Cassini line from JC Penney in response to Oleg
Cassini objections.  Other such products include the Eclipse, the Gemini and the
Nebula, according to the Serta complaint. Giovanni Domenico
Cassini was a late 17th Century Italian-French astronomer after
whom the U.S. National Aeronautics & Space Administration named
a Saturn probe launched in 1997.  Serta Statement  “Serta has not infringed and is not infringing any valid
trademark of Oleg Cassini” the mattress maker said. The  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois-based company seeks a court ruling its
products do not infringe those of Oleg Cassini.  JC Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , isn’t a party to Serta’s
 Illinois  lawsuit.  The New York case is Oleg Cassini Inc. v. Serta Inc., 11-
cv-8751, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The Illinois case is Serta Inc. v. Oleg Cassini
Inc., 11-cv-8004, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at  aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  