-- 
Woodford Seeks Shareholder Support to Take Over Olympus With New Directors

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-12-01T10:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/olympus-whistle-blower-woodford-quits-board-after-revealing-payment-scheme.html
Michael C. Woodford resigned as a
director of  Olympus Corp.  in the first step of a campaign to
take control of the camera maker from the board that fired him
as chief executive officer in a dispute over falsified accounts.  “I will come together with a new slate of directors,”
Woodford said in an interview in  New York  yesterday. Resigning
“allows me to talk to all parties at Olympus.”  Shareholders should be given a chance to vote for new
management after Olympus admitted former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and senior aides colluded to cover up losses dating
back to the 1990s, Woodford said. Southeastern Asset Management
Inc., Olympus’s largest overseas stockholder, joined Woodford in
calls for a change of management.  “Olympus needs a new board of trustworthy and credible
directors and corporate auditors with a majority of independent
directors,” Josh Shores, a London-based principal at
Southeastern, said in an e-mail statement today. “A new slate
of directors proposed only by the current board would not be
sufficient.”  Woodford was fired after questioning $1.4 billion in
takeover costs now at the center of criminal investigations.
Olympus confirmed it accepted his resignation as a director,
according to a statement to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.  ‘Completely Committed’  “I remain completely committed to Olympus and, if the
shareholders decide, very much want to return,” Woodford said
in an e-mail statement. “I would like nothing more than to
return to Olympus and lead it toward” regaining its reputation
as “a world-class organization which is the envy of its
competitors,” he said in the statement.  Woodford met with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the
 Department of Justice  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
in the U.S. this week, following meetings with Japanese police
and regulators last week, to discuss payments made in the
purchase of Gyrus Group Plc and stake writedowns in three other
takeovers.  The stock of the 92-year-old camera and endoscope maker has
slumped 58 percent since Woodford was fired, on concerns about
the scale of the losses, the threat of delisting and continuing
criminal investigations. Olympus rose 2.3 percent to 1,049 yen
at close of trading in Tokyo.  Delisting  Woodford met with President Shuichi Takayama and other
directors at a board meeting in Tokyo last week and pledged to
work to avoid delisting. The company must report earnings by a
Dec. 14 deadline set by regulators to avoid being removed from
public trading.  An independent panel investigating acquisitions and
accounting that the company set up on Nov. 1 may report its
findings as early as tomorrow, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The committee, headed by former Supreme Court Judge Tatsuo
Kainaka, has interviewed previous executives including Woodford,
Kikukawa and Hisashi Mori, the executive vice president
dismissed over his part in the schemes to cover up losses.  Olympus is also forming two teams to improve corporate
governance and business structure that will be led by Takayama,
the company said two days ago.  “It’s completely inappropriate for the current management
team, who are tainted by its past mistakes, to make choices
about the identity of new board members,” Woodford said in the
statement. “I intend to liaise with all interested stakeholders
with a view to formulating a proposal for the constitution of a
new board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  