-- 
Money Managers Make Their Distress Your Problem: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-12-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/money-managers-make-their-pain-your-problem-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
Is it possible that, even after the
uncountable lessons of the past three years, investors have
learned nothing? A popular financial planner and blogger made a
very public disclosure of his personal economic meltdown last
month, telling the story of how he got in over his head with a
Las Vegas house that had two mortgages, no equity, and a date
with destiny for a short-sale with Wells Fargo & Co.  What’s stunning to me isn’t that Carl Richards of Park
City,  Utah , inspired hundreds of online hate-mail postings after
 writing  his tell-all, “How a Financial Pro Lost His House,” in
the New York Times on Nov. 8. The thing I’m trying to figure out
is why even a smattering of readers would sing his praises. He’s
“a brave guy to write what he did,” one reader  wrote  on the
Times’s comment board. “If I lived in Utah, I would hire you in
a minute,” another wrote.  Fifteen investors have sent e-mails to inquire about
becoming new clients after reading the article, Richards told me
in a telephone interview, and not one of his 29 clients have
strayed as a result of the confession heard around the
blogosphere. Anonymous writers on various blog sites mostly
trashed him, but Richards says readers with the courage to
contact him directly swamped him with supportive messages.  Which leads me to a single, simple question: Are you people
all nuts?  It’s important to make it clear that Richards, despite his
bad financial judgment in racking up a mountain of personal
debt, has a squeaky-clean record with securities regulators. And
it says a lot if clients are sticking with him. But all this
honesty-begets-heroism nonsense tells me that some investors are
still out to lunch when it comes to evaluating financial
professionals. It’s a fair bet that the people applauding
Richards don’t have a clue whether he’s a guy with a spotless
record or is a financial Jack the Ripper.  Begging for Trouble  Separate from that, as far as I’m concerned, if you hire an
adviser who is having a personal financial crisis, you are
begging for trouble. It’s axiomatic that some financial advisers
will be tempted to make their money trouble your money trouble.  I’m sorry, sort of, if that means deserving advisers are
passed over by investors who show an abundance of caution. But
this is no time to get hooked up with a broker, financial
planner or  investment adviser  feeling the squeeze. Richards, in
fact, has heard from financial planners who wrote to tell him
that they, too, were in trouble, but had no one to talk to about
it. Heartbreaking, I know.  There are lots more where they came from. And not all have
the pristine record that Richards has.  When the credit crisis hit in 2008, financial advisers who
were overleveraged, afraid of losing their jobs, or just plain
crooked suddenly had an elevated motivation to maintain their
income with tricks that ranged from dipping into clients’
accounts to old-fashioned churning in order to drum up
commissions. No matter the state of the economy or the stock
market, it’s in your interest to find out if your financial
expert has liens, big loans from an employer or a history of
bankruptcy. When bad times hit, you forsake that sort of
investigating at your peril.  Liens and bankruptcies by brokers licensed with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, are listed at
the end of their public Broker Check  reports . Certified
financial planners with certification from the CFP Board of
Standards can wind up with an online  citation  of any
bankruptcies in their CFP histories, although it pays to check
Finra, too. I’ve seen CFP records that don’t include red flags
such as the short sale of a broker’s home -- when a property is
sold for less than the mortgage amount.  A caveat is that if the broker doesn’t report it, or the
regulator doesn’t catch it, you’re not going to see it. Pay a
few dollars to search Public Access to Court Electronic  Records 
and you might catch something an adviser is trying to keep off
the radar.  Professional Crisis  There’s a rash of finance professionals going through
personal financial crises, says Bill Singer, a New York
securities lawyer since 1985. “I’ve never seen it like this,”
he told me.  A Finra spokeswoman says the agency doesn’t compile
aggregate statistics about broker bankruptcies for public
consumption. The  CFP Board of Standards  -- which tests and vets
financial planners - says that this year it has held 49
disciplinary hearings of planners who declared bankruptcy, up
from 20 in 2010. But those numbers don’t include other warning
signs, such as short sales of homes.  It doesn’t help that stockbrokers often are motivated to
cheat because of six-figure upfront bonuses that convert into
personal debts to their firm if they leave or get fired. Scot
Bernstein, a California lawyer who represents aggrieved
investors, says it keeps the pressure on brokers to follow
management’s sales agenda even if it means fleecing customers.
The shady firm desperate to do business sends a message “that
we can toss you out on your ear for any reason, including if you
don’t want to sell variable annuities to a 90-year-old,”
Bernstein says.  Public records at Finra and the CFP show the link between
financially pressed investment pros and customer complaints over
recent post-credit-crisis years. A Minnesota broker was barred
from the brokerage industry in October after using the Social
Security number of a customer and personal friend -- without
that person’s permission -- to co-sign a college loan for his
daughter. The broker told Finra at a hearing that he and his
wife had gotten used to doing “things we never did before” and
that when times got tough, he had to “mask things a bit.” He’s
appealing Finra’s bar.  A broker from  Long Island  was suspended for two months
beginning Nov. 21 after he neglected to tell Finra about a
felony charge: A Las Vegas casino filed charges, saying he’d
bounced a $10,000 check with the intent to defraud. He already
had contributed to settlements of two customer complaints since
2009 and has four liens listed in his records with Finra, which
waived a monetary penalty because he couldn’t have paid a fine
anyway.  Great Timing  Sometimes brokers file for bankruptcy with remarkable
timing that gets them off the hook just as a hearing looms.
Another Long Island broker has a Finra dossier that lists two
criminal items; four resolved complaints that involved payments
to investors; and four pending client disputes. He filed for
Chapter 7 bankruptcy in February, just as a $5 million claim
against him was headed for arbitration.  If you think I’m just a crank who is overstating the risk
when bad times set off the cheating side of advisers, consider
the perspective of an expert who has a more forgiving view of
financial types who make personal mistakes: Carl Richards.  We didn’t agree on some issues when we spoke last week. I
told him, for instance, that I would never let someone with his
history run my money. But when I asked him whether investors
should worry that ethically challenged advisers with personal
money troubles might be more inclined to cheat a customer in bad
times, he conceded I was “spot on.” It’s “a legitimate
concern,” he said.  There are always conflicts when you are taking care of
other people’s personal finances, Richards told me. But it’s
“harder to handle” for the adviser whose own checkbook balance
begins with a minus sign. You can see Richards’s own record
under “David Carl Richards III”  here .  It’s clean. Do the same thing with the name of anyone who
is pitching to run your money. If you are looking to steer
business to someone who is needy, get a list of deserving
workers from your local church or homeless shelter. Parking your
money with needy brokers is just too risky.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at  santilla@bloomberg.net  or   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  