-- 
Hong Kong Retail Sales Growth Slows for Third Month as China Tourism Cools

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-12-01T16:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/hong-kong-retail-sales-growth-slows-for-third-month-as-china-tourism-cools.html
Hong Kong ’s retail sales growth
slowed for a third straight month as the threat of a global
recession clouds the outlook for the labor market and
consumption in the city.  Sales  rose 23.1 percent in October from a year earlier to
HK$34.2 billion ($4.4 billion), the government said on its
website yesterday. That compares with a revised 24 percent gain
in September and the median 20.5 percent estimate of nine
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Manufacturing indexes in China,  Taiwan  and  South Korea 
contracted in November, reports yesterday showed, adding to
evidence the global economy is slowing as  Europe ’s debt crisis
deepens. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
cut their estimates for Hong Kong’s 2012 expansion, with the
city’s export dependence making it vulnerable to moderating
growth in  China  and developed nations.  “Hong Kong’s retail sales will soften on weakening
consumer sentiment,” Raymond Yeung, an economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the release.
‘Households will spend more cautiously amid uncertainty in the
economy and the jobs market while demand from Chinese visitors
may also start to flag.’’  Year-on-year growth in Chinese visitor arrivals eased to 25
percent in October from 33 percent in July, according to Hong
Kong Tourism Board data. The city’s unemployment rate in the
three months ended October rose for the first time in six
months.  Forecasts Cut  In July, retail sales jumped 29 percent to HK$35.2 billion,
a record value excluding January and February figures that are
distorted by a Lunar New Year holiday.  The city skirted a recession in the third quarter with 0.1
percent expansion from the previous three months. Still, the
economy could be “very weak” in the next two years if Europe’s
debt crisis worsens, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said last
month.  By  volume , stripping out price changes, retail sales
increased 15 percent in October from a year earlier, slowing
from a revised 15.1 percent rise in September, yesterday’s
report showed.  Goldman Sachs yesterday cut its growth forecast for Hong
Kong next year to 3.6 percent from a previous estimate of 3.8
percent, citing a property slowdown and weaker global growth.
The city’s jobless rate may rise to 4 percent by the end of 2012
from 3.3 percent at the end of October and will “weigh on
private consumption,” the bank said in a report.  Deteriorating Conditions  DBS lowered its growth estimate to 2 percent from 4.5
percent, saying Hong Kong’s dependence on  exports  makes the city
“extremely vulnerable” to external shocks.  The city’s biggest cosmetics retailer said last month it’s
still “optimistic” about the outlook on continued growth in
consumption by visitors from the mainland.  Sa Sa International
Holdings Ltd. (178)  reported a 35 percent surge in sales in Hong Kong
and Macau for the six months ending September, citing demand
from Chinese shoppers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  