-- 
Robuchon Gains as Michelin Adds Two 3-Star Venues in Hong Kong

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-12-02T02:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/hong-kong-michelin-guide-adds-three-star-restaurants-another-for-robuchon.html
Michelin named two more three-star
restaurants in  Hong Kong  as French chef  Joel Robuchon  picked up
a further accolade for his international chain L’Atelier de Joel
Robuchon and the Italian 8-½ Otto e Mezzo Bombana gained.  Second stars were awarded to six establishments: Bo
Innovation,  Lei Garden  ( Mong Kok ), Shang Palace, Spoon by  Alain
Ducasse  and  Ye Shanghai  (Kowloon), all in Hong Kong; and  Wing
Lei  in  Macau . Twelve gained one star, one of them in Macau.  Michelin’s fourth annual guide to Hong Kong and Macau goes
on sale today, according to the company’s website. It has five
three-star venues, 13 with two stars, and 51 with a single star.
Seven of the venues are in Macau, a former Portuguese colony
whose casinos generated $2.87 billion in gambling revenue last
month. Robuchon now has three-star establishments in both
Chinese cities.  “Not only does it reflect the sustained improvement in the
quality of restaurants in Hong Kong and Macau, it highlights the
increasing richness and diversity of the delicacies to be found
in each city,” Michelin said in an e-mailed release yesterday.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and intended for
chauffeurs. The guide contained practical information, including
street maps and tips on using and repairing tires.  The Michelin guide Hong Kong Macau 2012 (HK$188) will be
available on Dec. 5 in Macau and on Dec. 12 in  Southeast Asia .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 