-- 
Monsanto Corn May Be Failing to Kill Bugs, EPA Says

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-12-02T21:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/monsanto-corn-may-be-failing-to-kill-rootworms-in-four-states-epa-says.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  corn that’s genetically
engineered to kill insects may be losing its effectiveness
against rootworms in four states, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency said.  Rootworms in Iowa,  Illinois ,  Minnesota  and  Nebraska  are
suspected of developing tolerance to the plants’ insecticide,
based on documented cases of severe crop damage and reports from
entomologists, the EPA said in a memo dated Nov. 22 and posted
Nov. 30 on a government  website . Monsanto’s program for
monitoring suspected cases of resistance is “inadequate,” the
EPA said.  “Resistance is suspected in at least some portions of four
states in which ‘unexpected damage’ reports originated,” the
EPA said in the memo, which reviewed damage reports.  The insects, which begin life as root-chewing grubs before
developing into adult beetles, are among the most destructive
corn pests, costing U.S. farmers about  $1 billion  a year in
damages and chemical pesticides, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  Monsanto fell 3.8 percent to $70.42 at the close in  New
York , the  tenth-biggest (SPX)  decline among companies in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  “The stock is always going to be susceptible to headline
risk as it pertains to the effectiveness of their products,”
 Mark Demos , a portfolio manager who helps oversee $18 billion at
Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis , said by telephone.
“They are leading the charge in biotech, so it’s bad for the
whole industry.”  Introduced in 2003  Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, introduced its
rootworm-killing corn technology in 2003. The modified corn was
planted on more than 37 million acres this year, Lee Quarles, a
spokesman for St. Louis-based Monsanto, said yesterday. Monsanto
isn’t having resistance issues with seeds engineered to kill
corn borers and other pests that live above ground. Corn is
Monsanto’s largest business, accounting for 41 percent of its
$11.8 billion of sales in the fiscal year ended Aug. 31.  An  Iowa  State University study said in July that some
rootworms have evolved resistance to an insect-killing protein
derived from Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt, a natural
insecticide engineered into Monsanto corn. Entomologists in
Illinois and other Midwestern states are studying possible
resistance where the insects devour roots of Monsanto’s Bt corn.  ‘Stay Ahead’  Monsanto continues to believe there’s no scientific
confirmation of resistance to its Bt corn, Quarles said by
telephone. Still, Monsanto takes the EPA report “seriously”
and is increasing efforts to teach farmers how to respond to
unexpected damage in their fields, he said.  Less than 0.2 percent of the acres planted with Monsanto’s
Bt corn were affected by unexpected rootworm damage this year,
Quarles said. Farmers with root damage in their fields should
consider changing practices to “stay ahead of this insect,”
Monsanto said in a statement. That could include rotating corn
with soybeans or using a product such as Monsanto’s SmartStax
corn, which kills rootworms with two types of Bt, the company
said.  The EPA report “does throw a harsher light on the longer-
term efficacy of the trait,” Chris Shaw, a New York-based
analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co., said today by telephone.
The development of SmartStax shows Monsanto knows it can’t rely
on a single gene to address farmers’ problems, he said.  No Refuge  The agency said in the memo that SmartStax could lose its
effectiveness if it’s planted in fields where bugs have
developed a tolerance to Monsanto’s Bt gene, known as CRY3bB1.
That’s because SmartStax’s effectiveness is predicated on both
types of Bt working as designed. SmartStax corn produces the
second type of Bt, called Cry34/35, with a gene licensed from
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)   To deter resistance to all types of Bt corn, the EPA
requires farmers who use the modified crop to also plant corn
that doesn’t produce the pesticide. The agency reasons that bugs
in the so-called refuge that are not exposed to the toxin will
mate with any resistant rootworms, creating a new generation of
insects that are once again susceptible to the insecticide.  Some corn farmers don’t appear to be planting the required
refuges in Minnesota, where moderate to severe rootworm damage
is spreading and occurred for a third straight year in 2011,
according to the EPA.  Remedial Action  The EPA’s decision earlier this week to extend the
registration of SmartStax, which was originally approved in 2009,
shows that the resistance concern “isn’t significantly
important,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at
Ticonderoga Securities, said in a phone interview today.  Monsanto should enact a remedial action plan in fields
where resistance to its Bt insecticide is suspected, the EPA
said. That includes having growers use conventional pesticide to
kill adult rootworm beetles late in the season and alternate
pest control methods in the following season.  Monsanto tested rootworms for resistance in Nebraska,
Illinois and Iowa and should expand the monitoring to  Colorado ,
Minnesota,  South Dakota  and western  Wisconsin  because questions
about the performance of Bt corn extends to all seven states,
the EPA said in the memo.  Monsanto’s most advanced resistance problem is with crops
engineered to tolerate its Roundup herbicide. Weeds that are no
longer killed by Roundup have invaded 14 million acres of U.S.
cotton, soybean and corn, according to  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , a Swiss
chemical maker. A Dow Chemical Co. study this year found as many
as 20 million acres of corn and soybeans may be infested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  