-- 
Onyx Spurs Pfizer Talk With Cancer Drug as Patent Cure: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-12-01T05:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/onyx-spurs-pfizer-talk-with-cancer-drug-as-patent-cure-real-m-a.html
The promise of an experimental drug
for cancer means that  Onyx (ONXX)  Pharmaceuticals Inc. may reward
shareholders with a record windfall by selling itself.  Onyx, which is developing a drug called carfilzomib to
treat blood cancer, jumped this week by the most since July 2010
after two people with knowledge of the matter said the drugmaker
is exploring options including a sale. Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. says Onyx could command at least $70 a share in an
acquisition, or more than 70 percent above its average in the
past 20 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While a takeover offer at that price would be costlier for
potential buyers than any biotechnology deal of comparable size,
Onyx may interest companies such as Pfizer Inc. and Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. as their own drugs lose patent protections,
Mizuho and Tullett Prebon Plc said. Onyx, which already sells a
kidney-cancer treatment named Nexavar, may get U.S. approval for
carfilzomib as early as March, helping it double sales within
five years, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Drugmakers are “in the market for transactions and new
drugs,”  Walter Todd , co-chief investment officer at  Greenwood
Capital  in Greenwood,  South Carolina , which manages $940 million,
said in a telephone interview. “You have huge patent
expirations. Cancer is an area that a lot of companies are
focused on. Large companies are looking for growth opportunities
and these smaller names are going to be attractive.”  Todd said New York-based Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker, along with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  of  London , were among
companies that could benefit from acquiring Onyx.  Takeover Speculation  Shares of Onyx surged 14 percent on Nov. 28 after two
people familiar with the situation, who declined to be
identified because the discussions were private, said that the
company had hired investment bank  Centerview Partners  to help it
review alternatives.  Potential buyers are studying Onyx’s business and its
carfilzomib drug, which treats a cancer of plasma cells known as
 multiple myeloma , one of the people said.  While Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for South San Francisco,
California-based Onyx, said it doesn’t comment on rumor or
speculation, Jefferies Group Inc.’s Biren Amin says the company
signaled a willingness to sell itself in October when it settled
a lawsuit with Bayer AG over the experimental cancer medicine
regorafenib and amended its collaboration agreement for Nexavar.  The amended Oct. 11 agreement now maintains Onyx’s profit-
sharing, co-development and co-promotion of Nexavar with
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer in the event that Onyx, valued
at $2.8 billion, is bought, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Change of Control  “They’re definitely putting themselves out there,” Amin,
an analyst at Jefferies in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “At the end of the day, most of these small- to mid-
cap biotech companies want to sell themselves.”  Onyx could be worth $70 a share to $80 a share in an
acquisition, according to an estimate from Gene Mack, a New
York-based analyst at Mizuho. Based on Onyx’s average price of
$39.39 in the past 20 trading days, a $70-a-share offer would
represent a 78 percent takeover premium.  That would exceed the 67 percent premium that Takeda,
 Asia ’s biggest drugmaker, agreed to pay for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2008 in
the costliest biotechnology deal between $1 billion and $10
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Driven by carfilzomib, analysts estimate Onyx will generate
more than $1 billion in revenue by 2016, versus an estimated
$443 million this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Medical Need  Onyx could have the experimental medicine cleared for
marketing by March if the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
assigns “fast track” status to its new drug application,
according to Andrew Berens, a senior health-care analyst for
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey . The designation is
used to “expedite the review of drugs to treat serious diseases
and fill an unmet medical need,” the FDA’s  website  said.  Interest in oncology drugs has increased as aging societies
become more prone to cancer and doctors get better at diagnosing
the disease, according to Matthew DiFilippo, chief portfolio
strategist at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .  Sales of Revlimid, the blood-cancer pill that is  Celgene (CELG) 
Corp.’s top-selling drug, have jumped sevenfold since 2006 to
almost $2.47 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies such as Onyx may entice drugmakers as patents of
their best-selling treatments expire, leaving them vulnerable to
declining sales as generic makers offer cheaper versions.  ‘Unprecedented’  The world’s 10 largest drugmakers by sales, which include
Pfizer and Glaxo, all have U.S. patents that will expire in the
next two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pfizer,
which lost patent protection on its cholesterol pill Lipitor
yesterday, faces expirations on at least five drugs in 2012.  Sales of  Lipitor , the world’s top-selling medicine with
$10.7 billion in revenue last year, may drop by 58 percent to
$4.5 billion next year, according to analysts’  estimates (PFE) 
compiled by Bloomberg. Some patents on Glaxo’s Advair asthma
inhaler, its best-selling product that accounted for almost 20
percent of revenue, will begin expiring in 2013, the data show.  “Large pharma is facing unprecedented revenue loss as
these multiple blockbuster drugs lose their exclusivity,”
Bloomberg Industries’ Berens said in a telephone interview.
“Historically, they haven’t been able to replace them through
internal R&D, so they have to look externally.”  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman at Pfizer, said in an e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on market speculation. Kevin Colgan, a spokesman for Glaxo, declined to comment on whether it
is considering a purchase of Onyx.  Takeda, Celgene  An acquisition by Takeda would also make sense, according
to Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Tullett Prebon. Actos, Takeda’s best-selling
diabetes treatment, will begin facing competition from generic
drugmakers starting in August. Analysts project that Actos will
lose about $2.1 billion in  revenue  by next fiscal year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Onyx would complement Takeda’s Velcade drug, a blood-cancer
medicine that it acquired from Millennium Pharmaceuticals in
2008. Velcade will top $1 billion in revenue by 2016, analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Mizuho’s Mack estimates
peak sales for Onyx’s carfilzomib of more than $2 billion.  “The synergies would be the greatest on the multiple
myeloma side with  Takeda ,” which would otherwise compete with
Onyx, Shah said in a telephone interview from Mumbai. “This is
the time for them to take advantage of an opportunity where big
pharma is looking to plug some of their holes.”  He also cited Celgene, which specializes in cancer
therapies and offers a drug that would also compete with Onyx’s
carfilzomib, as another potential buyer.  Risk-Reward Analysis  Mitsuo Oguri, spokesman at Takeda, declined to comment on
whether the company is considering an acquisition of Onyx. Brian Gill, a spokesman for Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene, didn’t
immediately respond to a message requesting comment.  While a deal for Onyx at $70 a share would be almost twice
the industry’s median based on reported sales, Mizuho’s Mack
says the potential reward is worth the risk.  Onyx “could be a good fit for anyone in large pharma that
deals in oncology or would want a footprint in oncology,” he
said in a telephone interview. “What sets it apart is they have
very, very rich near-term revenue opportunities, which is
important to pharmaceutical companies. This makes it easy for
pharma companies to pay a premium.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 