-- 
Moody’s Wrong to Reduce Eksportfinans to Junk, Norway Says

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-12-01T10:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/moody-s-wrong-to-reduce-eksportfinans-to-junk-norway-says-1-.html
A decision by Moody’s Investors
Service to cut  Norway ’s Eksportfinans ASA seven steps to junk
betrays a lack of analysis and doesn’t reflect the state-backed
unit’s ability to pay its debts, Trade Minister Trond Giske
said.  Moody’s on Nov. 22 said Eksportfinans, created to help
foreigners buy Norwegian goods, was no longer investment grade
after the government four days earlier announced it was winding
down the unit because it didn’t meet  capital requirements . The
decision sent tremors across global credit markets as far as
 Japan  as investors tried to gauge the status of their bonds.  “Eksportfinans has never been more supported by the state
and has a very sound business model, so I disagree with that
downgrade,” Giske said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.
“It’s not based on the best analysis. They have the wrong
concept of how this company is funded and supported now.”  Eksportfinans investors holding $35 billion in bonds have
since watched their holdings slump in value as  Standard & Poor’s 
on Nov. 25 cut the lender five steps to BBB+ and warned of the
risk of default under the terms of its euro medium-term note
program. The sell-off was driven by fear and is little more than
an overreaction, according to Rune Bjerke, the chief executive
officer of DNB ASA, Norway’s largest bank and Ekportfinans’
biggest owner.  “I will just say that in today’s markets one needs to be
extraordinarily careful when it comes to all kind of actions
because with so much fear and so much uncertainty all players
tend to overreact,” Bjerke said in an interview. “There’s a
lot of fear out there and that fear has influenced the
conditions around Eksportfinans.”  Yields Surge  The government’s decision and the subsequent downgrades
also caused yields to jump on debt sold by DNB, and even on
state-backed AAA rated lender Kommunalbanken AS.  The yield on Eksportfinans’ benchmark 4.75 percent 1
billion-euro note due in June 2013 has surged about 7.22
percentage points since the start of last week. The yield fell
70 basis points to 8.88 percent as of 11:44 a.m. in Oslo. It was
at 1.66 percent on Nov. 21.  Yields on bonds from DNB, which is 34 percent owned by the
government, have also risen. The yield on its benchmark 4.5
percent 2014 note jumped about 0.66 percentage point last week
to 3.16 percent, and has since eased to about 3.07 percent. The
yield on Kommunalbanken’s $1 billion bond due in October 2014
has risen 0.20 percentage point to 1.29 percent since last week,
a record high.  Oil Fund  Norway, which has a $530 billion fund built from oil wealth
backstopping its economy, has so far been shielded from the
contagion spreading from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The nation boasts
the world’s biggest budget surplus of any AAA state and Europe’s
lowest jobless rate.  The government last month said it will wind down
Eksportfinans, which was set up in 1962, after denying the
lender permission to waive European capital rules limiting loans
to single industries. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said the
government will instead support its export industry with as much
as 30 billion kroner ($5.2 billion) in direct loans,
administered by Eksportfinans until July. After that, a new
government unit will be created to run the facility  Giske said the government’s facility will probably be able
to provide loan terms “quite close to the present ones.”  “There’s no possibility of subsidizing a new institution
but, of course, the Norwegian government has a very good rating
and so a state-owned bank would probably get the best rating of
all banks,” he said.  Eksportfinans, which had 205 billion kroner ($35 billion)
in debt as of Sept. 30, will reduce that to 41 billion kroner by
2017, the company said in statement on Nov. 27. Eksportfinans is
15 percent owned by the Norwegian government, while 40 percent
is held by DNB.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender, holds
23.21 percent, and  Danske Bank A/S , based in Copenhagen, owns
8.09 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  