-- 
30-Year Mortgage Rates Increase to 4%

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-12-01T15:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-fixed-u-s-loans-rise-to-4-freddie-mac-says.html
U.S. rates for 30-year mortgages
climbed, as optimism that  Europe ’s debt crisis will be contained
pushed up yields for the Treasuries that guide home loans.  The average rate for a  30-year  fixed loan increased to 4
percent in the week ended today from 3.98 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement. The average  15-year  rate was unchanged at
3.3 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company .  Ten-year Treasury  yields , a benchmark for mortgages, rose
to a three-week high yesterday after the U.S. Federal Reserve
and five other central banks agreed to provide lower-cost loans
to struggling European banks. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
gained 4.2 percent in its biggest rally since March 2009.  “As the European situation improves, presuming it
continues to gradually improve, there will be a move away from
U.S. Treasuries, and that will put upward pressure on mortgage
rates,” George Mokrzan, director of economics at Huntington
National Bank in Columbus,  Ohio , said yesterday by telephone.
“But it’s up from extremely low levels. Even if it gets up to 5
percent, that’s extremely low by historic standards.”  The 30-year rate has been at or below 4 percent for five
straight weeks. It reached 3.94 percent in October, the lowest
in Freddie Mac records dating to 1971.  Pending Home Sales  Low borrowing costs may be starting to lure buyers.
Contracts to buy previously owned homes increased 10.4 percent
in October from the previous month, the biggest gain since
November 2010, according to a National Association of Realtors
index released yesterday.  Purchases  of existing houses rose last
month to a 4.97 million annual rate from September’s 4.9 million
pace, the Realtors said Nov. 21.  Tight lending standards, an  unemployment rate  at 9 percent
and a looming supply of distressed properties are limiting
demand and dragging down home values.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home values in 20 cities fell
3.6 percent in September from a year earlier, the group said
Nov. 29.  A Mortgage Bankers Association index of home-loan
applications fell 12 percent in the period ended Nov. 25 from
the prior week, the Washington-based group said yesterday. The
 refinancing  gauge dropped 15 percent to the lowest level since
July, while the  purchasing  measure decreased 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  