-- 
Los Angeles Gasoline at Discount to Futures on Chevron Start

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-12-01T22:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/los-angeles-gasoline-at-discount-to-futures-on-chevron-start.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  traded at a discount to futures for a second consecutive
day after  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  started units at the  El Segundo  refinery
in Southern  California  following a  power failure .  Carbob in  Los Angeles  was unchanged at a discount of 0.88
cent a gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:10 p.m. New York time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel fell to a discount in Los
Angeles yesterday for the first time since Nov. 15.  Chevron’s 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo plant,
California’s largest oil refinery, was bringing process units
back to normal operating rates after high Santa Ana winds
knocked out power to the plant last night, Rod Spackman, a
company spokesman based in El Segundo, said in an e-mail.  “This short disruption will not affect our ability to
supply products to our customers in  Southern California ,”
Spackman said.  Chevron was scheduled to return a fluid catalytic cracking
unit at the El Segundo plant to service earlier this week after
repairs, according to a person familiar with the work. The
company also started a crude unit at the 240,000-barrel-a-day
 Richmond  refinery that was shut Nov. 14 after a fire, two people
familiar with the plant’s operations said Nov. 29.  Carbob in  San Francisco  was unchanged at a discount of 1.38
cents, its largest discount to futures since August.  California-blend diesel in  Los Angeles  fell 0.12 cent to a
discount of 0.25 cent to heating oil futures traded on the
Nymex. The same fuel in  San Francisco  dropped 1.87 cents to a
discount of 2.75 cents to futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
weakened 0.5 cent to a discount of 6 cents to futures, the
fuel’s lowest level since Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  