-- 
Los Angeles Port Pilots Steer for $374,000 a Year While Long Beach Profits

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o d n e y   Y a p
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/los-angeles-port-pilots-steer-for-374-000-a-year-while-long-beach-profits.html
Los Angeles ’s highest-paid city
employees get three-day weekends, 27 vacation days annually and
an ocean view from their workplace.  They are the port pilots, whose job is to guide ships in
and out of the  Port of Los Angeles,  the number one container
handler in the U.S. The 15 men earned an average of $323,000
last year, more than the mayor and the chief of police in
America’s second-most-populous city. Harbor users, not
taxpayers, pay their salaries.  Pilots from 23 organizations across the U.S. make an
average of $406,700 annually, according to data collected by
 Dibner Maritime Associates LLC  of Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts .
Henry Mahlmann, president of New York’s  Sandy Hook Pilots 
association, declined to say how much his 72 pilots earned last
year. He said Los Angeles’s $323,000 average pay was “in the
neighborhood.”  “There’s 7 billion people in the world and less than
10,000 who do this,” said Edward Royles, a Los Angeles pilot
and head of its union. “We perform an important function and do
it safely.”  Municipalities across the country have fired and furloughed
workers, contracted out services and slashed overtime pay in the
wake of the worst recession since the 1930s. Pockets of
prosperity still exist among some groups of public employees, as
data for Los Angeles’s port pilots show.  Under Fire  Pilot pay has come under fire from shipping groups who must
pay fees for the service. The harbor guides make more than
commercial airline pilots and air-traffic controllers and their
“monopoly-like system” is a drain on the economy, according to
a 2009  study  commissioned by the Miami-based Florida Alliance of
Maritime Organizations Inc., a shipping trade group.  The  Port of Los Angeles  collected $7.4 million in pilot
fees from shipping lines for the year that ended in June --
$700,000 less than it cost to run the program, according to
Phillip Sanfield, a spokesman for the port.  Taxpayers aren’t on the hook for losses in the pilot
program, as revenue from other port operations subsidizes the
cost. The port posted operating income of $102 million on
revenue of $401 million for the year that ended in June. Those
profits, by state law, can only be spent on port-centered
projects, said  John Holmes , the port’s deputy executive
director. Because the pilots are beneficiaries of the  Los
Angeles City Employees’ Retirement System , the city is
responsible for their pensions.  Private Operator  The neighboring Port of Long Beach contracts its pilot work
with a private operator,  Jacobsen Pilot Service Inc. , and keeps
13 percent of the fees, for a profit of $1.6 million last year,
according to Art Wong, a spokesman for the port. Tom Jacobsen,
president of the company, declined to say how much his employees
earn.  Pilots work in 12-hours shifts, three days in a row, said
John Betz, a Los Angeles pilot for nine years. Like a firehouse,
the pilot station must be continuously manned. A typical day
involves two ship movements per pilot, which take about two and
half hours each, paperwork included, Betz said.  On a recent Wednesday afternoon, Betz guided  Yang Ming
Marine Transport Corp. ’s  YM Plum , a container ship finishing a
12-day journey from Pusan,  South Korea , into Los Angeles Harbor.
It carried more than 2,400 containers, stacked six high, holding
“clothes, shoes, computer supplies, everything,” according to
its captain, Ku Wenan.  Reduce Speed  Betz, 57, holds a law degree and chose not to practice. As
the Plum approached a small fuel barge moored nearby, Betz
instructed the crew to reduce speed. While the official limit at
the port is 6 knots (11 kph), Betz said, at that clip and
distance the wake of the Plum could rock the barge hard enough
for its fuel line to disconnect.  “No visiting captain would know that,” Betz said, as he
guided the Plum up to its berth.  Pilots require years of experience and detailed knowledge
of the harbor, working in dangerous conditions, Royles said in a
telephone interview. Pilots must climb rope ladders to board
ships, sometimes at night, amid heaving swells, miles from land,
he said.  The Los Angeles pilots are negotiating a new contract with
the city. Making contributions to their retirement health-care
benefits, as other city employees have done, is one point of
negotiation, Royles said, though he wouldn’t comment on
discussions overall.  Municipal Employees  Los Angeles is unusual in having municipal employees for
pilots, according to  Forrest Booth , a lawyer who represents the
 San Francisco Bar Pilots Association . Most are independent
contractors who work for groups like San Francisco’s.  Ship captains are required under state and federal laws to
use pilots to guide them in and out of ports as a safety
precaution, Booth said. Accidents involving ships, such as the
Exxon Valdez oil spill, can cost billions of dollars to clean up
and shut down facilities critical to the nation’s economy.  Shipping lines typically pay a fee to the pilot group,
which distributes profits to its members, Booth said. Pilot fees
are set by local port commissions, as in Los Angeles, or by the
state legislature, which is how  New York  operates.  When activity at the Port of Long Beach slows, as it has
for the past three years, pilots make less money, said Jacobsen,
whose company contracts for pilot service there. That isn’t
always the case in Los Angeles, where the bulk of pilots’
compensation comes from salaries, he said. His company did away
with a traditional  pension plan  in favor of 401(k)s in 2005.  Outsourcing  Consultants in the 1990s recommended outsourcing Los
Angeles’s pilot service. Union opposition prevented it from
happening, according to Jacobsen.  The Port of Los Angeles charges just under $2,000 to guide
a 300-meter (980-foot) ship through its harbor, according to a
 tariff schedule  on the port’s website. That is about 25 percent
less than what  Long Beach  charges and one-fifth that charged by
ports in Houston and in Oakland,  California , according to a 2009
tariff increase request by Jacobsen in Long Beach.  Keeping pilot rates lower allows Los Angeles to be more
competitive with other ports, Holmes said. Input from pilots was
incorporated into a wharf expansion that allowed Los Angeles to
pass Long Beach in 2000 as the top container handler. Together
the two ports account for about one-third of all container
shipments in and out of the U.S.  “You don’t have as much control of a contractor as you do
an employee,” Holmes said.  Fewer Pilots  Because of retirements, Los Angeles is operating with three
fewer pilots than it had three years ago. It hasn’t replaced
them, a cost-saving move made easier by a decline in port
traffic, according Michael Rubino, the city’s chief pilot. He
earned $373,957 last year. The remaining pilots earn a larger
share of a bonus pool.  Rubino, 56, is the son of a doctor. He grew up in  San
Pedro , the Los Angeles neighborhood that includes the port.
Working as a ship officer for Texaco 25 years ago, Rubino said
he took a pay cut to return to work in his hometown. Unlike many
ship workers, pilots aren’t required to spend months at sea.  “We’re sailors with a lunch pail,” Rubino said.  Los Angeles’s pilots are underpaid relative to other
maritime workers, he said. The pilots joined the  International
Longshore and Warehouse Union  in 1995 and went on a four-month
strike for higher pay two years later.  Minimum Pay Grade  Since joining the union, the base salary for a Port Pilot
II, the minimum pay grade for the city’s current pilots, has
climbed to $227,000 annually from $102,000, according to copies
of their contracts with the city. In addition, pilots began
collecting an “efficiency incentive” based on cargo volume.  Union negotiations have served to bring Los Angeles’s
pilots “up to industry standards,” Rubino said.  “We’re not the highest paid and we’re not the lowest paid,
we’re the fairest paid,” he said. Considering the volume the
port does, “you’re getting good value,” he said.  The San Francisco-based  Pacific Maritime Association , which
represents shipping lines and successfully challenged piloting
rate increases in  Hawaii  and  San Francisco  in the past year,
questioned the accuracy of Dibner’s income estimates in a filing
with the  Washington Board of Pilotage Commissioners , that
state’s authority that reviews tariff requests.  ‘Flimsy Data’  The group accused Dibner of using “flimsy, unverifiable
data at selected ports to push up pilot incomes nationally -- a
game of leapfrog,” according to the filing.  Brent Dibner, founder of the consulting firm, defended his
work in a telephone interview, saying it represented the most
“factual, diligent and balanced research representing this
aspect of shipping.”  “This is the market -- gee, to the average American it
sounds outrageous,” he said. “This is an extremely demanding
and skilled profession. This is not just a bunch of snowplow
drivers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net  and Rodney Yap in Los Angeles at 
   ryap@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  