-- 
Mosquito Control, Malaria Diagnosis as Vital as a Vaccine: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/mosquito-control-malaria-diagnosis-as-vital-as-developing-a-vaccine-view.html
There is both less and more than
meets the eye in the recent news that an experimental  malaria
vaccine  cut in half the risk that children would contract the
illness.  Many of the headlines that followed promised a life-saving
vaccine around the corner -- a prospect that in truth remains a
maybe. At the same time, the trial results affirmed the benefits
of a multipronged attack on malaria.  Each year, about 225 million people are infected by malaria
parasites through mosquito bites. Some 781,000 die. Of those, 91
percent live in Africa and 85 percent are under the age of 5.  The death  toll has declined  in recent years -- from 985,000
in 2000 -- because of enormous anti-malaria efforts by, among
others, the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  and the  Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria . Measures they have
taken include spraying for mosquitoes, distributing insecticide-
infused bed nets and treating malaria with the latest, most
effective therapies.  A malaria vaccine could be a powerful new tool. Devising
one is a steep challenge, however: No vaccine has ever been
licensed against a human parasite. Whereas a virus might have a
dozen genes, the malaria-causing Plasmodium parasite has more
than 5,000 genes and thus many ways to escape the mechanisms of
a vaccine, or a drug.  In early trials, the candidate vaccine -- called RTS,S --
proved promising. The recently  announced results  are from a
late-stage study in 15,000 children in seven African countries.
Among the first 6,000 children ages 5 to 17 months when they
enrolled in the trial, RTS,S reduced clinical malaria, which
causes fever and chills, by 56 percent in the first year of
follow-up. It decreased severe malaria, which can damage the
kidneys and brain, by 47 percent.  Results for the first 6,000 infants in the study, signed up
at 6 to 12 weeks of age, won’t be available for another year.
This age group is the principal target for the vaccine, which
ideally would be given along with other early-childhood
immunizations. Vital information on whether the vaccine’s effect
persists won’t be available until the end of 2014, along with
final trial data.  Nevertheless, the  World Health Organization   announced  that
if these data are satisfactory and the vaccine would serve
public-health goals, it could recommend RTS,S for use as early
as 2015.  Price Is Important  The vaccine’s price would largely determine the extent of
its use in the poor countries where it’s most needed. The
manufacturer,  GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)  Biologicals, has said it would not
attempt to recoup its research and development expenses ($300
million so far) and would charge buyers only the vaccine’s
manufacturing costs plus 5 percent. The company says potential
price tags will be based on various demand models and final
efficacy results.  Even if inexpensive, a licensed RTS,S could not be expected
to conquer malaria on its own, since it presumably would reduce
a child’s chance of getting the disease only by half. But the
vaccine efficacy study points us toward what else needs to be
done.  Consider that, in the trial, the experimental vaccine’s
protective effect came in addition to that of other malaria-
prevention measures. About 75 percent of the enrolled children
used insecticide-treated bed nets and 7 percent were exposed to
indoor spraying for mosquitoes. What’s more, the enrolled
children were all given effective diagnoses and treatment when
they fell ill, so that the number of malaria deaths was kept
low.  Controlling mosquitoes and diagnosing malaria remain
essential. Among the highest priorities now is to develop new
methods to do both. Only one insecticide class -- pyrethroids --
is licensed for treating bed nets, and resistance to this class
has been detected in parts of  Africa . For spraying indoors, four
classes of bug-killer are available, but resistance to all of
them has been seen. A new means of managing the disease may
emerge from  efforts to expose mosquitoes to substances  that will
make them resistant to the malaria parasite.  As for diagnostics, there is a great need for inexpensive
tests that can detect, on the spot, very low parasite densities.
Lacking tests, doctors in many poor settings assume any child
with a fever has malaria. Accordingly, they often prescribe
anti-malarials unnecessarily. Indiscriminate use of these
therapies risks accelerating resistance to them.  Compared with the glamorous fields of drug and vaccine
research, mosquito control and malaria testing have attracted
relatively little investment from donors and companies. Of the
$612 million spent on malaria research and development in 2009,
mosquito control accounted for 4 percent and diagnostics for 1
percent, according to a  2011 report  published by the Program for
Appropriate Technology in Health.  Research investments have produced the innovations that
brought malaria fighters this far. But the parasite has
demonstrated its ability to overcome obstructions, and
continuous discovery is a necessity.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 