-- 
U.S. House Votes Again to End Public Financing of Campaigns

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-12-01T21:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/house-votes-again-to-end-public-financing-of-u-s-presidential-campaigns.html
The Republican-controlled U.S. House,
voted for the second time this year to end public financing of
presidential campaigns and the political party conventions.  The House approved the measure today, 235-190. The
Democratic-controlled Senate declined to take up the similar
legislation the House passed in January and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said the new bill would be shelved.  The current bill also would eliminate the Election
Assistance Commission, which provides aid to states and
localities to improve their voting processes, and transfer those
functions to the Federal Election Commission.  The House vote broke almost entirely along party lines,
with one Republican, Walter Jones of North Carolina, opposing
the measure and no Democrat favoring it. The two  House
Republicans  running for president,  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota 
and Ron Paul of  Texas , missed the vote.  House Republicans cite the need to cut  government spending 
as their rationale for eliminating the public financing system
created following the Watergate scandal that led to the
resignation of Republican President  Richard Nixon  in 1974. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said eliminating public
financing would save $617 million over 10 years.  “We’re talking about eliminating a program that no
candidate is currently using,” said Representative Gregg
Harper, a Mississippi Republican and the measure’s chief
sponsor. “Everyone talks about tough choices. These choices are
not even very tough.”  Obama Opposition  President  Barack Obama ’s budget office said the
administration “strongly opposes” the measure.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said “of course” when asked by
reporters today if the measure was a “non-starter” in the
Senate. He said Republicans want to do “everything they can to
make it harder to vote.”  None of the candidates now running for president has
requested federal funds for their primary campaigns, said Judith Ingram, an FEC spokeswoman.  Representative Robert Brady, a Pennsylvania Democrat, said
the Election Assistance Commission is needed because of efforts
by Republican-controlled legislatures in several states to
impose new voting requirements and limit early voting.  “Who will ensure that everyone has an opportunity to cast
a ballot?” Brady said.  Obama in 2008 became the first major-party nominee to
decline federal funding for the general election. He also isn’t
taking federal funds for his 2012 re-election bid.  Convention Funding  The FEC said last month that the Republican and Democratic
parties received  $17.7 million  each in taxpayer funds for their
2012 conventions. The Republicans will convene in Tampa,
 Florida , from Aug. 27-30, and the Democrats will meet in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , from Sept. 3-6.  Advocates of public financing said Congress should increase
the amount of public funds a candidate could receive, especially
following the surge of outside spending in the 2010 campaign
after a Supreme Court ruling removed limits on corporate and
union political spending.  “We’ve seen spending by outside organizations spiral out
of control and we need an alternative that protects our
democracy,” said Lisa Gilbert, deputy director of Public
Citizen’s Congress Watch, a Washington-based group that favors
stronger campaign finance laws.  House Democrats have introduced legislation to provide more
federal funds to presidential candidates and eliminate state-by-
state spending limits.  Watergate  The financing program was enacted after Nixon resigned amid
revelations about his role in covering up a 1972 break-in at
Democratic headquarters at the Watergate hotel and office
complex in  Washington . The investigation uncovered illegal
activities funded by some of the unregulated private donations
to Nixon’s 1972 re-election campaign.  The current financing program matches the first $250 of
each individual contribution for presidential candidates who are
willing to limit their spending in primaries. In the general
election, the major-party nominees receive a lump sum if they
agree to forgo private fundraising except to cover legal and
accounting costs.  Fewer Americans are contributing to the system. Just 6.6
percent of taxpayers diverted $3 from their income tax payments
in 2010, down from a high of 28.7 percent in 1980, when the
check-off was $1, Internal Revenue Statistics show.  Republican  George W. Bush  in 2000 became the first major-
party candidate to win a presidential nomination while not
taking federal matching funds for the primaries. Since then, no
nominee has.  Democrat Obama funded his entire campaign through $745.7
million in private donations. His Republican opponent, Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona , received $84.1 million from the
government for his general election campaign after raising
$219.6 million during the primaries.  The bill is H.R. 3463.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  