-- 
House Passes Bill to Curb U.S. Rules Costly for Businesses

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-12-01T23:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/house-passes-bill-to-curb-u-s-regulations-costly-for-companies.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation that would force more government analysis of
how a regulation affects businesses before a rule takes effect.  The House voted 263-159 today for the measure, which
President  Barack Obama ’s administration has threatened to veto.
Lawmakers will consider two additional measures this month that
would limit what Republicans call the regulatory overreach of
the administration, which they said impedes the economic
recovery.  “The economy is already on shaky footing, and so it is
more important than ever for regulators to look before
leaping,” Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and
sponsor of the measure, said in debate before the vote.  The legislation would amend a 1980 law, which required the
government to consider the economic impact of regulations
limiting pollution or protecting health. The measure passed
today would force agencies to describe alternatives to a
proposed rule that might minimize any adverse economic impact on
small businesses. It would require a cumulative accounting of
the costs of all rules on companies.  The measure “would impose unneeded and costly analytical
and procedural requirements on agencies,” the White House
Office and Management and Budget said in a statement on Nov. 29
after reviewing the bill. “It would also create needless
regulatory and legal uncertainty.”  ‘Frivolous Litigation’  It would “invite frivolous litigation,” OMB said in the
statement that said Obama’s advisers would recommend a veto if
it passes both houses of Congress. The measure hasn’t been
considered in the Senate.  Two additional measures to curb agency powers on new
regulations will be considered in the House this month.  A measure set for debate next week would require a vote in
Congress on every major rule, which is defined as costing the
economy at least $100 million. Another, which may come up as
early as tomorrow, would require the administration to choose
the least costly option when establishing a new rule and provide
scope for more legal challenges to regulations.  The legislation passed today is H.R. 527. The other
measures are H.R. 3010 and H.R. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  