-- 
Toyota’s First U.S. Gain Since April Caps Automakers’ Best Month of 2011

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T01:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/toyota-s-first-u-s-gain-since-april-caps-automakers-best-month-of-2011.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , Nissan Motor Co.,
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  delivered more vehicles
in the U.S. than analysts estimated as auto demand climbed to
the highest of the year.  Toyota sales in November grew 6.7 percent from a year
earlier, the first increase in seven months, and Leaf-maker
Nissan posted a 19 percent gain, according to statements
yesterday. South Korea’s Hyundai and affiliate Kia had a
combined increase of 29 percent. Deliveries at  Honda Motor Co. 
fell 6.7 percent, the only drop among large automakers, as
flooding in Thailand disrupted production.  The Asian carmakers benefited from a recovery in demand as
U.S.  consumer confidence  last month surged the most in more than
eight years, and the portion of people planning to buy a new
vehicle within six months climbed to the highest since April,
according to the latest Conference Board figures released Nov.
29. New cars and light trucks sold at a 13.6 million annual
pace, the strongest since “cash for clunkers” incentives aided
sales in August 2009.  “Consumers are becoming more comfortable buying again,”
said  Jesse Toprak , an analyst at  Santa Monica , California-based
TrueCar.com. “If they have a car that needs to be replaced,
they’re finally deciding it’s time to replace it.”  Japanese and South Korean auto brands reported a combined
sales increase of 8.7 percent, trailing the industry’s gain of
13.9 percent, according to Autodata Corp., a research firm in
 Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  ‘Year-End Blitz’  “The market is up big, fuel prices are down,”  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of U.S. sales, said in a
telephone interview. “We go into the year-end blitz now.”  Among U.S.-based automakers, sales rose 6.9 percent for
 General Motors Co. (GM) , 13 percent for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and 45 percent
for Chrysler Group LLC.  The sales gain for Toyota,  Asia ’s largest automaker,
followed six monthly declines triggered by parts shortages after
 Japan ’s March earthquake and tsunami. The Toyota City, Japan-
based company’s increase for Toyota, Scion and Lexus models beat
the 5 percent average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The November gains were led by the revamped Camry sedan, up
13 percent, and the Prius hatchback and v wagon models, with an
increase of 49 percent.  Camry, Prius  “Our growth is on the back of how Camry and Prius are
performing in the market,”  Bob Carter , group vice president of
U.S. sales, said on a conference call. “We’re confident our
volumes and our share will recover throughout 2012.”  The company begins December with a 46-day supply of Toyota-
brand vehicles and about 30 days’ inventory of Lexus models,
Carter and Lexus U.S. brand manager Mark Templin said.  “Things are looking up for them,” Toprak said. “This was
a year to forget for Toyota.”  The company’s November market share was 13.9 percent, a
drop from 14.8 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  Toyota rose 0.2 percent to 2,571 yen at 10:10 a.m. in Tokyo
trading. Nissan gained 0.3 percent to 703 yen and Honda dropped
0.4 percent to 2,473 yen. Hyundai fell 2 percent to 217,000 won
and Kia slid 0.4 percent to 71,200 won in Seoul.  Honda Motor  Honda, Japan’s third-largest automaker, saw plans for a
fourth-quarter sales rebound dashed as flooding in  Thailand 
prolonged production slowdowns in North America initially caused
by the March quake. The Tokyo-based company’s decline last month
missed the 2.6 percent increase projected by the average of five
analyst estimates.  “The impact of the Thailand flooding on our North American
production levels continued to be felt in November,”  John Mendel , Honda’s U.S. executive vice president, said in a
statement. “We’re looking forward to closing the year on a
strong note as production recovers and the all-new CR-V goes on
sale this month.”  The Thai flooding shut supplier plants for weeks, reducing
availability of some electronics, rubber and plastic parts.  Honda’s market share fell to 8.4 percent from 10.3 percent,
according to Autodata.  Nissan’s increased sales of Nissan and luxury Infiniti
models exceeded the 12 percent average analyst estimate. The
Yokohama, Japan-based company’s gains were led by the Altima
midsize sedan and the Rogue small crossover.  The automaker’s sales have risen 16 percent this year and
should remain high this month, Castignetti said.  Nissan, Hyundai  “We’ve got a ton of marketing in place, as well as our
competitors, which drives a lot of traffic,” he said. “We’re
expecting a really big close for the year.”  The increase at Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest automaker,
and affiliate Kia exceeded the 24 percent increase projected by
the average of three analysts’ estimates. The gains were 22
percent for Hyundai and 39 percent for Kia. The Seoul-based
companies operate separately.  “Going into 2012 the biggest challenge for Toyota is
competition,” TrueCar’s Toprak said. “Hyundai is the most
formidable competitor.”  U.S. sales growth for Hyundai and Kia will slow in 2012,
Toprak said.  “The current rate is not sustainable,” he said. “If they
can post about a 10 percent increase next year that will be
quite good.”  Japan’s  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  had a 20 percent sales increase,
while Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. said sales of its Subaru brand
dropped 15 percent last month.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s
deliveries fell 13 percent and Suzuki Motor Corp. had a 22
percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  