-- 
Patient Data Breaches Surge as Hospitals Scrimp on Security

-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 
2011-12-01T19:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/patient-data-breaches-surge-as-hospitals-scrimp-on-security.html
Data breaches at U.S. health-care
providers are increasing as hospitals adopt electronic medical
records and mobile technology without spending enough on
security to ensure patient privacy, a research group said.  The frequency of data breaches at health organizations
jumped 32 percent in 2011 from a year earlier, costing the
industry an estimated $6.5 billion, according to a study
released today by the Ponemon Institute LLC, a Traverse City,
Michigan-based information-security research group.  Forty-nine percent of health organizations said that lost
or stolen devices were to blame for breaches, according to the
institute, which surveyed 72 hospitals and health providers. The
study didn’t name the organizations surveyed.  “It’s definitely not getting better,” Larry Ponemon,
president and founder of the institute, said in an interview.
“What we see on the people side, on the technology side and on
the governance practice side for health-care organizations is
that security doesn’t seem to be their priority.”  Concerns that patients’ personal information may be
vulnerable to theft are likely to increase as President  Barack Obama ’s administration increases incentive payments to doctors
and hospitals to spur adoption of digital health records. The
payments, authorized under the 2009 economic stimulus, may reach
$27.4 billion.  “Because it’s such a big piece of revenue for health-care
organizations, they are rushing to do health records without
building in security,” Rick Kam, president and co-founder of ID
Experts, a Portland, Oregon-based security firm and sponsor of
the study, said in an interview. “They are under-resourced.”  Notification Laws  Fifty-three percent of the organizations surveyed said that
inadequate funding was the biggest barrier to preventing data
breaches, according to the study.  U.S. data-breach notification laws for health organizations
are making providers more aware of their security
vulnerabilities, Ponemon said. Data breaches affecting more than
500 people must be reported to the Health and Human Services
Department, which posts  a list  of incidents on its website.  Health providers, insurers and their business partners
reported 373 breaches affecting almost 18 million individuals
between September 2009 and October of this year, according to
the list, which is tended by the Health and Human Services
Department’s Office of  Civil Rights .  Threat of Audits  Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act, organizations are expected to document their privacy,
security and breach notification policies, as well as conduct a
security risk assessment.  The Health and Human Services Department has begun auditing
health-care providers and employer-sponsored group health plans
for compliance with federal privacy laws. Agency personnel
conduct site visits and interview key personnel to determine an
organization’s vulnerabilities and compliance procedures.  Fifty-five percent of respondents in the Ponemon survey
said the threat of audits has affected changes in patient data
and security programs, the study said.  Many data breaches are caused by simple carelessness, said
Harry Rhodes, director of practice leadership for the  American
Health Information Management Association , a Chicago-based trade
group for health information-management specialists.  “It’s been kind of like a silent crisis,” Rhodes said.
“The vast majority of breaches are really pedestrian. You lost
your laptop, you lost your smartphone or your tablet.”  Mobile Technology  One of the biggest concerns is that doctors and other
health-care professionals want to use their own smartphones or
tablet computers, often without proper security, such as
encryption or passwords, Rhodes said.  “I think most of what needs to be done is there needs to
be education and awareness,” he added. “There may be training
at a facility, but training is not the same thing as education
and awareness.”  That increasing use of mobile technology is putting patient
data at risk, according to the Ponemon study. Thirty-eight
percent of providers surveyed said they were very confident or
somewhat confident of the security of patient data accessed by
mobile devices.  Eighty-one percent of health organizations surveyed said
they use mobile devices to collect, store and transmit patient
records, according to the study. “However, 49 percent of
participants admit their organizations do nothing to protect
these devices,” according to the study.  Health-care organizations should view security as a good
business practice that will improve their reputations and make
them more competitive, Ponemon and Kam said.  “The increase in enforcement, the fear of enforcement, I
think is making organizations more accountable and maybe more
transparent about what they do,” Ponemon said. “In that
respect we’re going to see an improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  