-- 
Patriots Face Winless Colts as 21-Point Favorite, Biggest Spread Since ’07

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-01T14:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/patriots-face-winless-colts-as-21-point-favorite-biggest-spread-since-07.html
The  New England Patriots  and
 Indianapolis Colts  were supposed to be meeting this week in a
nationally televised Sunday night game showcasing two of the
elite quarterbacks in the  National Football League .  Instead, the Patriots are 21-point favorites at home
against a Colts team that’s gone 0-11 without an injured  Peyton Manning .  It’s the NFL’s biggest point spread since 2007 and the 10th
time in 33 years that a team has been favored by oddsmakers by
more than 20 points, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com .  “We can count on it being bad,” Colts Vice Chairman Bill Polian said on the team’s  website . “If it’s anything but that,
it will be an upset.”  Manning, a record four-time NFL most valuable player, has
been sidelined all season recovering from surgery on his neck.
The Colts have scored 150 points this season, the third-lowest
in the NFL, while allowing a league-leading 327. The Patriots,
8-3 behind quarterback  Tom Brady , rank third in scoring at 30
points a game.  The Patriots and Colts had at least 10 wins in each of the
past eight seasons and all of their six most recent meetings
were decided by a touchdown or less. This year’s matchup was
scheduled for “Sunday Night Football” on NBC, but was replaced
by the New Orleans Saints against the  Detroit Lions  as part of
the league’s flex scheduling policy to ensure quality games for
the  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  network. The game now will kick off at 1 p.m.
on Dec. 4 at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,  Massachusetts , part
of CBS’s regular daytime coverage.  ‘Not As Big’  “I’m sure from the Patriots standpoint the rivalry is not
as big,” Colts center Jeff Saturday told reporters this week.
“In the past, we’ve been playing for home-field advantage,
championship games and all that. But for us, we need to get a
win.”  The biggest favorite to lose an NFL game was the 1995
 Dallas Cowboys , the eventual Super Bowl champions who were
beaten by the 17 1/2-point underdog Washington Redskins,
according to RJ Bell, the chief executive of Pregame.com.  The last time an NFL team was favored by more than 20
points was four years ago, when the Patriots had four games top
that figure during their 16-0 regular-season run. The biggest
was a record-tying 23 1/2-point spread against the  Philadelphia
Eagles , a game the Patriots won 31-28.  The 1993 San Francisco 49ers were also favored by 23 1/2
points against the Cincinnati Bengals, Pregame.com’s Bell said.  “You can’t go in there and go, ‘Oh, we’re the Patriots and
they’re the Colts. Yeah, we’re going to win this game and move
on,’” Brady told reporters this week. “That’s not the way we
approach it and that’s not the way it works. Not in the NFL.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  