-- 
Penn State Child-Sex Scandal Shows Wider Problem, Seton Hall Poll Finds

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-01T20:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/penn-state-child-sex-scandal-shows-wider-problem-seton-hall-poll-finds.html
Almost half of Americans surveyed say
the  Penn State University  child sex-abuse scandal reveals a
larger problem in college athletics, according to the Seton Hall
Sports Poll.  The survey, conducted this week by Seton Hall University’s
 Sharkey Institute , found that 48 percent of those questioned
said the allegations of abuse and cover-up at the  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based school point to broader issues.  The poll didn’t specify whether respondents believed the
larger problem was sex abuse, child sex abuse or inaction by
universities to respond to allegations of crime and other
wrongdoing.  “People are looking for some authority figure to solve
this problem,”  Rick Gentile , director of the South Orange, New
Jersey-based poll, said today in a telephone interview.
“Generally people are not happy with the way college athletics
are run.”  Jerry Sandusky, a 67-year-old former assistant football
coach at  Penn State , is charged by Pennsylvania authorities with
40 counts of molesting eight boys in a period from 1994 to 2009.
He has denied wrongdoing.  Joe Paterno , 84, who won a record 409 games as Penn State’s
coach, was fired and Graham B. Spanier, 63, was removed as the
university’s president by the Board of Trustees for inaction
after word of possible assaults became known in 2002.  Both Spanier and Paterno were informed of a case regarding
Sandusky and a boy in the shower of the Penn State football
building and didn’t report it to the police, according to a
presentation by a state grand jury.  Officials Charged  Athletic Director Tim Curley and Senior Vice President  Gary Schultz  were charged with perjury and failure to report the
allegations. They have denied the charges.  Of the 942 respondents in Seton Hall’s nationwide telephone
poll, 34 percent said they believed the Penn State case was an
isolated situation and 17 percent either said they didn’t know
or declined to answer. The poll had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percent.  In addition, 64 percent of those polled believe that
universities should do more to monitor their athletic
departments, while 19 percent said the institutions are already
doing enough and 17 percent said they didn’t know.  The poll found that 53 percent of Americans believe that
the university is responsible for having allowed alleged abuse
on its premises, while 27 percent felt the school had no
accountability. In addition, 55 percent felt that Paterno should
have been dismissed immediately, and 80 percent believed that
the team deserved to finish its season.  The Nittany Lions, with assistant coach  Tom Bradley 
succeeding Paterno on an interim basis, went 1-2 after the
coach’s dismissal and finished the regular season 9-3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  