-- 
Peru Prices Rise Faster Than Expected on Food, Fuel Costs

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T17:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/peru-prices-rise-faster-than-expected-on-food-fuel-costs-1-.html
Peruvian  consumer prices  climbed
faster than economists expected last month on rising food and
fuel costs, indicating that policy makers don’t have room to
lower interest rates to offset slowing global growth.  Prices rose 0.43 percent in November, the national
statistics agency said today in an e-mail. The median estimate
of 10 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg   was 0.30 percent. The
annual rate rose to 4.64 percent, the highest since April 2009
and up from 4.2 percent in October. The central bank targets
inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Peru ’s central bank kept its  overnight interest rate 
unchanged Nov. 10 for a sixth month as above-target inflation
outweighed concern that slowing global demand will stunt growth.
The bank will extend its pause to anchor 2012 inflation
expectations within its target range, said  Mario Guerrero , an
economist at Scotiabank Peru in Lima.  “Inflation should return to the target range in the second
half of next year allowing the bank to cut rates, depending on
to what extent the global slowdown impacts the Peruvian
economy,” Guerrero said in a phone interview.  Economists expect the annual inflation rate to drop to 2.6
percent next year, according to the central bank’s last survey
published Nov. 4.  Peru’s economy slowed for a fifth straight quarter in the
July-to-September period as flagging demand for the country’s
exports and global market turmoil damped investment.  Gross domestic product rose an annual 6.5 percent in the
third quarter, compared with expansion of 7.9 percent in the
first half of the year, the statistics agency said Nov. 28.  Growth will slow to between 5 percent and 6 percent next
year because of weaker global demand, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said in a Nov. 11 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 