-- 
Pimco Buys ‘Cheap’ Cyclical Stocks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T08:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/pimco-buys-cheap-cyclical-stocks-as-china-acts-to-boost-economic-growth.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. has
been buying raw-materials producers and Chinese industrial
companies, some of the world’s worst-performing  stocks (MXEF)  this
year, as policy makers in the fastest-expanding major economy
move to bolster growth.  China, which reduced the amount banks must keep in  reserve 
by half a percentage point to 21 percent on Nov. 30, may cut the
ratio by as much as three percentage points in the next 12
months, Masha Gordon, the head of emerging markets equity
portfolio management at Pimco, which oversees about $1.35
trillion worldwide, said in an interview.  Inflation  in the
nation may slow to between 3 percent and 4 percent from 5.5
percent in October, she said.  “We’ve seen the first clear shift from tightening to
selective easing on the monetary side in China,” Gordon said by
phone in London yesterday.  China ’s central bank is cutting lenders’ reserve
requirements for the first time since 2008 as the European debt
crisis curbs demand for exports and inflation slows from a
three-year high.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s gauges of raw-materials and
industrial stocks in emerging markets, the worst performers
among 10 industry groups this year, have rallied more than 5
percent since China announced the policy shift. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  surged 8.1 percent.  ‘Defensive Bias’  “We started with light positioning in the cyclicals and
have been selectively adding to companies in the materials and
industrial space where we believe valuations are pricing in
extreme distress,” Gordon said. Some stocks tied to economic
growth in developing nations “are very cheap relative to their
average earnings power if you take the view that growth in
 emerging markets  on a secular basis isn’t coming to a halt,”
she said, without naming any specific companies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Materials Index  trades at about
8.6 times analysts’ profit estimates, or 24 percent lower than
the average ratio of 11.4 since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 2006. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Industrials Index  is
valued at a 17 percent discount to its five-year average, the
data show. MSCI’s  gauge  of Chinese industrial stocks trades at
9.4 times profit estimates, down from a historical mean of 16.  Gordon, who runs the  PIMCO EqS Emerging Markets Fund , said
she has a “defensive bias” for the overall fund and is using
options to hedge against potential “extreme” market declines.  ‘Cushion the Downturn’  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, a benchmark for stocks in
21  developing countries , has dropped 17 percent this year. The
emerging-market raw-materials index has declined 24 percent and
the industrials  gauge (MXCN0IN)  has lost 27 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, which tracks Chinese companies traded in  Hong
Kong , is down 19 percent.  The MSCI emerging-market index rose 0.1 percent at 8:44
a.m. in London. The raw-materials gauge gained 0.1 percent and
the industrials index increased 0.2 percent. The Hang Seng China
index climbed 0.7 percent.  Chinese manufacturing contracted last month for the first
time since February 2009 as the  property market  cooled and
exports slowed. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 49 from
50.4 in October, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement yesterday.  China’s reserve ratios will be decreased by 0.5 percentage
point effective Dec. 5, the central bank said on Nov. 30. The
move may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to the financial
system, according to UBS AG.  Brazilian Banks  “Given policy flexibility and a generally healthy state of
government finances, China does have scope to cushion the
downturn through fiscal and selective monetary easing,” Gordon
said. “The key, as always, is whether policy makers manage to
stay ahead of the market. This may prove to be challenging.”  Gordon also sees buying opportunities in  Brazil , where
policy makers cut borrowing costs by 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, for a third straight meeting on Nov. 30.
Gordon said that she’s been “selectively adding” to shares of
Brazilian financial companies after valuations declined this
year on concern that slower economic growth and rising loan
losses would curb profits.  Brazil’s  Bovespa index (IBOV)  jumped to a two-week high yesterday
after the government eliminated a tax on foreigners’ stock
purchases and the central bank’s rate cut boosted confidence in
the economy. Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s biggest bank by
market value, climbed 3.9 percent.  Pimco, known for its bond funds run by  Bill Gross  for
almost four decades, hired former U.S. Treasury official Neel
Kashkari in December 2009 to oversee its push into stock funds.
Gordon joined Pimco last year from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
asset-management unit.  The PIMCO EqS Emerging Markets Fund declined 20 percent
from the end of March through Nov. 30, compared with a 21
percent drop in the MSCI emerging markets index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  