-- 
Pioneer Investments Fund Eliminates Unsecured Debt Tied to AMR After Drop

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   C h r i s   C a p p u c c i
-- 
2011-12-02T00:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/pioneer-fund-bails-out-of-unsecured-amr-linked-debt-after-plunge.html
Pioneer Investments’ High Income
Municipal Fund, the best-performer among its peers in 2010,
plunged after increasing its American Airlines-related airport
debt 64 percent this year, before  AMR Corp. (AMR)  sought court
protection this week.  The  Pioneer mutual fund (PIMAX) ’s net assets dropped 7 percent to
$756.8 million yesterday from $814 million on Nov. 28. American
parent AMR entered bankruptcy on Nov. 29. Pioneer said today it
had eliminated unsecured debt tied to the airline from all its
U.S. funds by yesterday, in a statement on its website.  Unsecured debt tied to American and issued by the Alliance
Airport Authority Inc. in AMR’s Fort Worth, Texas, home town
dropped as much as 83 percent from mid-November following the
court filing. AMR and American backed $3.2 billion of securities
called special-facilities bonds sold through airports and
municipal authorities to pay for gates and maintenance hangars.  “Whether or not to own  American Airlines  unsecured was
purely based on whether or not you believed they were going to
file bankruptcy,” Eric Jacobson, Morningstar’s director of
fixed-income research in  Chicago , said by telephone. “It didn’t
take a credit genius to know that was the linchpin question.”  Unsecured Airport Debt  Pioneer owned some of the Alliance bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On Oct. 31, American-related debt made up
about 8 percent of the Pioneer fund’s value, the data show. The
fund held bonds issued through airport authorities in  New Jersey 
as well as  New York  City,  Dallas , Chicago,  Los Angeles , and Fort
Worth that were valued at $65.9 million at the end of October,
according to the data. Trade information put the figure at $30.7
million yesterday.  The fund’s net asset value fell 3.7 percent on the day of
AMR’s filing, the biggest decline since October 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2010, the fund returned 7.14
percent, the data show.  Managed by Timothy Pynchon, the fund has returned 0.32
percent this year. That compares with a 6.93 percent average
return for peers with similar investment objectives, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pynchon didn’t respond to
inquiries seeking comment on the fund’s holdings yesterday.  Geoff Smith, a Pioneer spokesman in the company’s Boston
headquarters, declined further comment. The investment
management firm is a unit of Italian lender  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Riding Volatility  Investors in high-yield funds have to be willing to ride
out tremendous volatility, Morningstar’s Jacobson said.
Pioneer’s fund had about 90 percent of its assets in bonds rated
BB and lower, or below investment grade, according to its annual
report, issued Aug. 31.  “As soon as you’re dealing with 50, 60, 70 percent in non-
rated and BBB rated bonds, you’re dealing with a lot of
potential hidden risks,” Jacobson said. The chance that
American might declare bankruptcy was widely known, he said.  In an October interview, Pynchon said the business cycle
for airlines in general had been “very positive” as they had
cut labor and pension costs and reduced excess capacity. His
fund had gained more than 5.5 percent this year through that
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earlier Bankruptcy Concern  Investors at the time were looking past municipal-bond
defaults and speculation about an AMR bankruptcy. At the time,
Pynchon said they were willing to take the risk for yields as
high as 8 percent.  “The fact is that both consumer travel and business travel
are healthy right now,” Pynchon said. “The airlines have had
some pricing power in this environment.” He declined to comment
on American, at the time a focus of investor concern that it
might seek  bankruptcy protection  as the nation’s third-largest
airline headed for a fourth-straight annual loss.  Pynchon boosted the fund’s American-backed municipal bonds
to $119.3 million in face value at the end of October from $72.6
million in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Among the fund’s transportation holdings as of Oct. 31 were
$122.3 million of municipal bonds related to  U.S. Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) ,  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and British Airways, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Cappucci in Princeton, New Jersey, at 
 ccappucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  