-- 
Putin Faces First Setback in Russian Duma Election as Wage Growth Shrivels

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-12-02T17:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/putin-faces-first-setback-in-russia-vote.html
Russian voters may inflict the first
major electoral setback on Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in a
parliamentary vote this weekend, which may prompt the premier to
fortify his hold on power and boost public spending.  Putin’s  United Russia  party may get about 53 percent in
Dec. 4 elections to the  State Duma , from 64 percent in 2007,
according to reports released Nov. 25 by the state-run All-
Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or  VTsIOM , and
the independent  Levada  center. That would be the first time it
fared worse at nationwide polls compared with a previous ballot
since its creation by then-President Putin 10 years ago.  The party is hemorrhaging support as voters recoil at
stalling  wage  growth and the government’s failure to curb
corruption. Putin, 59, who is seeking to return to the  Kremlin 
in March elections, warned last week against “smashing” the
parliament’s unity and the danger of duplicating the political
paralysis afflicting Europe and the U.S.  “Putin may seek to conduct an even firmer political rule
than he does now,” said Kirill Rogov, an economist on one of
the panels reviewing the government’s Strategy 2020 for the
premier. “The low support is a fact and it is shrinking.”  ‘Swindlers and Thieves’  United  Russia , which holds a two-thirds majority in the
outgoing chamber that allows it to change the constitution
unilaterally, was identified as “the party of swindlers and
thieves” by 36 percent of respondents, while 45 percent
disagree with that view, according to a separate Levada  poll .
United Russia, may lose almost 65 seats to just over 250 in the
450-member Duma, the lower house of parliament, according to a
Nov. 25 Levada poll.  Three other parties of the seven registered for the
election are forecast to overcome the 7 percent threshold for
proportional representation for a five-year term in the
legislative body.  The  Communists  may win 16.7 percent, followed by the
nationalist  Liberal Democratic Party  with 11.6 percent and 10
percent backing  Just Russia , which campaigns for more social
spending, according to the VTsIOM survey.  ‘Wildcard’  The pro-democracy  Yabloko  party is a “wildcard” in the
ballot because a “swing in undecided voters who want an
alternative to the parties already represented” may allow it to
“squeeze through the 7 percent barrier,” with its
representation diluting the others, Alexey Zabotkin, an analyst
at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail today.  The share of undecided voters in the electorate suggests
that parties including  Patriots of Russia ,  Pravoye Delo  or
Yabloko may secure one or two mandates, Morgan Stanley said in a
research note today.  Putin would get 31 percent if a presidential election were
held today, compared with 8 percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov  and 7 percent for President  Dmitry Medvedev , according
to Levada. One-third said they were undecided.  Medvedev, who succeeded Putin in 2008 and plans to swap
jobs with his predecessor next May, today warned voters against
electing a parliament “torn by irreconcilable contradictions.”  Speaking in a televised  address  to the nation before the
vote, the president urged selecting a “competent legislative
body dominated by responsible politicians who can improve our
people’s living standards in practice.”  ‘Very Bad or Bad’  One-fifth of Russians say the current political situation
is “very bad or bad,” while 58 percent believe it’s
“average” and 16 percent think it’s “very good or good,”
according to a VTsIOM  poll  published today.  A poor showing by  United Russia , whose party list is headed
by Medvedev, will undercut the ruling party’s standing,
“increasing further the powers of the executive,” Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said by
e-mail yesterday.  During Putin’s first two terms as president, he worked to
centralize power and increase state ownership of the country’s
biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global economy,
Russia’s economic growth averaged 7 percent a year during his
2000-2008 tenure.  Gross domestic product of the world’s biggest energy
exporter will increase 4.1 percent this year after 4 percent
last year, the government estimates. The economy expanded 4
percent in 2010 after a record 7.8 percent contraction the
previous year.  World’s Five Largest  Putin is seeking annual growth of between 6 percent and 7
percent to turn the economy into one of the world’s five
largest. The goal is also to lift per capita GDP to $35,000 from
about $19,000 and create 25 million “quality” jobs within 15
years, Putin said in May.  Russia’s GDP per capita soared to $12,000 this year from
$2,400 in 2000, while the average annual consumption per person
in dollar terms rose to $7,400 in 2011 from $2,000 eight years
ago, Citigroup Inc. said in a Nov. 21 report.  Real wages increased an average of 15 percent a year
between 2000 and 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Including declines for much of 2009, growth has averaged 1.5
percent since.  The lack of satisfaction with wages and the standard of
living are “a cause of the most discontent” and protest
feelings among Russians, followed by inflation, according to a
 poll  published yesterday by the  Public Opinion  Foundation in
Moscow.  ‘Cohesive’ Leadership  “Putin has already indicated that a cohesive political
leadership is needed in Russia,” Gevorgyan said. “One of the
reasons behind the reiteration of his intention to have cohesive
political leadership is the current financial turmoil in the
euro zone and apparent weakness of the governments to implement
necessary reforms.”  The inability of European leaders to defeat a crisis now in
its third year is threatening global growth and driving up
borrowing costs. The debt turmoil has cost five euro-area
leaders their jobs, including Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  The influence of Russian lawmakers on economic policy is
waning as the government has built up about $120 billion in
reserves, resulting in “direct access to financial resources”
that “reduces the Cabinet’s interest in dialogue with the
legislative branch,”  Alfa Bank , Russia’s biggest private
lender, said yesterday.  ‘Artificial Growth’  Putin may move to shore up voter support before the
presidential vote with “artificial growth by inflating the
economy with state investment and social outlays,” Rogov said.  The government may revise next year’s budget after the
first quarter, Putin said at a meeting with supporters
yesterday. About 200 billion rubles ($6.5 billion) may be
redistributed to fund additional social spending, according to a
draft 2012 budget submitted for approval to the Duma last month.  About 60 million people, or more than 40 percent of the
population, are directly dependent on state support, Alfa Bank
said in a report Nov. 30, adding that “budget policy is likely
to maintain the present social focus,” leading to the “risks
of increased taxation going forward.”  “First his supporters believed Putin is lucky, now they
see their model of the world is falling to pieces,” Igor Bunin,
the president of the Center for Political Technologies, said by
phone. “There is a systemic crisis.”  Capital Flight  Russia expects capital flight to reach $80 billion this
year, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Nov. 30 in
 London . That would be the second-biggest volume of outflows
since central bank  records  began in 1994.  The government needs the price of oil to average almost
$120 a barrel to balance this year’s budget, compared with a
breakeven price of less than $20 in 2003, Citigroup estimates.  Urals crude , the country’s chief export blend, has declined
for two consecutive quarters, averaging about $109 so far this
year. It traded at $109.99 today.  Only a sharp drop in  oil prices  and growing public
discontent may “trigger more radical and constructive
reforms,” said Peter Westin, chief strategist at Aton Capital
in Moscow. The economy may enter a recession if crude averages
less than $70 next year, according to Aton.  “I would hope this weekend’s Duma election and the outcome
hold the key to a shift in policy,” Westin said by e-mail.
“However, I am a big skeptic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  