-- 
Qatar Shares Climb Most in Three Weeks as Central Banks Act; Oil Advances

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-12-01T11:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/qatar-shares-climb-most-in-three-weeks-as-central-banks-act-oil-advances.html
Persian Gulf stocks gained, sending
Qatar’s benchmark index up the most in three weeks, after six
central banks cut the cost of emergency dollar funding for
European banks and China reduced curbs on lending. Oil climbed.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the country’s biggest lender, rose
to the highest in almost two weeks. Islamic bank Masraf Al Rayan
increased for the third time this week. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  added
0.8 percent, the most since Nov. 9, to 8,662.76, at the 1 p.m.
close in Doha. The  gauge (DFMGI)  rose 1.2 percent this week. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  advanced 0.3 percent.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 4.2 percent
yesterday, the most since 2009. The Federal Reserve, Bank of
Canada, Bank of England,  Bank of Japan (8301) , European Central Bank
and Swiss National Bank agreed to reduce the interest rate on
dollar liquidity swap lines by 50 basis points and extend their
authorization through Feb. 1, 2013. Euro-area finance ministers
approved enhancements to their bailout fund yesterday.  “An improving backdrop to global markets is providing a
tailwind to our markets,” said Ali Khan, London-based head of
Middle East and North Africa Equities Sales at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “Recent headlines within MENA have been
improving, such as in Egypt, including the recent $1.5 billion
bond issuance” in the North African country, Khan said.  Debt Raising  Egypt, rocked by protests ahead of this week’s
parliamentary election, raised funds at yields lower than
analysts estimated as investors flocked to the nation’s first
sale of one-year dollar-denominated treasury bills. Qatar also
sold $5 billion of dollar-denominated bonds this week, capping
the best month for bond sales in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council in 13.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rallied 2.9 percent,
extending a 2.1 percent gain yesterday, after China said it will
cut the reserve requirement ratio for banks.  Crude oil for January delivery advanced as much as 0.6
percent to $100.99 a barrel. Gulf Arab oil exporters including
the United Arab Emirates and Qatar supply about a fifth of the
world’s oil.  Qatar, the world’s fastest-growing economy, and the U.A.E.
may be raised to emerging market status at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  this month
after the index provider delayed the decision in June.  “The subject of MSCI EM inclusion will remain in focus for
U.A.E. and Qatar therefore both markets should be able to hold
onto any recent gains,” RBS’s Khan said. Markets in the U.A.E.
were closed for a national holiday today.  Qatar National increased 1.4 percent to 149.6 riyals, the
highest close since Nov. 20.  Masraf Al Rayan (MARK)  rose 0.4 percent to
26.15 riyals.  Oman’s  MSM 30 Index (MSM30)  jumped 1.2 percent, the most since Aug.
28, and Kuwait’s gauge rose 0.4 percent. Bahrain’s  BB All Share
Index (BHSEASI)  lost 0.5 percent. Saudi Arabia’s market was shut for the
weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  