-- 
Raise Taxes on Rich to Reward True Job Creators: Nick Hanauer

-- B y   N i c k   H a n a u e r
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/raise-taxes-on-the-rich-to-reward-job-creators-commentary-by-nick-hanauer.html
It is a tenet of American economic
beliefs, and an article of faith for Republicans that is seldom
contested by Democrats: If taxes are raised on the rich,  job
creation  will stop.  Trouble is, sometimes the things that we know to be true
are dead wrong. For the larger part of human history, for
example, people were sure that the sun circles the Earth and
that we are at the center of the universe. It doesn’t, and we
aren’t. The conventional wisdom that the rich and businesses are
our nation’s “job creators” is every bit as false.  I’m a very rich person. As an entrepreneur and venture
capitalist, I’ve started or helped get off the ground dozens of
companies in industries including manufacturing, retail, medical
services, the Internet and software. I founded the Internet
media company aQuantive Inc., which was acquired by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  in 2007 for $6.4 billion. I was also the first non-family
investor in  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Even so, I’ve never been a “job creator.” I can start a
business based on a great idea, and initially hire dozens or
hundreds of people. But if no one can afford to buy what I have
to sell, my business will soon fail and all those jobs will
evaporate.  That’s why I can say with confidence that rich people don’t
create jobs, nor do businesses, large or small. What does lead
to more  employment  is the feedback loop between customers and
businesses. And only consumers can set in motion a virtuous
cycle that allows companies to survive and thrive and business
owners to hire. An ordinary middle-class consumer is far more of
a job creator than I ever have been or ever will be.  Theory of Evolution  When businesspeople take credit for creating jobs, it is
like squirrels taking credit for creating evolution. In fact,
it’s the other way around.  It is unquestionably true that without entrepreneurs and
investors, you can’t have a dynamic and growing capitalist
economy. But it’s equally true that without consumers, you can’t
have entrepreneurs and investors. And the more we have happy
customers with lots of disposable income, the better our
businesses will do.  That’s why our current policies are so upside down. When
the American middle class defends a tax system in which the
lion’s share of benefits accrues to the richest, all in the name
of job creation, all that happens is that the rich get richer.  And that’s what has been happening in the U.S. for the last
30 years.  Since 1980, the share of the nation’s  income  for fat cats
like me in the top 0.1 percent has increased a shocking 400
percent, while the share for the bottom 50 percent of Americans
has declined 33 percent. At the same time, effective tax rates
on the superwealthy fell to 16.6 percent in 2007, from 42
percent at the peak of U.S. productivity in the early 1960s, and
about 30 percent during the expansion of the 1990s. In my case,
that means that this year, I paid an 11 percent rate on an
eight-figure income.  One reason this policy is so wrong-headed is that there can
never be enough superrich Americans to power a great economy.
The annual earnings of people like me are hundreds, if not
thousands, of times greater than those of the average American,
but we don’t buy hundreds or thousands of times more stuff. My
family owns three cars, not 3,000. I buy a few pairs of pants
and a few shirts a year, just like most American men. Like
everyone else, I go out to eat with friends and family only
occasionally.  It’s true that we do spend a lot more than the average
family. Yet the one truly expensive line item in our budget is
our airplane (which, by the way, was manufactured in  France  by
 Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ), and those annual costs are mostly for
fuel (from the  Middle East ). It’s just crazy to believe that any
of this is more beneficial to our economy than hiring more
teachers or police officers or investing in our infrastructure.  More Shoppers Needed  I can’t buy enough of anything to make up for the fact that
millions of unemployed and  underemployed Americans  can’t buy any
new clothes or enjoy any meals out. Or to make up for the
decreasing consumption of the tens of millions of middle-class
families that are barely squeaking by, buried by spiraling costs
and trapped by stagnant or declining wages.  If the average American family still got the same share of
income they earned in 1980, they would have an astounding
$13,000 more in their pockets a year. It’s worth pausing to
consider what our economy would be like today if middle-class
consumers had that additional income to spend.  It is mathematically impossible to invest enough in our
economy and our country to sustain the middle class (our
customers) without  taxing the top 1 percent  at reasonable levels
again. Shifting the burden from the 99 percent to the 1 percent
is the surest and best way to get our consumer-based economy
rolling again.  Significant tax increases on the about $1.5 trillion in
collective income of those of us in the top 1 percent could
create hundreds of billions of dollars to invest in our economy,
rather than letting it pile up in a few bank accounts like a
huge clot in our nation’s economic circulatory system.  Consider, for example, that a puny 3 percent surtax on
incomes above $1 million would be enough to maintain and expand
the current payroll tax cut beyond December, preventing a $1,000
increase on the average worker’s taxes at the worst possible
time for the economy. With a few more pennies on the dollar, we
could invest in rebuilding schools and infrastructure. And even
if we imposed a millionaires’ surtax and rolled back the Bush-
era tax cuts for those at the top, the taxes on the richest
Americans would still be historically low, and their incomes
would still be astronomically high.  We’ve had it backward for the last 30 years. Rich
businesspeople like me don’t create jobs. Middle-class consumers
do, and when they thrive, U.S. businesses grow and profit.
That’s why  taxing the rich  to pay for investments that benefit
all is a great deal for both the middle class and the rich.  So let’s give a break to the true job creators. Let’s tax
the rich like we once did and use that money to spur growth by
putting purchasing power back in the hands of the middle class.
And let’s remember that capitalists without customers are out of
business.  ( Nick Hanauer  is a founder of Second Avenue Partners, a
venture capital company in  Seattle  specializing in early state
startups and emerging technology. He has helped launch more than
20 companies, including aQuantive Inc. and Amazon.com, and is
the co-author of two books, “The True Patriot” and “The
Gardens of Democracy.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nick Hanauer at  Nick@secondave.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 