-- 
Ranbaxy’s Lipitor Generic Approved by U.S. FDA, Threatening Pfizer Sales

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-12-01T05:54:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ranbaxy-s-lipitor-generic-approved-by-u-s-fda-threatening-pfizer-sales.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ’s copy of
the $10.7 billion Lipitor cholesterol pill was released in the
U.S., sending its share up the most in six months and
threatening sales for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Ranbaxy, India’s biggest drugmaker, won approval to sell
generic versions of the world’s top-selling medicine by the  Food
and Drug Administration  yesterday. The company, based near  New
Delhi , will share profit on the first six months’ sales with
 Israel ’s  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , Ranbaxy said today,
adding that terms of the agreement won’t be disclosed.  Ranbaxy sought to persuade the FDA that its copies are
equivalent to the original and that approval shouldn’t be
thwarted by an ongoing dispute about plant violations in  India .
The FDA approval was for products made at a plant in  New Jersey 
which may have been contingent on a deal with Teva, said Bino Pathiparampil, a health-care analyst at IIFL Ltd. in Mumbai.  “It could well be that the Lipitor ingredients could come
from Teva,” Pathiparampil said in an interview. In that
scenario, “Ranbaxy will assemble the drug at their factory in
New Jersey.”  Spokesmen at Ranbaxy and Teva declined to elaborate on
today’s statement.  The Indian drugmaker, 64 percent-owned by  Daiichi Sankyo
Co. , surged as much as 11 percent in Mumbai trading. The shares
traded 4.7 percent higher at 454.85 rupees, the most since May
30, at 11:22 a.m. local time, while the BSE India Sensitive
Index gained 2.8 percent.  Daiichi Sankyo (4568)  increased 2.1 percent to 1,402 yen in  Tokyo 
trading at 2:53 p.m. local time. A spokesman for the Tokyo-based
company declined to comment on the agreement between Teva and
Rabaxy, as well as on the impact on earnings of sales of generic
Lipitor sales.  ‘Simply Relieved’  “The market is simply relieved to hear that the drug is
approved,” said Yasuhiro Nakazawa, a health-care analyst at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Copycat Lipitor may generate as much as $650 million for
Ranbaxy in its first 180 days of sale, according to the median
estimate of five Mumbai-based analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This medication is widely used by people who must manage
their high cholesterol over time, so it is important to have
affordable treatment options,”  Janet Woodcock , director of the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a
statement released late yesterday in  Washington .  Ranbaxy may have sought a marketing deal with Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva in case it didn’t win timely approval, said
Priti Arora, an analyst at Kotak Institutional Securities in
Mumbai.  ‘Backup Measure’  “There is something more in this deal than meets the
eye,” Arora said in a telephone interview. “My feeling is that
they allied with Teva as a backup measure in case approval was
held back due to its manufacturing issues.”  Teva said on Nov. 2 that if it manages to introduce an
“important undisclosed product” in the fourth quarter, it
would meet the upper range of its forecast of earnings excluding
some costs of $4.92 to $5.02 a share this year. Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analysts speculated in a report last month that
the new product “is ostensibly Lipitor.”  Pfizer’s medicine lost patent protection in the U.S.
yesterday.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  began selling a copy of
Lipitor in the U.S. yesterday under an agreement with New York-
based Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker. Watson’s version
didn’t require FDA clearance because Pfizer is providing the
drug to sell without the brand label in return for a share of
the revenue.  Limited Competition  As the first generic to challenge Pfizer’s patent, Ranbaxy
is allowed six months before other generic versions can come on
the market under a 1984 law.  Mylan Inc.  of Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania ; Teva; and Dr.
Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. of Hyderabad, India, are among
generic-drug makers seeking FDA approval to sell Lipitor copies
after Ranbaxy’s six-month exclusivity expires, according to U.S.
court filings.  The U.S. enforcement actions against Ranbaxy, India’s
biggest drugmaker, began in 2008 when the FDA cited
manufacturing defects at two of the company’s plants in India
and subsequently barred the company from importing about 30
different drugs. The following year, the agency said one of
those plants, in Paonta Sahib, India, falsified data used in
drug applications.  No Settlement  U.S. prosecutors had been negotiating a dispute settlement
that may cost Ranbaxy more than $1 billion, Fortune Magazine
reported in May, without saying where it go the information.
There was no mention of a settlement in the FDA’s statement
yesterday.  Making generic Lipitor in the U.S. instead of India will
reduce the amount of profit Ranbaxy makes on each dollar of
sales, Kotak’s Arora said.  “Margins for manufacturing in the India are around 60
percent compared to about 40 percent from the U.S.,” she said.
The brokerage had estimated Ranbaxy would generate $560 million
in generic-Lipitor sales during the six months of exclusivity.  “We will have to revise our estimates because of this and
the Teva deal,” Arora said.  Pfizer Deals  Pfizer has struck deals with companies including  Catalyst
Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI)  and  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  to prevent
generic Lipitor from reaching some patients until the end of May
2012, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg.  Such deals may help Pfizer retain as much as 40 percent of
the Lipitor market during the six-month period in which Ranbaxy
and Watson will be the only providers of generic versions, Paul Bisaro, Watson’s chief executive officer, said Nov. 9 in a
speech at a Credit Suisse health-care conference.  Pfizer also has reached agreements with health insurers to
keep as much of the market as possible.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
the biggest U.S. health insurer by sales, said Nov. 19 it will
charge a lower co-pay for Pfizer’s pill than it does for
generics for the next six months, taking advantage of a price
reduction from the drugmaker.  That will limit the benefit of Ranbaxy’s exclusivity, said
SMBC Nikko’s Nakazawa. Ranbaxy’s copy may generate $300 million
for the Indian drugmaker next year, adding 10 billion yen ($129
million) to Daiichi Sankyo’s operating profit for the year
ending March 2013, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  