-- 
Pfizer Lipitor Sales Are Threatened by Ranbaxy Generic Copy

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y ,   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-12-01T21:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ranbaxy-s-lipitor-copy-threatens-pfizer-sales.html
Pfizer Inc.’s $10.7 billion
cholesterol pill Lipitor gained a rival today after  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  was cleared by U.S. regulators to sell copies
of the drug.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, lost on another
front when  WellPoint (WLP)  Inc., the largest insurer by enrollment,
said it will support use of a generic version by its members by
assigning a lower co-pay to the copycat than to the brand drug.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance for Ranbaxy,
India’s biggest drugmaker, followed a dispute over whether the
company could produce the copies given questions about its
manufacturing plants. A deal to share profits with  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest generic-drug
maker based in  Israel , helped overcome that hurdle.  The FDA approval gives Ranbaxy exclusive rights to sell
copies for 180 days, competing with Lipitor and a Pfizer-
authorized version marketed by  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) 
Pfizer took advantage of Ranbaxy’s dispute with regulators by
making agreements with insurers to block competing generic
versions in return for price cuts for the branded medicine.  “Had it been a clear situation that Ranbaxy would not have
been able to make it, they could have commanded a better
price,” said Jason Gerberry, an analyst with Leerink Swann &
Co. in  Boston .  Copycat Revenue  Copycat Lipitor may generate as much as $650 million for
Ranbaxy in its first 180 days of sale, according to the median
estimate of five Mumbai-based analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ranbaxy, 64 percent-owned by  Daiichi Sankyo Co.  and based
near New Delhi, sought to convince the FDA that approval
shouldn’t be thwarted by an ongoing dispute about plant
violations in  India . The FDA approval may have been contingent
on the Teva deal, said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at IIFL
Ltd. in Mumbai.  The source for the active ingredient is approved to be
produced in two sites, one of which is a Ranbaxy plant in
Toansa, India,  Sandy Walsh , a spokeswoman for FDA, said in an e-
mail. The other is undisclosed as part of Ranbaxy’s confidential
application, she said. The generic, known as atorvastatin, will
be manufactured by the company’s unit in  New Brunswick ,  New
Jersey , the agency said.  Teva isn’t providing the active ingredient, Denise Bradley,
a spokeswoman for the Israeli drugmaker, said in an e-mail. A
spokesman at Ranbaxy declined to elaborate and terms of the
companies’ agreement haven’t been disclosed.  Teva’s Cut  Michael Meyers, chief executive officer of Arcoda Capital
Management in  New York , estimated Teva will receive 35 percent
of Ranbaxy profit from generic Lipitor during the first six
months that the Indian drugmaker has the rights to exclusively
sell it. That would make Teva’s cut equivalent to $105 million
in revenue, he said.  Ranbaxy gained 2 percent to 443.15 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, paring a gain of as much as 11 percent. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s India Healthcare Index lost 0.3 percent. New York-
based Pfizer fell less than 1 percent to $20.03 at the close in
New York trading. The stock had gained 14 percent this year.  The FDA granted Teva tentative approval today for its
version of generic Lipitor. Teva plans to begin selling the
product in May, the company said in a statement.  Pfizer’s marketing strategy includes agreements with the
health insurer UnitedHealth Group Inc., of Minnetonka,
Minnesota, and the pharmacy benefit manager  Catalyst Health
Solutions Inc. (CHSI) , of Rockville,  Maryland , to block the copycat
versions in return for lower prices on brand-name Lipitor.
Pfizer’s effort has had mixed results.  WellPoint, Wal-Mart  WellPoint, based in Indianapolis, today said it would favor
Watson’s copy with a $10 to $15 co-payment, charging patients
$20 to $35 for brand-name Lipitor.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, also
said today it began offering the Watson version of Lipitor to
customers.  Pfizer is “trying to squeeze the last drops of juice out
of the once-fat orange,” said  Erik Gordon , a business professor
at the University of Michigan in  Ann Arbor  who follows the
industry, said in an e-mail. “The real game at Pfizer is to
sell off  units (PFE) , cut R&D and use the cash to prop up the stock
price with buybacks and dividends. It’s financial engineering
from a company run by an accountant.”  Pfizer plans to divest its animal health and nutritionals
units, which generated $5.44 billion in revenue last year. The
money is to be used for share buybacks, Chief Executive Officer
 Ian Read  has said.  Rejection of Strategy  “It’s in the best economic interests of our members for
several manufacturers to make atorvastatin,” Kristin Binns, a
WellPoint spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The agreement applies
to the company’s 10.5 million-person commercial market, as well
as the insurer’s Medicare patients.  Three U.S. senators said yesterday in a letter sent to
Pfizer that they’ll look into the drugmaker’s agreements with
the insurers and pharmacy benefit managers. They’re questioning
whether the deals will artificially prop up patient costs, the
letter said.  “By working with manufacturers to push brand-name drugs,
drug-benefit companies may be abusing Medicare to boost their
profits and denying generic alternatives to patients -- a
practice that needs to end immediately,” said Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat who leads the Finance Committee, in a
statement yesterday.  FTC Demand  The senators’ letter follows a demand by Maryland
Democratic Representative John Sarbanes that the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission review the agreements.  For Teva, approval of Ranbaxy’s Lipitor copy is a
psychological positive, said  Leerink Swann ’s Gerberry. It’s a
“modest negative” for Pfizer and Watson, he said in a  note  to
clients today.  “The uncertainty of Ranbaxy’s situation created a segment
of customers that held off on procuring normal inventory
stocking in the hope that Ranbaxy would get approved and offer
lower pricing,” Gerberry said.  Teva said on Nov. 2 that if it manages to introduce an
“important undisclosed product” in the fourth quarter, the
company would meet the upper range of a forecast of earnings
excluding some costs of $4.92 to $5.02 a share this year.
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts speculated in a report last
month that the new product was Lipitor.  Just in Case  Ranbaxy may have sought a marketing deal with Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva in case it didn’t win timely approval, said
Priti Arora, an analyst at Kotak Institutional Securities in
Mumbai.  “There is something more in this deal than meets the
eye,” Arora said in a telephone interview. “My feeling is that
they allied with Teva as a backup measure in case approval was
held back due to its manufacturing issues.”  Watson began selling a copy of Lipitor in the U.S. at 12:01
a.m. New York time yesterday under the agreement with Pfizer.
Watson’s version didn’t require FDA clearance because Pfizer is
providing the drug to sell without the brand label in return for
a share of the revenue.  As the first generic to challenge Pfizer’s patent, Ranbaxy
is allowed six months under a 1984 law before other generic
versions can come on the market.  In addition to Teva’s approval,  Mylan Inc.  of Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. of Hyderabad,
India are among those seeking FDA clearance to sell Lipitor
copies after Ranbaxy’s six-month exclusivity expires, according
to U.S. court filings.  Manufacturing Defects  The U.S. enforcement actions against Ranbaxy, India’s
biggest drugmaker, began in 2008 when the FDA cited
manufacturing defects at two of the company’s plants in India
and subsequently barred the company from importing about 30
different drugs. The following year, the agency said one of
those plants, in Paonta Sahib, India, falsified data used in
drug applications.  Making generic Lipitor in the U.S. instead of India will
reduce the amount of profit Ranbaxy makes on each dollar of
sales, Kotak’s Arora said.  “Margins for manufacturing in India are around 60 percent
compared to about 40 percent from the U.S.,” she said. The
brokerage had estimated Ranbaxy would generate $560 million in
generic-Lipitor sales during the six months of exclusivity.  In approving the deal,  Janet Woodcock , director of the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a
statement it was  “important to have affordable treatment
options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  