-- 
Rand Strengthens to Two-Week High as PMI Rises, Europe Debt Concern Eases

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-12-01T13:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/rand-snaps-biggest-three-day-rally-in-two-years-amid-european-debt-concern.html
The rand climbed to a two-week high
after South Africa’s purchasing managers index unexpectedly rose
in November and as Spain and  France  sold bonds, easing concern
the euro region’s debt crisis is set to worsen.  South Africa’s currency advanced as much as 0.6 percent to
8.0842 per dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 15. It traded
0.5 percent stronger at 8.0952 as of 2:41 p.m. in Johannesburg,
a fourth day of gains. Against the euro, it appreciated 0.2
percent to 10.9168.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 51.6 in November
from 50.5 a month earlier, Johannesburg-based Kagiso Tiso
Holdings said in an e-mailed statement today. This was the
second month in a row the reading is above 50, indicating an
expansion in factory output. The median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg survey was for the index to fall to 49.9.  “The increase in the PMI bodes well for  South Africa ’s
economic growth outlook, especially given the manufacturing
sector’s poor showing in the third quarter,” Tebogo Mosepele, a
Johannesburg-based analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in
e-mailed comments. “The data is rand-positive from a gross
domestic product-differential perspective.”  Spain and France sold 8.1 billion euros ($10.9 billion) of
bonds today, sending yields lower across  Europe , after six
central banks led by the U.S. Federal Reserve agreed yesterday
to cut the cost of providing dollar funding via swap agreements
and to make other currencies available as needed.  Monetary Loosening  Emerging-market stocks (MXEF)  gained, driving the benchmark index
to its steepest four-day gain in more than two years, as
investors bet the central banks’ intervention will restore
growth. South Africa’s commodity exporters including Anglo
American Plc and  BHP Billiton  gained for a second day, while
gold miners including AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. advanced as the
price of the metal climbed.  “The biggest central banks in the world are all engaged in
monetary loosening,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Tradition Analytics, and colleagues said in a
research note. “As a result, one can expect to see a wave of
inflows hit South African shores to bid up local asset prices in
coming months. The risk of holding a long-dollar position has
just ratcheted higher.”  Foreign investors bought a net 2.57 billion rand ($317
million) of South African stocks yesterday, the most in a day
since April 2010, according to JSE Ltd. data.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 gained for a
fourth day, driving the yield three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points lower to 6.758 percent. The yield dropped 18
basis points yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  