-- 
Transparency International Pulls Support From FIFA Anti-Corruption Program

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-12-01T12:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/transparency-international-pulls-support-from-fifa-anti-corruption-program.html
Transparency International , an
adviser to soccer’s governing body on anti-corruption reforms,
has withdrawn its assistance because it doesn’t feel a special
group tasked with creating reforms is “truly independent.”  Sylvia Schenk, senior adviser for sport, said the
organization turned down an invitation to join FIFA’s outside
governance committee because its chairman Mark Pieth is being
paid by the soccer body and also after Pieth said he wouldn’t be
looking at allegations of past wrongdoing.  “All members of the commission are supposed to be
independent,” Schenk said in a telephone interview. “You can’t
be independent if you have a contract with FIFA.”  Pieth said he was “cheesed off” by Schenk’s comments,
adding it was common practice for companies to pay for outside
auditors to evaluate their business practices. The professor of
criminal law at Basel University declined to say how much he and
his staff were being paid, saying it was the standard amount for
such work. A FIFA spokesman wasn’t able to immediately respond
to Schenk’s comments.  “We can’t start asking audit firms to do their job for
free just to make sure they are independent,” Pieth said in an
interview. “What you’ll get is something quite pathetic.”  Schenk said the funds needed for an independent body should
be provided by a wider group including sponsors, broadcasters
and national soccer associations. Pieth, who was chosen by the
 United Nations  in 2004 to serve on a team examining alleged
corruption in the Iraqi oil-for-food program, said he’d walk
away from the project if he thinks FIFA isn’t serious about
implementing change.  Turmoil  The soccer body has been forced into trying to reform its
governance statutes following a year of turmoil in which several
top executives have either been found guilty, or accused of
wrongdoing, during the selection process for the $4 billion
 World Cup  and the organization’s presidency.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  had been in talks with Schenk
since July 25. Transparency International produced a report
earlier this year highlighting areas of reform.  “I think Mrs. Schenk is playing a turf war here,” Pieth
said.  Sponsors Concern  Sponsors expressed concern after a vote-buying election
scandal connected to the 2018 and 2022 World Cups led to the
suspicion of two senior officials. Months later, Mohamed Bin Hammam, the only candidate to challenge Blatter for FIFA’s
presidency, withdrew after being accused of offering $40,000
each to Caribbean soccer officials. He’s appealing a life ban,
denying any wrongdoing. Several others have been given bans of
up to two years. FIFA has promised to release documents in
December naming officials who took payments from its former
bankrupt marketing partner a decade ago.  “Yesterday we learned this commission is not dealing with
the past, first step we said in our report is dealing with the
past,” Schenk said.  Pieth, who was appointed to his role by Blatter, said the
level of work needed meant he had to make a choice between
dealing with the past and the future.  “I’m not being a policeman: others can do that,” he said.
“If Mrs. Schenk wants to be the policeman, she can do that.”  Blatter said he expects the reforms to be completed by June
2013. FIFA doesn’t have to follow Pieth’s recommendations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Carolyn Bandel in
Zurich at   cbandel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  