-- 
Treasuries Snap Four-Day Decline on China Slowdown, Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-12-01T09:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/treasuries-rise-in-asian-trading-benchmark-10-year-yield-falls-to-2-05-.html
Treasuries snapped a four-day decline
after a report showed China’s manufacturing contracted and as
 France  and  Spain  prepared to sell bonds amid concern borrowing
costs for the two nations will increase.  Ten-year U.S. yields fell from a two-week high set
yesterday as Jan Hatzius, the chief economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said the Federal Reserve may implement a third round
of bond purchases called quantitative easing, or QE3, next year.
The Fed and five other central banks yesterday announced plans
to cut the cost of emergency dollar loans as European officials
struggle to contain a regional debt crisis.  “People are fully expecting QE3,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest interdealer broker. “That can keep a cap on
yields.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 9:02 a.m. London time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in November 2021 gained 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 14/32. The rate climbed to 2.11 percent yesterday,
the highest since Nov. 14.  The  China   Purchasing Managers’ Index  fell to 49 last month
from 50.4 in October, showing manufacturing in the nation shrank
for the first time since February 2009. China said yesterday it
plans to trim the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
 reserves  on Dec. 5, the first reduction since 2008.  Further Easing  German 10-year bund yields dropped two basis points to 2.26
percent before the debt auctions by France and Spain and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB’s
program of buying  government bonds  “can only be limited.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers,
who bought  $2.3 trillion  of Treasury and mortgage-related bonds
between 2008 and June, will start another program next quarter,
16 of the 21 primary dealers of U.S. government securities that
trade with the central bank said in a Bloomberg survey last
month. The Fed may buy about $545 billion in home-loan debt,
based on the median of the firms that provided estimates.  “The  Federal Reserve  will go back to buying securities,”
Hatzius said yesterday on a conference call with clients.
“Those purchases will involve mortgage-backed securities. At
the margin that is going to help the economy avoid recession.”
Goldman Sachs is one of the primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed.  The ECB will cut its main rate to 1 percent from 1.25
percent when it meets on Dec. 8, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed. The central bank reduced the rate by a quarter
percentage point at its last meeting on Nov. 3.  Treasuries fell yesterday after the Fed said in a statement
the premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from central
banks will decline by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points. The Fed coordinated the move with the ECB and the
central banks of Canada, Switzerland, Japan and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  