-- 
Treasuries Hold Loss on Speculation Swaps to Ease Debt Crisis

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-01T01:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/treasuries-hold-loss-on-speculation-swaps-to-ease-debt-crisis.html
Treasuries held losses on speculation
central bank plans to reduce the cost of emergency dollar loans
will help ease the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Thirty-year bonds had the biggest drop in almost a month
yesterday as dollar funding costs for European banks fell for
the first time in six days. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap, the rate banks pay to convert euro payments into dollars,
was 1.31 percentage points below the euro interbank offered rate
yesterday. It had touched 1.63 percentage points, the most
expensive level since credit markets froze in October 2008.  “Yields should go higher,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in
 Tokyo . BNP’s U.S. unit is one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “Yesterday’s decision
was a nice one. Yesterday’s movement was dramatic.”  Thirty-year yields were little changed at 3.05 percent as
of 10:02 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent security due in November 2041 changed
hands at 101 16/32. The rate increased 10 basis points yesterday,
the most since Nov. 3. Ten-year notes yielded 2.06 percent today.  The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will fall by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points, the Fed said yesterday in a statement. The so-called
dollar swap lines will be extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013.
The Fed coordinated the move with the  European Central Bank  and
the central banks of Canada, Switzerland, Japan and the U.K.  “It’s going to free up some of the locked-up lending
that’s going on in  Europe ,” said  Brian Edmonds , interest-rate
head at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York , another primary dealer.
“It’s hard to look at this move and not think what they did was
significant, but I don’t think it ends everything.”  The  two-year swap spread , the difference between two-year
swap rates and comparable maturity Treasury yields, an
indication of perceived funding risk in the financial system,
narrowed to 39 basis points yesterday, the least since Nov. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 vwgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  