-- 
Record Cotton Crop Spurs Goldman to Predict Declining Prices: Commodities

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-12-01T17:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/record-cotton-crop-spurs-goldman-to-predict-declining-prices-commodities.html
The combination of a record cotton
crop and falling consumption will expand global stockpiles by
the most since 2005, driving further declines in the price of
this year’s worst-performing commodity.  Harvests will increase 7.5 percent to 123.89 million 480-
pound bales (27 million metric tons) in the 12 months ending in
July, as demand drops to a three-year low of 114.27 million
bales, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Prices may
decline 15 percent to 77 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York by the end of next year, from 91.1 cents now, based on
the median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a double whammy,” said James Dailey, who manages
$215 million of assets at TEAM Financial Management LLC in
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . “Cotton is facing the worst-case
nightmare for a commodity, where you have a glut in physical
production combined with weakening demand.”  Cotton fell 58 percent since reaching an all-time high of
$2.197 in March as investors bet that prices would curb demand
and encourage supply. Output is rising from  Australia  to China
to  India , more than compensating for a U.S. decline caused by
the worst crop conditions since the dust bowl era of the 1930s.
Speculators in U.S. futures are now the least bullish in 2-1/2
years, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Economic growth is forecast by the International Monetary
Fund to slow next year from  Europe  to China to the  Middle East ,
potentially curbing the consumption of commodities. Clothing
manufacturers including Levi Strauss & Co. are already starting
to cut prices to stimulate demand.  Index of Equities  This year’s 37 percent decline in prices means cotton fell
the most among 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge, which advanced 3.2 percent. The fiber rose the most in
2010, adding 92 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities dropped 8.8 percent since the end of December and
Treasuries returned 8.8 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Cotton will reach 85 cents in six months, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a report Nov. 10, reducing its previous
forecast of $1. The most widely held option on futures gives
holders the right to sell at 90 cents by Feb. 10, according to
ICE Futures U.S. data.  Hedge funds  and other speculators are holding a net-long
position, or bets on higher prices, of 11,985 futures and
options, the least since April 2009, CFTC data show. They have
been reducing their  position  since a peak of 81,336 contracts in
September 2010.  Water Supply  China’s harvest, the biggest of any nation, is expanding
for the first time in four years, the USDA estimates. Output in
Australia may rise as much as 25 percent to a record as water
supply improves, Adam Kay, chief executive officer of Cotton
Australia, a Mascot, New South Wales-based producer’s group,
said in an interview Nov. 16. Exports from India, the second-
biggest shipper, may climb 14 percent, B.A. Patel, the country’s
joint textiles commissioner, told reporters Nov. 15.  The USDA cut its global demand forecast five times in the
past six months, on expectations that global growth is slowing.
Consumption contracted more than 11 percent in 2009, the most in
at least a half century, during the worst global slump since the
Great Depression.  Economists don’t expect a repeat next year, with the
 International Monetary Fund  predicting global growth of 4
percent, unchanged from 2011. China, the biggest cotton
consumer, will expand 9 percent, and India, the second-largest,
7.5 percent, the Washington-based group estimates.  ‘Turbo Boost’  The price slump since March may spur purchases by textile
makers after signs of improving consumer demand. U.S. retail
sales jumped to a record $52.4 billion during the four-day
Thanksgiving weekend through Nov. 27, according to the  National
Retail Federation . More than 51 percent of shoppers bought
clothes, the Washington-based NRF said.  “Mill demand must, at some point in time, catch up with
retail demand,” said O.A.  Cleveland , an agricultural economist
and a professor emeritus in agricultural economics at
 Mississippi  State University. “It would be a turbo boost for
prices if we see Chinese mills spinning more cotton because it
means there’s actual demand.”  China  may be accelerating purchases to rebuild reserves
depleted this year by state sales aimed at containing inflation.
Imports reached a six-month high of 250,000 tons in September
and remained there in October, customs data show.  Nine Months  The gains in  Chinese  imports may not last. Production of
fabric in the nation fell 4.9 percent in September from a year
earlier and declined in eight of the past nine months, INTL
FCStone Inc. said in a report Nov. 8. Cotton-cloth exports
dropped 10.1 percent in September, a sign fabric production may
remain weaker into 2012, the New York-based trader and adviser
wrote in the report.  China will use 1.1 percent less cotton in the season ending
in July, Cotlook Ltd. said in a Nov. 17 report. The Birkenhead,
England-based research company also cut its demand forecasts for
the Indian subcontinent and  Brazil  and anticipates a “massive”
3.56 million-ton supply surplus, compared with 653,000 tons in
the previous year. Expectations that declining prices would spur
demand “have steadily faded,” Cotlook said.  Cheaper cotton will help clothing manufacturers, who
contended this year with prices that averaged $1.365 a pound,
the most since at least 1958. Levi Strauss cut prices in the
third quarter to reduce inventory, Chief Financial Officer  Blake Jorgensen  said in October. The San Francisco-based company had
raised prices in the past year in response to the surge in
cotton, and shoppers balked at the higher costs, he said.  ‘Cotton-Price Hangover’  “There’s a cotton-price hangover that’s going to be with
us for a long time,” said Rogers Varner Jr., the president of
Varner Bros., a brokerage in Cleveland, Mississippi. “The price
increase earlier this year was so extreme. It was more than just
turmoil. It was upheaval.”  Liz Claiborne Inc., the operator of the Juicy Couture and
Kate Spade clothing lines, is still suffering from the surge in
cotton, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Warren said on a
conference call Nov. 9. The New York-based company’s 2012
margins will be boosted after the slump in prices, Warren said.  “Historically, cotton wants to be between 50 cents and 80
cents, and that just seems to be the fair value for it,” said
 Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options in  Port
St. Lucie ,  Florida . “Cotton ran up more than other commodities,
and so it still has a lot more correcting to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net . 