-- 
Red Bull, Samsung, Pfizer, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-12-01T13:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/red-bull-samsung-pfizer-amazon-google-intellectual-property.html
Red Bull GmbH, the Austrian energy-
drink maker, lost a court bid to stop a maker of Scalextric
racing games from putting its brand name on toy cars.  A court in Alicante,  Spain , that frequently rules on
European Union trademark cases dismissed the complaint against
 Tecnitoys Juguetes SA , Tomas Fornesa, a lawyer for the
Barcelona-based company, said by phone. Red Bull initially
sought 9 percent of game sales, he said.  Red Bull’s sponsorships in car racing have included backing
Volkswagen AG’s entry in the Dakar Rally. Tecnitoys replicates
the advertising logos on the racing cars. The toymaker doesn’t
make a version of the Formula One cars from Red Bull’s two
Formula One teams, Fornesa said.  “Nobody buys our games for the Red Bull branding,”
Fornesa said. “That would be like someone buying a Real Madrid
soccer shirt because of the sponsor’s name.”  Tecnitoys and other Scalextric makers typically pay
licensing fees of 4 percent to 10 percent of sales to carmakers
including McLaren Group Ltd. and Daimler AG’s Mercedes Benz to
replicate their racing cars, Fornesa said.  Red Bull’s deadline to appeal has expired, Fornesa said.
Tina Deutner, a spokeswoman for Fuschl am See, Austria-based Red
Bull, didn’t return two e-mails seeking comment.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Samsung Wins  Australia  Round of Apple Fight Over Tablet Sales  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest smartphone
maker, scored a victory in its global patent dispute with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  as an Australian appeals court overturned a ban on the sale
of its tablet computer rivaling the iPad.  Samsung can begin sales of its Galaxy Tab 10.1 in the
country starting Dec. 2, a federal appeals judge ruled
yesterday. A three-member appeal panel unanimously said a lower-
court judge made a mistake in granting Cupertino, California-
based Apple’s request for a ban.  Apple must file an emergency appeal against this verdict in
the Canberra-based High Court, the nation’s apex legal body, to
extend the ban. The Australia dispute is part of a conflict
between the companies on at least four continents that began in
April, when Apple sued Samsung in the U.S. and accused it of
“slavishly” copying the designs of  iPhones and iPads .  “The removal of the injunction is a win for consumer
choice in the Australian tablet market,” Tim Renowden, an
analyst at researcher Ovum Plc, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Samsung is not out of the Australian scrub yet” because the
removal of the ban still hinges on the High Court, he said.  The High Court must decide before the end of business
tomorrow whether to grant Apple’s request to keep the ban in
place beyond that date. If it grants the request, Apple will
have 28 days from Nov. 30 to file a request to appeal the
ruling.  “The ruling clearly affirms that Apple’s legal claims lack
merit,” said Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung.  Apple said “it’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest
products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad.”  “This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we’ve said
many times before, we need to protect Apple’s intellectual
property when companies steal our ideas,” the company said in
an e-mail after yesterday’s ruling.  Samsung is the second-largest component supplier for Apple.
The Korean company gets about 7.6 percent of its total revenue
from selling memory chips, displays and other components for the
iPhone and iPad, according to Bloomberg data.  The case is  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  v. Apple Inc.
NSD1792/2011. Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more, click here.  After Lipitor, Pfizer Slims Down to Push Mini-Blockbusters  Pfizer Inc.’s (PFE)  long dependence on the cholesterol pill
 Lipitor  to produce almost one-fifth of its revenue began eroding
yesterday when the drug’s patent protection ended in the U.S.  The next step will be rebuilding the world’s biggest
drugmaker into a smaller, faster-moving company that focuses on
development of biologic drugs and specialty medicines while
expanding sales of existing products, such as Lipitor and the
erection drug Viagra, in emerging countries such as  China ,
executives said in interviews.  “We’re not going to be a one-product company,” said Geno Germano, Pfizer’s president of specialty care and oncology,
interviewed at the company’s  New York  headquarters. “We’re
poised to deliver significant new  pipeline  assets in the coming
year, and in coming years.”  Pfizer rose 67 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $20.07 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday and has gained 15
percent this year.  The drugmaker is depending on four products to generate $4
billion in new revenue by 2014,  Timothy Anderson , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, said in a  note  to clients.  The drugs are Prevnar, a bacterial infection vaccine gained
in Pfizer’s 2009 Wyeth purchase; the blood-thinner Eliquis, co-
developed with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ; the rheumatoid
arthritis drug tofacitinib; and the cancer drug Xalkori for non-
small-cell lung tumors. Pfizer is awaiting U.S. regulatory
approval on Eliquis and tofacitinib.  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Cyber-Security  Obama Invokes Cold-War Law to Unmask Chinese Telecom Spyware  The U.S. is invoking Cold War-era national-security powers
to force telecommunication companies including AT&T Inc. and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to divulge confidential information
about their networks in a hunt for Chinese cyber-spying.  In a survey distributed in April, the U.S. Commerce
Department asked for a detailed accounting of foreign-made
hardware and software on the companies’ networks. It also asked
about security-related incidents such as the discovery of
“unauthorized electronic hardware” or suspicious equipment
that can duplicate or redirect data, according to a copy of the
survey reviewed by Bloomberg News.  The survey represents “very high-level” concern that
China and other countries may be using their growing export
sectors to develop built-in spying capabilities in U.S.
networks, said a senior U.S. intelligence official who asked not
to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the matter.  “This is beyond vague suspicions,” said  Richard Falkenrath , a senior  fellow  in the Council on Foreign Relations
Cyberconflict and Cybersecurity Initiative. “Congress is now
looking at this as well, and they’re doing so based on very
specific material provided them in a classified setting” by the
National Security Agency, he said.  The survey went to dozens of telecommunications companies,
software makers and information-security companies, including
some foreign firms, according to  James Lewis , a cyber-security
expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, or
CSIS, in  Washington . Lewis said  AT&T (T)  and Verizon Communications
were among the companies that received it.  Several of the companies were hesitant to cooperate because
they had learned the Commerce Department unit handling the
survey had itself been hacked by the Chinese in 2006, creating
the possibility that company data provided might become known to
the Chinese, according to a former government official familiar
with the discussions.  Mark Siegel, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment on security issues. Edward McFadden, a spokesman for New
York-based Verizon, said the company had received the survey and
declined to comment further. Eugene Cottilli, a Commerce
Department spokesman in Washington, had no immediate comment on
the survey.  For more, click here.  Companies Urged to Share Cyber Threats With U.S. in House Bill  The U.S. government and companies would be encouraged to
share information about cybersecurity threats and hacker attacks
under legislation unveiled by House Intelligence Committee
Chairman Mike Rogers.  The measure would shield companies from lawsuits and public
disclosure requirements when they inform federal agencies about
their security vulnerabilities and the type of cyber attacks
they experienced, Rogers, a Michigan Republican, said yesterday.  U.S. lawmakers have increased scrutiny of network security
in the wake of hacking incidents at companies including  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The National Counterintelligence
Executive said last month that hackers and illicit programmers
in China and Russia are pursuing American industrial secrets,
jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research.  Rogers has accused the Chinese government of launching
attacks, saying at a hearing last month that attacks from China
have reached an “intolerable level.”  For more, click here.  Internet  Amazon Executive Says Congress Should Address Online Taxes  Paul Misener , Amazon.com Inc.’s vice president for global
public policy, urged Congress to set standards for collecting
state sales taxes from online merchants. Any exceptions to the
tax should be kept “very low” for fairness reasons, Misener
said.  Misener spoke yesterday at a House Judiciary Committee
hearing. Seattle-based  Amazon (AMZN) , the largest online retailer, has
long battled attempts by states to levy sales taxes on Internet
transactions. Now it’s backing efforts to create a federal
standard for states to collect sales tax on online purchases.  A 1992 U.S. Supreme Court decision exempted businesses from
collecting sales taxes in states in which they don’t have a
physical presence, or “nexus,” such as a store or warehouse.  That ruling has given Internet-based sellers an advantage
in the marketplace over brick-and-mortar retailers, said
Representative John Conyers of Michigan, the top Democrat on the
Judiciary Committee.  “Online retailers have, let’s face it, an unfair
advantage,” said Conyers, a co-sponsor of one of three pending
bills that would give states the ability to collect taxes on
sales by out-of-state vendors.  The issue has divided online retailers. Executives from San
Jose, California-based  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Overstock.com (OSTK)  of Salt Lake
City cautioned lawmakers against passing a measure that would
harm small businesses or saddle online retailers with added
expenses.  Amazon’s Misener said technology has advanced enough so
that all but the smallest sellers can manage sales tax
collections.  Netflix Viewing Seen Swelling U.S. Cable Bills Next Year  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and U.S. pay-TV companies, weighing
how to profit from surging Internet demand spurred by  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu, are on the verge of instituting new fees on Web-
access customers who use the service most.  At least one major cable operator will institute so-called
usage-based billing next year, predicts  Craig Moffett , an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. He said Cox
Communications Inc.,  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  or Time Warner
Cable may be first to charge Web-access customers for the amount
of data they consume, not just transmission speed.  “As more video shifts to the Web, the cable operators will
inevitably align their pricing models,” Moffett said in an
interview. “With the right usage-based pricing plan, they can
embrace the transition instead of resisting it.”  U.S. providers like Time Warner Cable have weighed usage-
based plans for years as a way to squeeze more profit from Web
access, and to counter slowing growth and rising program costs
in the TV business. While customer complaints hampered earlier
attempts, pay-TV companies are testing usage caps and price
structures that point to the advent of permanent fees.  “We’re basically a broadband provider,” Peter Stern,
chief strategy officer for New York-based Time Warner Cable,
said Nov. 17 at the Future of Television conference in New York.
“As a convenience for our customers, we package and distribute
television and provide service around that.”  For more, click here.  Copyright  Harlan Ellison Drops Suit Against Makers of ‘In Time’ Movie  Harlan Ellison dropped a copyright suit against New Regency
Productions Inc. and screenwriter and director Andrew Niccol
that claimed the movie “ In Time ” was based on his story
“‘Repent, Harlequin!’ Said the Ticktockman.”  According to the complaint filed Sept. 14 in federal court
in  Los Angeles , “Repent, Harlequin!” is “one of the most famous
and widely published science fiction short stories ever
written.”  Ellison claimed that the movie, which opened in October and
stars Justin Timberlake and Amanda Seyfried, used his story
without authorization.  On Nov. 28, Adam Thurston, a lawyer in the Los Angeles
office of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, filed a motion withdrawing
the case with prejudice, meaning that the suit can’t be refiled.
Neither Thurston nor Vincent Cox, a lawyer from Leopold, Petrich
& Smith PC who represents the defendants, would say why the suit
was withdrawn.  “After seeing the film ‘In Time,’ Harlan Ellison decided
to voluntarily dismiss the action,” the lawyers said in a joint
statement. “No payment or screen credit was promised or given to
Harlan Ellison. The parties wish each other well, and have no
further comment on the matter.”  The case is Kilimanjaro Corp. v. New Regency Productions
Inc.,  2:11-cv-07575, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Privacy  Google to Begin Appeal of Italy Privacy Conviction in 2012  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will begin an appeal as soon as January of a
conviction by an Italian court of two managers and a former
executive for violating privacy laws, said Peter Fleischer, the
company’s global privacy counsel and a defendant in the case.  The three were convicted in February by a Milan court on
charges related to a clip uploaded to Google Video in 2006 by a
group of Turin school students, who filmed themselves bullying
an autistic classmate.  Milan Judge Oscar Magi ruled that Fleischer, David
Drummond, Google’s senior vice president of corporate
development and a former chief financial officer, were guilty of
privacy violations. They were sentenced to six-month terms,
which were suspended.  IP Moves  Jill Pietrini, a trademark attorney and the chair of the
intellectual property practice group of Manatt, Phelps &
Phillips, is leaving the firm to join Sheppard Mullin Richter &
Hampton as a partner in its Century City, California, office.
Pietrini, 50, said she expects many of her clients -- including
Metallica and the online retailer Café Press -- to follow her to
her new firm.  Carlo Van den Bosch, co-chair of Sheppard Mullin’s
intellectual property group, said Pietrini “will play an
important role in the future growth of our trademark practice.”
He added that the number of IP lawyers at the firm has grown to
about 70 from 40 in the past five years.  In an e-mailed statement, Chad S. Hummel, chair of Manatt’s
litigation division, said “Jill is a fine lawyer and we wish
her well. Manatt has a vibrant and broad national IP practice,
which complements our business, entertainment and media, and
litigation practices. We will continue to grow this core
practice area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 