-- 
Risk of Europe Contagion Becoming ‘Very Real,’ Nasution Says

-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-12-01T06:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/risk-of-europe-contagion-becoming-very-real-nasution-says-1-.html
Emerging economies are facing the
threat of a capital reversal as the risk of contagion from
Europe becomes “very real,”  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin
Nasution said.  An escalation of Europe’s sovereign-debt woes may prompt
investors to allocate their assets into other currencies instead
of putting them into the safest euro sovereigns, Nasution said
in Bali today. A bout of  risk aversion  may result in investors
avoiding emerging-market assets as well, he said.  “Despite a positive growth outlook, emerging economies like
ours confront the risk of capital reversals and deleveraging
processes,” Nasution said. “The ongoing reforms of financial
sector balance sheets in many advanced economies will also play
a major effect in the financial stability of our economies. We
need to prevent the build-up of financial instability.”  Six central banks led by the U.S. Federal Reserve made it
cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in emergencies in a global
effort to ease  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. Yesterday’s move
echoed coordinated actions from the financial panic starting in
2007 to create and expand the currency-swap lines, whose use
peaked at about $583 billion in December 2008.  Europe is seeing broad-based financial-market disruption
and is undergoing a “true financial crisis,” Bank of France
Governor  Christian Noyer  said in  Singapore  yesterday. The
economic outlook in Europe and the rest of the world has
“significantly worsened” in the past weeks, he said.  Supporting the Rupiah  Bank Indonesia plans to boost “intervention” in the market
to support the rupiah from becoming “too weak,” Nasution said
yesterday, a day after the currency reached a 17-month low. The
currency reached 9,240 on Nov. 29, the weakest level since June
2010. It appreciated 1 percent today.  “Managing capital inflows has challenges,” Nasution said
today. “In our economies, volatility of exchange rates
attributable to substantial capital flows creates foreign
exchange risks.”  The central bank is committed to buying  government bonds  in
the secondary market, Perry Warjiyo, director for economic
research and monetary policy, said Nov. 29.  “ Capital markets  in our economies are generally shallow and
susceptible to sudden price movements,” Nasution said. “This
creates greater disruption undermining the integrity of our
financial system. When faced with negative investor sentiments,
liquidity in those markets can dry up quickly, causing panic
sales and contagion effects.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its global growth forecast for
2012 today, predicting the euro area’s economy will contract 0.8
percent. Global gross domestic product may expand 3.2 percent
next year, down from an earlier estimate of 3.4 percent, it said.
It cut the forecast for the euro area from a previous prediction
for 0.1 percent growth.  The Fed coordinated the move with the  European Central Bank 
and the central banks of  Canada , Switzerland,  Japan  and the U.K.
The six central banks also agreed to create temporary bilateral
swap programs so funding can be provided in any of the
currencies “should market conditions so warrant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  