-- 
Russia Stocks Climb to Three-Week High on Gazprom, Central Banks

-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-12-01T16:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/russia-stocks-climb-second-day-on-central-bank-action-100-oil.html
Russian stocks rose to a three-week
high after  OAO Gazprom  surged on a report it may set aside as
much as 200 billion rubles ($6.5 billion) for dividends and as
commodities gained after central banks took steps to stem
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Gazprom, the natural-gas export monopoly which represents
16 percent of the Micex, climbed 3.4 percent to 181.4 rubles,
the highest level in two weeks. Coal producers  OAO Raspadskaya 
and OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  led gains on the 30-stock Micex gauge. OAO
Surgutneftegas, an oil producer, added 1.4 percent. The index
rallied 0.4 percent higher to 1,505.27 by the close in Moscow,
paring an earlier gain of as much as 1.5 percent. The dollar-
denominated RTS added 0.4 percent to 1,546.7.  The U.S. Federal Reserve and five other central banks
agreed to reduce the premium banks pay to borrow dollars
overnight yesterday in a bid to stop the euro zone’s credit
crisis from hobbling growth and demand for commodities. While
Chinese manufacturing was the weakest since 2009, Russia’s
output accelerated to an eight-month high, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes. Oil climbed for a fifth day.  “Markets are still benefitting from yesterday’s move by
the central banks, which helped avoid a serious banking
crisis,” Peter Szopo, head of research at Moscow-based  Alfa
Bank , said by e-mail today. With oil strengthening “the case
for Russian stocks is strong,” he said.  Game Changer  Gazprom is budgeting about 200 billion rubles a year for
dividends in 2012 through 2014, Interfax reported, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the plan. The Moscow-based
company also may trim planned investments next year by 33
percent to 800 billion rubles, the news service said.  Gazprom spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov  wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  “These developments are a game-changer for Gazpromm,”
Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading
in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments. “Time to be more
constructive on the stock.”  The Russian depositary receipts of United Co. Rusal, the
world’s biggest aluminum producer, slid 0.8 percent, as the
Chinese output report spurred bets demand for the metal will
ease.  The company plans to use an 18.3 billion-ruble loan from
OAO Sberbank to pay down debts, according to a regulatory
statement today.  Lenders Climb  Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest lender climbed 0.2 percent to
87.71 rubles. VTB Group, the country’s second largest, rose 1.5
percent to 6.87 kopeks.  The Micex has lost 11 percent this year as Europe’s debt
crisis spread. The measure trades at 5.2 times analysts’
earnings estimates for member companies.  The Micex’s drop compares with a 16 percent slide for
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index, which trades at 10.5 times estimated
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Shanghai
Composite Index trades at 11.3 times estimated earnings, and the
BSE India Sensitive Index has a ratio of 14.  “Investor expectations have turned a little bit positive,
which is a real improvement,” Ilya Kravets, a research analyst
at brokerage ED Capital in  New York , said in a phone interview.
“This news from the central banks was received very positively
in the U.S., and if oil holds at these levels, Russian exporters
are going to do really well because they don’t need much higher
prices, they’re fine here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  