-- 
Russian Liquidity Is Tightening, Citigroup Executive Says

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-12-01T12:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/russian-liquidity-is-tightening-citigroup-executive-says.html
There is a tightening of liquidity in
Russian banking, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s consumer-banking
head in the country.  “There is a very distinct and clear tightening of
liquidity in this market right now, which is why we have seen
deposit rates go up and you have seen wholesale funding drying
up,” Citigroup’s Amit Sah said in an interview in Moscow today.  The Russian central bank left the refinancing rate at 8.25
percent on Nov. 25 after two increases this year. Tighter
lending conditions and a liquidity shortfall will likely
“remain for the medium term,” the bank said. Russian units of
foreign banks, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , have started lending
excess cash to their parents since the middle of the year amid
the euro region’s turmoil, using “central bank liquidity” and
funds from their Russian operations, Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  said on Oct. 27.  Russia’s largest deposit-taking banks are paying households
an average of 9 percent on their top ruble deposits, up from
7.88 percent in mid-November, according to central bank data.
The rising rates paid by lenders are a “direct indicator that
banks have a problem with liquidity now,” according to
Konstantin Nemnov, a portfolio manager at TKB BNP Paribas
Investment Partners who helps manage 22 billion rubles ($713
million) in debt.  Citigroup, which set up its retail entity in Moscow in
1993, doesn’t have funding pressure from its parent bank, Sah
said. The bank is likely to raise rates soon in line with
 interest rates , he added, without providing further details.  ‘Difficult Environment’  The U.S. lender acquired part of HBSC Holdings Plc’s
Russian retail business in June. The bank bought all of HSBC’s
loan bank in  Russia  and assets valued at about $10.7 million.  Citigroup said it would mainly pursue internal growth while
looking at similar acquisition opportunities elsewhere in Russia
where it is active. Separately, the New York-based bank today
named Slava Slavinskiy head of banking for Russia.  “Russia is a very difficult environment with strong local
banks like Sberbank and VTB,” Sah said. “We have a very strong
model” by focusing on what the bank knows well such as credit
and debit cards,  wealth management  and digital banking.  State-run banks led by  OAO Sberbank  and  VTB Group  are
expanding their corporate and brokerage businesses, squeezing
out international competitors. Britain’s Barclays Plc,  Spain ’s
Banco Santander SA,  France ’s BNP Paribas SA, Morgan Stanley of
the U.S. and Sweden’s Swedbank AB, are among foreign competitors
that have either quit or curtailed Russian retail operations
since 2010.  Citigroup has no plans to offer  car loans  or mortgages in
Russia, according to Sah. The bank has has more than 3,000
employees, about 55 retail branches and about 900,000 customers
in Russia, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  