-- 
Russia Tightens Censorship Ahead of Poll, Media Watchdog Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-01T12:10:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/russia-tightens-censorship-ahead-of-poll-media-watchdog-says.html
Russian authorities have tightened
control over media outlets and news websites before national
parliamentary elections this weekend, a press watchdog said.  “They are targeting both the traditional media, which are
closely scrutinized, criticized and threatened, and the
Internet, now recognized as playing a key role in political
debate,” the Paris-based press-monitoring group  Reporters
Without Borders  said in a  report  released today. “No methods
are being spared to bolster” Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Putin’s ruling United Russia may lose almost 65 seats,
leaving it with just over 250 in the 450-member State Duma, the
lower house of parliament, in Dec. 4 elections, according to a
survey by independent polling agency  Levada Center  published
last week.  At least three Russian Internet forums have been closed or
suspended since the start of November, and LiveJournal, a
blogging site that hosts much of the political debate in Russia,
has been the repeated target of denial-of-service-attacks, in
which a hacker cripples a website with a flood of junk messages,
the watchdog said.  Russia  has 51 million  Internet users , more than any other
country in  Europe , and a quarter of Russians say the Internet is
their main source of news, according to Reporters Without
Borders, also known as Reporters Sans Frontieres, or RSF.  It cited cases of two journalists resigning to protest
censorship. An employee at a subsidiary of state news service
 RIA Novosti , which translates foreign media into Russian, quit
after he claimed he had been told not to post articles critical
of Putin or United Russia, according to RSF.  The deputy editor of  Gazeta.ru , an online news site, also
resigned because the site removed a link to a website listing
electoral violations, the watchdog said. RIA Novosti is suing
its former employee for defamation and Gazeta.ru said the banner
link was removed to make way for advertising, according to RSF.  In the regions, officials withdrew independent newspaper
 Sovetsky Sakhalin  from newsstands on Sakhalin Island north of
 Japan , the watchdog said. Police also shut down the server for a
popular forum in the western city of Kostroma, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  