-- 
Rylance Cuts Coke, the Beat Goes On, Tame Art: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/rylance-cuts-coke-the-beat-goes-on-tame-art-london-weekend.html
The Beat turns the clock back to
the Eighties on Friday night.  The Birmingham band -- which split in 1983 after hits
such as “Mirror in the Bathroom” and “Can’t Get Used to
Losing You” -- is now re-formed and spearheading a revival of
ska (a mix of reggae, jazz and calypso).  They play the Clapham Grand, which they took by storm in
April during the London International Ska Festival.
Information: +44-20-7223-6523,  http://www.claphamgrand.com  or
 http://www.thebeatofficial.com/tour.html .  Otherwise, you can hear the talked-about young pianist
Alice Sara Ott -- who likes to play with bare feet -- in the
Old Vic Tunnels, as part of a  pop-up classical concert .
Information:  http://www.yellowlounge.co.uk .  If you’re in Clapham, it’s worth heading for nearby
Battersea to eat at Bunga Bunga, a packed new Italian
restaurant with pizza, cocktails and karaoke. While the rowdy
ambiance may not be to your liking, the food may well steal
your heart:  http://www.bungabunga-london.com  or +44-20-7095-
0360.  Saturday  “I hate this job.”  That’s the message from Korean-born Hyun Woo Lee in an
 annual survey  of young artists at the Institute of
Contemporary Art. Lee has created a looping video in which
every spurt from a lawn sprinkler is subtitled with one of
those four words.  Not all of the new darlings are shrill. You’ll find a
tight, tasteful, and even tame selection of painting,
sculpture and photography -- a far cry from the days when
British art meant Blu-Tack on a wall and fried eggs on a
woman’s chest.  “Bloomberg New Contemporaries 2011: In the Presence”
(through Jan. 15, 2012) is sponsored by Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of Bloomberg News. Information:
 http://www.ica.org.uk  or +44-20-7930-3647.  Inamo St. James, a stroll from the ICA, is a restaurant
where you interact with a computer, not a waiter. The menu is
projected onto your table, and you tap in your orders. The
pan-Asian menu is enticing, and there are real human beings in
the kitchen:  http://www.inamo-stjames.com  or +44-20-7484-0500.  Saturday Night  A debauched good-for-nothing in a silver trailer is
getting a standing ovation from London theatergoers every
night.  Mark Rylance  is back from his Broadway run as the lapsed
motorcycle jumper Johnny “Rooster” Byron. Though facing
imminent eviction from the Wiltshire woods, he rolls joints
and hosts wild parties for a posse of underage hangers-on.  Sound like a typical lout? Rooster has special powers.
Once you see him pound a drum to invoke mythical gods, you may
well start believing in them, too.  “ Jerusalem ” ends its run at the Apollo next month.
Information:  http://www.royalcourttheatre.com  or +44-20-7565-
5000.  Sunday  The  Christmas market  is back on the South Bank, with a
German theme.  Wooden chalets along the river will sell trinkets,
candles and ornaments, as well as mulled wine and Bratwurst
sausage.  The fair ends Dec. 24. Information:
 http://www.christmasmarkets.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 