-- 
Jerry Sandusky’s Second Mile Charity Settles Alleged Abuse Victims Lawsuit

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-01T22:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/sandusky-s-second-mile-charity-settles-suit-by-alleged-victim-lawyer-says.html
The Second Mile, a charity run by
former Pennsylvania State University football coach Jerry Sandusky, settled a lawsuit filed by an alleged sexual abuse
victim seeking to freeze its assets, according to a lawyer.  The charity agreed to obtain court approval prior to
transferring assets or closing down and provide notice to the
plaintiff before any distribution of funds, attorney Ben
Andreozzi said today in an e-mailed statement. Andreozzi
represents a man identified as John Doe #4 in the complaint,
filed Nov. 23 in Pennsylvania state court in Philadelphia.  Sandusky, 67, was charged by state prosecutors Nov. 5 with
40 counts related to alleged molestation of eight boys from 1994
to 2009. Prosecutors charged that Sandusky, who founded Second
Mile in 1977, used the charity to find his victims. He has
denied any wrongdoing.  “Our goal in filing this lawsuit was to protect the
interests of our clients and other victims,” Andreozzi said.
“We intend to initiate a civil lawsuit seeking damages from the
organizations and individuals responsible for the sexual
assaults upon our clients.”  The organization, which serves children with physical,
emotional and academic needs, saw its assets more than triple
from 2002 through 2009. Net assets were estimated at
$7.9 million as of Nov. 24, according to court papers.  Howard Rosenthal, an attorney for the charity, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Factual Basis  In court papers filed Nov. 28, the charity argued that the
complaint lacked any factual basis and should be dismissed or
transferred to state court in  State College , where Second Mile
is located.  Second Mile said earlier this month that it’s considering
restructuring, transferring some programs or shutting down. The
charity’s former president, Jack Raykovitz, resigned Nov. 14
after a grand jury report said foundation officials were aware
of Sandusky’s alleged contact with boys in  Penn State  football
showers as early as 1998.  A new alleged victim sued the charity, Sandusky and Penn
State yesterday in state court in Philadelphia, alleging more
than 100 instances of abuse between 1992 and 1996. That victim,
identified as John Doe A, claimed the charity and the university
were negligent in failing to protect children from sexual abuse.  The cases are John Doe #4 v. The Second Mile, 11112384;
John Doe A v. The Second Mile, 111102968, Court of Common Pleas
Philadelphia County (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  