-- 
Santa Ana Winds Knock Out Power, Divert Flights Across Southern California

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-01T20:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/santa-ana-winds-knock-out-power-divert-flights-across-southern-california.html
Winds of 80 miles per hour (130
kilometers per hour) knocked out electricity to more than
400,000 homes throughout Southern  California  and caused flights
to  Los Angeles  International Airport to be diverted overnight.  An estimated 210,295 Southern California Edison customers
had lost power as of 8 a.m. local time, said David Song, a
spokesman for the utility. About 129,000  Los Angeles Department
of Water & Power  customers were without electricity as of 10
a.m., the utility said in a statement. Pacific Gas & Electric,
with a service territory that stretches from the Oregon border
to Bakersfield, California, had 64,650 customers without power
as of 9 a.m., said Katie Romans, a spokeswoman.  “The trees are hitting the lines and lines are coming down
or just swinging,” Song said in an interview.  Southern
California  Edison, a unit of  Edison International (EIX) , expects the
gusts to continue through midday tomorrow, he said.  The Santa Ana winds -- dry, warm gusts that blow in from
the desert -- reached 140 miles per hour along mountain crests
and are expected to reach 80 miles per hour again today,
according to the  National Weather Service . It’s “the strongest
easterly wind event in the past several years,” and the gusts
combined with dry weather are creating a “significant fire
threat,” the service said on its website.  Flights Diverted  At Los Angeles International Airport, 23 inbound flights
were diverted during the night to other airports because of
debris blown onto runways and an hourlong  power failure  that
started yesterday at about 7 p.m., according to an e-mailed
statement. Operations had returned to normal by 7:22 a.m. today.  Damage was particularly severe in the foothill suburbs
northeast of downtown Los Angeles, with fallen trees and
traffic-signal failures congesting roads in Glendale, Pasadena,
Altadena and Eagle Rock.  The cities of Pasadena and  Sierra Madre  both declared
emergencies, and schools in Pasadena, Eagle Rock, Los Feliz and
as far east as Glendora, about 20 miles from Los Angeles, were
closed this morning.  The storm is being caused by a difference in air pressure
across the U.S. West, said Brian Edwards, a meteorologist with
commercial forecaster AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  Hurricane-Strength Gusts  The pressure gradient causes high winds that are funneled
through mountain passes, producing even higher gusts, he said.
Some winds at higher elevations have been clocked at more than
150 miles per hour. Should those winds be sustained, they would
match the strength of a Category 4 hurricane, the second
strongest on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  While Santa Ana winds are common in Southern California
this time of year, this week’s windstorm is a once-in-a-decade
event because gusts are stronger than are normal and affect a
large swath of the West, Edwards said.  “The unusual thing is how widespread it is,” he said.  High-wind warnings cover parts of California,  Nevada ,  Utah 
and New Mexico, the  National Weather Service  said. Sustained
winds of 35 to 45 miles per hour are expected across much of the
region, with gusts as intense as 65 miles per hour or more.
Sustained winds of that strength are equivalent to a tropical
storm.  The winds are likely to lessen later today and start to
fade in strength by tomorrow, Edwards said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  