-- 
Sarkozy Says Euro Zone Risks a Breakup Without Further Fiscal Convergence

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-12-01T19:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/sarkozy-says-euro-zone-risks-breakup-without-further-economic-convergence.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
the 17-nation euro area would risk “exploding” if members fail
to converge on fiscal policies.  The countries sharing the currency must prepare their
budgets in common, narrow competitiveness gaps and face tougher
automatic penalties for rule breaking, Sarkozy said today in
Toulon, France, outlining proposals to overhaul Europe’s
governing treaties.  “There can’t be a single currency without economies
heading toward more convergence,” Sarkozy told 5,000 supporters
in 50-minute speech in the Mediterranean port. “If  living
standards , productivity, and competitiveness gaps widen among
euro-zone countries, the euro will sooner rather than later be
too strong for some and too weak for others, and the euro zone
will explode.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who is due to speak to
lawmakers in Berlin tomorrow, will come to Paris on Dec. 5 as
the two nations prepare rule changes to stem the debt crisis.
Sarkozy promised “more discipline” in  Europe , responding to
Merkel’s calls for more rigorous economic policies.  “More solidarity means more discipline,” Sarkozy said.
“It’s the first principle of a reshaping of Europe.”  “France and  Germany  are fighting for a new treaty,” he
added, without giving details on the agenda to start discussion
on such a pact. He said the Maastricht Treaty that founded the
euro was incomplete and had failed. Among governance changes, he
said European decision making should move toward qualified
majority voting to speed decision making.  No More Writedowns  Sarkozy said also that there must be no more euro-region
debt writedowns beyond  Greece . “It must be made clear that a
debt of a euro member will be repaid,” adding that it was “a
question of confidence.”  Discussion on treaty changes started between  France  and
Germany after Sarkozy yielded to Merkel on Nov. 24 to stop
pressuring the  European Central Bank  to step up its response to
the region’s debt crisis.  Today in Toulon, the French leader said he has “no doubt
that with the deflationary risk facing Europe, the European
Central Bank will act,” while reiterating that the ECB is
independent.  Sarkozy and Merkel will seek to rally their counterparts
behind debt and deficit reduction at a Brussels summit next
week. Changes may include greater control of euro nations’
budgets by European authorities and common fiscal policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  