-- 
Scene Last Night: John Legend, Kimberly Davis, Gerald Hassell

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-12-01T16:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/scene-last-night-john-legend-kimberly-davis-gerald-hassell-chenault.html
 In the ballroom of the Hilton New
York -- carpeted for the evening in white Astroturf -- Alvin Ailey dancers strutted onto the dance floor.  The almost 1,000 guests who joined them last night included
 Martin Sorrell , chief executive of WPP Plc, and his wife,
Cristiana Sorrell, a senior adviser to the founder and chairman
of the World Economic Forum, Klaus Schwab.  Ailey board member and event designer David Monn stood near
his table, BlackBerry in hand, surveying the scene.  He had transformed the prosaic hall into a white, candlelit
wonderland.  The dinner came after the opening night of the Alvin Ailey
American Dance Theater’s season at City Center, Robert Battle’s
first as artistic director.  Singer  John Legend  performed Stevie Wonder’s “If It’s
Magic” to accompany the lovely dancer Alicia Graf Mack. The
program also included the premiere of “Arden Court,”
choreographed by Paul Taylor, and Ailey’s own “Revelations.”  In the house: writer Susan Fales-Hill, in a gray-and-black
fur coat, model Veronica Webb, in a floral-print gown, and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Raymond McGuire,  American Express Co. (AXP)  Chief
Executive  Kenneth Chenault , and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
President Gerald Hassell.  Afterward, guests walked to the Hilton for a dinner of
roast poussin and chocolate cheesecake. Event honoree Kimberly B. Davis, president of the JPMorgan Chase Foundation, offered
some thoughts on the company.  “The dancing is magical, mystical,” Davis said. “My
daughter was holding my arm during the performance telling me to
calm down.”  Paper Flowers  At midnight, guests headed home, many with the giant paper
flowers that had decorated the tables. They were prizes.  “They’re made in Paris,” Monn said.  A goody bag offered other treats: a Michael Kors tie,
L’Oreal mascara and a grilled jalapeno and salty peanut dark
chocolate bar, from the Danny Meyer restaurant Blue Smoke.  The event raised more than $2.5 million, said Joan Weill,
Ailey’s chairman.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 