-- 
Scottish Fund Preserves Cash for Decline in Stock Prices During Next Year

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-01T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/scottish-fund-preserves-cash-for-drop-in-stocks-over-next-year.html
Scottish Investment Trust Plc , an
Edinburgh-based fund that has endured at least six stock market
collapses since it started in 1887, is keeping more than 150
million pounds ($236 million) in cash in anticipation that
prices will sink over the next year.  The 708 million-pound fund had three times as much cash on
Oct. 31 as it did a year before, totaling about a quarter of its
shareholder funds, manager  John Kennedy  said. He raised the
money by selling shares in companies including  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.,  Atlas
Copco AB (ATCOA)  and Schneider Electrics SA because of concern about the
effects of the European debt crisis.  “We will go investing with our money if we get a major
correction,” Kennedy, who has run the fund since Jan. 1, 2004,
said in an interview at his office in the Scottish capital. “In
the region of 20 percent down from here will be a buying sign.”  Scottish Investment Trust is  Scotland ’s largest self-
managed closed-end fund and was set up 124 years ago to find
value investments in the Americas and former British colonies.
Kennedy’s cash strategy contrasts with two larger, similar funds
in Edinburgh managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. and Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, one with worse performance and one with better
over the past 12 months.  As well as using money raised from selling the fund to
investors, the trusts can borrow to increase the capital they
have to deploy in the market.  Cash Levels  Scottish Investment Trust’s assets at Oct. 31, the end of
its financial year, included a 106 million-pound bond, according
to the fund’s last annual report. Excluding cash, its holdings
equated to 90 percent of net assets compared with 109 percent a
year earlier, according to Kennedy. The fund is scheduled to
report its full-year results tomorrow.  Baillie Gifford’s  Scottish Mortgage Trust Plc (SMT) , which has
2.3 billion pounds of assets, was 119 percent invested at the
end of October, according to a statement on its website. Cash
represented 0.9 percent of its assets at Sept. 30, up from 0.6
percent six months earlier, according to its half-yearly report.  Aberdeen’s  Murray International Trust Plc (MYI) , which has 1.1
billion pounds of assets, was 118 percent invested at the end of
October, according to a monthly report on its website. The trust
has “negligible” cash holdings, according to Bruce Stout, who
manages the fund.  Comparable Returns  Over the past year, Scottish Investment Trust investors
have had a negative return of 6.2 percent including dividend
payouts. That ranks the trust 17th of 33 comparable funds in the
period, which on average had a negative return of 4.6 percent,
according to research firm Morningstar Inc. Scottish Mortgage
Trust returned a negative 6.6 percent, while Murray
International Trust had a total return of 1.6 percent.  It’s only the second time in “decades” that Scottish
Investment Trust has been less than 100 percent invested,
Kennedy said. The first time was in 2008 following the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The trust has reduced its holding or sold its interest in
 Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-largest construction machinery
maker, Atlas Copco, the world’s largest maker of air
compressors, and  Schneider Electrics (SU) , the world’s biggest maker
of low- and medium-voltage equipment. Each stock is down more
than 20 percent this year.  Kennedy also cut his stake in Apple, the fund’s largest
holding. It accounted for 2.9 percent of assets at the end of
October, according to the trust’s factsheet.  ‘Exceedingly Cautious’  “It’s pretty obvious why we are exceedingly cautious,”
Kennedy, 48, said on Nov. 8. “There are all sorts of possible
outcomes and we are trying to preserve capital. Our investors
really detest losing capital.”  Kennedy, who has worked for the fund since 1992, said
corporate profits as a proportion of gross domestic product are
at levels that are “seldom good to be invested.”  There may be a “tipping point” that sends bond yields
higher and causes a “severe reverse” in equity markets, said
Kennedy. He declined to be more specific.  The sovereign debt issues roiling European bond markets and
banks means the fund has “very little” invested in European
financial stocks, Kennedy said.  “They are almost uninvestable in  Europe , you don’t know
what their assets are worth,” he said. “Our job is to make
sure investors can invest safely, and we are looking for clues
for when it is safe to go back into the water.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at  at
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  