-- 
South Africa Aims to Halve New HIV Cases Within Five Years

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-12-01T14:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/south-africa-aims-to-halve-new-hiv-cases-within-five-years.html
South Africa, which the  United
Nations  says has the highest number of people infected with HIV,
announced plans to cut new infections by half and provide
medication to AIDS patients who need it within five years.  A government plan to combat AIDS released today also aims
to ensure 70 percent of patients are alive and on treatment five
years after starting it and targets a 50 percent cut in deaths
from tuberculosis, the leading killer among AIDS patients.  South Africa drew international condemnation for failing to
tackle the epidemic under former President  Thabo Mbeki , who
disputed the causal link between HIV and AIDS and delayed the
provision of treatment. Since Mbeki was ousted in 2008, the
government has said the fight against AIDS is a priority and has
made medication available to more than 1.4 million people
through the public health system.  “It is a bold plan,” the Treatment Action Campaign, an
AIDS activists group, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“ South Africa  is showing leadership at a time when many other
parts of the world are retreating from their commitments on HIV.
We have seen a revolution in the response to AIDS.”  AIDS claimed the lives of 282,578  South Africans  last year,
while about 5.6 million of the nation’s 50.6 million people are
infected with HIV, according to the  Joint United Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS .  By the end of September 2,948 state hospitals and clinics
were providing AIDS drugs, up from 495 at the beginning of last
year, while 10,542 nurses were accredited to administer it, up
from 290, President  Jacob Zuma  said today. More than 13 million
people were tested for HIV between April last year and June this
year, he said.  “We have stopped making HIV and AIDS a battlefield on
which to fight one another,” Zuma said at a World AIDS Day
rally in the southern coastal town of  Port Elizabeth , where the
plan was released. “We are steadily overcoming fear and
confusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  