-- 
Spain PP Plans Regional Spending-Ceiling Laws, Arenas Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-01T16:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/spain-pp-plans-regional-spending-ceiling-laws-arenas-says-1-.html
Regional leaders of the Spanish
People’s Party, which beat the ruling Socialists in a national
election on Nov. 20, agreed today on measures to tackle the euro
area’s  third-largest deficit .  The local leaders of the PP, which controls 11 of Spain’s
17 semi-autonomous regions since elections in May and is due to
take over the central government on Dec. 21, decided to draft
spending-ceiling laws for regional governments, carry out an
overhaul of public services and take measures to avoid overlap
between administrations, Javier Arenas, the party’s leader in
Andalusia, said after a meeting in Madrid between 14 party
leaders and Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy .  Rajoy faces the challenge of reducing  borrowing costs  while
preventing the euro area’s fourth economy from contracting after
it stalled in the third quarter. The outgoing Socialists have
failed to convince investors the nation can avoid following
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into a bailout even after
implementing the deepest austerity measures in three decades.  “What is clear is the path, the path is to try to have one
administration per competence,” said Arenas, adding it is too
early to estimate the spending cut efforts to be made.  The PP’s deputy leader Maria Dolores de Cospedal said
during the news conference that the PP has no estimation yet of
tax receipts for 2012 and no clear view of the nation’s budget
situation for the full year.  Spain  paid the most in at least six years to borrow for
five years, at 5.544 percent, at an auction today. It sold 3.75
billion euros of bonds, meeting the maximum target. The yield on
the 10-year benchmark bond declined after the sale to 5.71
percent as of 4:41 p.m. in Madrid, down 52 basis points from
yesterday. It reached a euro-era high 6.78 percent on Nov. 17.  Rajoy has pledged to slash Spain’s overall budget gap to
4.4 percent of gross domestic product next year without giving
details on where he may cut. The regions efforts are crucial to
Spain’s fiscal consolidation as they control more than a third
of public spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  