-- 
Suncor’s George to Retire After Two Decades at Helm of Oil-Sands Producer

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n ,   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-12-01T21:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/suncor-ceo-george-to-retire-in-may-succeeded-by-coo-williams.html
Suncor Energy Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Rick George will retire next year after leading the oil-
sands producer for more than two decades and transforming it
into  Canada ’s largest energy company.  George, 61, will be replaced in May by Chief Operating
Officer  Steve Williams , 55, the Calgary-based company said in a
statement today. Williams was also promoted to president and
given a seat on the board.  Williams, who has been COO since 2007, ran the company’s
oil-sands operations for four years, according to the statement.
Before joining Suncor in 2002 as chief financial officer and
executive vice president, he was responsible for global
operations of Octel Corp., a maker of fuel additives and
specialty chemicals.  George’s tenure coincided with the transition of Canada’s
oil sands to the world’s third-largest reserve of crude with
almost C$200 billion ($197 billion) in investments planned
during the next decade. George emerged as one of the leading
spokesmen for the  oil sands , said Michael Tims, chairman of
Peters & Co., a Canadian financial services company.  “He is so personable and likable, even people who oppose
the oil sands like him,” Tims said.  Oil-Sands Opposition  With growing oil-sands production, environmental groups
have opposed plans to tap into the estimated 173 billion barrels
of the  fossil fuel  that lie beneath the peat bogs and spruce
forests of northern  Alberta . Earlier this year, U.S. state and
federal officials delayed construction of the Keystone XL
pipeline proposed by TransCanada Corp. to ship bitumen from the
oil sands to the  Gulf Coast .  President  Barack Obama ’s decision to delay approval of the
$7 billion pipeline “must have been a disappointment” for
George,  Charles Maxwell , a senior energy analyst at Weeden & Co.
LLP in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview
today.  George, born in Brush,  Colorado , “knows that this country
needs a secure source of oil from a transportation point of
view, a policy point of view, and an economics point of view,”
said Maxwell, who rates Suncor a “buy” and doesn’t own shares.  George led Suncor through Canada’s largest energy deal with
the C$22.6 billion purchase of Petro-Canada in August 2009 and
has overseen a 12-fold increase in Suncor’s market value since
the initial public offering on March 18, 1992. He is one of the
country’s longest-serving CEOs.  ‘Time for Transition’  “The time for this transition is right,” George said in
the statement. “We have a detailed 10-year growth plan in an
industry where many players are struggling to grow.”  Suncor is now the largest oil-sands operator, with bitumen
mining near Fort McMurray and a stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd.  Suncor’s (SU)  expansion plans may not go as well as investors
are expecting, and the company has not recovered from the global
recession as well as other major Canadian producers including
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd, said Sam La Bell, vice president
at Veritas Investment Research Co. in Toronto, said.  “That’s kind of taken the shine off him recently,” La
Bell said. Williams is the right successor because Suncor
depends on operational consistency and efficiency to succeed, he
said.  Oil Sands Queue  Suncor began production this quarter from its Firebag 3
oil-sands field in Alberta with seven more oil-sands projects in
queue through 2019, according to an investor presentation last
month. George last year forged a C$1.75 billion partnership with
Total SA to jointly develop oil-sands assets.  Suncor’s average daily production in 2010 was equivalent to
561,100 barrels of oil a day, an almost fourfold increase in 10
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proved reserves
doubled in 20 years to the equivalent of 3.9 billion barrels at
the end of 2010.  George became Suncor’s CEO in 1991, before it became a
publicly traded company, according to Suncor’s website.  The stock fell 0.6 percent to C$30.55 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  