-- 
Supreme Court Bars Ex-Envoy Haqqani From Leaving Pakistan

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-12-01T11:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/supreme-court-bars-ex-envoy-haqqani-from-leaving-pakistan-1-.html
Pakistan’s  Supreme Court  barred the
nation’s former ambassador to the U.S. from leaving the country
as it investigates claims he sought U.S. help in heading off a
feared military coup earlier this year.  Petitioners headed by opposition leader  Nawaz Sharif 
approached the top court after Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani
Nov. 22 ordered  Husain Haqqani  to resign as envoy before any
investigation to prove wrongdoing. Analysts in Washington and
Islamabad said his dismissal was a concession by civilian
leaders to quell the military’s fury over the ensuing scandal.  “The court has also asked the president and the army chief
to submit their replies on the case within 15 days,” Khawaja
Asif, one of the petitioners and a lawmaker from the main
opposition party led by Sharif, said in comments broadcast live
by television networks.  Haqqani’s ouster weakened the civilian government of Gilani
and President Asif Ali Zardari in its relationship with
 Pakistan ’s politically powerful military, according to analysts
such as former U.S. ambassador to Pakistan Wendy Chamberlin.  Extended legal turmoil around Haqqani may further hurt
Zardari’s political position because of the men’s close ties.
Haqqani has served as a Zardari adviser and in the 1990s as
spokesman to his wife, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
Also, Haqqani’s wife, Farahnaz Ispahani, is a spokeswoman for
Zardari.  No Credence  A Pakistani-American businessman, Mansoor Ijaz, has alleged
he helped Haqqani deliver a message from Zardari to the then-
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen.
Haqqani denies the allegations.  The memo, which Mullen’s spokesman said the chairman
ignored because he gave it no credence, sought American pressure
to prevent Pakistan’s army from seizing power after the U.S.
conducted the raid that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden
without informing Pakistan, humiliating the security
establishment.  Ijaz wrote an opinion piece in the Financial Times last
month alleging that in the memo the civilian government said it
would replace Pakistani military and intelligence officials with
officers compliant with U.S. demands to sever the military’s
ties with the Taliban and other Islamic militant groups.  Pakistan’s military has ruled the country for half of the
nation’s 64-year history. It remains the country’s most powerful
institution, retaining control over national security matters
more than three years after transferring power to an elected
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  