-- 
Swedish Banks Don’t Need Fed Dollars, Wickman-Parak Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-12-01T12:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/swedish-banks-have-no-need-for-fed-dollars-wickman-parak-says.html
The Riksbank has no need to set up a
new dollar swap line with the U.S. Federal Reserve because
Swedish banks have access to dollar market funding, Deputy
Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said.  “We have constant contact with the market and know what’s
happening and the banks have access to the kind of financing
they need, including dollar financing, and we then don’t need to
do anything” at the moment, she said today in an interview in
Stockholm.  The Riksbank has warned that Swedish lenders rely too much
on short-term dollar funding, and earlier this week said that
the lenders remain vulnerable to liquidity risk. Banks in other
parts of  Europe  have had difficulties accessing dollars and it
was “good” that the  European Central Bank  took part in
yesterday’s coordinated action with the Fed to provide dollar
liquidity to the continent’s banks, she said.  Stocks rallied worldwide, commodities rose and yields on
most European debt fell yesterday after the Fed, ECB and four
other central banks cut the cost of and extended emergency
dollar loans to banks outside the U.S. Sweden’s dollar swap-line
with the Fed expired in February 2010.  “European banks are in a difficult situation. They are
dependent on dollar financing,” Wickman-Parak said. “All that
eases the stress on the market is good.”  Shares Fall  Shares in the four largest Swedish banks fell today, after
surging yesterday. Shares in  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest bank, fell 0.9 percent, after rallying almost 6 percent
yesterday. SEB AB fell 0.8 percent,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) 
dropped 0.1 percent, and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  slid 0.5 percent.  The 46-member Bloomberg index of European financials rose
0.2 percent as of 1:57 p.m. in Stockholm.  The central banks acted after financing costs rose
following euro-area leaders’ failure to bolster the region’s
rescue fund as planned. A crisis that began in  Greece  two years
ago has moved to the euro-area’s core and leaders are struggling
to convince investors they can contain the risk and assure the
euro’s survival.  Sweden has emerged as a haven from the deepening European
debt crisis. The Riksbank said on Nov. 29 that while the
country’s lenders are “well capitalized” it also warned
“liquidity risks are still higher than in many other European
banks,” in a twice yearly financial stability report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  