-- 
Swiss Economy Grows at Slowest Pace in More Than Two Years

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-12-01T07:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/swiss-economy-weakened-in-third-quarter-on-exports-investment.html
Switzerland ’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in more than two years in the third quarter as
companies cut spending and exports slumped.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, when it increased 0.5 percent, the State Secretariat
for Economic Affairs in Bern  said  today. That’s the slowest pace
since the second quarter of 2009. Economists forecast a gain of
0.1 percent, the median of 20 estimates in a  Bloomberg News
survey  showed. Exports of goods and services fell 1.2 percent
and investment including construction slipped 1 percent.  Switzerland’s economy is cooling as the franc’s 7 percent
ascent against the euro over the past year undermines foreign
sales just as global growth weakens. The KOF economic barometer
dropped to the lowest in more than two years in November and
Swiss central bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said last month
the economy “is entering a difficult phase, with a very low and
possibly even slightly negative growth rate.”  “Switzerland came off lightly in the third quarter, but
the worst is yet to come,”  David Kohl , deputy chief economist
at Julius Baer Group in  Frankfurt , said by telephone. “The
country’s export-led economy won’t be able to decouple from the
euro-area slowdown and will slide into recession.”  The franc was little changed versus the euro, the currency
of the country’s biggest export market, after the release and
traded at 1.2277 at 8:49 a.m. in Zurich. Against the dollar, the
franc was at 91.28 centimes.  Swiss Slowdown  In the year, the  economy expanded  1.3 percent, down from
2.2 percent in the second quarter, today’s report showed. The
state secretariat had previously reported a second-quarter
expansion of 0.4 percent from the first quarter.  Private consumption spending gained 0.1 percent in the
third quarter, unchanged from the previous three months, today’s
report showed. Imports fell 0.2 percent from the second quarter,
when they declined 0.7 percent.  The Swiss economy may grow 1.8 percent this year and 0.8
percent in 2012, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said on Nov. 28, calling currency developments the
main threat to growth. The Paris-based group had previously
projected gross domestic product to rise 2.5 percent in 2012.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest cement maker based
in Jona, Switzerland, said last month third-quarter profit fell
on rising energy costs and the strength of the franc.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, last month
announced further job cuts to lower costs.  “Swiss GDP growth in the second half of this year looks
likely to be very disappointing,”  Dirk Schumacher  and  Adrian Paul , analysts at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in a note.
“While the franc has admittedly depreciated when compared with
the summer, it still remains overvalued,” weighing on exports.  The Swiss central bank on Sept. 6 imposed a franc limit of
1.20 versus the euro to fight deflation threats and help
exporters. The central bank will hold its next monetary policy
assessment on Dec. 15, when it will also publish its first
outlook for 2012 economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  