-- 
U.K.’s Cheapest Way to 2050 Carbon Goal Would Triple Nuclear

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-12-01T17:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-k-s-cheapest-way-to-2050-carbon-goal-would-limit-new-nuclear.html
The cheapest way for the U.K. to meet
its goal of cutting emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels
over the next four decades would triple nuclear power
generation, according to the government’s carbon plan.  It would cost the least to have 33 gigawatts of nuclear
power, 45 gigawatts of renewables and 28 gigawatts of fossil
fuels with  carbon capture  and storage technology fitted,
according to a government  statement . The country has about 10
gigawatts of installed nuclear capacity.  Average energy costs, including for buildings and
transport, would rise 24 percent from current levels to 4,598
pounds ($7,237) per person per year in the next four decades
under the cheapest scenario, known as market allocation or
Markal, the so-called  2050 calculator tool  shows. Boosting
nuclear generation sevenfold would increase the cost through
2050 by about 13 percent.  Without new environmental-protection measures, the energy
system would rely on imported, climate-damaging fossil fuels and
still cost 4,682 pounds per person on average each year through
2050, said  Chris Huhne , energy and climate change secretary.
“There is a clear risk of inaction” because fossil fuel prices
may surge further, he told reporters today at a London briefing.  Meeting the 2050 target would cut fossil-fuel import costs
to a maximum 24 billion pounds that year, compared with 86
billion pounds under the “do nothing” scenario, Huhne
estimated. The nation’s policy will allow renewables, natural
gas and nuclear to compete to supply energy, Huhne said.  Slow Economic Growth  Slow economic growth already is giving the U.K. the ability
to avoid expensive nuclear power, said Laurent Segalen, the
London-based managing director of the Euro Carbon Macro Fund.
U.K. power consumption dropped to its lowest level in more than
a decade in the quarter through September, government figures
published last week show.  “New nuclear is simply too expensive,” Segalen said Nov.
25. “Offshore wind combined with gas is more flexible and is
today 25 percent cheaper.” Nuclear costs about 4 billion euros
($5.4 billion) per gigawatt compared with 2.2 billion euros for
offshore wind and 750 million euros for natural gas, he
estimated.  The U.K. said two days ago it will provide compensation to
help energy-intensive industries such as metals companies and
cement factories deal with higher electricity prices and carbon-
dioxide costs and minimize relocation to countries with no
limits.  ‘Not Shied Away’  “I have not shied away from supporting sensible steps to
reduce this country’s dependency on volatile  oil prices  and
reduce our  carbon emissions ,” Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said. “I am worried about the combined impact of
the green policies adopted not just in Britain but also the
European Union on our heavy energy-intensive industries.”  Huhne today rejected suggestions his government was divided
on how to tackle  climate change  while limiting cost increases.
Britain is set to beat its target to cut carbon-dioxide
emissions by 34 percent from 1990 levels by 2022, he said.  Emissions are 25 percent less than 1990 levels, he said. A
target to reduce CO2 by 50 percent by 2027 “will not have any
additional cost implications during this Parliament, but beyond
that will galvanize jobs and investment during a decade of mass
deployment of key technologies,” he said. The current U.K.
Parliament may run until 2015.  ‘Considerable Doubt’  “No consideration has been given to the source of the
project finance which will be needed to fund the deployment of
technologies during this decade,” David Nickols, a London-based
managing director at WSP Future Energy, said by e-mail. “The
proposal to allow cost and market forces only to determine the
mix between renewable technologies, gas with carbon capture and
storage and nuclear leads to considerable doubt over whether the
long-term targets will be met.”  It seems “absurd” for the government to impose climate
policies on the one hand and then compensate business on the
other, said  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst for Orbeo, an
emissions trading venture.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  is buying the 50 percent of
Orbeo it doesn’t already own from Societe Generale SA.  The compensation “really makes U.K. policy on climate
change completely impossible to decipher,” Fages said yesterday
by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  