-- 
U.K. Government Says Fewer Workers Struck Than Unions Estimate

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-12-01T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-k-government-says-fewer-workers-struck-than-unions-estimate.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government disputed U.K. labor-union estimates that 2 million
public-sector workers went on strike over pension curbs
yesterday, saying the number who walked out was much lower.  About 900,000 civil servants, local-government and health
workers took action, the Cabinet Office in London said in an e-
mailed statement last night. It said final numbers for teachers
weren’t available, though about 30 percent of schools were at
least partially open during the one-day stoppage.  Members of 30 public-sector unions protested plans to make
government employees retire later and contribute more to their
pensions. The  Trades Union Congress , Britain’s umbrella labor
movement, said as many as 2 million workers took part.  “This figure is wrong,” the Cabinet Office said. “The
figures we have show turnout was much lower than these claims
and significantly less than the unions predicted. In health,
civil service and local government there were approximately
900,000 people on strike.”  The Cabinet Office said final figures showed 146,000
central-government civil servants walked out, less than a third
of the total, while only 14 of more than 900 Jobcentres, as
unemployment offices are known, were closed and immigration
controls at ports and airports suffered “only minimal
disruption.”  About 79,000 health-service staff, less than 15 percent,
failed to show up for work, the government said. Thirty-two
percent of local-government staff in  England  and  Wales  also went
on strike, according to the Cabinet Office.  Deficit Cutting  Ministers say the pension changes, part of Cameron’s
program of spending cuts to narrow the  budget deficit , are fair
because workers who contribute to public-sector pensions get
benefits no longer available in the private sector.  The prime minister told lawmakers in the House of Commons
the strike was “something of a  damp squib .”  Even so, the London Ambulance Service said yesterday
afternoon it was “under severe pressure” as a result of the
strike,  according to its website .  Liz Chinchen, a TUC spokeswoman, said the government’s
numbers were wrong and that 30,000 people had joined a rally in
 London .  “We’re very pleased with how today went,” she said by
phone last night. “For the prime minister to call it a damp
squib is so patronizing to all those people, many of whom were
taking  strike action  for the first time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 