-- 
U.K. May Be Facing Drought After Record Run of Dry Weather

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-12-01T13:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-k-may-be-facing-drought-after-record-run-of-dry-weather-1-.html
Dry weather in the U.K. may lead to
drought next year after the driest 12 months on record, the
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said.  Southeast  England  is at a “high risk” of drought because
of a lack of rainfall this year, while central, eastern and
southeastern England probably won’t recover next year from
excessively dry weather in 2011, the department said in a report
today. The year through September in the U.K. was the driest 12
months on record, according to the National Farmers Union.  “Unfortunately, if we have another dry winter, there is a
high risk that parts of the country will almost certainly be in
drought next summer so it’s vital we plan ahead to meet this
challenge,” Caroline Spelman, U.K. environment secretary, said
in the report. “Droughts are not new, but we may face a future
with less rainfall and less certainty about when that rain will
fall.”  Regions including central and southeast U.K. are at the
highest risk of drought in 2012, according to Defra. Farmers
need to plan ahead for irrigation and filling winter storage
reserves and livestock producers should prepare for food and
bedding ahead of prolonged drought conditions, it said.  Rain Needed  Two weeks of rain is needed to replenish soil moisture for
crops and livestock feeding, Jenny Bashford, water policy
adviser at the NFU, said on Nov. 17. Parts of the rivers Colne,
Nene, Trent and Kennet are also near the lowest levels recorded
for November, Defra said.  “The drought that has affected central and eastern England
during 2011 could continue until summer and the southeast will
be at risk of drought if sustained rainfall does not replenish
water levels that were depleted during one of the driest springs
on record,” according to Defra, which said it will reassess
the likelihood of a prolonged drought in early 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 