-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Dec. 1 to Feb. 2012 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-12-01T13:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-dec-1-to-feb-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - La Nina conditions developed during
the northern hemisphere fall for a second year in a row, with
below average equatorial Pacific sea surface temperatures
expected to persist through the 2011-2012 winter season.
Therefore, climate anomalies associated with La Nina winters
were closely considered both for the U.S. Drought Outlook and
the CPC monthly and seasonal guidance. During the previous two
weeks, widespread rainfall further eased lingering drought
conditions across the lower Mississippi Valley and southeastern
Plains in a continuation of a wet autumn pattern. Short term
forecasts indicate new rounds of heavy rainfall in early
December, which will likely bring additional improvement from
southeastern  Kansas  through northern  Louisiana . An early
December winter storm might also bring some early mountain
snowfall to the Southwest, though overall below median
precipitation is expected during the winter season. Ongoing
drought conditions elsewhere across the southern tier of U.S.
states are expected to persist or worsen, however, with drought
development likely across the Florida Peninsula. Drought
development is also possible across eastern  North Carolina ,
where the CPC seasonal outlook indicates enhanced odds of below
median precipitation. While La Nina winters favor a wetter
pattern across the northern U.S., a combination of recent
excessive dryness across portions of the western Corn Belt, a
drier winter climatology, and frozen soil and streams reduce the
prospects for significant improvement of drought impacts in the
upper Midwest and  Great Lakes .  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  