-- 
U.S., China to Hold Annual Defense Talks Next Week in Beijing

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-01T01:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-s-china-to-hold-annual-defense-talks-next-week-in-beijing.html
U.S. and Chinese defense officials
will meet in Beijing next week for annual talks three months
after the Obama administration decided to sell weapons to Taiwan
over  China ’s objections.  Under Secretary of Defense Michele Flournoy will meet with
General Ma Xiaotian, the deputy chief of the People’s Liberation
Army General Staff on Dec. 7 for the 12th defense consultative
talks, said Navy Commander Leslie Hull-Ryde, a Pentagon
spokeswoman.  “These talks represent the highest-level bilateral
dialogue between our two defense establishments,” Hull-Ryde
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Discussions will aim to
“expand areas where we can cooperate and discuss mutual
expectations.”  The U.S. in September said it would sell $5.3 billion in
upgrades to Taiwan’s fighter jet fleet instead of agreeing to a
request to sell new  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighters. The
step meets the government’s legal obligations to sell arms to
 Taiwan  while attempting to avoid fraying ties with China that
were damaged by a weapons sale two years ago.  President Barack Obama has begun increasing the U.S.
defense presence in Asia as he begins to withdraw troops from
Iraq and Afghanistan. Last month he signed an agreement to
deploy Marines in Australia in a move aimed to blunt China’s
rising regional influence.  China considers Taiwan a renegade province after two
million Nationalists fled the communist takeover in 1949. The
island across the  Taiwan Strait  should be reunited with the
mainland by force if necessary, according to China’s policy.  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-Jeou, who is running for re-
election in January, has improved ties with China during his
term by signing trade deals and boosting cross-Strait tourism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 