-- 
Two Rothstein Employees Charged in Lawyer’s Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-12-01T18:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-s-prosecutors-charge-two-more-scott-rothstein-associates-1-.html
Federal prosecutors charged two more
associates of Scott Rothstein, the  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida ,
attorney who last year admitted to selling investors interest in
bogus settlements in sexual-harassment and whistle-blower cases.  William Boockvor, 66, was charged today with one count of
conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  and helping Rothstein’s scheme
by preparing false documents purportedly from  TD Bank (TC) , where
Rothstein’s firm held about 38 trust accounts, prosecutors said
in a statement.  The statements were used to convince investors that
Rothstein’s law firm was holding money in trust when in fact the
money was being spent on his lavish lifestyle and political and
charitable contributions. Boockvor worked for the firm doing a
variety of administrative tasks, according to prosecutors.  Marybeth Feiss, 42, one of Rothstein’s administrative
assistants, was charged with violating federal election campaign
laws and conspiring to defraud the U.S. by helping to bundle
more than $1 million in contributions to the presidential
campaign of U.S. Senator  John McCain , the Arizona Republican.  The government said Feiss organized political fundraisers
where contributions were solicited for McCain’s campaign. The
 law firm  allegedly reimbursed its associates and employees for
their contributions, disguising those payments as bonuses or
expense reimbursements.  Possible Punishment  Each faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison if
convicted, prosecutors said.  Feiss, reached at home, declined to comment on the charges.
No attorney was listed in federal records for Boockvor, and he
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Boockvoor used unidentified co-conspirators who worked for
TD Bank to convince potential investors that the bank statements
were legitimate, the government said.  The investors were brought to bank branches so that they
could see employees give Rothstein the statements along with
cover letters and envelopes that Boockvor helped the employees
prepare, prosecutors said.  Rothstein sometimes asked to use a conference room where
someone posing as a bank employee would show the investors the
fake statements, prosecutors said. One investor transferred $10
million into a Rothstein account after being shown the false
statements, they said.  Seeking Influence  Feiss participated in a conspiracy to bundle campaign
contributions to “dramatically increase the political influence
and power of RRA,” prosecutors said, referring to the Rothstein
firm.  The contributions made the firm “the nation’s top total
contributor to the joint fundraising committees for McCain,”
according to the complaint. Rothstein was named a 2008 delegate
to the  Republican National Convention .  The complaint lists one contribution for $2,300 that Feiss
made to McCain’s campaign and for which she was allegedly
reimbursed by the firm.  Rothstein is serving a 50-year sentence for racketeering
and conspiracy. The firm filed for bankruptcy after investors
began demanding the return of their money.  The latest cases bring to eight the number of people
charged in the scheme. “We are not done yet,” U.S. Attorney
 Wifredo A. Ferrer  in Miami said today in a statement.  The cases are U.S. v. Boockvor, 0:11-cr-60281, and U.S. v.
Feiss, 0:11-cr-60282, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 