-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Nov. 29 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-12-01T13:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-nov-29-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: With cooler temperatures and greatly
reduced evapotranspiration, this is normally the time of the
year when precipitation greatly aids with the recharging of soil
moisture and hydrologic conditions (as long as the ground or
streams are not frozen). As the week commenced, a storm system
in the middle  Mississippi  Valley quickly tracked northeastward
off the New England Coast, but not before bringing light to
moderate precipitation to the eastern third of the nation.
Farther west, a strong storm system brought moderate to heavy
precipitation to the Pacific Northwest. By the weekend, the
western system had rapidly traversed to the Mississippi Valley
but then stalled as a large dome of high pressure was entrenched
over the East. As the period ended, the stalled system, now with
an intense area of low pressure, slowly tracked northward from
the South toward the eastern Great Lakes region, dumping
widespread moderate to heavy precipitation on much of the
eastern third of the U.S. Between the two storm systems, many
stations from southeastern  Texas  to the  Florida Panhandle  and
northward to the eastern Great Lakes region reported 2 or more
inches of precipitation for the week. In contrast, it was mostly
dry from southern California and the Great Basin northeastward
into the northern Plains and upper Midwest. Temperatures
averaged above to well above normal for most of the lower 48
States. In Hawaii, light to moderate showers were limited to the
windward sides.  Southeast:  Widespread moderate to heavy showers and
thunderstorms (more than 2 inches, locally to 10 inches)
provided at least a 1-category improvement of drought in much of
the region. This included most of  Louisiana  (except the extreme
northwestern and southeastern sections where an inch or less
fell); Mississippi (except along the Gulf Coast); Alabama (but
not in the southeast where about an inch fell and in the
northwest where 30- and 60-day percentages remained between 50-
75%); northern  Georgia  and small areas in the southeast; western
and eastern  South Carolina ; and parts of southwestern and south-
central  North Carolina . Heaviest rains (4 to 10 inches) fell
from northeastern Alabama and northwestern Georgia into east-
central Tennessee and on the southern Appalachians in western
North Carolina. In  Arkansas , another wet week (0.5 to 1.5
inches, locally 1.5 to 3 inches in the extreme eastern sections)
was enough to remove the lingering short-term D0, while 2 to 3
inches in western Tennessee alleviated D0 there. USGS 7-day
average stream flows (ending Nov. 29) were generally at or
above-normal levels where 2 or more inches of rain occurred.
With a relatively wet Fall season across the region, short-term
departures were relegated to western Louisiana and the east-
central Gulf and southern Atlantic Coasts, although long-term
deficits remained throughout the Southeast. In contrast, only
the southern two-thirds of  Florida  and southeastern Louisiana
escaped this week’s rains. Although November has been relatively
dry in Florida, a very wet September and October has kept most
of the state drought free.  Southern and Central Plains:  Another round of light to moderate
precipitation fell on most of the southern and central Plains,
continuing a pattern of near to above normal precipitation that
started in mid-September. This was good news after Texas
recorded the driest October-September period (12-months) on
record (since 1895) in 2010-2011, with  Oklahoma  and  New Mexico 
experiencing their second driest such period, Louisiana their
third driest, and Kansas their tenth driest. In Texas, 1 to 3
inches of rain was recorded in southeastern sections, while 0.5
to 1 inch fell on east-central and northeastern sections.
Farther north, 0.5 to 1.5 inches of precipitation occurred along
the Kansas and Oklahoma border, while 0.3 to an inch was
measured in the rest of Oklahoma and central and eastern Kansas.
Combined with lower temperatures and declining
evapotranspiration rates, a thorough reappraisal of Texas was
made (courtesy of Texas A&M, Professor Neilsen-Gammon, and the
short and long-term SPI blends), along with surrounding states.
Accordingly, some 1-category improvements were made in eastern,
south-central, southeastern, north-central, and northern
Panhandle of Texas, in eastern Oklahoma, and along the Kansas-
Oklahoma border. The Impact Lines were modified to reflect more
of the impacts from long-term drought as short-term impacts have
lessened recently. In Oklahoma, the run off from recent rains
have filled Lakes Hugo (Choctaw County), Broken Bow (McCurtain
County), and Wister (Leflore County). USGS stream flows
bordering Arkansas are averaging 80 percent of normal or better.
In contrast, lake levels remained essentially unchanged from
last week elsewhere. Major soil moisture issues below the
topsoil remained in west-central and northwestern areas. Lakes
at Great Salt Plains (Alfalfa County), Fort Supply (Woodward
County), Canton (Blaine County), Altus (Greer County), Tom Steed
(Kiowa County), and Skiatook (Osage/ Washington  Counties) are
down 40-80 percent with almost no recharge in the past month.
Therefore, D3 and D4 remained in western and central Oklahoma.  Midwest and Northern Plains: A swath of moderate precipitation
(1 to 2 inches) fell across north-central  Missouri  and into
northwestern  Illinois  (and even larger totals to the east),
effectively easing short-term drought (D1 and D0) by a category
in this region. Most of northern Missouri is experiencing a top
10 historical wet November (150 to 200 percent of normal
precipitation), resulting in adequate top soil moisture and no
major impacts. The 30- and 60-day AHPS precipitation are now
close to or above normal, with only some minor 90-day deficits
left in the D0 of northern Missouri. In southeastern Missouri, 2
to 3 inches of rain erased the small area of D0. In southwestern
sections of the state, the D1 edges were trimmed away, but kept
where weekly precipitation was less than 0.5 inches. In western
Illinois, although D0 was removed after 1 to 2 inches of rain,
Lake Decatur in Macon County remained a concern as it was still
below normal levels. In  Iowa , 0.5 to 1 inch of precipitation in
southeastern portions was enough to improve drought (D0 and D1)
by a category, but drier weather over the rest of the state kept
conditions status-quo. November has been a month of contrasts in
Iowa, with Keokuk (in the southeast) recording 6.23 inches
(third highest November total among 140 years of record), while
Sioux Center (in the northwest) measuring only 0.03 inches
(fourth lowest November in 105 years of records). In  Minnesota 
and the Dakotas, an unseasonably dry autumn continued, with many
areas of southern Minnesota (and bordering areas of South
Dakota) ranking below the first percentile for precipitation. As
a result, any area in this percentile was made at least D1.
Farther north, D1 was added by the North Dakota and Minnesota
border for the same reason, while D2 was expanded in
northeastern Minnesota where 18 week departures exceeded 7
inches. The separate D0 area of southwestern North Dakota and
northwestern South Dakota was expanded eastward and merged with
the large D0 area as short-term conditions (at 30-, 60-, and 90-
days) were essentially the same across southern North Dakota.
Fortunately, the spring and summer months were relatively wet or
conditions would be much worse now.  The Southwest: While most of the region saw little or no
precipitation, a small band of moderate precipitation (0.5 to
1.5 inches) fell on extreme southeastern Arizona northeastward
into south-central New Mexico. Consequently, most of the D4 area
in southwestern New Mexico was improved to D3, with only a small
portion left as D4 where the rains missed. In south-central New
Mexico, the D4 line was pulled eastward in Lincoln County (0.2
to 0.7 inches) to focus the extreme drought on the NM southeast
plains instead of the south-central mountains where conditions
are a bit better. In extreme southeastern Colorado (Baca
County), D4 was slightly trimmed away in response to recent
rains (about 0.5 inches). Although no degradation was made this
week, concerns remained in the Southwest due to long-term
precipitation deficiencies accumulated during past critical
seasons (winter/spring and most of the summer monsoon).  The Northwest: Although heavy precipitation (2 to 6 inches,
locally to 12 inches) drenched the Pacific Northwest coastal
areas (from northern  California  northward) and the northern
Rockies in northern Idaho and northwestern Montana (2 to 4
inches), interior Northwest areas saw much less, including
sections of east-central Washington and eastern  Oregon  where
little or no precipitation occurred. Accordingly, D0 was
expanded southward into Adams County of interior Washington.
Although the winter wheat crop is mostly good, soil moisture is
in short supply and precipitation will be needed soon. Farther
south in Oregon, the D0 was extended into northwestern Nevada as
short-term (30-, 60-, and 90-days) and long-term (180-days)
conditions were similar.  In contrast, however, some parts of
the two D0 areas (northeastern Washington and southwestern
Oregon) measured 1 to 2 inches, and D0 was trimmed there.  Hawaii: Scattered showers were generally limited to windward
sides of the islands (1 to 2 inches, locally up to 6.89 inches
at Puu Kukui, Maui) during the week. Meanwhile tranquil weather
occurred on the leeward sides as little or no rain occurred. No
changes were made this week as D0-D3 persisted, especially on
the leeward sides.  Looking Ahead:  For the ensuing 5 days (December 1-5), a storm
system is expected to develop and strengthen in the Southwest.
This system will slowly track eastward, bringing welcome
precipitation to the Southwest and eventually to the southern
and central Plains. Largest 5-day precipitation totals (2 to 3
inches) are expected in Texas, northern Louisiana, and Arkansas.
Meanwhile, little or no precipitation is forecast for both
coasts. 5-day average temperatures should be subnormal in the
Intermountain West, Rockies, and Plains, and above-normal in the
eastern third of the nation.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook (December 6-10) indicates enhanced odds
for above normal precipitation east of the Mississippi River
(except Florida), along the western Gulf Coast, in the extreme
northern Plains, and throughout  Alaska . Below normal
precipitation is expected in the Pacific Northwest and Great
Basin, central Plains, and southern Florida. Subnormal
temperatures are predicted in the western half of the nation,
especially in the Southwest, with above normal readings limited
to  New England , southern Florida, and western Alaska.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  