-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Little Changed From Recession Levels

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-01T14:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/u-s-consumer-confidence-little-changed-last-week-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. was
little changed last week from levels typically reached during
past recessions.  The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort  Index was minus 50.2 in the
period ended Nov. 27, after minus 50.1 the prior week. The gauge
has been at minus 50 or worse for 10 of the past 11 weeks.  The lack of improvement underscores concern over
unemployment hovering around 9 percent, wrangling by lawmakers
over reducing the  budget deficit , and the European debt crisis.
Americans’ dim views prompted retailers to resort to price-cuts
and earlier hours to boost sales in the week of the Thanksgiving
holiday, the unofficial start of the shopping season.  “Consumer spirits remain depressed amid elevated
unemployment and tumultuous global economic conditions,” said
Richard Yamarone, a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York . “In this environment, the only spending that seems to
take place is during deep discounts, heavy couponing, or
widespread sales.”  Two of the three components of the weekly comfort index
deteriorated. The measure of Americans’ views of the current
state of the economy worsened to minus 88.5 last week from minus
87.2 in the prior period. The  buying climate index  fell to minus
49.4 from minus 48.8. The gauge of personal finances improved to
minus 12.7, from minus 14.3.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  during the holiday-shortened week,
signaling limited recovery in the labor market, another report
today showed.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims  climbed by 6,000 to 402,000 in the week
ended Nov. 26 that included the Thanksgiving holiday, the Labor
Department reported in Washington. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to 390,000.  Stocks fell after the claims figures and weaker
manufacturing in  China  raised concern about global growth. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3 percent to 1,242.82 at
9:37 a.m. in New York.  The confidence report showed diverging views among groups
and regions. Homeowner sentiment dropped to minus 50.1, the
third-lowest ever, while that of households earnings $50,000 or
more climbed to the highest level since July.  Regionally, the comfort index for the Midwest fell to a
record low, while the gauge for the West jumped to a four-month
high.  This Year  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began December 1985, has
averaged minus 46.7 this year compared with minus 45.7 for all
of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the recession ended,
the report showed.  One silver lining may be that fewer Americans, 29 percent
compared with 35 percent in the previous week, said it was a
“poor” time to purchase goods. Retailers including  Macy’s
Inc. (M) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Toys “R” Us Inc. were offering
steep discounts and earlier opening hours for Black Friday, the
day after Thanksgiving.  “At least some holiday shoppers are finding products and
prices they like at the start of the crucial Christmas retail
season,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement. “The question likely is not whether consumers will
suddenly turn gleeful in the next month, but rather whether
retailers can coax them out of their shell.”  Shoppers still had to finish more than 60 percent of their
holiday buying as of Nov. 26, the same amount as a year earlier,
while their spending in the past weekend jumped 9.1 percent to
$398.62, on average, according to the Washington-based  National
Retail Federation .  Conference Board  Some surveys signal consumers are turning less pessimistic
on the outlook for jobs and wages. The Conference Board’s  index 
increased to 56 in November from 40.9 a month earlier, the
biggest monthly gain since April 2003, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed Nov. 29.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  