-- 
UBS Names Lofts Chief Risk Officer, Replacing Miskovic After Trading Loss

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-12-01T10:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ubs-names-lofts-chief-risk-officer-replacing-miskovic.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the Swiss bank that reported
a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading in September,
appointed Philip Lofts as chief risk officer, replacing Maureen Miskovic, who is leaving the firm after less than a year.  Robert McCann, head of  wealth management  for the Americas,
will also assume Lofts’s previous role as chief executive
officer for all business in the Americas, the Zurich-based bank
said in a statement today. Chief Operating Officer Ulrich Koerner, 49, will take on additional responsibility for business
in Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , the role filled by  Sergio Ermotti  before his appointment as the bank’s CEO last month.  The shuffle is the first management move by Ermotti since
he was confirmed as CEO on Nov. 15, following the trading losses
that prompted the resignation of his predecessor,  Oswald Gruebel . Miskovic, 54, a former risk officer at State Street
Corp. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., joined UBS in January
as Lofts relinquished the risk post to move to the U.S.  “With this appointment and the previous chief risk officer
leaving, UBS confirms that risk management procedures were far
from perfect,”  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at
Mediobanca SpA, said in a note. He has an “underperform”
rating on UBS shares.  Miskovic’s departure isn’t related to the unauthorized
trading, UBS spokeswoman Tatiana Togni said by phone, declining
to comment further.  UBS fell 0.4 percent to 11.13 francs at 11:10 a.m. in
Zurich trading, bringing its decline this year to 27 percent.
That compares with a 34 percent drop in the 46-company Bloomberg
 Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  over the same period.  ‘Turbulent Market’  “One of my main priorities is to continue to reinforce the
bank’s risk framework,” Ermotti said today in a memo to
employees that was confirmed by UBS. When Lofts headed risk
management “between November 2008 and December 2010, he
demonstrated that he has the broad skills and experience and the
strong leadership needed to run our risk organization decisively
in a turbulent market environment.”  Ermotti told employees in October that while the bank’s
internal systems had detected “unauthorized or unexplained”
activity, it wasn’t “sufficiently” probed and controls weren’t
enforced.  Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of causing the trading
loss, was given a four-week delay on Nov. 22 to enter a plea to
charges. Adoboli has been in custody since Sept. 15, when UBS
asked London police to arrest him.  The incident also led to the replacement of Francois Gouws
and Yassine Bouhara as co-heads of the equities unit, where the
loss occurred. UBS also suspended or took disciplinary actions
against eight other employees at the investment bank.  Investment Bank Downsizing  Lofts, a 49-year-old British citizen, has been with UBS for
more than 20 years. He also served as the chief credit officer
for three years, and has worked at the investment bank in
various business and risk-control positions in  Europe , Asia and
the U.S.  Ermotti last month announced a plan to scale down UBS’s
investment bank, by cutting 145 billion Swiss francs ($159
billion), or almost half, of risk-weighted assets at the unit by
2016 as stricter Basel III capital rules and Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis hurt profit. UBS also said it will aim for closer
cooperation between divisions.  Wealth Management Lead  The appointment of McCann as Americas chief signals that
“the lead is now in the hands of the wealth management,”
Wheeler said in the note. “These are all positive messages and
will shift the focus of the entire organization towards a unique
goal: restoring UBS leadership in wealth management.”  McCann, who joined UBS in October 2009, previously headed
wealth management at Merrill Lynch & Co. His other former
positions at Merrill included chief operating officer of global
markets and  investment banking , and head of global securities
research and economics.  “He heads our largest business in the Americas with 16,000
employees, and is the natural choice for the Americas CEO
position as we strengthen the partnership across the three
businesses,” Ermotti said in the memo.  Koerner was brought to UBS by Gruebel in April 2009 from
rival Credit Suisse Group AG, which Gruebel headed previously.
At Credit Suisse, Koerner served in roles including chief
financial officer, chief operating officer and CEO of business
in  Switzerland .  “Ulrich has a strong track record in managing diverse
businesses, delivering results in collaboration with different
parts of the bank and in fostering client relationships,”
Ermotti said in the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 