-- 
Muddy Waters Claims on China Companies Have Yet to Be Proven, Arbess Says

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-12-01T17:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/muddy-waters-claims-on-sino-forest-focus-media-are-unproven-arbess-says.html
Assertions by short seller Carson
Block that  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  lied
about their businesses have yet to be proven, said Daniel Arbess, manager of Perella Weinberg Partners LP’s Xerion funds.  “The jury is out as to whether something like Sino-Forest
or something like Focus Media is a total fraud,” Arbess said at
the Bloomberg Hedge Funds Summit in New York, where Block was a
guest. “Carson better be right on these things, because if he
isn’t, then he will have to do something else.”  Sino-Forest fell 74 percent from June through August after
Block said the Ontario- and Hong Kong-based timber owner
overstated the value of its assets. Focus Media lost 39 percent
on Nov. 21 after Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC  said  the Shanghai-
based company overstated its ad network and the value of
acquisitions. The shares have rebounded 20 percent through
yesterday.  Focus Media denied Block’s assertions in a Nov. 22
statement and on a conference call with analysts, saying the
report reflects a misunderstanding of its business. Justin
Martin, who succeeded Sino-Forest Chief Executive Officer Allen
Chan in August, said Nov. 15 that an investigation by an
independent committee showed Sino-Forest isn’t a “ Ponzi
scheme .”  Misrepresentations are a pervasive problem among public
companies in emerging markets, including some that listed in the
U.S. through reverse mergers and initial public offerings, Block
said today. In a reverse merger, a closely held firm buys a
publicly traded shell company and retains its listing.  ‘Bent’ Rules  “When you’re dealing with  emerging markets ’ company senior
management you’re talking about people who have bent rules,”
Block said.  Chinese stocks trading in the U.S. have faced investor
scrutiny this year after companies such as China MediaExpress
Holdings Inc. disclosed financial irregularities or auditor
resignations. More than 35 non-U.S. companies had their trading
halted on American exchanges because of inaccurate financial
statements and other issues, according to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Focus Media is the seventh company targeted by Muddy Waters
and the second-largest by market value behind Sino-Forest.  “I’m far from an apologist for Chinese issuers -- I think
the whole space is very, very dangerous,” New York-based Arbess
said. “I’m just saying I don’t know you can draw a conclusion
that says the whole space is structurally corrupted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ; 