-- 
Ukraine Again Extends $2 Billion VTB Loan, Ministry Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-12-01T10:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/ukraine-again-extends-2-billion-vtb-loan-ministry-says-1-.html
Ukraine ’s government won a third six-
month extension of a $2 billion loan from VTB Group, Russia’s
second-largest bank, to ease its effort to finance the state
budget deficit,  Finance Ministry  said.  The original six-month loan, granted in June 2010, has an
interest rate of 6.7 percent. The government won its first six-
month extension in December 2010 and had an option for more
time, according to the agreement.  “In spite of the deterioration of the global economic and
financial situation, which raised Ukraine’s borrowing costs and
limited access to  capital markets , the loan was prolonged at the
same financial terms,” the Kiev-based ministry said today in a
 statement  on its website. The extension was signed yesterday,
the ministry said.  In July 2010, Ukraine agreed to a $15.6 billion loan from
the  International Monetary Fund , its second bailout in two
years, as the global financial crisis hurt its economy. The fund
has already released $3.4 billion in two tranches, helping the
government cover the budget gap and boost foreign-currency
reserves. The third installment, which was expected in March,
was frozen after Ukraine failed to raise household utility
prices to help balance the budget.  “This is somewhat disappointing” because another lump-sum
payment is due in June, said Tim Ash, head of emerging-market
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, said in
an e-mail.  “This creates an even bigger debt service lump-sum
payment at that point in time.”  The loan comes as Ukraine is seeking to reduce the natural
gas price it pays to  Russia  and hopes to sign a new fuel accord
by year-end. It wants to cut the price to around $230 per 1,000
cubic meters of gas from $400 it pays now.  Should the talks fail, the price may jump to $485 in the
first quarter of next year, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko 
said on Nov. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
bpenz@bloomberg; 