-- 
UN to Review Carbon Offset Program Threatened by Kyoto’s End

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-01T22:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/un-to-review-carbon-offset-program-threatened-by-kyoto-s-end.html
The  United Nations  began work to
preserve a key pillar of the carbon market as Brazil and  China 
said the program had no future unless rich countries accept new
goals for cutting greenhouse gases.  The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change said it would
conduct a yearlong evaluation on how to improve the Clean
Development Mechanism, according to a statement yesterday. The
CDM program lets companies and nations earn credits to offset
fossil-fuel emissions in exchange for sponsoring renewable-
energy projects.  The future of the CDM is in question because emissions
limits in the 1997 treaty expire next year. Brazil and China,
which are pushing developed countries to make new commitments to
reduce pollution under the treaty, say demand for the credits
will shrivel without an agreement.  “The basic issue about the CDM is about demand,” Andre
Correa do Lago,  Brazil ’s chief envoy at UN climate talks, said
at a press briefing yesterday in Durban,  South Africa . “You
will not be creating the demand, and this is the basis of the
CDM.”  The CDM will have “no” future without Kyoto, he said.
Japan, Russia and  Canada  have said they wouldn’t make new
commitments under the 1997 treaty.  If the Kyoto emissions limits expire, there’s no reason to
maintain the CDM,  Su Wei , China’s lead negotiator, said this
week in Durban.  ‘No Targets’  “We can’t imagine that if there’s no second commitment
period, there would be a continuation for the clean development
mechanism,” he said in a joint interview with Bloomberg and two
other news organizations Nov. 29. “If there are no targets to
implement, what is the utility of having the CDM mechanism?”  China’s position is significant because it’s the biggest
emitter of  greenhouse gases  and the largest developing economy
involved in the climate-change negotiations.  The CDM has supported the development of more than 3,600
project in 72 countries, according to the statement. It was
worth $1.5 billion last year, according to the  World Bank .  The credits neared a record low yesterday. Certified
Emission Reduction offsets for December fell 5.3 percent to 5.32
euros ($7.16) a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, near the
record reached Nov. 25 of 5.30 euros. The futures contract has
lost 53 percent this year.  The UN will issue as many as 29.7 million metric tons of
CERs in November, the ninth-biggest monthly total since the
system began in 2005. The regulator issued a record 50 million
tons of CERs in January. Seven of the 10 biggest monthly totals
have been this year.  The CDM “has delivered on mitigation and given concrete
expression to what is needed to address  climate change , in the
form of tangible projects,”  Christiana Figueres , executive
secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, said
in the statement. “Now is the time to tap into the experience
gained implementing the mechanism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  