-- 
Union-Backed NLRB Plan Advances as U.S. House Acts to Curb Board

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-12-01T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/union-backed-nlrb-plan-advances-as-u-s-house-acts-to-curb-board.html
Rules for speedier union elections
were advanced by the  National Labor Relations Board  as the U.S.
House passed Republican-sponsored legislation to curb the
agency’s powers.  The board, which resolves disputes between labor and
management, voted 2-1 yesterday to proceed with a scaled-back
plan from Chairman Mark Pearce cutting the average time for
elections. Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the Workforce Fairness Institute, opposed the
revisions as they did a June proposal to overhaul labor rules,
saying companies will have less time to make their case to
workers before an election.  “The current rule is laden with unnecessary delays,”
Pearce said at a board meeting in  Washington . The new proposal
“seeks to avoid multiple and unnecessary appeals in union
elections, and does away with unnecessary waiting periods.”  In the U.S. House, lawmakers voted 234-188 for a
Republican-backed bill that would delay any vote on a union for
at least 35 days after a petition is filed by workers.  Republicans and business groups such as the  National
Association of Manufacturers  said the labor board’s plan creates
“ambush elections.” Labor leaders said the change won’t do
much to help unions as representation among private companies
fell to a record low 6.9 percent last year.  “It will make modest improvements,” Elizabeth Bunn,
organizing director at the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest union
federation, said yesterday at a Washington event. “It will not
make the rules actually fair. All it will do is reduce some of
the most egregious tactics.”  Shorten Deadlines  The Pearce proposal would simplify procedures for union
elections and shorten the deadline to hold a vote after
employees request one. The June proposal included more
comprehensive changes, such as requiring employers to give
worker phone numbers and e-mail addresses to union organizers.  Time is running short for the NLRB. The board has two
vacancies, and the term of Democrat  Craig Becker , a former
lawyer for the AFL-CIO and Service Employees International
Union, will expire this month, leaving two members and not
enough for a quorum.  The decision by the NLRB to proceed with the scaled-back
plan sets the stage for a final rule be drafted and circulated
for a vote.  Becker said the debate on the proposal has been
characterized by “reckless allegations and easy labeling.”  Brian Hayes , the only Republican on the labor board, had
threatened to quit, according to Pearce, in a move aimed at
blocking action on the proposal. Hayes said yesterday he has
ruled out resigning to deny the panel a quorum.  ‘Meaningful Discussion’  Hayes said he opposes Pearce’s proposal.  “The net effect will be a shorter time between petition
and election, in which many are deprived of the opportunity for
a meaningful discussion on collective bargaining,” Hayes said.  The House bill would have to pass the Democratic-led Senate
and be signed by President  Barack Obama  -- a union supporter --
to become law. Democratic lawmakers said yesterday they will
make sure Congress doesn’t limit the NLRB’s authority.  “We have to do everything in our power to stop them from
dismantling the  National Labor Relations Act ,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat who heads the Senate committee that
deals with labor issues, said at the AFL-CIO event. “I will do
whatever I can to stop this from happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  