-- 
Huntington Faces Pressure to Keep Avondale Yard Open

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-12-01T23:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/huntington-faces-lawmakers-pressure-to-keep-avondale-yard-open.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc .,
the U.S. Navy’s largest builder of surface warships, is under
growing pressure from Louisiana lawmakers to keep its Avondale
shipyard open instead of consolidating the work at a facility
out of the state.  Senator  Mary Landrieu  and Representative Cedric Richmond,
both Louisiana Democrats, said in interviews they want the
Avondale yard to continue building commercial ships or find
complementary manufacturing when it completes work in 2013 on
two Navy amphibious ships. Huntington’s shipyard in neighboring
 Mississippi  isn’t enough, they said.  “We don’t need one shipyard on the  Gulf Coast . We need
two, potentially even three,” Landrieu said in an interview.
“You do not put all your eggs in one basket.”  The fight to keep open Avondale -- which employs about
4,800 people -- began as soon as Huntington’s former parent,
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , announced in July 2010 plans to divest
its ship unit and shut the shipyard. Pressure to cut costs is
escalating as the Pentagon prepares for as much as $1 trillion
in potential budget cuts during the next decade.  Huntington agrees with the lawmakers about finding other
uses for Avondale. “But I’m not going to start a new business
there on my own,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Petters, said
in an interview yesterday in New York. “If I can find a partner
who knows the business and who wants to use that facility, I’m
more than happy to work with them.”  Cost Reimbursement  Whether Huntington shuts Avondale or finds other uses may
determine how much in restructuring costs it can recover from
the Navy under federal contracting rules.  The company is seeking about $270 million from the Navy if
Avondale is shut as planned, said Beci Brenton, a company
spokeswoman.  “We continue to analyze those costs in order to reduce
them,” Brenton said. Huntington told the Navy earlier this year
that closing Avondale would yield savings of $600 million from
2013 through 2019.  In October, Huntington and the Navy signed an agreement
that says the company could recover costs allowed by Federal
Acquisition Regulation even if the yard isn’t closed. Until the
Navy receives and evaluates Huntington’s specific plans
regarding the shipyard, all allowable restructuring costs are
not yet known, Navy spokeswoman Captain Cate Mueller said in an
e-mail.  Seeking Partners  Under the agreement, the Navy acknowledges that Huntington
“has incurred and will continue to incur costs related to its
decision to discontinue naval shipbuilding operations at
Avondale,” Mueller said.  Petters said in July he was seeking partners to turn
Avondale into a manufacturing site for non-shipbuilding work.  If those efforts succeed “we would expect that the
restructure costs -- such as capital asset write-offs and human
 capital costs  that would be incurred as a result of the
cessation of all business operations at the Avondale facility --
would be significantly reduced,” Mueller said. “Any costs
associated with the alternative use would be borne by”
Huntington and its potential partners, she said.  Huntington, with 2010 sales of $6.7 billion, became a
separate company in March. Former parent Northrop and Huntington
have said the Avondale yard would be shut when work on the
Navy’s two amphibious ships there is completed in 2013.  Huntington’s Yards  The company’s yards at Pascagoula, Mississippi, and at
Avondale, both on the Gulf of Mexico, between them build the
Navy’s DDG-51 guided missile destroyers, LPD-17 amphibious
transport dock ships, the new LHA-6 amphibious assault ship and
U.S. Coast Guard cutters. The company’s  Newport News , Virginia
yard, builds nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines.  Louisiana lawmakers Landrieu and Richmond are seeking to
keep Avondale employees in their jobs in the state, which has an
 unemployment  rate of 7 percent, 2 percentage points below the
national  unemployment rate .  “It is important to keep shipbuilding expertise here in
the  United States ,” Landrieu said. “We’ve lost so much of it,
we literally can’t afford to lose more. It’s not good for our
national defense. It’s not good for our manufacturing base.”  Landrieu said that there are “potential suitors” to
either build ships or use the facility for other manufacturing
that is “comparable” to shipbuilding.  “We are just open. We are not going to limit it only to
shipbuilders, but the state is aggressively seeking partners and
the company is seeking partners,” she said.  Jones Act  The closure of Avondale would leave Huntington’s shipyard
in Pascagoula as the company’s sole naval vessel builder on the
 Gulf of Mexico .  Richmond said he and Landrieu may introduce a bill next
year to help U.S. commercial shipbuilding compete globally. The
legislation would range from tax incentives to waivers to the
Jones Act “to make our shipbuilding competitive,” Richmond
said in a telephone interview. The Jones Act of 1920 requires
that goods and passengers transported by water between U.S.
ports be done in U.S.-made ships, owned and operated by U.S.
citizens.  Richmond said that he and other state officials will “do
whatever we can to make Avondale a viable place to still employ
thousands of people.”  Petters said Huntington is not willing to take on
commercial shipbuilding by itself.  Other Uses  “If a commercial shipbuilder said they wanted to build
commercial ships at Avondale and they had a plan and an order
book I would listen, but I’m not going to stand up and be the
commercial shipbuilder,” he said. “That’s a business I don’t
know. The aperture is wide open on exploring other uses for the
Avondale yard.”  In the absence of alternatives, Avondale is “on the path
to closing,” Petters said. Any alternative plans would have to
be in place before 2013, when the yard is scheduled to close.  The  Department of Defense  in May awarded Louisiana a $1.49
million grant to assist the state in studying alternative uses
for the Avondale yard. The state supplemented the Pentagon grant
with $165,000, according to information published by the
Louisiana Economic Development Office.  Huntington fell 5 cents, or 0.16 percent, to $31.70 in  New
York  Stock Exchange Composite Trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  