-- 
Turkey Rate Increase ‘More Straightforward,’ Moody’s Says

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-12-01T10:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/turkey-rate-increase-more-straightforward-moody-s-says-1-.html
Increasing  Turkey ’s  benchmark
interest rate  of 5.75 percent would be a “more
straightforward” approach to monetary policy, Moody’s Investors
Service said.  The debt crisis in  Europe  means the central bank’s margin
of error is now “greatly reduced” and the benefits of a so-
called interest rate corridor, where it varies lending between
rates of 5.75 percent and 12.5 percent, are open to question,
 Sarah Carlson , a Moody’s analyst, told reporters in a conference
call today.  “Having this interest rate corridor; it’s not clear to us
why this would be a better approach than simply increasing the
policy rate, which would be the straightforward approach,” she
said.  The central bank says its policies are slowing the loan
growth that widened the current account deficit to a record 10
percent of economic output in September. There may be a
“rapid” narrowing in the deficit should the slowdown in
lending persist, governor Erdem Basci said on Nov. 25. The rates
corridor, unique in  emerging markets , gives the central bank
flexibility to adjust lending rates in line with market
conditions, he says.  “The longer Turkey’s internal and external imbalances
remain at a high level, the more downward pressure will build on
the positive outlook to the rating, and in extremes on the Ba2
rating itself,” Moody’s said in a report yesterday.  Turkey’s Rating  The lira declined 0.4 percent to 1.8359 per dollar at 11:25
a.m. in Istanbul. Yields on  two-year benchmark debt  rose five
basis points to 10.44 percent, rising for the first day in four.  Moody’s rates Turkey Ba2, two steps below investment grade,
with a “positive” outlook.  Fitch Ratings , which ranks Turkey at BB+, one step below
investment status, cut the country’s outlook to “stable” from
“positive” on Nov. 23, citing accelerating inflation and the
widening current account deficit. Standard & Poor’s rates Turkey
at BB, two steps below investment.  The cumulative  current account deficit  in the 12 months
through September rose to a record $77.5 billion, the central
bank said on Nov. 15.  The wider current account gap renders Turkey “vulnerable
to balance-of-payment shocks and offsets some, though not all,
of the progress that the government has made in improving its
own financial strength,” Moody’s said.  Inflation  Turkey’s debt is equivalent to about 40 percent of gross
domestic product and the government plans to reduce the ratio of
its debt stock to 32 percent of the gross domestic product in
2014 from an expected 39.8 percent this year, Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan said on Oct. 13.  An upgrade of the country’s rating may occur should the
authorities pursue fiscal and monetary policies “that reverse
the recent growth in internal and, more importantly, external
imbalances,” Moody’s said.  Inflation  climbed to 7.7 percent in October from 6.2
percent the previous month, compared with the central bank’s
year-end goal of 5.5 percent. It has accelerated after the lira
declined 16 percent against the dollar this year, making imports
more expensive. The impact of a decline in lira on  inflation  is
also a source of concern, Carlson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 