-- 
Usiminas Gains on Bets Techint Deal Will Benefit All Holders

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-12-01T21:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/usiminas-gains-on-bets-techint-deal-will-benefit-all-holders-1-.html
Voting shares of  Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA ,  Brazil ’s second-biggest steelmaker, surged
the most in almost four months on speculation Techint Group may
extend its offer for a voting stake to minority shareholders.  Usiminas’s voting stock rose 10 percent to 19.65 reais at
the close of Sao Paulo trading, the most since Aug. 11.
 Preferred shares , the company’s most traded class of stock,
advanced 2.8 percent to 10.65 reais.  Brazil’s largest pension fund, Caixa de Previdencia dos
Funcionarios do Banco do Brasil, or Previ, plans to dispute
Techint’s acquisition of a stake in Usiminas, Brasil Economico
reported, without saying where it got the information. Previ,
which owns 10.44 percent of Usiminas voting shares, is disputing
the fact that Techint won’t pay so-called tag-along rights to
minority shareholders, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper said.  “Minority shareholders will probably put up a fight,”
Leonardo Alves, an analyst at Link Investimentos SA, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “And it’s possible that the
securities regulator ends up siding with the minority holders on
this issue.”  An official at an external public relations company working
for Usiminas in  Belo Horizonte  declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Techint, through its Ternium SA and Tenaris SA units,
agreed to buy 139.7 million voting shares in Usiminas at 36
reais each from Camargo Correa SA, Grupo Votorantim and
Usiminas’s workers pension fund, according to a statement from
Ternium on Nov. 27. Techint is set to pay 5.03 billion reais
($2.8 billion) for a 27.7 percent voting stake in Usiminas.
Camargo Correa, Votorantim, the pension fund and Nippon Steel
Corp. own a combined 63.9 percent voting stake in the company,
according to a statement on Usiminas’ website.  Brazilian Rules  Under Brazilian securities rules, minority holders of
voting shares would receive at least 80 percent of the price
paid to controlling shareholders if a company is bought. No such
law applies to preferred shares. Usiminas Chief Executive
Officer Wilson Brumer said in a conference call on Nov. 28 this
rule doesn’t apply to the deal with Techint because the
transaction doesn’t change the controlling block.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  