-- 
Walton Street Seeks to Unload $2.8 Billion CalWest Purchase

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-12-01T20:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/walton-street-hires-cbre-to-sell-western-industrial-properties.html
Walton Street Capital LLC hired CBRE
Group Inc. to sell 95 industrial properties that it acquired for
about $2.8 billion in 2007, when commercial real estate prices
peaked, as a debt payment on the buildings comes due in June.  The properties are 82 percent leased, according to a CBRE
marketing document, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. Occupancy was 91 percent when Chicago-based Walton Street
bought the buildings, known as the CalWest portfolio, Real
Estate Alert reported at the time.  Property owners have had difficulty refinancing debt amid
the decline in U.S. real estate values from their highs and
upheaval in the commercial mortgage-backed securities market
since July. Walton Street has a $2.45 billion loan repayment
deadline in June.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity firm, has acquired almost $600 million of debt on
the buildings, putting it in a position to take control if the
borrower defaults.  “Walton Street would have to come up with a lot more money
to hang onto this,” said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a property-research firm in  New York .
“The problem is they bought this portfolio very much at the
height of the market, and I’m not sure these assets are worth
that anymore.”  Commercial real estate prices in the U.S. have fallen 42
percent from their peak in October 2007, according to an index
compiled by Moody’s Investors Service.  California  Properties  Walton Street paid about $120 per square foot for the
CalWest properties, which total 23.4 million square feet (2.2
million square meters) and are mostly located in California.
While it’s difficult to generalize, Fasulo estimates industrial
assets are now valued at about $80 to $100 per square foot.  “They’re actually fortunate that most of the assets are in
California, where there is significant demand,” Fasulo said.
“They’re hoping someone will come along and see the value and
help them work out of a difficult situation.”  Eric Mogentale, managing principal at Walton Street, didn’t
respond to telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment.
Christy Ingle, a spokeswoman for CBRE, declined to comment.  The portfolio is made up of single-building and
multibuilding warehouses and business parks. There are 527
buildings in all and one land parcel, according to the CBRE
document.  Port Cities  Many of the properties are located in or near port cities,
including in Orange County, California;  Los Angeles ; Oakland,
California;  San Diego ; Seattle; and  Portland ,  Oregon .  Walton Street bought the assets from a joint venture of the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and Deutsche Bank
AG’s RREEF unit. The acquisition was funded with the $2.45
billion loan from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Barclays
Capital Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. About $275 million of
debt was packaged into bonds and sold to investors.  Some industrial property owners tried unsuccessfully to
sell assets earlier this year, Fasulo said.  “After the market got hot earlier in the year, there were
a handful of major industrial offerings that came to market and
the buyers basically pushed back,” he said. “A lot of stuff
fell apart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  