-- 
Washington Arena May Default on $42 Million in Notes, State Treasurer Says

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-12-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/washington-state-arena-nears-default-as-work-stalls-on-bailout-loan-bill.html
Default looms today on $41.8 million
in bond-anticipation notes backing a money-losing regional arena
in  Washington , potentially harming other municipal issuers,
according to state Treasurer James McIntire.  Lawmakers adjourned yesterday in Olympia without acting on
a bill to aid the Greater Wenatchee Regional Events Center
Public Facilities District and aren’t scheduled to reconvene
until noon today, two hours after the payment is due, said Chris McGann, a McIntire spokesman.  The  district  is almost certain to default on debt sold in
2008 to build a 4,300-seat arena in Wenatchee, City Attorney
 Steve Smith  said by telephone. McIntire called on lawmakers to
pass the bailout measure in a Nov. 18  statement , warning of a
default’s broader impact on issuers statewide.  “Even if they made a decision tomorrow, they would still
have to wire the money and that probably wouldn’t happen the
same day,” Smith said late yesterday. “Technically, you’d be
in default, but I’m sure the noteholders would take the money
the next day. Even if you miss by a day or two, I don’t think
it’s an irreconcilable problem.”  Municipal-bond defaults for the year through September fell
to $949 million from $2.89 billion in the first nine months of
2010, according to  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the Distressed
Debt Securities Newsletter in  Miami Lakes ,  Florida .  Wider Impact  A default in Wenatchee “would have a significant impact on
the borrowing costs of other public facility districts, cities,
and counties,” McIntire said Nov. 18. “Investors generally
seek large interest rate concessions from borrowers who are
perceived to pose a higher risk of default -- or they avoid them
altogether,” he said.  The 1983 default of the Washington Public Power Supply
System, affecting $2.25 billion in bonds to finance nuclear
 power plants , contaminated issuers statewide, driving up
borrowing costs, McIntire said.  The effect of a default on the Wenatchee arena bonds would
be more local, said Robert Frey, president of Lakeside Advisors
Inc., a Seattle-based investment firm. The issuing district
consists of nine municipalities, including Wenatchee, a city of
about 31,000 on the flanks of the Cascade Mountains about 140
miles (225 kilometers) east of the state’s biggest city.  “Most  Washington  paper is pretty clean stuff,” Frey said
by telephone. “This had the appearance of being so.”  By the end of last year, Wenatchee’s Town Toyota Center had
lost $6.5 million since opening in October 2008, according to a
state audit.  Missing Forecasts  Arena revenue has fallen short of projections, and a court
decision barred the district from borrowing from the city since
the community had exceeded its debt limit, according to a
legislative  analysis .  The pending bailout legislation, backed by McIntire, would
provide $42 million to the district and require repayment with
interest over 10 years. If payments are missed, the state could
withhold sales and use taxes collected on behalf of the nine
member municipalities.  Unlike the original bill, the pending version wouldn’t let
municipalities in the district raise local sales taxes without a
referendum to meet the loan obligations.  A bailout may encourage irresponsible behavior by other
municipal issuers, state Senator Karen Keiser, a Democrat from
suburban Kent, near  Seattle ,  said  during a Nov. 29 committee
hearing. She said it may give others an incentive “to kick back
a little bit and wait for the state to come to their rescue.”  “I think that’s very dangerous precedent,” Keiser said.  The bill would discourage others from seeking similar
relief through  interest rates  “significantly higher” than the
market, said state Representative Ross Hunter, a Democrat from
suburban Medina and a sponsor of the measure.  “I am unwilling to allow a small set of local governments
take an action (default) that would damage the cost of credit
for many other local governments in Washington, and have pushed
this bill hard,” he said by e-mail yesterday.  Hunter said he is hopeful there will be a resolution later
this week or early next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  