-- 
We Asked Obama for Change, Got Lousy T-Shirt Instead: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-12-01T00:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/we-asked-obama-for-change-got-t-shirts-instead-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
Guess who tweeted this: “This Black
Friday, take 10% off all purchases ... with code 10%TURKEYDAY.”  Wal-Mart? Best Buy? A hedge fund trying to unload Greek
bonds?  Nope. That was the official Twitter account of President
 Barack Obama  -- excuse me, President @BarackObama. And it’s not
the first time that Obama’s 2012 campaign has sounded like a
commercial for Al’s Used Car Lot.  Last month, “Barack Obama” e-mailed me with the subject
line “Last chance at dinner.” “Because you and I don’t have a
lot of chances to have dinner together,” Obama -- or, more
accurately, a campaign worker claiming to be him -- wrote, “I
hope you’ll take advantage of the one that’s coming up this
fall.” Then he asked me to donate some money so I could be
entered into a raffle to have dinner with him.  Another e-mail from “Obama” carried the subject line, “If I
don’t call you.” Again, the lure was that you could donate money
to be entered into a dinner raffle. As Garance Franke-Ruta  noted 
in the Atlantic, the e-mail writers at the Obama campaign had
taken one of the most distinctive voices in American politics
and reduced it to the whine of a plaintive boyfriend.  This is, of course, a fundraising effort. And it’s working.
The Obama campaign has received donations from more than 1
million individuals, 98 percent of whom contributed $250 or
less. At this point in the 2008 race, the Obama campaign had
fewer than 400,000 donors. “This is what a grassroots campaign
looks like,” the campaign brags in a graphic celebrating the
million-donor mark.  Token of Thanks  Some of those donations purchased Obama swag. When you buy
a hat or a shirt, you’re technically donating to the campaign,
and the campaign is sending you a token of its thanks. There’s
something tawdry about it. This isn’t transformational politics.
This is, almost by definition, transactional politics. You give
me money for my campaign, I give you a beer can holder with Vice
President  Joe Biden ’s face on it.  I asked the Obama campaign about that seeming disconnect,
but didn’t get much of a reply. “We don’t talk specifics about
merchandise because we don’t talk specifics about fundraising in
general,” Katie Hogan, the campaign’s deputy press secretary,
told me.  In a sense, these e-mails and tweets -- and the exasperated
reactions many supporters have had to them -- perfectly
encapsulate one of the biggest challenges Obama faces going into
2012: resolving the yawning chasm between the sort of politics
America wanted from the Obama campaign and the sort of politics
the Obama administration has found to work in Washington.  Obama’s 2008 campaign wasn’t really about health-care
reform or stimulus bills or financial regulation or killing
 Osama bin Laden . It was about something at once much bigger and
more general, and perhaps because of that, much more appealing:
change.  At the 2007 Jefferson-Jackson dinner in  Iowa , Obama
delivered a  speech  that proved decisive in his campaign’s
victory there, and thus his national victory. But its core
wasn’t a policy agenda. It was, in a way, a philosophical
agenda. It was a promise about how Obama would do business more
than about what business he would do.  “This party -- the party of Jefferson and Jackson; of
Roosevelt and Kennedy -- has always made the biggest difference
in the lives of the American people when we led, not by polls,
but by principle; not by calculation, but by conviction; when we
summoned the entire nation to a common purpose -- a higher
purpose,” Obama said. “And I run for the presidency of the
 United States of America  because that’s the party America needs
us to be right now. A party that offers not just a difference in
policies, but a difference in leadership.”  Pivotal Choice  But President Obama soon found himself faced with a choice:
he could change U.S. politics, or change U.S. policy. He chose
changing policy. The stimulus package passed amid constant
congressional horse trading, and ultimately required an 11th-
hour deal that shaved $100 billion off the total and infuriated
his supporters. He broke a campaign promise when he signed the
2009 budget, which was larded with earmarks. The crucial
negotiations that led to health-care reform did not take place
in front of C-SPAN’s cameras, as Obama had promised, and to
secure the bill’s passage, the Democrats agreed to a special
deal for Nebraska Senator  Ben Nelson  that quickly acquired the
name, “the cornhusker kickback.”  The legislative process proved stronger than Obama’s
campaign promises. His election didn’t usher in a new post-
partisan era. If anything, partisanship grew stronger. Nor did
his administration fulfill its promise to lock lobbyists out of
the halls of power. A number of ex-lobbyists got special
permission to work in the Obama administration. Public
confidence in  Washington  is at a record low, and for good
reason. Three months ago, the United States of America almost
 defaulted  on its debt for no good reason (unless you consider
Republican obstructionism “a good reason”). That’s not change
anyone would have believed in.  Some of this isn’t Obama’s fault. Bipartisanship requires a
willing partner, and Obama’s Republican partners are typified by
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , who said his “single
most important goal” is to defeat Obama in 2012. But some of
this is Obama’s fault. The White House calculated that changing
policies was more important than changing Washington.  Ultimately, this election is going to turn on whether the
Obama campaign can convince the American people that it made the
right decision. Obama has accomplished vastly more in his first
term than any of his recent predecessors. He signed into law a
near-universal health-care reform and overhauled the nation’s
financial regulations. He passed a stimulus bill, and followed
it up in December 2010 with a set of huge tax cuts. He carried
out the Troubled Asset Relief Program and conducted the stress
tests that stabilized the financial system. He gave the order to
kill  Bin Laden  and provided air support to the insurgency that
ousted  Muammar Qaddafi .  He has initiated a lot of change -- though perhaps not the
change people thought they were getting. And perhaps that change
hasn’t looked the way his supporters had hoped it would look.
But, like his fundraising operation, Obama has been effective,
even if his methods have not always been pretty. The question is
whether that’ll be enough.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 