-- 
Zynga Said to Plan IPO Valuing It at as High as $10 Billion

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-12-01T15:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-01/zynga-said-to-plan-raising-900-million-in-ipo-valuing-it-at-10-billion.html
Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of
games on Facebook, is seeking a valuation of as high as $10
billion in an initial public offering, according to two people
briefed on the matter.  Zynga plans to raise about $900 million by selling stock at
about $8 to $10 apiece, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans haven’t been made public. Zynga
will sell 10 percent or fewer of its outstanding shares, which
are scheduled to be priced on Dec. 15, the person said.  At $10 billion,  Zynga  would be the second-largest U.S. game
company after  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , which has a
capitalization of $14.2 billion.  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , which
bought Zynga rival PopCap Games in August, has a market value of
$7.69 billion based on yesterday’s close. The IPO would also
value Zynga at as much as 9.8 times trailing 12-month sales,
compared with about 3 times for Activision and 2 times for
Electronic Arts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The valuation “creates a lot of pressure upfront to
deliver high sales growth and earnings,” said  Walter Todd , co-
chief investment officer at Greenwood, South Carolina-based
Greenwood Capital, which oversees about $940 million.  The proportion of stock that Zynga plans to make public is
lower than in most IPOs. So-called low-float offerings can boost
demand, “but at the end of the day, the fundamentals are going
to have to work,” Todd said.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment.  Paying Customers Climb  Under Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus , Zynga aims to
capitalize on the popularity of social networks and virtual
goods. The company lets users play games for free and then makes
money by selling items -- say, a townhouse in “CityVille” or a
shipyard in “Empires & Allies.” Zynga is pressing ahead with
IPO plans even as other Internet companies that recently sold
shares, including  Groupon Inc.  and  Angie’s List Inc ., get
hammered. Both were trading yesterday below their offer prices.  Founded in 2007, Zynga has hired Morgan Stanley and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to manage the IPO. Zynga’s shares will trade on
the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol ZNGA.  Zynga updated its IPO filing on Nov. 4 to show that 6.7
million of its users were paying customers in the first nine
months of the year, up from 5.1 million in the year-earlier
period.  Revenue  more than doubled to $828.9 million.  Keep Customers Hungry  The worldwide virtual-goods market will more than double to
$22.5 billion in 2015 from $9.27 billion last year, according to
 Lazard Capital Markets .  To help it add more customers hungry for virtual goods,
Zynga is stepping up spending on research and marketing -- which
in turn is crimping profit. The company posted $30.7 million in
net income in the nine months that ended in September, down from
$47.6 million a year earlier.  In October, Zynga announced a new service, called Project
Z, geared toward reducing its dependence on Facebook Inc. users.
The company also introduced new games, including “Zynga
Bingo,” “CastleVille” and “Hidden Chronicles.”  Ninety-three percent of Zynga’s third-quarter  revenue  was
generated on Facebook, the world’s most popular social network.
That number has ranged between 91 percent and 94 percent since
the beginning of last year, according to Zynga filings.  Mobile Games  Adding more mobile games is part of Zynga’s plan to
diversify. The company said in November that the number of daily
active users on mobile devices increased more than 10-fold from
November 2010 to September 2011, reaching 9.9 million. By
October, the number was 11.1 million.  The $10 billion IPO valuation is lower than the $14.05
billion that the company said in  regulatory filings  represents
its fair value.  Facebook, the world’s largest social networking service, is
also making preparations for an IPO. The company is  considering
raising about $10 billion in a deal that would value it at more
than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this week.  Jive Software Inc., the maker of social-networking software
for businesses, seeks to raise as much as $117 million in an IPO
that would value it as high as $573 million, the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company said in a  filing yesterday .  Reuters  reported  Zynga’s valuation yesterday on its
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  