-- ‘Free-Riding’ Stock Trader Sentenced to 1-3 Year Term
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-05T16:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/-free-riding-stock-trader-sentenced-to-1-3-year-term.html
A  Florida  man who admitted to taking
part in a scheme involving $60 million in illegal stock trades
was sentenced to 1-3 years in prison in  New York  state court in
 Manhattan , a day after his 33-month federal prison sentence.  Scott Kupersmith took part in a scheme known as “free-
riding,” in which a customer buys or sells securities in a
brokerage account without having the money or shares to pay for
them, according to Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
The Securities and Exchange Commission requires securities
purchasers to have the assets, or at least the buying power, to
complete purchases when orders are placed.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Maxwell Wiley today
handed down the sentence against Kupersmith, who pleaded guilty
to grand larceny and fraud before him in May. Kupersmith,
formerly of Alpine, New Jersey, was arrested in Florida in
October 2011 after a joint investigation by the U.S. attorney’s
office in  New Jersey  and the SEC, according to Vance. Yesterday,
he was sentenced to federal prison for the scheme as well, New
Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Kupersmith had
previously pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Patty Shwartz in  Newark  federal court.  Kupersmith, wearing a yellow prison jumpsuit, was ordered
today to pay restitution in the state case of $650,000. His
mother and one of his sisters were in court for his sentencing.
His state and federal sentences will be served concurrently.  He was ordered to pay $1.8 million in restitution in the
U.S. case.  ‘Buyer’s Puff’  Kupersmith’s lawyer, Leonard Levenson, said outside court
that his client admitted crossing “the line between ’buyer’s
puff’ and fraud” when he gave “specific false statements” to
investors. He’s been in prison in Essex County jail in New
Jersey for 17 months and probably won’t serve a total of more
than two years, Levenson said.  Free-riders typically cover their purchases by buying
shares of the same security on the same day through another
firm, and attempt to profit from short-term price changes
without putting personal assets at risk, Vance’s office said.  Assumed Identities  Kupersmith, 47, used borrowed or assumed identities to
create shell companies and then used those companies to open
accounts at offshore banks cleared through a “reputable U.S.
financial institution,” according to the prosecutor. Kupersmith
misappropriated the personal information of a family member and
friend and used it to open trading accounts, according to a
complaint filed by federal prosecutors in Newark, New Jersey.  He and associates opened more than three dozen brokerage
accounts from 2008 to 2010, using mail drops and “virtual
offices” in the New York area as the addresses of his shell
companies, according to Vance. His mother and one of his sisters
were in court. He wore a yellow jumpsuit.  Kupersmith traded securities including shares of  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of  China ’s dominant search engine, and  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the parent company of the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
according to federal prosecutors.  Kupersmith asked that each account be opened as a
“delivery-versus-payment,” or DVP, account, which allows
clients to buy or sell securities with one firm and settle them
with cash or securities from an account at another firm,
according to the complaint.  Institutional Customers  Brokerage firms “generally” only allow institutional
customers or individuals with high net worth to open DVP
accounts, and Kupersmith “falsely represented” to the firms
that he had a personal net worth of about $5 million and ran a
hedge fund with a liquid net worth of about $10 million to $20
million, according to the complaint.  He bought about $64 million worth of securities, and made
more than $1.2 million through the illegal trades, according to
Vance’s office. The broker-dealers, which include Morgan Keegan
& Co., William Blair & Co. and  JPMorgan Securities LLC (JPM) , lost
more than $830,000, Vance said.  Kupersmith also solicited investors for a hedge fund he
claimed to control, telling them it had an annual return of
about 30 percent and that he had personally made more than $1
million in the past year, prosecutors said. He told investors
their principal was guaranteed, and told at least one potential
investor that he would get a return of about 43 percent every
three months.  Kupersmith raised about $500,000 for the non-existent hedge
fund, which he used to pay for flights, limos, luxury hotel
rooms and visits to adult entertainment clubs, as well as to
fund the investment scheme and pay other investors, prosecutors
said.  The New York case is People v. Kupersmith, 04360-2011, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The federal cases are U.S.
v. Kupersmith, 12-cr-00375, and Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Kupersmith, 11-cv-06277, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  