-- A Smart Way to End the Stupidity of Sequestration
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-03-05T23:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/a-smart-way-to-end-the-stupidity-of-sequestration.html
There are two main problems with
 sequestration . The first is that the $1.1 trillion in budget
cuts happen in an idiotic, across-the-board fashion. Think  farm
subsidies  are less valuable than medical research, and thus
should take a bigger cut? Too bad. Sequestration is too dumb to
tell the difference.  The second is that sequestration slams the economy while
it’s weak. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates that it will cut
economic growth by 0.6 percentage point in 2013. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates that it will push
unemployment back above 8 percent and may do sufficient damage
to drive the  U.S. economy  into a small recession. In a barely
recovering economy, it’s beyond stupid to choose to inflict that
kind of injury on ourselves.  The good news? Both problems can be fixed, and in a way --
listen up, Republicans! -- that doesn’t increase taxes. In fact,
they can be fixed -- listen up, Democrats! -- in a way that’s
arguably preferable to raising taxes.  Republicans took a first step toward a solution last week,
when Senators Jim Inhofe of  Oklahoma  and  Pat Toomey  of
Pennsylvania proposed a bill giving President  Barack Obama 
authority to implement sequestration with a scalpel rather than
a meat cleaver.  The Inhofe-Toomey proposal wouldn’t change the basic
character of the cuts. Social Security, Medicaid, Medicare,  food
stamps ,  Pell grants , veterans benefits and an assortment of
other programs would still be exempt, and the remaining cuts
would still be split between defense and domestic spending. For
the most part, however, their plan would give the executive
branch the ability to select cuts within those parameters.  Strange Idea  It’s worth taking a moment to appreciate how weird this is:
The Republican solution to sequestration is to give the White
House -- this White House! -- more power to decide how the
federal government spends your money.  What happened next was, if anything, even weirder: The
White House declined.  The Obama administration thinks the Inhofe-Toomey bill
makes both the politics and the policy worse. The politics are
worse because the White House would own the budget cuts; after
all, they’d be the ones making them. The policy is worse because
using a scalpel would make the cuts easier to live with, which
makes sequestration harder to replace with legislation more to
the White House’s liking.  Because replacing sequestration is the White House’s
ultimate goal, Inhofe-Toomey is a nonstarter. Instead, Obama
wants a “balanced” package including tax increases and
spending cuts. Republicans, meanwhile, have sworn to oppose any
and all tax increases. Those two sentences explain all the
gridlock and brinkmanship Washington has suffered over the past
three years.  The White House contends that the Republican opposition to
tax increases has detached itself from any credible economic
analysis or political strategy. Obama wants to raise taxes by
cutting tax expenditures, which Republican Representative  Paul
Ryan  characterizes as “similar to  government spending ” in his
budget. In return for cutting tax expenditures, the White House
would agree to a slew of Republican priorities, including
cutting entitlements, protecting the defense budget and further
reducing the deficit. And all, again, for cutting something
Republicans don’t like anyway.  To White House aides, the Republican stance on taxes at
this point is more of a religious creed than a policy argument.
They’re right about that. But the Democratic obsession with a
balanced deficit-reduction package occasionally flirts with the
same mistake, in reverse.  Deductions’ Price  Consider what the White House means by cutting tax
expenditures. The policy they’ve proposed caps the value of
itemized deductions for high-income taxpayers. About 90 percent
of the value of those deductions comes from just three parts of
the  tax code : the charitable deduction, the state and local tax
deduction, and the mortgage-interest deduction.  So forget taxes versus spending. The choice, really, is
whether it’s better for the country to cut the  defense budget  or
to cut the incentives of rich people to donate to charity, live
in high-tax states and buy expensive homes. Why should the
defense budget win that fight? After accounting for the wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq,  defense spending  has jumped from less than
$300 billion in 2001 to more than $700 billion in 2012. Is all
that new spending really necessary now that  Osama bin Laden  is
dead and those wars are winding down? Indeed, according to the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, the fall in
defense spending if sequestration goes into full effect would be
smaller than the fall in defense spending after the  Cold War ,
the  Vietnam War  or the  Korean War .  Moreover, for Democrats, keeping the pressure on defense
spending rather than on tax expenditures enables  Social
Security , Medicaid, Medicare beneficiaries, Pell grants and
other core Democratic priorities to avoid any cuts at all.  Even if the White House makes peace with the core concept
of sequestration, the policy still cuts $85 billion from federal
spending in the seven months remaining in fiscal year 2013 -- an
abrupt and potent hit to the economy. Aides say they won’t agree
to any sequestration replacement that doesn’t protect the
recovery. But that shouldn’t be an insurmountable objection. All
it requires is one small change to Inhofe-Toomey.  Inhofe-Toomey gives the president discretion over
implementing the cuts. It could easily be modified to give the
president discretion over the timing of the cuts. Obama would
still need to hit the same spending target over the next 10
years, but he could opt for fewer cuts now and more later. If
Congress doesn’t like his choices, it can always overturn them;
Inhofe-Toomey already provides for a vote of disapproval on the
White House’s recommendations.  Everyone Wins  The upside for Republicans is that the cuts would be less
blindly destructive to defense, and they would get a win on
resisting tax increases. The upside for Democrats -- in addition
to replacing the meat cleaver with a scalpel -- is they would
lock in sequestration’s defense cuts along with protections for
the programs they most care about. And the delayed cuts would
spare the economy.  “The two biggest problems with the sequester are it’s
indiscriminate and it’s hitting the economy at a very bad
time,” said  Jared Bernstein , a former White House economist
who’s now at the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . “This
idea mitigates both of those.”  Would Republicans accept it? Perhaps not. But right now,
the White House is in the odd position of refusing authority to
make the cuts less damaging. If Republicans refuse to give Obama
the power to phase in the cuts, they will be refusing to protect
the economy from cuts this year and, appropriately, will take
the blame for the resulting economic pain.  Besides, what’s the alternative? Sequestration with no
discretion and no phase-in? If Democrats let an increasingly
fruitless quest for a balanced deal distract them from cutting a
much better deal, then they’ve fallen into the Republican
mindset of letting their promises on taxes distract them from
their priorities on policy.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 