-- Abu Dhabi Boosts Gas Output at Bab Field as Demand Rises
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-03-05T09:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/abu-dhabi-boosts-gas-output-at-bab-field-as-demand-rises.html
Abu Dhabi  is seeking to increase
natural gas output by 25 percent from its largest onshore oil
field by 2018 to help meet burgeoning domestic demand.  State-owned Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., or ADNOC, plans to
produce 1.8 billion standard cubic feet a day of gas condensate
from the Bab field once it starts operating a compression plant
it inaugurated last week, the company’s onshore production unit
said in an advertisement in local newspapers yesterday. ADNOC
didn’t specify Bab output.  Abu Dhabi, the capital city of the  United Arab Emirates  and
holder of most of its oil reserves, wants to raise gas output to
fuel  power plants  and supply metals and petrochemicals
industries to create jobs and diversify its energy-reliant
economy. The emirate holds 2.9 percent of the world’s gas
reserves and 6 percent of its oil, according to data from  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s annual statistical review.  Crude oil and gas are typically found together in
underground reservoirs, along with condensate, a light liquid
that can be processed to yield additional fuel.  Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations, the unit
known as ADCO that runs the emirate’s land-based fields, plans
to add compression stations in two building phases at the Bab
field by 2018, the company said.  Seeking Bids  The second compression facility will boost gas production
to 2.1 billion standard cubic feet a day by the third quarter of
2015, with a maximum capacity of 2.4 billion feet a day, ADCO
said. The company said it’s seeking engineering and construction
bids for this project.  The planned expansions, together with the compression unit
inaugurated last week, will provide the 25 percent increase in
gas output, the company said, without indicating a final
production target.  ADNOC, which has capacity to pump 2.8 million barrels a day
of oil, is working to raise that level to 3.5 million barrels by
2017, the company said in November. Production at the onshore
fields it operates will rise to 1.8 million barrels daily, while
offshore deposits or areas not yet developed will contribute the
rest of the increase, it said.  Abu Dhabi is in talks with Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , BP and other international  oil companies  about the
renewal of onshore oil-production concessions that expire next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  