-- Maersk Line to Add More Ships to Singapore Base: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-03-06T07:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/maersk-line-to-add-more-ships-to-singapore-base-southeast-asia.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s biggest container-shipping company, plans to add
more vessels to its Singapore base after making the city-state
its biggest hub after the headquarters in Denmark.  Maersk has about 120 ships under the Singapore flag, the
most after 180 in Denmark, Thomas Knudsen, president of the
 Maersk Line  Asia Pacific region, said in an interview yesterday.
Additions to Singapore have come at the expense of Hong Kong,
where the company now has about 40, he said.  “There’s a maritime cluster around Singapore where you
have access to pretty much all the different aspects of
shipping,” Knudsen said. “The last five years we have really
cleaned up to concentrate on fewer flags to get the economy of
scale. You can definitely get lower cost if you go to Panama or
Liberia, but we feel that Singapore is a good combination of
cost and quality.”  Consolidating the fleet to fewer flags is helping
Copenhagen-based Maersk lower costs to weather an industry
slowdown. Container lines globally have  reduced speeds  of ships
to reduce fuel consumption and over capacity and mothballed
older vessels as falling worldwide consumer demand stints cargo
volumes.  “Cutting costs is crucial for shipping lines to survive in
the current environment,” said Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at
E*Trade Securities Korea. “Shipping lines are looking at every
opportunity to find ways to cut costs.”  The container-line said last month profit this year will be
higher than the $461 million reached in 2012 as the company
reduces expenses and global container demand growth accelerates.  Danish Flag  Most of the new vessels Maersk Line will receive, will fly
under the island-city’s flag, Knudsen said in Singapore, without
elaborating. Maersk, due to take delivery of the  world’s biggest
container ship  in June, will register that vessel under the
Danish flag, Knudsen said. The ship will be able to carry 18,000
twenty-foot-equivalent boxes at a time.  Singapore, the world’s second-busiest container-port, has
provided incentives to lure companies to make it a maritime hub.
The island-city offers tax exemptions and more flexibility in
hiring crew members of any nationality to attract more shipping
lines to register their ships, according to the website of the
 Maritime Port Authority of Singapore .  Singapore had the equivalent of 65 million gross tons of
vessels registered in the island  last year , 13 percent more than
a year earlier. That made the city-state one of the world’s top
10 ship registries in the world, according to the port authority.
Maersk had 7.5 million gross tonnage under the Singapore flag,
the company said in an e-mail.  Singapore Base  Maersk, which owns an oil unit and a port-terminal operator,
also has nine drilling rigs registered in Singapore, the company
said in an e-mail.  About 70 percent of the global jack-up rigs and vessel
conversions into floating oil production units are done in
Singapore, according to  transport ministry . Keppel Corp. and
 Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM) , the world’s two biggest oil-rig makers,
are both based in the city-state.  The offshore and marine industry contributed an output of
more than S$16 billion ($13 billion) and is one of the fastest
growing sectors in Singapore’s economy, the ministry said.  “I think this place is a basket where we’re putting a lot
of eggs for the time being,” Pedersen said in the same
interview in Singapore. “We have a very efficient maritime
administration here. It’s easy to attract talent and that’s
crucial for companies like us.”  Maersk advanced 2 percent to close at 45,880 kroner in
Copenhagen yesterday. The stock has gained 7.7 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent climb in the Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20
index.  Myanmar Shipment  Singapore is also close to new markets for the company.
Last month, Maersk Line shipped a container box filled with
seafood from Myanmar to the U.S., the first time in about a
decade, Knudsen said. The shipping company also plans to open
its own agency in the Southeast Asian nation in the second half
as trade demand is expected to increase after U.S. sanctions
were lifted in 2012, he said.  Myanmar last month cleared about $1 billion in overdue debt
with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank with a bridge
loan from Japan, opening the door for increased lending as it
seeks to overhaul its infrastructure. The World Bank, returning
to Myanmar after more than two decades, is in talks with the
government to help the country invest in gas turbines and expand
access to electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  