-- Taiwan Inflation Accelerates to Six-Month High on Lunar New Year
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-03-05T00:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/taiwan-inflation-accelerates-to-six-month-high-on-lunar-new-year.html
Taiwan ’s inflation quickened to the
fastest in six months in February as the Lunar New Year
celebrations boosted prices of food and transport.  Consumer prices  rose 2.97 percent from a year earlier,
after climbing a revised 1.13 percent in January, the statistics
bureau said in Taipei today. The median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was 2.8 percent.  The Chinese New Year holiday, which typically drives up
costs of food, was observed in February this year and in January
last year. Higher minimum wages and a planned electricity tariff
increase may also increase price pressure, with Taiwan raising
its inflation forecast for 2013 last month.  Today’s figure was “boosted by festive demand and base
effects,” Ma Tieying, a Singapore-based economist at DBS
Holdings Ltd., said before the report. Excluding the effects of
Chinese New Year, “inflation remains tame,” she said, adding
that it should slow to 1 percent in the second quarter of 2013.  The  Taiwan dollar  weakened 0.4 percent to NT$29.770 against
its U.S. counterpart in Taipei at yesterday’s close. The
currency has weakened more than 2 percent this year.  The statistics bureau in February raised its inflation
forecast for the year to 1.37 percent from 1.31 percent, with
the economy seen expanding 3.59 percent, faster than it
initially estimated.  Core consumer prices , a category excluding vegetables,
fruits, fish and energy, advanced 2.21 percent in February from
a year earlier, today’s report showed. Wholesale prices, which
track the cost of goods sold to retailers and producers, fell
2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  