-- Takeda Put Actos Sales Ahead of User Safety, Witness Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/takeda-put-actos-sales-ahead-of-user-safety-witness-says.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Asia ’s
biggest drugmaker, put sales of its  Actos  diabetes drug ahead of
concerns about consumer safety, a witness testified in the first
trial over claims the medicine caused cancer.  In 2005 e-mails discussing whether regulators in the U.S.
and  Europe  might seek warning labels about Actos’s potential
links to bladder cancer, Takeda officials emphasized protecting
the product rather than its users, Howard Greenberg, a clinical
pharmacologist, said in state court in Los Angeles yesterday.  “There are multiple e-mails from different levels of
Takeda management that indicate the product came first,”
Greenberg told jurors in the first day of testimony about Jack
Cooper’s claims over Actos.  Testimony in the trial comes about a month after  Osaka ,
Japan-based Takeda won U.S. regulatory approval for  Nesina , a
replacement for Actos, which lost patent protection last year.
Actos sales peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5 billion
for Takeda, accounting for 27 percent of the company’s revenue
at the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved Actos for
the U.S. market in 1999 and the drug later became the world’s
best-selling diabetes treatment.  European Regulators  Health regulators in Germany and  France  ordered Actos
pulled off the market in 2011 after an analysis of a company-
sponsored study showed some Actos users faced an increased risk
of developing bladder cancer or heart problems.  Takeda executives said in a Feb. 11 statement the Actos
study regulators reviewed is continuing and final results should
be available next year. Other information generated by the study
showed that over time, patients’ risks of developing bladder
cancer from the medicine decreased, Takeda said.  Cooper, a retired cable splicer for Pacific Bell, was
diagnosed with bladder cancer in 2011, according to court
filings. He took Actos for more than four years. His lawyer told
jurors in opening statements that Cooper had been in “good
shape” before he started on the medication, regularly walking
five miles, repairing his own roof and going deep-sea fishing
with his grandchildren.  Takeda’s lawyer countered in her opening statement that
Cooper’s history as a smoker and his gender put him at higher
risk for developing bladder cancer. The disease is the fourth-
most common cancer among men after prostate, lung and  colon
cancer , according to the  Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network .  Internal Documents  Greenberg, testifying as an expert for Cooper, said he
reviewed internal Takeda documents to prepare for his testimony,
according to an online feed from  Courtroom View  Network.
Greenberg said he formerly worked as a drug researcher for
companies such  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit.  Among the files Greenberg reviewed was an August 2005 e-
mail from Takeda executive Kiyoshi Kitazawa on regulators’
concerns about Actos’ cancer links, the pharmacologist said.  In the e-mail, Kitazawa highlighted Actos’s value for
colleagues who had analyzed what regulators might do in the wake
of research showing that users may be at higher risk of getting
bladder cancer. Takeda officials were worried that regulators
would demand that the company add warnings about the illness to
Actos’s label, according to the e-mail.  “Actos is the most important product for Takeda and
therefore we need to manage this issue very carefully and
successfully not to cause any damage for this product
globally,” Kitazawa said.  Worst-Case  Takeda officials said that the “worst-case scenario”
would be for regulators to mandate the inclusion of a bladder
cancer warning on Actos’s label, according to the e-mail.
Kitazawa urged colleagues to seek a “positive outcome” on the
warning issue from “regulatory authorities,” the e-mail shows.  Under cross examination by Takeda lawyer  Bruce Parker ,
Greenberg acknowledged that employee e-mails may not indicate
the drugmaker’s corporate policies on issues such as patient
safety. “I’d agree with that,” the pharmacologist said.  The case is Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals America Inc.,
CGC-12-518535, California Superior Court ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  