-- Alibaba Group Approaches Lenders for Up to $8 Billion of Loans
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-03-05T06:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/alibaba-group-approaches-lenders-for-up-to-8-billion-of-loans.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest e-commerce company, has approached banks for a loan of
as much as $8 billion, two people familiar with the matter said.  About $4 billion of the proceeds would be used to refinance
a facility of that size signed last year for the privatization
of Alibaba’s Hong Kong-listed entity Alibaba.com and a buyback
of a stake in itself owned by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the people said. The
remainder would be used for general corporate purposes, one of
the people said. Both asked not to be identified because the
details are private.  Alibaba, established in 1999 as an  online marketplace  for
Chinese companies, has grown as economic liberalization spurred
a boom in manufacturing and trade. It has expanded its workforce
to more than 24,000 and added services including cloud
computing, online payment and consumer auctions. Billionaire
founder Jack Ma said in January he would step down as chief
executive officer on May 10, stoking speculation the company may
be preparing for an initial public offering.  A Hong Kong-based Alibaba official declined to comment on
the financing talks today. IFR  Asia  reported news of the loan of
as much as $8 billion yesterday, citing unidentified people
familiar with the plans.  Last year’s $4 billion borrowing was split into $2 billion
of three-year and four-year loans from China Development Bank
Corp. and $2 billion of three-year and four-year loans from
international lenders, other people familiar with the matter
said at the time.  Borrowing costs have dropped as bond-buying by global
central banks to stimulate the world economy boosts the supply
of cash in the financial system. Average interest margins over
the London interbank offered rate for dollar loans in Asia fell
36.6 basis points to 252.7 basis points in the second half of
2012 from the first six months of the year, Bloomberg data show.  An $8 billion facility would be the biggest syndicated in
the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan since  Inpex Corp. (1605)  signed
$20 billion of loans for its Ichthys project in  Australia  in
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  