-- American Cardinal Says No Rush to Begin Secret Vote on New Pope
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-05T17:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/american-cardinal-says-no-rush-to-begin-secret-vote-on-new-pope.html
Roman Catholic cardinals meeting at
the Vatican risk a drawn-out conclave to choose the next pope if
they rush to begin the secret ballot, said an American cardinal
taking part in the vote.  The  cardinals  held their second day of a general
congregation today that will set the date for the conclave. The
gathering also gives the cardinals, who hail from more than 60
countries on five continents, the chance to meet each other, in
many cases for the first time.  “Many cardinals are concerned that if there’s not enough
time spent in the general congregation, then once we get into
the conclave, it could drag on,” said Cardinal Sean O’Malley of
 Boston  at a press conference in Rome.  The conclave should be a “time of decision and the general
congregation is a time of discernment,” he said.  The comments appeared to undercut speculation in the
Italian media that the vote could begin as soon as March 10.
Vatican spokesman Father Federico Lombardi signaled a shift in
policy today, saying that the congregation did not have to wait
until all the voting cardinals arrived to set the date for the
conclave as long as they are sure that their missing colleagues
will make it to the Vatican by the start of the vote.  Five of the 115 voting cardinals have yet to arrive, down
from eight at the start of the congregation yesterday.  Italian Translation  O’Malley and his colleague Cardinal Daniel DiNardo of
Houston said today that so far the congregation had consisted
mostly of speeches by cardinals on their views of the most
important issues facing the church. Much of the more direct
contact among the cardinals occurs at the coffee breaks, with
conversations being conducted mostly in Italian, DiNardo said.
Translators are on hand to facilitate the meeting.  The cardinals are barred from discussing the contents of
the congregation. Still, O’Malley said that he was confident the
cardinals would receive details of a secret report that Pope
Benedict XVI commissioned on the leak of confidential papal
documents to an Italian journalist that detailed intrigue in the
church bureaucracy known as the curia.  “I think the cardinals feel that we will get all the
information we need,” O’Malley said.  The Vatican today shut the Sistine Chapel, where the
conclave takes place, to begin preparations for the election.  The work involves installing a raised floor to put the
cardinals at the same level as the altar where the ballots are
deposited, Lombardi said. Workers will also set up two stoves,
once for burning the ballots after each vote and the other to
send up the black or white smoke that wafts over St. Peter’s
Square to signal the result of the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  