-- Hammond Renews Defense of U.K.’s Military Spending
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-05T14:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hammond-renews-defense-of-u-k-s-military-spending.html
U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond started a second round in his fight to protect his
department’s budget after 2015, saying the number of military
personnel will have to be cut if Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  forces through spending reductions.  Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday rebuffed a call from
Hammond to find savings by cutting welfare spending instead of
targeting the  defense budget . Two days earlier, Hammond took the
unusual step of going public with an appeal to protect the
military’s capability.  “I have never said and would never say there aren’t
further efficiencies we can take, and we are working now to
identify where we might find still further efficiencies across
the defense budget,” Hammond told reporters in London today.
“Clearly if we go beyond what can be delivered from efficiency,
there will have to be a reassessment of output.”  Cameron has pledged to protect the Ministry of Defence’s
equipment budget, which will go up by 1 percent in real terms
from 2015. He has not given any such promise for the rest of
military spending.  Cabinet ministers are in discussions with Osborne about
their departmental budgets for 2015-16. Home Secretary Theresa May, a Conservative like Hammond, is resisting cuts to her
budget, while Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal
Democrat, says he believes taxes should rise to tackle Britain’s
record debt. Osborne, who will set out his plan in early summer,
has said he needs to find an extra 10 billion pounds ($15
billion) of savings.  ‘Working Together’  Hammond was repeatedly asked today by reporters if the
Cabinet is split on where spending cuts would fall and whether
Osborne is listening to his concerns about defense capability.  “You are trying to make this feel like a conflict,” the
minister said. “The reality is, I worked with George Osborne
very closely for many years” when the party was in opposition
before the 2010 election. “It is about us working together to
resolve the best way of dealing with the fiscal consolidation
that we need across government.”  Osborne is “certainly listening, but he has to deliver a
further fiscal consolidation and I 100 percent recognize that
imperative,” Hammond said. “We have got to work together to do
it in the most effective way, and in the case of the MoD do it
in the way that is least damaging to military capability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  