-- Apache Wants Multi-Year Contracts to Lock in Lower Service Costs
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-03-05T22:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/apache-wants-multi-year-contracts-to-lock-in-lower-service-costs.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the fourth-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market value,
said it’s working to secure more multi-year contracts for
oilfield services to help stabilize and reduce the cost of
drilling and completing wells.  The service model for crude explorers and producers hasn’t
evolved, and should work more like the mining industry, which
relies on longterm contracts when digging for resources, Mike Bahorich, chief technology officer for Apache, said today in an
interview at IHS CERAWeek in Houston.  “One of the ways it could change is with a long-term
contract from the service companies,” as opposed to the more
typical per-job cost model, he said.  Such longer-term, multi-year contracts would allow
servicers to better manage their resources and drive down prices
further, Bahorich said.  Service companies must balance the need for a stable stream
of revenue from long-term contracts with the opportunity to cash
in on higher prices through work done on the spot market. Apache
has been trying to move away from spot contracts for hydraulic
fracturing toward more multi-year contracts as prices have
fallen, Bahorich said. The price of hydraulic fracturing work
declined 15 percent in 2012 and is projected to drop another 4
percent this year, according to estimates from Houston-based
industry adviser  Pacwest Consulting .  Servicer Resistance  Producers may face resistance from service providers who
don’t want to commit to current prices for multi-year fracking
contracts, Luke Lemoine, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast in
New Orleans, said today in an e-mail.  “Most pumpers are of course unwilling to lock up
horsepower at today’s low prices,” Lemoine said.  Apache and other producers are altering the supply chain by
owning and operating some of the resources previously provided
by contractors, including the sand used to prop open cracks made
by fracking, he said.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  EOG Resources
Inc. (EOG)  are the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producers by
market value, meaning they don’t have refineries or chemical
units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  