-- Apple Document Production Failure a Mistake, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-06T00:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/apple-s-failure-to-produce-documents-a-mistake-lawyer-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s failure to produce e-
mails from  Steve Jobs  and other senior executives in violation
of a court order in a privacy lawsuit was a “mistake,” a
lawyer for the company told a judge.  Attorney  Ashlie Beringer  made the admission in a hearing
today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in  San Jose ,
 California , in a lawsuit alleging the company collected data on
the geographical locations of customers through applications on
mobile devices including iPhones and iPads even after they said
they didn’t want to share the information.  Beringer said she and her team of lawyers reviewed more
than 8,000 e-mails over the weekend and determined that it
should turn over messages involving Apple’s late co-founder
Jobs, marketing chief  Phil Schiller  and former mobile software
head  Scott Forstall , among others.  “If you’re not a hide-the-ball kind of person and your
client isn’t a hide-the-ball company, why are we sitting here in
March talking about compliance” with a November court order?
Grewal asked Beringer.  The judge cut Beringer off when she began explaining that
lawyers initially made a “reasonable and diligent” effort to
comply with his order governing the exchange of information.  ‘Lawyer Answer’  “I don’t want a lawyer answer, I want a person answer,”
Grewal said, demanding to know why e-mails of the senior
executives weren’t searched “months ago.”  “It was a mistake your honor,” Beringer said, adding that
Apple will fulfill the information request within two weeks.
Previous searches for documents focused on the “technical
aspects” of Apple’s location services functions at issue in the
case, she said.  Beringer also told the court that she thought six of 18
documents the company is relying on to dismiss the case -- early
versions of Apple’s iTunes Terms & Conditions -- had been
previously turned over to plaintiffs’ lawyers. The remaining 12
were produced, or weren’t Apple documents, Beringer said.  Apple argues plaintiffs’ request for class-action status
should be denied because they haven’t shown that any users had
personal information collected without their consent, and as a
result, can’t show they suffered any harm, according to a court
filing.  The case is In re Apple Inc. iPhone/iPad Application
Consumer Privacy Litigation, 11-md-02250, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  