-- Arabtec Slumps to One-Year Low on Dilution Concern: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-05T10:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/arabtec-slumps-to-one-year-low-on-dilution-concern-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  slumped to the
lowest level in more than a year on investor concern the United
Arab Emirates builder’s plan to raise capital via convertible
bonds may dilute the positions of shareholders.  Shares of the country’s biggest construction company by
market value fell 3.2 percent to 2.10 dirhams, the lowest level
since February 2012, at the close in Dubai. Arabtec was the most
traded and the biggest decliner on Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI) , which slumped 1.2 percent. Some 50 million Arabtec shares
were traded, more than four times the three-month daily average.  Arabtec has lost 29 percent since the company said Feb. 27
it is seeking to raise $1.74 billion to fund internal growth,
acquisitions and joint ventures. The plan includes the issuance
of 3.18 billion rights shares at 1.5 dirhams each as well as the
sale of $450 million in convertible bonds.  Technical analysts believe the share is targeting 1.90
dirhams, said Talal Touqan, head of research at Al Ramz
Securities LLC in  Abu Dhabi . “This will be coupled with even
lower valuations due to dilution and a bigger capital base.”  Reviewing Options  The capital increase plans come after 2012 results tumbled
37 percent, missing analyst estimates. Arabtec is reviewing
financing options and “will decide upon the right structure in
due course,” newly appointed Chief Executive Officer Hasan Ismaik said this week. The builder’s 14-day relative strength
index tumbled from 71 on Feb. 25 to 18 today. A reading below 30
indicates to some investors a security is poised to rise.  Abu Dhabi-based Aabar Investments has played a bigger role
in the builder after last year  raising its stake  to 21.6
percent. Arabtec has won large projects in Abu Dhabi in the past
year, including construction of a branch of the Louvre museum
and a terminal at Abu Dhabi airport.  Arabtec is committed to remaining publicly listed, Ismaik,
who replaced Riad Kamal, said March 3. Aabar, an Abu Dhabi
government-controlled company, delisted from the emirate’s stock
exchange in 2010.  Three analysts have a hold rating on Arabtec shares, while
10 advise selling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock, which dropped 9.8 percent last month after rallying 32
percent in January, trades at a price-to-earnings ratio of 24
times. That compares with 15 times for  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) ,
developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  