-- Arizona Bill Targets Early Ballots Key to Latino Turnout
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-03-05T01:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/arizona-bill-targets-early-ballots-key-to-latino-turnout.html
Arizona  lawmakers may make it a
felony for community groups or political committees to gather
and submit mail ballots before elections, a strategy used by
Latino activists and others to boost voter participation.  The measure moving through the Republican-controlled
Legislature is among several bills that backers say will help
prevent fraud and reduce the burden on election officials.
Opponents say they are intended to curb Latino voting, which
tends to be Democratic, as Hispanics become a larger percentage
of the population while white baby-boomers age.  “These bills are targeted at groups that are turning out
the Latino vote,” said Roopali Desai, a Phoenix lawyer
representing  Promise Arizona , which said it helped register more
than 34,000 new voters and turned in thousands of ballots last
year. “They are trying to take away the tools in these groups’
toolkits, like mobilizing and getting people to return their
ballots -- tools that we have learned are successful.”  More than 56 percent of all Arizona voters were signed up
to receive ballots by mail in November, up from about 40 percent
in 2010, according to the Secretary of State’s office. The
dispute comes as the U.S. Supreme Court weighs a provision of
the Voting Rights Act that requires Arizona and several other
states, mostly in the South, to get pre-clearance from the
 Justice Department  before making changes in voting laws.  It echoes the fights of the past election cycle over voting
access in some swing states, including Ohio and  Florida , where
Democrats resisted measures Republicans said were needed to
combat voter fraud and ensure smooth elections.  Justice Department  Democratic state senators in Arizona said yesterday they
were asking the U.S. Justice Department to monitor the early-
ballot measure and related bills and intervene if they violate
the Voting Rights Act. They said they were concerned the bill
may hamper participation by Latinos, African-Americans and
members of American Indian tribes.  “That’s the dirty little secret behind these bills,”
Senator Steve Gallardo, a Phoenix Democrat, said after a press
briefing. “You have organizations like Promise Arizona and Mi
Familia Vota that have been very successful in getting
minorities and low-income voters to participate -- and that is
what’s behind these bills.”  Nationally, Latinos were instrumental in the re-election of
President  Barack Obama , who won the Hispanic vote by 71 percent,
according to exit polls.  Latino Activism  In Arizona, Latinos have been mobilized by opposition to
the state’s 2010 immigration crackdown and to Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, an 80-year-old Republican elected to his
sixth term as he faced a federal civil rights lawsuit over his
treatment of Latinos.  Work by advocacy groups and campaigns helped to increase
voter participation by Hispanics to 18 percent of all voters in
Arizona last year, up from 16 percent in 2008, according to an
 analysis  of exit polls by the Pew Hispanic Center. That wasn’t
enough to deliver the state for the president, defeat Arpaio or
send a Democrat to the  U.S. Senate .  Still the state is projected to turn from red to blue by
2025 as a disproportionately high number of young Latino
citizens, who are much more likely to vote Democratic, comes of
age, according to a  report  last year by the  Morrison Institute
Latino Public Policy Center  at  Arizona State University  in
Phoenix.  Protecting Integrity  The sponsor of the ballot bill, Senator Michele Reagan, a
Scottsdale Republican, said the legislation is about protecting
the integrity of ballots rather than curtailing Hispanic
participation.  Reagan, who is weighing a 2014 run for Arizona’s top
election post, secretary of state, said she is concerned that
there are not enough safeguards in the early ballot process, in
which any registered voter can opt to vote by mail. Advocacy
groups, campaigns and political parties collect these ballots
and turn them in en masse, which presents a risk to the
integrity of the vote, she said in an interview last week.  “I would never try to limit anyone from voting,” she
said.  Desai notes that under the measure, candidates or their
spouses would still be allowed to collect ballots on behalf of
voters. That “is like having the hen house guarded by the
wolves,” she said in an interview from her Phoenix office.
“Candidates, in my view, are the most aggressive in ballot
chasing.”  Signing Affidavit  The ballot bill, which passed the Arizona Senate last week
and is being considered by the House, allows a voter to sign an
affidavit permitting someone to deliver the ballot for them, as
long as that person is not collecting it at the behest of a
group for which they volunteer or work.  Another measure  sponsored by Reagan that advanced to the
House last week would purge voters who haven’t cast a mail
ballot in the previous two federal election cycles from the
Permanent Early Voting List, under which voters automatically
get ballots for each election. Voters would have to respond to a
notice in writing in order to stay on the list.  The proposal was endorsed by a bipartisan group of election
officials after many counties were overwhelmed by the number of
provisional ballots cast on election day at polling places, many
of them by voters who should have received a mail ballot, Reagan
said. The number of provisional and early ballots received in
last November’s election in Arizona delayed final results for
more than a week.  Provisional Ballots  According  to a report  by the election office in Maricopa
County, which includes Phoenix, 59 percent of the more than
120,000 provisional ballots issued at the polls on election day
were because the person was on the early voting list. The
provisional ballots cost the county almost $635,000, according
to the report.  Voters with Hispanic surnames were almost three times as
likely to vote by mail as at the polls, the report said.  “There should not be a price tag on someone’s right to
vote,” Gallardo said at the press briefing. It should be clear
that voters want to continue receiving mail ballots if they
signed up on the permanent list, he said.  Other bills in the legislature would shorten the period of
early voting and require notarized signatures to request early
ballots.  Too often election reforms have been driven by hopes of
changing election outcomes, said  David Becker , director of
Election Initiatives for the Pew Charitable Trusts in
 Washington .  “Ideologues on both sides have trumpeted the idea of voter
fraud and voter suppression without evidence of either,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  