-- Market Opening Seen Capping Yield Rise on Deficit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-06T04:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/market-opening-seen-capping-yield-rise-on-deficit.html
China ’s government will curb any
increase in borrowing costs to fund a widening deficit by
opening its  bond market  to foreign investors and reining in
inflation, the nation’s biggest brokerages said.  The 10-year  bond  yield may climb 12 basis points to 3.70
percent by year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine firms after the Ministry of
Finance outlined its budget yesterday. The plan to allow a 50
percent jump in the deficit to 1.2 trillion yuan ($193 billion)
was anticipated by the market, driving the yield 24 basis points
higher since June 30 to 3.57 percent. Similar rates are 1.90
percent in the U.S. and 0.64 percent in  Japan .  “The increasing issuance is not good news for the
government bond market,” said Xu Hanfei, head of bond research
in  Shanghai  at GF Securities Co., the nation’s third-biggest
brokerage, who recommends investors favor shorter-dated debt.
“On the other hand, the government may accelerate approval of
more investors to enter the market to increase purchases.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  and his probable successor  Li Keqiang 
have committed to spending on roads, subways and low-cost
housing to accelerate China’s urbanization and achieve a growth
goal of 7.5 percent this year. The government also pledged to
expand cross-border use of the yuan, encourage foreign
investment and target inflation of 3.5 percent, down from a 2012
goal of 4 percent.  Growth Confidence  The 10-year  yield  reached a 14-month high of 3.61 percent
on Jan. 29, compared with last year’s low of 3.24 percent on
July 11, according to Chinabond data. GF predicts the yield will
rise to 3.7 percent by the end of the year.  Appetite for China’s treasury bonds among global funds and
prospects for currency appreciation are increasing as the market
regulator raised investment quotas in the past year. Since 2003,
regulators have approved a combined qualified foreign
institutional investor quota of $40 billion as of Jan. 31 under
the program which allows foreign investors to buy yuan-
denominated securities, the State Administration for Foreign
Exchange said on Feb. 4. That’s up from $36 billion as of Nov.
30. The authorities also scrapped limits on investment by
sovereign-wealth funds and foreign central banks.  “The increased QFII quota to foreigners and allowing them
to participate in the interbank market will definitely help to
support the  debt market ,” said Chris Lau, a bond manager in
Hong Kong at Bosera Asset Management Co., whose Shenzhen-based
parent manages about $36 billion. Still, “potential supply will
add pressure on the government bond yield,” he said, adding
that he sees the 10-year yield at 4 percent by year-end.  Yuan Gains  The  yuan , which has strengthened 1.4 percent in the past
year, rose 0.1 percent to 6.2163 per dollar as of 12:16 p.m. in
Shanghai. China’s one-year bond yield is 2.62 percentage points
higher than that of the U.S. and the spread has widened from
last year’s low of 1.99 points in June.  HSBC Holdings Plc estimated in a January report that
sovereign issuance of Dim Sum bonds focused on foreign investors
in Hong Kong will rise to 30 billion yuan this year, from 22
billion in 2012. The government is also expanding quotas for
investors that raise yuan offshore for investment in China, the
so-called  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor
program.  “ Hong Kong  investors have been factoring in currency
appreciation and so accepting lower yields,” Pauline Loong,
managing director of Asia-Analytica Research in Hong Kong, said
yesterday. “Not only would offshore demand help lower yields
for Chinese treasuries, it will also build momentum in the
globalization of the renminbi.”  Default Swaps  Bond risk for the nation has been falling this year. The
 cost  of insuring China’s sovereign notes using five-year credit-
default swaps fell five basis point to 62 in  New York  this year,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
fails to adhere to debt agreements.  Premier Wen said the nation lacks a sustainable growth
model and faces mounting “social problems,” as he ends a
decade in power that saw the economy grow fourfold to become the
world’s second largest. Wen set a goal of curbing M2 money-
supply growth to about 13 percent, following last year’s
increase of 13.8 percent, to limit increases in living costs.  Local Government  “The lower consumer prices target shows the government’s
determination to control inflation,” said Chen Jianheng, a bond
analyst at China International Capital Corp. in Beijing. “It
will help damp inflation expectations in the bond market.”  He said the 10-year yield will be 3.5 percent at year-end.
CICC estimates net issuance of central government debt in the
 interbank market  may be more than 700 billion yuan, compared
with 610 billion yuan last year, while the remainder may be sold
to individual investors.  The central government’s 2013 budget shortfall will rise to
850 billion yuan from 550 billion yuan in 2012 and it will issue
350 billion yuan of bonds, from 250 billion last year, to cover
the combined deficits of local governments, the  finance ministry 
estimated yesterday.  Local governments piled on debt to help fund infrastructure
projects as part of a 4 trillion yuan stimulus plan announced in
November 2008 to cushion the economy from the impact of the
global financial crisis. The  finance ministry  issued 200 billion
yuan on behalf of regional authorities in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
Local authorities also set up thousands of their own financing
vehicles. The government is now trying to rein in their
activities.  Policy makers “want to increase government bond issuance
to replace the local-government financing vehicle bonds,” said
Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The government can issue bonds at a rate of
3.5 percent and the financing vehicles are paying 8 to 10
percent. It doesn’t make any sense.”  --Nerys Avery,  Judy Chen , Kyoungwha Kim,  Kevin Hamlin . Editors:
James Regan, Andrew Janes  To contact the reporter on this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ; 