-- Martha Stewart Says J.C. Penney Designs Allowed
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/martha-stewart-to-testify-today-at-macy-s-trial-over-sales-pact.html
Martha Stewart  said she believed her
namesake company was “absolutely allowed” to design home goods
for  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  in exclusive categories even though it had a
contract with Macy’s Inc.  “We thought, and appropriately so, that we were absolutely
allowed to do such a thing,” Stewart testified yesterday in
 Manhattan  in a nonjury trial as Macy’s fights to block parts of
 Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) ’s agreement with J.C.
Penney.  Stewart said she “loves” Macy’s, has shopped there since
she was a girl and called the store “a fixture” in her home.
However, she said her company was “not always thrilled” that
Macy’s wasn’t increasing its exposure in the stores. The
retailer, for instance, wouldn’t allow her to offer higher-end
items such as luxury-bath products, she said.  “Macy’s has been a very nice partner,” Stewart said. “We
have lived up to our obligations under the contract and Macy’s
has lived up to most of its obligations under our contract.”  Her testimony, which lasted more than four hours, came
after that of Macy’s Chairman  Terry Lundgren  and J.C. Penney
Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson. Lundgren appeared in court
last week and Johnson finished his testimony March 4.  Bedding, Cookware  Macy’s, which has sold Martha Stewart-branded goods since
2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell the items in certain categories
including bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued Plano, Texas-based
J.C. Penney about three months later.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
New York-based Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the
department-store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-
stores dedicated to Martha Stewart and other brands.  Stewart, her company’s chief creative officer and non-
executive chairman, said Johnson’s vision of creating a Martha
Stewart store within J.C. Penney appealed to her. She said
Johnson is a “visionary” who “had the foresight to reimagine
the traditional American department store.”  Stewart said Macy’s had never offered to open a store
devoted to her, although it has installed other in-store shops
for brands such as  Louis Vuitton .  Lawyers for Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department
store chain, have argued that J.C. Penney is trying to “reap
the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart brand, which
the chain says it rebuilt after Stewart’s release from prison in
2005, when her products were sold at Kmart.  Limited Participation  Stewart served five months in prison and about six months
of house arrest after she was convicted of obstruction of
justice. Her court appearance yesterday was the first time she
has testified in open court, Katherine Nash, a spokeswoman for
Martha Stewart Living, said in an e-mail.  Stewart said she didn’t participate in the negotiations for
the Macy’s contract because she was forbidden from being a
director of a publicly held corporation as part of a settlement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which also
limited her participation as an officer or employee of a public
company.  However, she said Martha Stewart Living “left open certain
areas” of its contract with Macy’s, such as goods that aren’t
in the exclusive categories and items sold at other stores like
PetSmart Inc. or Michaels Stores Inc.  Defended Agreement  Ted Grossman, a lawyer for Macy’s, asked Stewart if she
thought shoppers who bought an enamel cast-iron casserole dish
or a cutlery set at a department store at “one end of the
mall” were less likely to purchase the same item at another
department store at “other end of the mall.”  Stewart said she didn’t think so, as shoppers are “more
savvy” and have resources such as smartphones and Amazon.com to
help them research potential purchases.  “They might have two houses,” she testified. “And they
might have two kitchens.”  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
in January 2012 because of the breach.  Macy’s kept the Martha Stewart brand “pretty static”
instead of working to grow the brand, Stewart testified. Her
company had hoped its business would be “much bigger” at the
end of the five-year contract, she said.  “Where we could have been bigger, they brought in other
brands,” she said.  Original Contract  Martha Stewart Living has argued that its original contract
with Macy’s allows Martha Stewart Living to design and sell
products within the exclusive categories as long as they are
sold through the Internet, television or at any retail store
branded with the Martha Stewart name that’s operated by the
company or its affiliates or “prominently” features the brand,
according to court filings.  Stewart said she knew there might be problems with the
Macy’s contract although she believed that the pact allowed her
company to sell “any type of merchandise” in Martha Stewart
stores within J.C. Penney.  Stewart said she didn’t ask Lundgren to renegotiate her
company’s contract or for financial assistance but that he
“certainly knew” Martha Stewart Living had hired  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  to explore strategic alternatives and didn’t come
forward.  ‘Blown Away’  Lundgren testified last week that he was “shocked and
blown away” when Stewart called him the night before the J.C.
Penney deal was announced to tell him about it, hung up on her
and hasn’t spoken to her since.  Lundgren said he had considered Stewart a friend and that
she never mentioned the J.C. Penney pact until her call -- even
when the two flew to  Haiti  together in July 2011 and during a
$10,000-a-plate fundraiser in October.  Stewart said she was surprised by Lundgren’s reaction to
her call. “I was quite taken aback by his response and when he
hung up on me I was kind of flabbergasted,” she said.  Stewart was “always positive” about her relationship with
Macy’s, and Lundgren “never heard any word of concern or
disappointment” from his contacts at her company about their
agreement, he said. While he no longer has a personal
relationship with Stewart, Macy’s is “totally committed” to
its business with her company, he said.  Design Concepts  Macy’s is a $300 million business for Martha Stewart Living
that “we would not like to go away,” Stewart said, adding that
her company last week presented a “tremendous number” of
design concepts to Macy’s for spring of 2014 and “they liked
everything.”  “It’s a contract dispute,” she said to the judge. “An
understanding of what’s written on the page. It boggles my mind
that we are sitting before you today.”  In his testimony, J.C. Penney’s Johnson said he first
considered a partnership with Stewart when he read that her
company had hired Blackstone.  “I thought, ‘Martha must not be performing well and there
might be an opportunity to do something together,’” Johnson
said.  Johnson testified that he wouldn’t have gone forward with a
sales agreement with Stewart to sell her branded items if it
meant the Macy’s deal would be breached.  Johnson said he wanted his team to review parts of Macy’s
contract with Martha Stewart Living to ensure J.C. Penney didn’t
violate any part of the agreement.  The trial began Feb. 20 and had been scheduled to end March
8 but is likely to be adjourned until April because of
scheduling conflicts.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  