-- Martoma Judge Grants Defense Time to Review U.S. Evidence
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-06T01:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/martoma-judge-grants-defense-time-to-review-u-s-evidence.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Mathew Martoma was granted 90 days to review U.S.
evidence in his insider-trading criminal case, including
hundreds of thousands of e-mails from the fund.  Martoma was charged in November in what the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called the biggest
insider-trading scheme in history. The U.S. says Martoma helped
SAC, the hedge fund founded by Steven A. Cohen, make
$276 million on illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug by
trading in shares of  Elan Corp. (ALN)  and Wyeth LLC.  Charles Stillman, Martoma’s defense lawyer, told U.S.
District Judge Paul Gardephe today that he needed time to review
the evidence, including about 4 million pages of documents that
the U.S. already has turned over. Stillman estimated there were
hundreds of thousands of e-mails left to review before he can
assess how to defend his client.  “I’d like to propose you give us 90 days to finish our
analysis,” Stillman told Gardephe at a court hearing in
Manhattan. “I’m not looking to delay the case but I’m saying
that there is a lot to be done here. The case was announced as
the biggest insider trading case in history. If it is the
biggest case, I want to be able to defend it.”  Stillman said he has received at least 17,000 pages of
evidence from the government in recent days. He held up a folder
he estimated to be about six inches thick, which he said
represented the number of e-mails Martoma exchanged and received
in a single day of work at SAC’s CR Intrinsic Investors in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Request Granted  Gardephe granted Stillman’s request.  “If I thought we were talking about a mere two weeks of
conduct I’d be very reluctant to put the case off,” the judge
said. “But the facts in the indictment present a conspiracy
between 2006 and 2008 and 42 consultations. We’re talking a
significant time period. In light of that I’m going to give Mr.
Stillman the 90 days he requested. I will likely set a trial
date at that time.”  Gardephe set the next court date for June 5 and told
Stillman that he will likely set a trial date at the hearing.  “This is your opportunity to get your hands around the
discovery material,” the judge said.  Prosecutors said in a December indictment that Martoma
illegally used tips from a physician who was in charge of
monitoring the the safety of the Alzheimer’s drug tests. Sid
Gilman, a University of Michigan neurologist who was head of the
safety monitoring committee for the clinical trial, entered into
a non-prosecution agreement and is cooperating with the U.S.  Hard Drive  Stillman said today the government has a computer hard
drive that belonged to Gilman and that prosecutors have told him
it may contain privileged and encrypted material. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents were trying to decrypt the hard drive of a laptop that
the cooperating witness had used.  The witness granted the FBI permission to make a copy of
the laptop’s hard drive, to preserve the evidence for the case,
Devlin-Brown said. The original was still in the custody of the
University of Michigan.  “If we determine there is anything conceivably relevant on
that hard drive, we’ll turn it over,” Devlin-Brown said.  Prosecutors turned over the majority of their evidence
against Martoma in January and estimated that a trial could take
three to four weeks, Devlin-Brown said.  ‘Best We Can’  “The e-mails and electronic communications retrieved from
Mr. Martoma’s former employer, these have been produced,”
Devlin-Brown said. “We’ve been doing the best we can to move
this case along but ultimately, this case is about one defendant
who allegedly corrupted a doctor.”  Stillman countered that there is a vast amount of
complicated evidence that he and his legal team need to review
so they can plot a strategy.  “The case the government tries to sell you today is not
some simple walk in the park, it’s a three-year conspiracy with
42 consultations between my client and the cooperating witness
and trading records,” Stillman said. “The schedule the
government is presenting is not fair to our ability to defend
Mathew.”  Both Martoma and his lawyers declined to comment on the
case after today’s hearing.  December Indictment  Martoma bought shares of Elan and Wyeth for his portfolio,
according to the December indictment. The hedge fund owner,
identified as Cohen by a person familiar with the case, also
bought Elan and Wyeth, based on Martoma’s recommendation,
prosecutors said.  In July 2008, Gilman passed Martoma secret data showing
that bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug intended to treat
Alzheimer’s, had failed to halt the condition’s progress in
clinical tests, the SEC alleged. The hedge fund owner, at
Martoma’s recommendation, sold off almost all of the fund’s $700
million position in Elan and Wyeth, then sold the stock short,
prosecutors claimed.  When the clinical trial results became public, shares in
both companies plunged, allowing the hedge fund to make $276
million in profits and losses avoided, according to the
government. Martoma received a $9.3 million bonus as a result,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  