-- Ashtead Hits 24-Year High on U.S. Housing Rebound: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-03-05T16:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ashtead-at-24-year-high-on-u-s-housing-rebound-london-mover.html
Ashtead Group Plc (AHT) , the U.K.
equipment rental company that gets most of its sales from the
Sunbelt unit in the U.S., rose to a record after saying full-
year profit will exceed its forecasts as homebuilding rebounds.  “Based on a very strong January and February, the ramping
up is starting earlier and is stronger than expected,” Chief
Executive Officer Geoff Drabble said in a phone interview after
Ashtead reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  The U.S. residential market is leading a construction
recovery, with housing starts set to increase by 20 percent to
30 percent this year, Drabble said. In a sign of growing
confidence, London-based Ashtead will move forward $100 million
of fleet spending from next year to the current quarter. “We
need to have that fleet in place,” the CEO said.  The shares  advanced  7 percent, the biggest gain in six
months, to close at 561 pence, the highest price since Ashtead
started public trading in 1989. Ashtead shares have more than
 doubled  in the past year and their volume traded today was more
than triple the three-month daily average.  “The short- and medium-term for Ashtead look very
promising,”  Paul Jones , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., who
raised his  recommendation  on the stock to buy from hold, said in
a note. The trading update was “stunning,” with quarterly
results “far better than anticipated,” he said.  The total U.S. construction market may expand by about 4
percent to 5 percent this year, for the best year since 2006,
Drabble said in the interview. The company has consistently
underestimated capital expenditure requirements, he said.  ‘Sweet Spot’  “U.S. non-residential is in the early stages of a multi-
year recovery, which remains the sweet spot for Ashtead,” said
Alex Hugh, an analyst at UBS AG, who raised his price target for
the stock by 22 percent to 610 pence.  The market is 30 percent below previous peaks, implying
growth of about 45 percent “to get back there, even before
considering market-share gains,” the London-based analyst said.  Hugh raised his full-year pretax profit estimate 12 percent
to 235.1 million pounds. Panmure’s Jones increased his estimate
14 percent to 235 million pounds and his 12-month price target
by 40 percent to 626 pence.  Ashtead offers the prospect of “several years of super-
normal profit and EPS growth,” Justin Jordan, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC, said in a Feb. 26 note.  Jordan said today that the company will gain from an
“ongoing structural shift to rental” as well as a modest
recovery in rates and increased market share.  Jordan raised his
pretax profit estimate 12 percent to 235.4 million pounds and
his price target by 17 percent to 615 pence.  Equipment Spending  Ashtead will have about 550 million pounds ($834 million)
in capital expenditure this fiscal year after pulling forward
the $100 million to further build its fleet, it said in a
statement. Gross spending will be about the same next year,
though a greater proportion will be “directed to growth rather
than replacement,” it said.  Net capital expenditure, which includes disposals, will
total about 450 million pounds this year, Ashtead said.  For seven consecutive quarters, Ashtead has said full-year
earnings would beat its previous forecast. CEO Drabble declined
to give numbers today and said he “could understand the logic”
of analysts talking about a 10 percent upgrade to current-year
predictions.  Ashtead also beat analysts’  sales estimates  for the 12th
consecutive quarter. Revenue of 333.9 million pounds exceeded
the average of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg by
almost 12 percent. Pretax profit in the three months ended Jan.
31 was 52.3 million pounds compared with the average estimate of
32 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 