-- Asian Stocks Advance After Two-Day Loss on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-05T12:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/asian-stocks-advance-on-federal-reserve-stimulus-bets.html
Asian  stocks  climbed, with the
regional benchmark index rising after two days of losses, amid
speculation central bankers will continue stimulus measures and
as China maintained its economic-growth target for 2013.  James Hardie  Industries SE, a building-materials supplier
that gets two-thirds of its sales from the U.S., rose 3.9
percent in Sydney. SK Hynix Inc., the world’s second-largest
maker of computer memory chips, added 3.9 percent in Seoul after
Kiwoom Securities Co. said chip prices will continue to gain
this month. Fast Retailing Co., Asia’s biggest clothier, jumped
5.5 percent in Tokyo after reporting same-store sales at its
Uniqlo outlets in Japan increased last month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.5 percent to 134.42
as of 9:33 p.m. in Tokyo, with about five shares rising for
every four that fell. The gauge capped a four-month advance in
February, the longest such winning streak since September 2009,
as central banks around the world maintained loose monetary
policies to support economic growth.  “The continued penchant for monetary largess by the major
central banks around the world still does provide an
unprecedented cushion for investors,” said Benjamin Yeo,
Singapore-based head of Asian investment strategy at Barclays
Plc’s wealth management unit, which has about $250 billion under
management. “The risk-on mode will prevail for the remainder of
2013.”  Global Easing  U.S.  Federal Reserve  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said
yesterday the U.S. central bank should press on with $85 billion
in monthly bond buying. Kikuo Iwata, a nominee for  Bank of Japan 
deputy governor, said in a confirmation hearing today that the
central bank should buy longer-term bonds to help achieve a 2
percent inflation target.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.3 percent, the most
since Jan. 28. China maintained its economic-growth target at
7.5 percent for 2013 and raised its  budget deficit  forecast as
the government cuts taxes and boosts measures to support
consumer demand. The median estimate of 43 analysts surveyed in
February by  Bloomberg News  expected 8.1 percent growth in 2013.  The country lacks a sustainable growth model and faces
mounting “social problems” as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  ends
a decade in power that saw the economy grow fourfold to be the
world’s second-largest, he told almost 3,000 delegates at his
final report to the National People’s Congress in Beijing today.  Wen steps down at the congress, which runs through March
17, after overseeing China’s rise to an $8 trillion economy that
surpassed Japan and Germany and sustained its expansion through
the global financial crisis. Those achievements have come at the
cost of surging inequality, environmental degradation and
growing financial risks, challenges that he leaves for incoming
Premier  Li Keqiang .  RBA Decision  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.1 percent, while
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.3 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index added 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 0.8
percent  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 1.3 percent. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a half-century low as the world economy stabilizes
and commodity prices recover. The country’s retail sales grew
faster than economists forecast in January, while the current-
account deficit unexpectedly narrowed in the three months
through December, government reports released today showed.  Shares on the Asia-Pacific index traded at 14.8 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Stocks  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent today. U.S. shares
rose yesterday, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to its
highest closing level since 2007, as speculation the Fed will
continue with so-called quantitative easing to stimulate the
economy tempered concern over spending cuts and  China’s economy .  “Turning to the potential costs of the Federal Reserve’s
asset purchases, there are some that definitely need to be
monitored over time,” Yellen said yesterday in a speech in
Washington. “At this stage, I do not see any that would cause
me to advocate a curtailment of our purchase program.”  James Hardie climbed 3.9 percent to A$9.95 in Sydney.  Man
Wah Holdings Ltd. (1999) , a sofa maker that counts the U.S. as its
biggest market, increased 5.3 percent to HK$7.52 in  Hong Kong .
AU Optronics Corp., a Taiwanese flat-panel maker that gets about
60 percent of sales overseas, gained 5.1 percent to NT$13.35 in
Taipei.  Information-technology companies posted the second-biggest
gain among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Memory Chips  Chipmakers advanced after Kiwoon Securities said prices of
dynamic random-access memory chips will continue to increase,
boosting the earnings outlook at Hynix and  Samsung Electronics (005930) 
Co. Benchmark DRAM prices jumped 42 percent this year, according
to TrendForce Corp.’s DRAMeXchange, which tracks the market.  SK Hynix climbed 3.9 percent to 27,000 won in Seoul.
Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of computer-
memory chips, gained 0.7 percent to 1.555 million won.  Fast Retailing jumped 5.5 percent to 26,770 yen after
saying same-store sales at its Uniqlo outlets in Japan increased
9.6 percent in February from a year earlier, boosted by winter
demand.  Want Want China Holdings Ltd. (151) , China’s largest maker of
rice cakes, advanced 3.6 percent to HK$11.48 after reporting
that full-year net income increased 32 percent to $553.8 million
from a year earlier.  Of the 417 companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  that
reported earnings since January and for which estimates are
available, 49 percent exceeded expectations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that fell, Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co.
slipped 5.2 percent to 5,290 yen. The drug maker failed to win
the support of U.S. regulatory advisers for an experimental
medication as an alternative to hormonal therapy in treating hot
flushes linked to menopause.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  