-- Tata Offers First Car Buyback as Sales Plummet: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-03-06T10:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/tata-offers-first-car-buyback-as-sales-plummet-corporate-india.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest
automaker, has a new strategy to revive car sales from a decade
low: the company is promising to buy back your Manza sedan.  The Mumbai-based carmaker said it will guarantee customers
60 percent of the purchase price after three years on cars they
buy in the next two months, according to an e-mail response from
the company. Tata Motors, led by Chairman Cyrus Mistry, also cut
prices for some of its cars this week by as much as 50,000
rupees ($912). The Manza model will be about 8 percent cheaper.  The plan to repurchase cars shows the owner of Jaguar and
Land Rover is “desperate” as it has lost share in  Asia ’s
third-largest car market to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , according to Deepesh Rathore, the India managing
director of IHS Automotive. Passenger vehicle sales at the
company plunged 70 percent last month to the lowest in a decade.  “Tata Motors has a big problem in the local car
business,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  at
Raiffeisen Capital Management, which oversees about $1.1 billion
in emerging-market assets. “Tata Motors needs to get its
quality and design right.”  India’s automakers’ association in January lowered its
full-year domestic car sales forecast for the third time in six
months as slowing economic growth and high  interest rates 
continue to keep buyers from showrooms. February passenger car
sales at Tata dropped to 10,613 from 34,832 a year earlier.
Deliveries at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest
carmaker, fell 9 percent to 97,955.  Credit Card  Former Chairman Ratan Tata hired  Karl Slym  as managing
director from  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s China unit to revive vehicle
sales. Slym last month said he plans to build a diesel version
of the Nano, the world’s cheapest car, after introducing a new
version of the Indica hatchback.  Tata today said it partnered with five banks including HSBC
Holdings Plc and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-largest lender,
to offer customers the ability to buy the Nano using credit
cards.  Tata Motors’  shares , which have declined 1 percent this
year, rose 3 percent to 309.4 rupees in Mumbai, the highest
since Jan. 23.  Sales of the company’s trucks, buses and cars at home
 accounted  for 36 percent of group revenue of 1.66 trillion
rupees ($30.2 billion) in the year ended March 31, down from 43
percent in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Declining Profit  Profit at the Jaguar  Land Rover  unit, which contributed 74
percent of Tata Motors’ operating income in the year ended March
31, declined 25 percent to 296 million pounds ($449 million) in
the three months to Dec. 31. Tata Motors reported a loss of 4.6
billion rupees for its Indian business as sales at home dropped
21 percent to 105.3 billion rupees.  Tata sold 7,485 units of the Indigo and Indigo Manza sedans
in the 10 months to January. That’s 6 percent of Maruti’s DZire
sales in the same period.  Maruti sold 131,177 units of its DZire, according to data
from the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Toyota’s
sales including utility vehicles rose 6.4 percent to 133,296 in
the 10 months to January.  Ratan Tata  unveiled the Indica, the company’s first car, in
1998 after spending two years and 17 billion rupees on
developing the vehicle. The company then called Tata Engineering
& Locomotive Co. bet Indians will prefer a 98 percent locally
made, cheap passenger car to the more-expensive foreign models.  ‘Dead Cat Bounce’  “I doubt Tata Motors will be able to improve their market
share,” Surjit Singh Arora, an analyst at Prabhudas Lilladher
Pvt. in Mumbai. “Unless they upgrade their platforms, it looks
difficult for Tata Motors.”  Maruti has seven versions, including gasoline and diesel
options, of its DZire, while Tata sells 17 variants of the
Indigo and more than 20 for the Indica, according to the
companies’ websites.  “Tata continues to sell old generation models with the
new. This is bad strategy,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst
at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. When Honda Motor
Co. or Maruti “introduces a new generation, they phase out the
old ones.”  The company’s buyback offer will be valid for cars which
haven’t had a major accident and carry a valid insurance policy,
according to the e-mail from Tata Motors. The automaker doesn’t
plan to extend the repurchase plan, which it says “will surely
boost sales,” to other models.  The plan may help Tata see a “dead cat bounce in sales,”
Sabarad said. “I don’t expect market share to increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  