-- Matolcsy May Back Radical Hungary Debt Step, Capital Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-05T15:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/matolcsy-may-back-radical-hungary-debt-step-capital-says.html
Hungary’s new central bank
president,  Gyorgy Matolcsy , may back “more radical options” to
reduce foreign-currency debt as he seeks to boost the economy
with unconventional steps, Capital Economics Ltd. said.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank may support the conversion of
household foreign-currency debt into forint at below-market
rates, Neil Shearing and William Jackson, London-based Capital
economists, said in an e-mailed note today. Commercial lenders
or the central bank via its currency reserves, would bear the
losses, they said.  In his previous job as economy minister, Matolcsy was the
architect of Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s unorthodox policies
and urged the central bank to embrace unconventional monetary
tools after his budget policies helped push the economy into
recession. The Cabinet and central bank will discuss the use of
reserves to spur growth and help foreign-currency mortgage
holders, Economy Minister-designate Mihaly Varga said yesterday.  “With the MNB now more open to unorthodox measures to pull
the economy out its malaise, attention could turn to reducing
the FX debt burden,” Shearing and Jackson said. “It looks
increasingly likely that unorthodox policies” may be
considered, including “more radical options.”  Currency Moves  The forint has weakened 5.4 percent to the euro in the past
three months, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, amid investor concern that Matolcsy will
take over the central bank. The currency was little changed
today at 298.63 per euro by 3:25 p.m. in Budapest.  Matolcsy, as economy minister, forced banks in 2011 to
swallow exchange-rate losses on foreign-currency household
mortgages by allowing for their early repayment at below-market
prices. Hungarians had borrowed mostly in Swiss francs to take
advantage of lower interest rates. Along with  Europe ’s highest
bank levy, the measure made the banking sector unprofitable,
damaging lending and growth.  Any new plan to help foreign-currency borrowers would be
done in cooperation with commercial lenders, Varga said in a
Magyar Hirlap interview published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  