-- Mattis Urges Keeping 20,000 NATO Troops in Afghanistan
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-03-05T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/mattis-urges-keeping-20-000-nato-troops-in-afghanistan.html
The general who heads the U.S.
Central Command went beyond the Pentagon’s positions today on
issues including how many troops to keep in  Afghanistan , giving
candid testimony to Congress as he prepares to step down.  Marine Corps General James Mattis, who is retiring this
month, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that he favors a
larger U.S. and allied presence in Afghanistan after 2014 than
the Defense Department is considering.  Mattis, 62, said his “recommendation is for 13,600 U.S.
forces.” The North Atlantic Treaty Organization would probably
add about 50 percent of the U.S. strength, for a total exceeding
20,000, Mattis said. That’s far more than the 8,000 to 12,000
U.S. and NATO troops that former Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
discussed with his European counterparts in Brussels last month.
President  Barack Obama  has yet to announce the size of the
residual force after most U.S. troops depart.  “If the Afghan security forces continue to mature and
become capable, then we can do a smaller number,” Mattis told
reporters after testifying. “We have a lot of reasons to
believe that Afghan National Security Forces are improving all
the time.”  Mattis endorsed a NATO proposal to help maintain an Afghan
military force of 352,000 beyond 2016.  The U.S. and Afghanistan are negotiating a bilateral
security agreement that may determine how many U.S. troops will
remain after the bulk of the U.S. troops leave the country in
2014.  ‘Mad Dog’  Mattis, nicknamed “Mad Dog” for his sometimes acerbic
comments, is being forced to leave the Marine Corps earlier than
planned, according to Tom Ricks, a senior fellow at the Center
for New American Security, who first reported Mattis’s
retirement in Foreign Policy magazine. The Pentagon has said
Mattis wasn’t being pushed out.  The Central Command, based in Tampa,  Florida , oversees U.S.
military operations stretching from  Egypt  to Uzbekistan and is
responsible for the war effort in Afghanistan.  Mattis also questioned progress in U.S. diplomatic efforts
aimed at stopping  Iran ’s quest for nuclear weapons. Asked by
Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , the committee’s top
Republican, if diplomacy and economic sanctions were working to
stop Iran, Mattis said, “No, sir.”  Later, Mattis said he was “paid to take a rather dim view
of the Iranians, frankly.”  Buying Time  Although Iran is likely to use negotiations to buy time and
has a “history of denial and deceit,” the Obama administration
must continue negotiations because “they do not prevent us from
doing other things at the same time” including beefing up the
U.S. military presence in the region, Mattis told lawmakers.  Mattis also disagreed with Panetta and General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who told
Congress last month that they backed arming rebels fighting
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. Obama rejected that
recommendation.  The Syrian situation “is so complex that I have to get
some degree of confidence that the weapons that we would be
arming them with are not going to people who are our enemies,”
Mattis said. Asked if he had such confidence, Mattis replied,
“I do not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  