-- Audis Trump China Patriotism as Local Brands Falter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-06T08:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/audis-trump-patriotism-for-china-s-elite-as-local-brands-falter.html
China  is pressuring bureaucrats to
buy locally branded cars to help domestic automakers and cut
lavish spending of taxpayers’ money. That’s unless you are a
high-level government official with an Audi A6L.  At Beijing’s Great Hall of the People yesterday, where
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao was addressing a crowd of almost
3,000 delegates, only those senior enough could park in the
nearby north gate and southern courtyard. The scene: dozens of
gleaming black Audi sedans waiting for their VIP occupants to
emerge from the National People’s Congress.  “We should try to use Chinese cars when possible and
actively advocate our officials to use them,” Guo Gengmao,
governor of central Henan province, said yesterday when asked
whether he will swap his Audi for a local brand. “But we should
do so in a practical way and switch cars when we need to replace
the old ones. Otherwise, it’s a big waste to replace cars when
they’re still good to use.”  While civil servants in the U.S., Japan and South  Korea 
typically ride in local cars, Chinese senior leaders stand out
in their preference toward foreign brands, namely  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi. That’s not helping Chinese automakers, whose combined
market share of domestic sales has declined to a four-year low.  Official Prestige  Audi has benefited from its image as the car of choice for
China’s political elite by targeting state-owned company bosses
and business executives. That’s helped the automaker cement its
position as the top premium brand in the world’s largest vehicle
market.  Led by  China FAW Group Corp. (000800) , maker of the Chinese Red Flag
brand of luxury vehicles, local automakers are pushing to win
government sales to burnish their brands.  “If the top leaders started to switch to Chinese brand
cars, junior officials and bosses of state-owned companies would
follow overnight and that would be a great push for state-owned
automakers,” said Chi Yifeng, head of the Beijing Asian Games
Village Automobile Exchange, a vehicle dealer in the capital.
“People have been waiting for detailed policies of promoting
domestic brands for the government fleet.”  Local automakers could use the help.  The combined market share for Chinese sedans and compact
cars fell to a four-year low of 28.4 percent in 2012, according
to data compiled by the state-backed China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers. No Chinese brand was among the top 10
selling passenger-vehicle models last year, the data showed.  Falling Behind  Chinese carmakers risk falling further behind as
competition from foreign companies intensifies. Automakers from
 General Motors Co. (GM)  to  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  are expanding their
upscale brands to attract more Chinese buyers.  Audi dominated the premium vehicle segment in China with a
29.6 percent share last year, followed by Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz at 23.6 percent and 20.6
percent, respectively, according to estimates at researcher IHS
Global Insight. Luxury car sales in China are forecast to
surpass the U.S. as early as 2016 and equal that of Western
Europe by 2020, driven by rising incomes, McKinsey & Co. said in
a report this week.  Audi is stepping up efforts to transform its image as a
brand for Chinese bureaucrats, a task that has taken on added
urgency as Communist Party Chief Xi Jinping pushes to reduce
government expenditure.  Transforming Audi  Audi says its association with the government is limited.
Private individuals now account for nine out of every 10
customers in China, Luca de Meo, member of the management board
at Audi, said in Beijing in January.  The Ingolstadt, Germany-based automaker last month opened
its first interactive digital showroom in Asia in a Beijing
shopping mall to reach out to younger consumers, and has
introduced sport-utility vehicles and sports cars like the TT
and R8 to expand its offerings beyond the A6 sedan.  Regardless of their influence over total sales, some
Chinese officials have gone ahead to use local brands, mostly by
automakers headquartered in their respective jurisdictions.  Wang Rong, Communist Party secretary of the southern
Chinese city of Shenzhen, started using  BYD Co. (1211) ’s e6 electric
cars last year.  Local Switch  His counterparts in Beijing, municipal party secretary Guo Jinlong and mayor Wang Anshun, have expressed interest in
replacing their Audi sedans with BAIC Motor Corp.’s Senova cars
when they become available in the second quarter, according to
BAIC Vice President Dong Haiyang.  The local communist party committee in Gansu province asked
its senior cadres to “gradually” switch to use indigenous-
brand cars, according to a Gansu Daily report carried on the
government’s website. Ningxia, Hunan and Xinjiang are among
other provinces that have issued similar directives.  “To make the Chinese auto brands more competitive, the
industry needs support from the whole society, especially the
government officials, who should be role models and use local-
brand cars,” said Cheng Xiaodong, head of vehicle-price
monitoring at the National Development and Reform Commission,
the nation’s top economic planner.  Chinese automakers from FAW to SAIC Motor Corp. have
stepped up development of premium models in anticipation the
government will lend more support to help them revamp an image
as producers of cheap, utilitarian cars.  Red Flag  FAW is completing a $280 million revamp for its Red Flag --
or Hongqi in Chinese -- first produced for Chairman Mao Zedong
and discontinued in 1981 because of its high fuel consumption.
Local governments in more than 10 provinces and cities have put
in orders for Red Flag’s H7 sedan since its introduction in July
last year, according to FAW’s website.  Still, local brands remain weak and mostly deal in low-
priced cars, FAW Chairman Xu Jianyi said at the Congress today.  SAIC’s  Roewe 950  sedan, whose prices start from 149,800
 yuan  ($24,065), was selected as the official car for the annual
meeting of Sichuan province’s local political advisory body in
January, the Shanghai-based company said on its website.  The central government issued guidelines in November 2011
lowering the budget for cars used for routine official business
by 28 percent to 180,000 yuan. The Audi A6L, the best-selling
luxury car in China, starts at 287,300 yuan.  The industry ministry followed three months later with a
proposed list of 412 models approved for purchase by state
agencies that excluded foreign brands.  Fine Print  The fine print: Those regulations don’t apply to cars used
by senior government and Party officials.  Detailed rules will probably be issued after the Congress
meeting this month, providing a big boost to FAW, SAIC and other
local automakers, the Beijing Times reported on Feb. 28, without
saying where it got the information.  “For a country with such a gigantic capacity also in terms
of their own industry, they are always proud to promote their
own brands,” Pan Qing, head of China region sales at Audi
China, said on Jan. 31 in Beijing. “That is something that
everybody can anticipate because if you look at those mature
markets like  Germany ,  Japan , Korea and the U.S, all the
governments always use their own brands.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  