-- Australian Dollar Rises Versus Peers After Economy Grows
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-03-06T18:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/aussie-rises-versus-peers-on-prospects-growth-accelerated.html
Australia ’s dollar rose against most
major peers after data showed the nation’s economy grew last
quarter, driven by household consumption and exports.  The currency, nicknamed the Aussie, climbed to its highest
level in a week versus the yen as traders pared expectations for
 interest-rate  cuts this year.  New Zealand ’s currency, known as
the kiwi, declined for the first time in four days and the
Aussie fell against the  U.S. dollar  after commodities fell for
the sixth time in seven days.  “The previous quarter was revised higher, and the annual
rate was lifted, so that’s a good outcome,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender. “We’ve seen
market pricing for more rate cuts by the RBA get pared back and
that obviously helps support the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0238 as of
1:11 p.m. in  New York , after advancing 0.6 percent yesterday,
the most since Feb. 22. It gained 0.4 percent to 96.11 yen after
earlier touching 96.29, the highest since Feb. 25.  New Zealand’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 82.84 U.S. cents
after climbing 0.8 percent in the previous three days. It
strengthened 0.3 percent to 77.76 yen.  Swaps Data  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 75 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will keep
the overnight cash rate target at 3 percent when they next meet
on April 2. That’s up from 29 percent odds a month ago.  Australia’s economy grew 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months, when it gained a revised 0.7
percent, a Bureau of Statistics report released in Sydney showed
today. The result was in line with the median of 28 estimates in
a Bloomberg News  survey . The economy expanded 3.1 percent from a
year earlier.  The RBA refrained from cutting the highest benchmark
interest rate among major developed nations for a second-
straight meeting yesterday, after Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board implemented 1.75 percentage points in borrowing-cost
reductions in the 14 months through December.  There are signs the “significant easing in monetary
policy” last year is having an impact, Stevens said in a
statement, while reiterating the inflation outlook allows
“scope to ease policy further.”  ‘Solid Growth’  “With an unchanged RBA and relatively solid growth, we
would expect a short squeeze in the Aussie back above $1.03 over
the next few days,” said Callum Henderson, the head of currency
research at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “We’re
expecting an upturn in global growth in the second half of the
year, and as such, for the RBA to refrain from its relatively
dovish comments.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
0.9 percent today, and is down 5.3 percent during the past
month.  The kiwi fell even as prices of milk powder for May
delivery rose 19.3 percent, the most since Sept. 1, 2010,
according to a trade-weighted index on Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd.’s GlobalDairyTrade website. Auckland-based Fonterra
is the world’s biggest dairy exporter and accounts for about 40
percent of the global trade in dairy products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  