-- Australia Retail Sales Rise in January, Spurred by Rate Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-05T01:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/australian-retail-sales-rise-in-january-spurred-by-lower-rates.html
Australian retail sales advanced
faster than economists forecast in January, led by gains in
household goods as interest-rate reductions encouraged spending.  Sales climbed 0.9 percent to A$21.6 billion ($22.1 billion)
from a month earlier, when they fell a revised 0.4 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result -- the
strongest rise since June -- compares with the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists for a 0.4 percent
gain.  The data validate Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor Glenn
Stevens’s decision to hold rates last month after six reductions
totaling 1.75 percentage points from November 2011 to December
2012 to help buttress the economy. Policy makers are trying to
stimulate industries outside mining, where investment is
expected to plateau this year, and most economists predict the
RBA will leave borrowing costs unchanged again today.  “There’s been a lot of anecdotal evidence that sales have
improved,” said Tom Kennedy, an economist in Sydney at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., which was at the top end of analysts’ estimates
with a forecast of a 0.7 percent increase. “If you were to see
consecutive months of data like this, I don’t think
the RBA would hike rates in a hurry, but they would back away
from their negative bias.”  Spending on other retailing, a category that includes books
and sporting goods, rose 2.6 percent, and consumers spent 1.3
percent more on household goods, today’s report showed. They
spent 0.6 percent less at department stores, it showed.  Rate Cuts  The local dollar traded at $1.0216 at 12:12 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0199 before the release.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred the nation’s
currency, which has stayed above parity with the U.S. currency
for eight months, its longest stretch above that threshold since
it was freely floated in 1983.  A separate report today showed Australia’s current-account
deficit unexpectedly narrowed in the three months through
December. The shortfall on goods, services and investment was
A$14.68 billion from a revised A$15.05 billion in the
third quarter; the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
21 economists was for a A$15.3 billion gap.  Net exports added 0.6 percentage point to gross domestic
product growth in the fourth quarter, the bureau said today.
Economists forecast a 0.5 point addition.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late in 2011 and a further 125 basis points in May,
June, October and December to help stimulate the economy. The
central bank has said there’s evidence its rate reductions are
beginning to take effect.  Rates Stimulus  “There is a good deal of interest rate stimulus in the
pipeline,” Stevens said Feb. 22 in semiannual testimony to a
parliamentary panel in Canberra. “It is having an effect.”  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest retailer, said last
week first-half earnings rose 19 percent as cheaper imports and
cost-cutting helped wring more profit from sales.  Australian  consumer confidence  surged last month by the
most since September 2011 as rate cuts gained traction with
households, a private report showed Feb. 13.  “We are optimistic that improved consumer confidence will
translate to a sustained improvement in retail spending in
coming months,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “This is a solid result after months of
disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  