-- RBA Holds Rate at 3%, Says Policy Appropriate; Aussie Gains
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-05T06:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/australia-holds-benchmark-rate-at-3-on-improved-global-outlook.html
Australia ’s  central bank  kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a half-century low and said
policy is appropriate. The local currency climbed as traders
pared bets on further reductions in borrowing costs.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at 3 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a statement today in  Melbourne , as predicted by 27 of 29
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. He said “there are signs that
the easier conditions are having some of the expected effects”
after 1.25 percentage points of cuts in 2012.  The local currency rose to the highest level in a week-and-
a-half, even as Stevens said there is “scope to ease policy
further,” as traders bet that policy makers are trying to talk
down a currency that is a drag on growth. The central bank
extended last month’s  pause  as prices of key exports including
 iron ore  recovered from 2012’s lows after  China  boosted
infrastructure spending, and as home prices stabilized.  “Tactically it pays the RBA to be dovish because it keeps
monetary conditions loose, and should hold the Aussie dollar
down somewhat, which is helpful in their plans to rebalance GDP
growth,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official. “We don’t think
they’ll be cutting rates any further.”  Currency Reaction  The nation’s currency climbed, trading at $1.0234 at 5:53
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0214 before the decision, extending its
longest stretch above parity with the  U.S. dollar . Australian
three-year government bond yields rose 8 basis points to 2.77
percent, the steepest increase since Jan. 28.  Traders priced in 36 basis points of rate cuts in the
coming 12 months, 14 basis points fewer than the previous day, a
Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps showed. The nation’s
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  has climbed 9.2 percent this year.  “The inflation outlook, as assessed at present, would
afford scope to ease policy further, should that be necessary,”
Stevens said today. “The  exchange rate  remains higher than
might have been expected, given the observed decline in export
prices, and the demand for credit is low, as some households and
firms continue to seek lower debt levels.”  The RBA reduced the benchmark rate to 3 percent in
December, matching a half century low set in 2009, to spur
industries including construction as a resource-investment boom
is predicted to crest this year.  FOI Documents  The RBA said in documents released last week under a
Freedom of Information request by  Bloomberg News  that the
currency is held by as many as 34 central banks and a briefing
note for the September board meeting showed models indicated the
exchange rate was overvalued by 4 percent to 15 percent. The
Aussie traded between $1.0167 and $1.0625 in September.  The Aussie slid 2 percent in February, and yesterday
touched the lowest level since July, easing pressure for rate
cuts to help counter the currency’s impact.  “With inflation likely to be consistent with the target,
and with growth likely to be a little below trend over the
coming year, an accommodative stance of monetary policy is
appropriate,” Stevens said in the statement. “Businesses are
focusing on lifting efficiency under conditions of moderate
demand growth.”  Underscoring the decision to leave rates unchanged,
government data released today showed Australian retail sales
snapped three months of declines in January, rising at more than
twice the pace economists forecast.  Investment Outlook  “Present indications are that moderate growth in private
consumption spending is occurring,” Stevens said. “The near-
term outlook for non-residential building investment, and
investment generally outside the resources sector, is relatively
subdued, though recent data suggest some prospect of a modest
increase during next financial year.”  The RBA last month reduced its growth and inflation
forecasts as investment outside mining remains elusive, the
labor market softens and the currency contains prices.  In contrast, the economy of China, Australia’s biggest
trading partner, expanded 7.9 percent in the final three months
of 2012 from a year earlier, the first pickup in eight quarters.  “Growth in China has stabilised at a fairly robust pace,”
Stevens said today. “Around  Asia  generally, growth was dampened
by the earlier slowing in China and the weakness in  Europe , but
again there are signs of stabilisation. Commodity prices are
little changed recently, at reasonably high levels.”  On Dec. 27, Perth-based  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) 
announced it will resume work at a suspended project.  Home Prices  Since the RBA’s February meeting, the government reported
that unemployment held at 5.4 percent in January as employers
added part-time jobs, while a private survey showed  consumer
confidence  surged last month by the most since September 2011.  Australian  house prices  rose last quarter by the most since
June 2010 as lower interest rates lured buyers back into the
market. An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities advanced 1.6 percent
from the previous three months, a Feb. 5 report showed.  “Dwelling investment appears to be slowly increasing, with
higher dwelling prices and rental yields,” Stevens said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  