-- Aussie Rises as RBA Says More Scope for Non-Resource Demand
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-05T18:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/australian-dollar-near-eight-month-low-on-rba-rate-outlook.html
Australia’s dollar rose against most
of its major counterparts after the nation’s central bank
refrained from cutting its benchmark interest rate.  The currency, nicknamed the Aussie, rebounded from an
eight-month low against its U.S. counterpart after  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement today
that “there will be more scope for some other areas of demand
to strengthen” as resource investment peaks, and that previous
rate cuts “are having some of the expected effects.” New
Zealand’s currency advanced versus the greenback as gains in
Asian stocks boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The RBA was a little bit more upbeat on the outlook for
capital expenditure and it continued to say that past easing is
having an impact on the economy,” said Khoon Goh, a Singapore-
based foreign-exchange strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. “The market has taken Stevens’ comments on
resources spending positively and that’s why we’ve seen the
Aussie move higher.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0238 as of
1:18 p.m. in  New York , after touching $1.0115 March 4, the
lowest since July 12. It was gained 0.4 percent to 95.68 yen.
New Zealand’s currency advanced 0.3 percent to 82.98 U.S. cents.
The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, increased 0.2 percent to 77.55
yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced 0.4 percent.  Still Scope  The RBA’s Stevens reiterated in his statement that the
inflation outlook “would afford scope to ease policy further,
should that be necessary to support demand.” The central bank
lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by 1.75 percentage points in
the 14 months through December to the current level of 3
percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 31 percent chance the rate will fall to a record 2.75
percent or lower at the next meeting on April 2.  Before the policy decision, Australian retail sales
rebounded 0.9 percent in January from three months of declines.
The median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was
for a 0.4 percent gain.  The current-account deficit unexpectedly narrowed in the
fourth quarter to A$14.7 billion ($15 billion), from a revised
A$15 billion in the previous period. The median economist
estimate was A$15.3 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  In  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, services
industries expanded at a slower pace in February than a month
earlier, according to a private survey. China’s services
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
 Markit Economics  slipped to 52.1 from 54 in January. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  