-- Australia Junk Loans Made in U.S. Surge to Record on High Yields
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2013-03-05T16:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/australia-junk-loans-made-in-u-s-surge-to-record-on-high-yields.html
Australian companies borrowed a
record $6.2 billion from high-yield investors in the U.S. since
October as the lure of loans with looser terms offsets higher
borrowing costs.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  increased a loan to $5 billion
from $4.5 billion after failing to syndicate the facility among
Asian banks. One meeting with institutional investors in  New
York  helped Nine Entertainment Co., rated Ba2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, seal a $735 million transaction. Asia-Pacific
borrowers have never raised funds from speculative-grade U.S.
loan investors on such a scale, according to sale arrangers UBS
AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  North American asset managers, facing a fifth year of near-
zero benchmark interest rates, are buying into the high-yield
loan market at a record pace. The funding, which doesn’t require
regular balance sheet checks and has maturities as long as seven
years, is attracting borrowers as an exodus of European lenders
and heightened banking regulations damp liquidity in  Asia ’s bank
debt market.  “It’s not purely about the interest cost,” said Simon
Kelly, chief financial officer of Nine Entertainment, which is
paying  7.25 percent  on its new debt. “There are some benefits
of this type of financing including certainty of funding and
financial flexibility. I’d have absolutely no hesitation tapping
the market again and in fact I’ve been suggesting it to a number
of other executives at other companies.”  Record Borrowing  Investors deposited a record $5 billion into U.S. funds
that purchase floating-rate debt last month, adding to the $4.4
billion of inflows in January, according to Bank of America
Corp. The  average yield  on leveraged loans has dropped 25 basis
points since Dec. 31 to 5.90 percent, the least in records going
back to 2007, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  U.S. leveraged term loan volumes rose 25 percent to a
record $465 billion last year from $373 billion in 2011, almost
double 2010’s $233 billion, data compiled by UBS show. Already
$121 billion of facilities have been signed since Dec. 31. The
loans are a form of high-risk debt that carry ratings of less
than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Syndicated loan volumes in the Asia-Pacific region outside
 Japan  slumped 18 percent last year to $377.9 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Facilities signed since Dec. 31
total $30 billion, the slowest start to a year in seven.  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , which has mines in  Western Australia ,
completed a $325 million so-called Term B financing in December.
The debt will help the company meet its  Pilbara  iron ore
production target of 12 million tonnes a year by the end of
2013, according to a Dec. 10 stock exchange statement.  Key Attraction  Leveraged loans may also have features that investors call
“covenant-lite,” meaning they contain less protection for
investors than typical loans in exchange for a higher rate.  The loans feature what are called incurrence-based
financial covenants. That means lenders only have the right to
test whether borrowers have violated the terms of the loans when
they seek to raise additional debt or pay dividends. By
contrast, typical bank debt maintenance covenants are tested
either quarterly or semi-annually and if breached, can trigger a
default, giving banks the right to accelerate repayment.  “Most Australian companies have historically been financed
primarily by Australian bank debt,” said Paul Allan, the head
of Credit Suisse’s Sydney-based U.S. financing team. “This
diversifies their funding sources and while the cost may often
be a little higher than the bank debt available in the domestic
Australian market, the benefits of the greater flexibility
generally outweigh the higher cost.”  Volatile Earnings  Credit Suisse helped organize one of  Australia ’s first Term
B loans in 2003 when Burns Philp & Co., a food company which
once owned cereal maker Uncle Toby’s, borrowed about $340
million as part of its A$2.4 billion ($2.5 billion) financing to
acquire  Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF) , then Australia’s largest baker. In
2006, Credit Suisse helped raise $1.1 billion, including a $790
million Term B loan, for  Boart Longyear Ltd. (BLY) , a provider of
mineral exploration drilling services.  “There will be deals that get done in the U.S. and to the
extent that happens it’s disappointing,” said Gavin Chappell,
the head of loans and syndications at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “It
would be nice if there were enough liquidity for some of those
deals to be done by institutions in Asia but in Australia at
least, the market isn’t fully developed.”  Asset managers need to be able to easily trade their
investments and have a range of loans to choose from, which
isn’t yet the case in smaller markets, Chappell said.  ‘On Radar’  Incurrence-based covenants are popular with borrowers whose
revenues, and earnings, may be volatile. When iron ore prices
plunged mid-last year and concerns were raised about Fortescue’s
covenant compliance, the Perth-based company responded by
refinancing its entire bank debt exposure in the U.S. high-yield
loan market with incurrence-based covenants only, according to
Brad Robinson, a partner at  Corrs Chambers Westgarth .  “The Fortescue experience has put the benefits of
incurrence covenants firmly on the radar of Australian resources
sector executives,” Melbourne-based Robinson said.  Atlas Iron ’s financing comprises a $275 million, five-year
term loan and an undrawn A$50 million three-year revolver, both
of which contain no covenants tied to how much in earnings it
needs to generate to keep from violating the terms of the
financing.  “Compared with bank loans, Term B loans can be issued on a
covenant-lite basis with longer tenors, bigger volumes and
virtually no amortization,” said Kevin Bush, the Sydney-based
head of leveraged and acquisition finance at UBS, the lead
underwriter of Nine Entertainment’s facility.  Dollars Only  An amortizing loan is one where the principal is paid down
over the life of the loan, rather than in a lump sum at the
final maturity date.  Because Term B funds come from U.S. institutional
investors, which only have U.S. dollars to invest, loans
typically aren’t made in any other currency. Companies that
don’t have a natural hedge of U.S. dollar revenues have to swap
the borrowings back into a local currency, incurring cross
currency swap expenses.  “This cross currency hurdle has proved too high for some
borrowers,” Robinson said. “One exception was Nine, which has
shown for the right credit, in the right circumstances, the
economics of a  Term Loan  B may stack up notwithstanding the
absence of U.S. dollar revenues. It will be interesting to see
if other similarly situated companies can also get the economics
to work.”  Libor Floor  Nine Entertainment, which is controlled by private equity
firm CVC Asia Pacific Ltd. and counts among its assets
television station Nine Network Australia and Ticketek, is
paying interest at 2.75 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate for the seven-year facility. The minimum
Libor rate, or floor, used in calculating the interest is 0.75
percent.  The margin shrinks to 2.5 percentage points if Nine
Entertainment is able to reduce net leverage to 2.5 times.  Demand was so strong that Nine Entertainment was able to
reduce incentives offered to investors twice. It originally
offered a discount of 99 cents on the dollar, then 99.75 cents
and finally 99.875 cents, and still received about $2 billion of
offers, Kelly said. Decreasing the discount at which a loan is
sold increases proceeds for the company and reduces the yield to
investors.  No Trigger  The Sydney-based media company also received a A$100
million working capital facility. Until that facility is drawn,
or utilized, Nine must pay a fee of about 50 basis points on the
debt, a fraction of the cost for undrawn working capital
facilities in Australia, according to Kelly.  Including swap and hedging costs, Nine is paying an all-in
rate for its $735 million loan of 7.25 percent. “But when you
factor in what we’re getting, and consider what the cost of
refinancing would be every three to four years in the Australian
bank debt market, it’s very comparable,” Kelly said.  Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan Stanley and Nomura Holdings Inc.
underwrote the facility alongside UBS.  Speculative-grade dollar bonds  sold by companies in Asia
are yielding 6.192 percent, versus 7.565 percent a year ago,
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. Dollar loans signed in the Asia-
Pacific region outside Japan since June 30 pay an average
interest margin over Libor of 254.3 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Atlas Iron is paying a margin of 7.5 percent with a Libor
floor of 1.25 percent for its $275 million loan. Credit Suisse
was the loan’s sole lead arranger and underwriter, while  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  acted as co-manager.  “This is a great market and companies should be using
it,” said Anton Rohner, the chief financial officer of Atlas
Iron. “We’re a company that needs cash to develop. We wanted a
facility which was covenant-lite so if we do have a negative
cash position one month, it doesn’t trigger a situation where
the debt can be called.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  