-- Tax Snitches Can’t Escape Budget Cuts as IRS Bounties Shrink
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-05T21:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/tax-snitches-can-t-escape-budget-cutting-as-irs-reduces-bounties.html
Turning in tax dodgers to the U.S.
government just got a little less lucrative.  The  Internal Revenue Service , in a notice on its website
yesterday, said whistle-blower awards will be reduced by 8.7
percent under automatic spending cuts that kicked in this month.
The cutback applies to the IRS payout of as much as 30 percent
of the additional tax, penalty and other amounts it recovers
from scofflaws.  Under budget cuts known as sequestration, the U.S. is
trimming $85 billion from federal spending in the remaining
seven months of the current fiscal year.  The fiscal reductions may stay in place for weeks as
Congress and the administration of President  Barack Obama 
negotiate over a fresh deadline of March 27, when the
government’s authority to spend money expires.  “I have more questions than answers,” Senator  Charles Grassley , the Iowa Republican who wrote the 2006 law updating
the IRS whistle-blower rules, said in an e-mail today. The
payments are made by the IRS, using money collected from
companies and individuals who committed  tax fraud , and cutting
rewards would undermine the program, he wrote. “What’s the
legal rationale for cutting the whistle-blower payments?”  ‘Baffling’  Erika Kelton, an attorney with Phillips & Cohen LLP in
 Washington  who represents tax and other whistle-blowers, called
the IRS decision “completely baffling.”  Given the rarity of IRS whistle-blower awards -- fewer than
a dozen have been publicly announced out of more than 1,200
claims filed -- Kelton said it’s unlikely the IRS will make any
awards before the budget standoff is resolved.  “After all, an 8.7 percent reduction of nothing is still
nothing,” she wrote.  Among recent beneficiaries of IRS whistle-blower awards was
Bradley Birkenfeld, a former UBS AG employee who received $104
million last year after telling the government the bank helped
thousands of Americans evade taxes.  The IRS paid 128 awards worth a total of $125.4 million in
fiscal 2012 to whistle-blowers who helped collect $592.5 million
in revenue, according to a  report  on the IRS website.  The Treasury Department, which oversees the IRS, also said
it will reduce some awards for the installation of renewable
energy sources by 8.7 percent as a part of the across-the-board
cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  