-- Baht Snaps Two-Day Loss as Stock Gains Encourage Risk-Taking
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-05T01:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/baht-snaps-two-day-loss-as-stock-gains-encourage-risk-taking.html
Thailand ’s baht snapped a two-day
drop as gains in U.S. stocks improved risk sentiment, boosting
demand for emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  fell.  U.S. equities rose yesterday, with the Dow Jones Industrial
Average closing within 40 points of a record, amid optimism the
 Federal Reserve  will continue to provide monetary stimulus.
Global funds bought $9.7 million more Thai equities than they
sold yesterday, bringing in a net $118 million this month,
 exchange data  show. Official reports last week showed the
nation’s exports rose 16 percent in January and imports climbed
41 percent, resulting in a trade deficit of $5.5 billion.  “Gains in U.S. stocks overnight brought the risk-on
sentiment today, encouraging fund inflows into emerging
markets,” said   Tsutomu Soma , fixed-income business unit
manager at Rakuten Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “The baht remains
steady as demand for the currency and the dollar seems to be
quite well balanced.”  The baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.80 per dollar as of 8:51
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 5.14 percent.  Investors should sell the baht as its trade performance
“isn’t pretty,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report dated
March 1 and released late yesterday.  “The dollar-baht is well
placed to correct higher in the face of any generalized de-
risking in Asia,” according to the report.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday the U.S.
central bank should press on with $85 billion in monthly bond
buying while tracking possible costs and risks from the
unprecedented program.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent government notes due
June 2023 rose one basis point to 3.63 percent, the highest
level since Feb. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  