-- Banks in Libor Antitrust Case Say Rate Isn’t Competitive
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-05T21:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/banks-in-libor-antitrust-case-say-rate-isn-t-competitive.html
Lawyers for  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other financial institutions fighting
antitrust claims over the London interbank offered rate told a
federal judge that setting the rate isn’t a competitive process.  The banks asked U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in
 Manhattan  today to dismiss lawsuits accusing the banks of
manipulating Libor -- a key metric for setting  interest rates 
for trillions of dollars in financial instruments.  Libor fixes the rates under which banks lend money to one
another for as little as a day and as long as a year. Rates for
10 different currencies including the  U.S. dollar , Japanese yen
and British pound are computed daily after canvassing banks that
comprise membership panels for each type of money.  “It’s not a rate the banks set competitively,” Robert Wise Jr., a lawyer for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, told the judge. “Libor is not something that’s bought
or sold or traded. It’s simply a benchmark, an average. Banks
don’t sell Libor.”  William Carmody, arguing for the plaintiffs, said the rates
are submitted by competitors.  “You’re harming competition because these banks are not
motivated to compete with one another,” Carmody said.  Global authorities have been investigating claims that more
than a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks
such as Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives
or make the lenders’ finances appear healthier.  Bank Payments  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to pay 290 million pounds
($440 million) in June and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  paid
$612 million last month to U.S. and U.K. regulators to resolve
claims. In December,  UBS AG (UBSN)  agreed to pay 1.4 billion Swiss
francs ($1.5 billion).  Charles Schwab  Corp., the independent brokerage, and other
plaintiffs have said the banks conspired to depress Libor by
understating their borrowing costs, thereby lowering their
interest expenses on products tied to the rates.  “That interest rate is the price these banks are willing
to pay for the use of my client’s money,”  Brendan Glackin , a
lawyer for San Francisco-based Charles Schwab, told the judge.
“When they suppress Libor, they are getting the use of my
client’s money at a lower price than they otherwise would.”  2008 Report  In questioning the plaintiffs’ lawyers today, Buchwald
referred to a 2008 Wall Street Journal article on Libor about a
study that cast doubt on the integrity of the rate. She asked
them why they didn’t sue when the article came out, rather than
waiting until regulators began issuing subpoenas to the banks.  “Your job here as plaintiffs’ counsel looking for whopping
legal fees is not to piggyback on the government,” she said.
“You are supposed to be the private  attorneys general  who for
reasons of legitimate self-interest are seeking out the same
kind of wrongdoing that the government might.”  The judge didn’t say when or how she would rule on the
motions to dismiss.  The consolidated case is In re Libor-Based Financial
Instruments Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-02262, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  