-- Baosteel Group Forecasts Moderate Increase in China Steel Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T08:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/baosteel-group-forecasts-moderate-increase-in-china-steel-demand.html
Baosteel Group Corp., the parent of
China’s biggest listed steelmaker, expects a moderate increase
in steel demand this year, General Manager He Wenbo said.  “The  steel industry  hit a trough last year,” He, who’s
also chairman of unit  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , said today in an
interview during the National People’s Congress in Beijing.
“This year would be better, although we don’t expect” a large
increase in demand, he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  maintained an economic growth target of
7.5 percent for this year as he delivered his final annual work
report today to the legislature.  Li Keqiang , set to become
China’s next premier, highlighted plans in his first policy
statement in November to build rail, road and sewage systems to
support an urban population that exceeded rural residents for
the first time in 2011.  Demand may be hurt after China’s cabinet on March 1
introduced measures to tame home prices, including a 20 percent
tax on individuals selling properties, “but if you look over a
long term, the urbanization process will support steel demand
positively,” He said.  Shanghai-based Baosteel Group may earn more than 10 billion
 yuan  ($1.6 billion) in profit this year, he said, without
specifying if the number is before or after tax. The company
won’t add new capacity in Shanghai and is moving some plants out
of the city to comply with environmental norms, He said.  Baoshan Iron & Steel said Jan. 9 its net income probably
rose 40 percent to 10.3 billion yuan in 2012, boosted by a one-
time gain from asset sales, according to preliminary earnings
sent to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange . Profit may be lower at the
listed company this year, He said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  