-- BB&T CEO King Says Skittish Market Leads to Slow Loan Growth
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-05T19:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bb-t-ceo-king-says-skittish-market-leads-to-slow-loan-growth.html
Kelly King, chief executive officer
of  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , said lending has slowed at  North Carolina ’s
second-largest bank due to seasonal sluggishness and a
“skittish” market.  “Loan growth is challenging now,” King, 64, said today at
an investor conference in  Boston  sponsored by Citigroup Inc.
“The market is very skittish,” and the political turmoil in
 Washington  over tax-and-spending issues “is frankly leaving the
business community very unsure,” he said.  BB&T, based in Winston-Salem, expects  loan  growth of 2
percent to 4 percent next quarter compared with the current
period as “seasonal headwinds,” decline, King said. Higher
rates reduced the bank’s mortgage warehouse business, which
involves lines of credit to smaller lenders,  he said.  “There’s a huge pent-up demand in the business
community,” King said. “We could see a really big boom in
growth the next several years.”  King said he expects net interest margin, or the difference
between what a bank pays for deposits and charges for loans, to
be in the mid-3.70 percent range this quarter, then decline at a
“modest pace” at the end of the year. The firm’s NIM at Dec.
31 was 3.87, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lending is also slowing at Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp,
according to CEO  Richard Davis . He said loans could increase at
“the bottom” of the 1 percent to 1.5 percent range the firm
forecasts for this quarter.  “We’re just not seeing the kind of robustness we might’ve
hoped to have as the quarter starts to age,” Davis, 55, said
today at the Boston conference.  BB&T fell 1.7 percent to $30.60 at 1:55 p.m. in  New York 
and U.S. Bancorp slid 1.1 percent. The shares have gained 5.2
percent and 6.2 percent, respectively, this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  