-- Koen Geens to Succeed Vanackere as Belgian Finance Minister
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-03-05T16:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/belgian-finance-chief-vanackere-quits-citing-belfius-case-1-.html
Koen Geens was named Belgian finance
minister to succeed Steven Vanackere, who unexpectedly resigned
today over the handling of a bank securities deal.  Geens, a lawyer and director at BNP Paribas Fortis SA,
takes up the position as  Belgium  grapples with demands for fresh
budget cuts. A former economic adviser to Flemish regional
government leader Kris Peeters, Geens will be sworn in at 7 p.m.
in Brussels, the Royal Palace said in a statement.  Vanackere, 49, quit after 15 months on the job, saying he
was the target of “unjustified insinuations and malicious
accusations” over his role in a transaction involving state-
owned Belfius Bank and a workers’ organization. Vanackere
succumbed to attacks from a party that has called for the
northern region of Flanders to break away from Belgium, a
reminder of the political tumult that haunts the country’s
coalition government.  “Some people apparently couldn’t imagine that I could
serve impartially as finance minister,” Vanackere said in a
statement on his  website . “This climate of mistrust hinders my
work. It is time for this to cease.”  Geens, who has degrees from  Harvard University  and
Belgium’s Leuven University, teaches corporate law at Leuven.
Geens, born in 1958, served as legal adviser on the initial
public offerings of Belgacom SA and Elia System Operator SA,
according to the BNP Paribas Fortis website. He was economic
adviser to Peeters in Flanders from 2007-2009.  Belgium’s Economy  He takes over the reins at the  Finance Ministry  as
Belgium’s economy is heading for 0.2 percent growth this year,
after shrinking 0.2 percent in 2012, according to European
Commission forecasts on Feb. 22. The nation’s budget deficit is
likely to remain stable at 3 percent.  While that number grazes the European limit, Belgium needs
to find as much as 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) in savings to
get the deficit down to a goal of 2.15 percent,  Le Soir  reported
on March 2, citing unnamed officials.  Vanackere, a  Christian Democrat  from the Flanders region,
is the first high-ranking departure from the government of Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo, which took office in December 2011 after
an unprecedented 541-day post-election stalemate.  With Di Rupo becoming the first native of the French-
speaking southern region to run Belgium since the 1970s, the job
of finance minister went to the Dutch-speaking Vanackere, who
was foreign minister previously. Di Rupo accepted the
resignation “with regret,” his office said in a statement.  Sudden Resignation  The sudden resignation offered a window on the unsettled
politics of Flanders, the wealthier, Dutch-speaking northern
region. The separatist N-VA party scored 39 percent in a poll
published by  La Libre Belgique  newspaper last month, equal to
the three next-most-popular parties combined.  Led by Bart De Wever, operating from a power base as mayor
of Antwerp, Belgium’s second-largest city, the N-VA is biding
its time after failing to block the formation of Di Rupo’s
federal government. The next elections are in 2014, raising the
specter that an emboldened N-VA will sow renewed doubts about
Belgium staying intact.  Vanackere’s fall dates to Jan. 31, when Belfius, a bank
that emerged from the state’s rescue of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , bought back
110 million euros of profit-sharing certificates from two
Christian labor organizations, one from each Belgian region.  Taxpayer Expense  The labor organizations reinvested the proceeds in a 6.25
percent Belfius perpetual bond, drawing criticism from the N-VA
that they profited from a government-brokered deal at taxpayer
expense.  While Vanackere said he played no role in the transaction,
he was caught up in the fallout because his political roots are
in the Flemish labor organization, known by its initials ACW.  In a  statement , the N-VA said it never called on Vanackere
to quit or suspected him of wrongdoing. All it did was call for
a parliamentary probe to deliver “clarity and transparency” on
the Belfius deal, the statement said.  Vanackere worked as a bank clerk before entering politics.
His climb up the ladder included stints as manager of the
Brussels port and the transport authority. As foreign minister,
he played a role in the Belgian decision to dispatch fighter
jets to support the rebellion against  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya .  “I haven’t been accused of anything,” Vanackere said.
“But this doesn’t save me today from having to devote too much
of my energy to responding to false allegations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  