-- BM&FBovespa to Cut Stock Trading Fees in Push to Increase Volume
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-05T18:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bm-fbovespa-to-cut-stock-trading-fees-in-push-to-increase-volume.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
Latin America’s biggest exchange, is lowering fees for stock
transactions and will offer incentives to day traders to boost
volumes, Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto said.  Equity trading fees will be cut by 28.5 percent starting
April 1, Pinto told reporters in Sao Paulo today. The reduction
will be extended to as much as 71 percent in December based on
the average monthly volume of stock transactions. Day traders
will get discounts similar to high-frequency traders starting at
the end of this year, he said.  “These measures are intended to boost trading,”  Pinto
said. “We’re betting on volumes.”  Daily stock trading  volume  in Sao Paulo has averaged 7.56
billion reais ($3.84 billion) this year through March 1,
according to data compiled by the exchange. Volumes climbed 12
percent last year after being unchanged in 2011, the data show.  The new charges are more in line with those in global
capital markets and are intended to lure international
investors, Pinto said. The exchange expects volumes to climb,
offsetting the reduced revenue from lower fees. If trading
volumes don’t increase, BM&FBovespa could lose between 18
million reais and 20 million reais in annual revenue, he said.  The company plans to review trading fees on derivatives by
December, Pinto said.  BM&FBovespa’s shares  jumped  3.3 percent to 13.62 reais at
2:50 p.m. in Sao Paulo, the biggest intraday jump since Feb. 15.
The benchmark Bovespa index, third-worst performer this year
among 94 major stock benchmarks, rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  