-- BMC Software Said to Get Fresh Buyout Interest From KKR, TPG
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-03-05T21:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bmc-software-said-to-draw-renewed-buyout-interest-from-kkr-tpg.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , the maker of
programs to manage corporate  computer networks  that abandoned a
sale last year, has attracted renewed buyout interest from
private-equity funds, people with knowledge of the matter said.  KKR & Co. and TPG Capital have separately expressed
interest in Houston-based BMC, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private. BMC held similar
talks last year amid pressure from activist investor Elliott
Associates LP before deciding to buy back $1 billion in shares
instead. BMC rose 3.7 percent to $42.32 at the close in New
York, for a market value of about $6 billion.  BMC didn’t formally restart a sale process and the talks
may fail again, said one of the people. The renewed interest
from the buyout firms stems from the upcoming expiration of
Elliott’s standstill agreement on March 23, after which it can
continue to push its agenda, said one of the people. The
expiration is a month before the deadline to propose new members
to BMC’s board.  Representatives for BMC, KKR, TPG and Elliott declined to
comment.  BMC sells software that lets information technology
departments better manage fleets of computer servers and
mainframes, configuring new machines and applying updates to
older ones. The company is divided into a unit that makes
software for managing server networks and another group for
mainframe products.  In July, BMC added two directors chosen by Elliott to its
board after earlier rebuffing Elliott’s push to seek five seats
and pursue a sale. Elliott is BMC’s second-largest shareholder,
with a 9.6 percent stake as of Jan. 30, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  