-- BMW Shrugs Off Europe Drop as Daimler Seeks More Capacity
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-03-05T11:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bmw-shrugs-off-europe-drop-as-daimler-seeks-more-capacity.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 Daimler AG (DAI)  are shrugging off the European auto-market decline as
sales growth in  China  and the U.S. pushes their luxury-car
production to maximum rates.  BMW, targeting a third consecutive year of record sales,
delivered more than 250,000 vehicles in the first two months of
2013, a jump of about 6 percent, and “our factories are running
at full capacity,” Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer 
said today at a  Geneva Motor Show  press conference. Daimler’s
Mercedes-Benz unit is adding shifts to meet demand for compact
cars, CEO Dieter Zetsche said at a separate briefing.  The two manufacturers, which  rank  first and third in global
luxury-car sales, are pushing new models and targeting customers
outside  Europe  to make up for a recession in the region. Their
production rates contrast with the wider European auto industry,
which may lose 3 percentage points of capacity utilization to 63
percent in 2013 as the market shrinks a sixth straight year,
according to LMC Automotive consulting company.  “BMW and Mercedes have a whole bunch of new products at
the start,” said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst
at IHS Automotive research company. “Mercedes needs to fill the
pipeline for the new A-Class compact and E-Class. It remains to
be seen in about half a year how successful they really are.”  BMW is presenting the 3-Series GT crossover coupe at the
Geneva show and preparing to roll out its first electric
vehicle, the BMW i3 city car, at the end of the year. Zetsche is
introducing the Mercedes CLA compact coupe and a revamped
version of the up-scale E-Class sedan.  Weekend Shifts  Mercedes’s car plant in Rastatt,  Germany , where the company
builds the A- and B-Class cars, has negotiated 21 extra weekend
work shifts to raise production, Zetsche said. The Stuttgart-
based company lacks capacity to meet demand for compacts and
sport-utility vehicles, he said.  After expanding production in the U.S. and China and
deciding to assemble vehicles in  Brazil , Munich-based BMW is
looking to  Russia  for a possible production site after selling
40,000 vehicles there last year, Reithofer said.  “Russia is a market we can’t ignore,” he said.  China is the largest national market for both BMW and
Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi AG, the unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
that’s the world’s second-largest maker of luxury cars. Mercedes
is reorganizing sales networks in the country in an effort to
catch up. Zetsche, who has a target of retaking the worldwide
luxury-vehicle delivery lead, said today that he sees Mercedes
“on par” with its larger competitors except in China.  Global Estimate  Global car-industry sales will probably rise 4 percent this
year to about 75.5 million cars, with the U.S. market growing by
2 percent and China’s by 8.5 percent, more than making up for a
decline of 2 percent in Europe, Reithofer said. The sovereign-
debt crisis will burden European economy for at least another
five years, and countries in the southern part of the region
haven’t bottomed out yet, he said.  “Europe is a great challenge” amid increasing
competition, including in pricing, Reithofer said.  Reithofer’s prediction for the region’s car market compares
with a contraction of 3 percent to 5 percent estimated by
industry CEOs such as  Renault SA (RNO) ’s Carlos Ghosn and PSA Peugeot
Citroen’s Philippe Varin.  Varin said today in a Bloomberg Television interview that
the decline will be closer to the 5 percent end of the range.
European sales reported so far in 2013 have been worse than
expected, Daimler’s Zetsche said.  To counter volatile car markets, BMW has established a
production system that allows the manufacturer to build several
models on the same line, Reithofer said. BMW decided to take
volume out of the German market last year instead of granting
more rebates, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Geneva via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  