-- Boeing Customer Says 777X Sales Won’t Start This Year
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-03-05T01:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/boeing-customer-says-777x-sales-won-t-start-this-year.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  777 customer Etihad
Airways PJSC said it doesn’t expect sales of an upgraded version
of the model to begin this year as planned, and the planemaker’s
chief said 787 battery woes have slowed development work.  Etihad Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  also wouldn’t
say whether he still expects the 777X, as the new variant is
called, to enter service at the end of the decade, as Chicago-
based Boeing has been promising.  Boeing Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner “is
meeting with us next week in  Abu Dhabi , and as part of that
meeting, we’ll look at what our future requirements are,” Hogan
said yesterday in an interview in  New York . “We’re believers in
the aircraft and the product. We’ve had presentations in  Seattle 
on next-generation aircraft and continue to evaluate the
aircraft accordingly.”  The 787 Dreamliner’s battery faults -- still under
investigation after the model has been grounded for seven weeks
-- are slowing work on the planned 787-10, a stretched version
of that plane, Conner said earlier yesterday. There’s
“hopefully enough interest to be able to bring that forward
soon” for board approval to commit to producing it, Conner said
at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in New York.  “We have been working really hard on the business case,
working with our customers,” Conner said of the 777X. “With
both of those, though, I think we’re in relatively good shape
once we get through the battery issue.”  Revised Schedule  Conner’s predecessor,  Jim Albaugh , who unexpectedly retired
last year, had said he expected board approval to begin offering
both planes by the end of 2012. Conner revised that prediction
when he took over in June, saying he still wanted to confer with
customers before taking any new designs to the board.  Airbus SAS’s rival A350, scheduled to enter service in
2014, is “a concern,” though Boeing still expects to sell as
many 777s this year as it delivers, Conner said yesterday. The
company’s delivery forecast is for about 100 777s this year.  “There hasn’t been any change, we’re still trying to hit
the same internal milestones,” said Karen Crabtree, a Boeing
spokeswoman. “We continue to work with customers to understand
the requirements to define the future 777.”  Boeing generally first seeks the board’s authority to offer
a new model and then, once it has customers lined up, the
authority to launch, which is when it commits to producing the
plane. Directors gave authority to offer the 787-10 in November.  The third customer meeting for potential 777X buyers,
following gatherings in June and October, is scheduled for April
in Seattle, home to Boeing’s commercial jet headquarters.  The 787 has been grounded by regulators since Jan. 16,
after battery faults led to a fire on one plane and an emergency
landing by another. The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  is
considering a plan that Boeing proposed Feb. 22 to alter the
battery’s cell spacing and case to better protect the jet in the
future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  