-- BOJ Nominee Iwata Adds to Calls for Buying Longer-Term Bonds
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-03-05T04:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/boj-nominee-iwata-adds-to-calls-for-longer-term-bond-purchases.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  should buy longer-
term bonds to help it achieve a 2 percent inflation target, said
Kikuo Iwata, one of the government’s nominees for central bank
deputy governor.  “The BOJ has a responsibility to quickly achieve the 2
percent target,” Iwata, 70, said today at a confirmation
hearing in Parliament in Tokyo. “At the moment the BOJ only
buys debt maturing up to three years; it should buy five years
and longer.”  Investors are assessing how aggressive the BOJ will be in
countering 15 years of deflation after governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his two deputies step down on March 19. Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s nominee for governor, Haruhiko Kuroda,
yesterday said the central bank should consider buying longer-
term debt and indicated that open-ended asset purchases planned
for 2014 could start this year.  Japan ’s 10-year government bond yield touched 0.585 percent
today, the lowest for a decade. Shares rose for a fourth day,
with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  headed for the highest close
since 2008, amid expectations for more easing. The yen was 0.4
percent higher at 93.13 per dollar at 1.40 p.m. in Tokyo.  The currency gained after Keisuke Tsumura, a lawmaker with
the main opposition Democratic Party of Japan, said he
personally doesn’t support Iwata’s nomination, highlighting a
potential roadblock for Abe’s choice of deputy governor.  DPJ lawmakers have said they will back Kuroda while
expressing reservations about Iwata, a longtime BOJ critic.  Opposition’s Stance  The party’s Secretary General Goshi Hosono told reporters
yesterday that the party won’t announce an official stance on
the nominees until testimony in both houses of parliament is
complete.  The ruling Liberal Democratic Party aims to hold hearings
for the three BOJ nominees in the upper chamber on March 11-12,
parliamentary affairs chief Masashi Waki said today.  Nomura Holdings Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co. say more
easing could come as soon as the first policy meeting under the
new leadership, scheduled for April 3-4.  BOJ Executive Director Hiroshi Nakaso, the nominee for the
second deputy governor position, said at the hearing today that
meeting the 2 percent target in two years will not be easy and
that wage growth is needed.  “The central bank has implemented lots of different
policies and yet prices have barely changed,” he told
lawmakers. “That’s something the BOJ needs to react to.”  ‘Creative’ Policy  The central bank may have more room to be creative in its
monetary policy, Nakaso said, without specifying what new steps
should be taken.  “Nakaso’s basic stance regarding monetary policy needs to
be closely monitored, as he is expected to play a very important
role in reconciling the different views of the six board members
and Kuroda/Iwata,” Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo  and a former central bank
official, said in a research note yesterday.  Kanno predicts that the BOJ will announce new easing
measures at a meeting on April 26th, including buying longer-
term bonds and bringing forward open-ended asset purchases to
this year.  The BOJ currently buys bonds, as well as exchange-traded
funds and other risk assets, through a fund targeted to reach 76
trillion yen ($816 billion) by the end of this year.  Wages rose for the first time in nine months in January,
data released by the labor ministry showed today.  Taking Responsibility  Iwata, a professor at Gakushuin University in Tokyo, who
has advocated greater government oversight of monetary policy,
suggested that the BOJ leadership should be prepared to resign
if they fail to meet the inflation target in two years.  “I don’t know for sure the best way to take
responsibility, but I’m aware that resigning would be the most
significant way,” he said in Parliament today.  Iwata also said that, while buying foreign bonds is not
necessary at the moment, it should remain as a policy option.  Kuroda, by contrast, said yesterday that purchases of
foreign bonds by the central bank would be difficult, echoing
comments by Abe last month after Group of 20 nations pledged to
refrain from targeting exchange rates for competitive purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  