-- Bolshoi Acid Attack Suspects Held, Dancer’s Home Searched
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-05T18:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bolshoi-theater-director-acid-attack-suspect-is-detained.html
Moscow police detained three
suspects, including a lead dancer, in the acid attack on the
Bolshoi Theater’s artistic director,  Sergei Filin .  Bolshoi ballet soloist  Pavel Dmitrichenko , who’s been with
the theater since 2002, was detained on suspicion of organizing
the attack, according to Anatoly Lastovetsky, an Interior
Ministry spokesman. The police searched his house earlier today.
An ex-convict, who is suspected of throwing the acid in Filin’s
face, and his alleged driver are also being held, Lastovetsky
said by phone.  Katerina Novikova, a spokeswoman for the Bolshoi Theater,
declined to comment immediately.  The police had been probing the possible involvement of
Bolshoi ballet dancers and employees in the Jan. 17 assault on
Filin, 42. The investigation has fanned rivalries at the
historic theater, founded in 1776 by Catherine the Great,
between supporters of Filin and of  Nikolai Tsiskaridze , the
principal dancer.  Tsiskaridze, 39, accused management of waging a Stalin-era
witch-hunt against him, while repeatedly denying involvement in
the attack.  “They are organizing meetings against me and forcing
people to sign letters against me,” Tsiskaridze said in an
 interview  with the British Broadcasting Corp. that was posted on
the  BBC ’s website Feb. 8.  Pornographic Photos  The previous week, Bolshoi General Director Anatoly Iksanov
told billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Snob magazine that he
believed Tsiskaridze was behind the Internet release of gay
pornographic photos that led to the resignation of Filin’s
predecessor, Gennady Yanin, in 2011.  In the Snob interview, Iksanov, 61, blamed the Georgian-
born dancer for fostering a culture of animosity within the
theater by openly seeking Filin’s job, without didn’t accuse
Tsiskaridze of ordering the attack on Filin.  Tsiskaridze accused Filin of seeking to turn one of his
pupils against him by offering her a part in  Swan Lake  if she
stopped taking lessons from him.  Filin has said that his mobile phones were tampered with
and his e-mail and Facebook Inc. accounts hacked in the days
before a masked assailant threw acid at his face as he arrived
at his home in the Russian capital.  Filin is still being treated in  Germany  and plans to return
to work by the summer, the Bolshoi’s Novikova said on state-run
Rossiya 24 television earlier today.  “That the police have a suspect now is great news for the
Bolshoi,” Novikova said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  