-- Bomb Threat Used by Platinum Equity Workers for Hollande Notice
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-03-05T12:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bomb-threat-used-by-platinum-equity-workers-for-hollande-notice.html
Angry workers  at a central  France 
foundry owned by Platinum Equity LLC have placed about 20 gas
demijohns converted into “mini-bombs” at the plant set for
closure, in a last-ditch attempt to get President  Francois Hollande ’s attention.  “Those who own our factory are tossing us out like
garbage,” said Didier Verrier, a 59-year-old worker at DMI Vaux,
the foundry that makes auto parts for  Renault SA (RNO)  and Man Group.
“We tried for months to negotiate to keep our jobs. It failed.
In France, if you don’t make noise or break something, you don’t
get heard.” He conceded they’re unlikely to blow anything up.  Diversified Machine Inc., an auto industry manufacturer
that owns the plant, belongs to Beverly Hills-based Platinum
Equity, which bought it from the  Carlyle Group . The private
equity firm says it has new plans for its holdings in France and
wants to close the factory. The workers, who asked U.S.
President  Barack Obama  for help in a Feb. 19 letter to the  White
House , are today demanding that Hollande step in.  With the number of French jobless at a 15-year high --
leaving about 3.17 million people seeking employment -- labor
unrest is turning into one of the biggest threats to the
government of the Socialist president. Hollande, who promised to
reverse the trend of rising joblessness by year-end, may be set
to acknowledge that it’s a pledge he may not be able to keep.  He’s also about to pass new rules bringing more flexibility
to the labor market that’ll make it easier to fire workers,
provoking more anger and protests. Two of France’s biggest labor
unions, Force Ouvriere, or FO, and Confederation Generale du
Travail, or CGT, will be demonstrating today to oppose
Hollande’s jobs policy.  ‘Social Explosion’  “What we’re witnessing today are less social movements
than social implosions or explosions,” Interior Minister  Manuel Valls  said on  RMC Radio last month . He said intelligence
services are monitoring workers’ actions in France. “We can try
to understand what pushes these men and women to desperation,
but we cannot accept that they destroy their factory tools.”  Hollande’s popularity fell again in February, leaving him
the most unpopular leader since 1981, a TNS-Sofres poll showed.
About two-thirds of the French and 44 percent of those who voted
for him in the second and decisive round of the May election say
they’re disappointed with him, according to a BVA poll in Le
Parisien on March 3.  Since the May presidential ballot, companies from  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Air France (AF)  to Sanofi SA have unveiled plans
to cut thousands of jobs, prompting dozens of protests at their
factories.  New Rules  The 1,173 workers of  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  whose jobs
are at risk, demonstrated last month with their spouses and
children in their town of Amiens, in northern France. The U.S.’s
largest tire-maker plans to close the plant.  A few weeks earlier, a man immolated himself in front of a
state employment office in the western town of Nantes.  The number of workers getting the minimum welfare payment,
known as RSA, increased by more than 13 percent last year.  Hollande says his measures, including state-sponsored youth
jobs and his January labor rules agreement, are an adequate
response to fight unemployment.  The government is seeking to pass in Parliament by May a
labor accord between some of the nation’s unions and business
leaders that will give companies the right to reduce working
time and salaries when demand slows. The accord will be
submitted to the cabinet tomorrow in Paris.  “We’ve been hearing that for decades: today’s job cuts are
tomorrow’s new jobs, it’s rubbish,” Jean-Claude Mailly, who
heads the FO union, told  France Inter radio today .  ‘Getting Dangerous’  “This measure will not fight unemployment or reverse the
trend on the job market as he hoped, but it will increase it,
it’s a no-brainer,”  Bernard Thibault , who leads the CGT union
said in the same interview.  The DMI worker Verrier, who’s been working at the foundry
for 25 years, said Hollande’s solutions are not “the right
ones” and that “while he’s losing time with lame solutions,
workers are getting poorer and getting hungry. The situation
will get unbearable and eventually dangerous for the country.”  The Socialist president is falling behind on nearly every
economic pledge he’s made for 2013 -- from growth to shrinking
the budget deficit. Still, nothing is heaping more criticism on
him, even from his own supporters, than his inability to spur
 job creation  as he promised.  ‘Act Fast’  France’s unemployment rate stands at 10.3 percent, the
highest in 13 years. Youth employment is almost double the
national rate. The European Commission forecast last week that
the French economy will expand 0.1 percent this year, far short
of the government’s 0.8 percent goal. The Commission said it
expects France’s unemployment to rise to 10.7 percent.  Hollande will also fail to keep his pledge to cap the
 budget deficit  at 3 percent of gross domestic product, according
to the EU, which estimates it’ll be closer to 3.7 percent.
France plans to revise its targets between March and April.  With growth falling short of expectations and the deficit
set to be larger than predicted, Hollande is planning spending
cuts and an increase in taxes next year.  Hollande, who made the promise to reverse the labor market
trend this year during his New Year’s televised address, plans a
new TV appearance by the end of the month, his office said.  Starting this month, he will also pay a weekly visit to
France’s regions, with a first stop in the town of Dijon on
March 11 and 12. To stress the importance he’s giving to the
visits, Hollande plans to stay overnight in the towns he goes to.  “He’s making an effort but lacks energy,” Verrier said.
“The future of our industry, of our country is in a bad way. He
must act and fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  