-- Hong Kong’s PCCW Markets U.S. Dollar Debt With AIA, Swiss Re
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-03-05T05:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bond-risk-drops-in-japan-australia-credit-default-swaps-show.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) , the telecommunications
company chaired by  Hong Kong  billionaire  Richard Li , is selling
dollar-denominated notes as two insurers also market offerings
in Asia. Bond risk fell in  Japan  and  Australia .  PCCW units HKT Group Holdings Ltd. and Hong Kong
Telecommunications HKT Ltd. will guarantee the sale of the 10-
year securities, according to a person familiar with the matter.
 AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , which was founded in Shanghai, and Zurich-based
Swiss Reinsurance Co. are also marketing notes in the U.S.
currency, separate people said. The cost of insuring corporate
bonds from non-payment in Japan and Australia fell today,
according to traders of credit-default swaps.  Asia-Pacific borrowers sold the most debt yesterday since
Feb. 19, after issuance slumped last month due in part to market
holidays across the region for the Lunar New Year. Income at HKT
Ltd., which controls the guarantors on PCCW’s offering, rose 32
percent in 2012 from a year earlier, partly due to higher mobile
revenue, the company said last week.  “This should print certainly, and if the lead managers
don’t tighten pricing too much, it should perform,” Brayan Lai,
an analyst in emerging-market credit trading at Jefferies Group
Inc., said about PCCW’s sale. “The assets they have are fine.”  PCCW plans to sell its securities at about 220 basis points
more than similar maturity Treasuries, the person with knowledge
of the details said.  Insurer Offerings  AIA is offering five-year notes at about 120 basis points
more than  U.S. government debt  and 10-year securities at about
135 basis points more than the benchmark, another person said.
Swiss Reinsurance is considering pricing 11.5-year contingent-
capital bonds in the high 6 percent area, according to a
separate person.  Asian companies pay an average 285 basis points more than
government debt to sell dollar-denominated bonds, 5 basis points
less than at the beginning of the year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. That compares with 151 basis
points to issue debt in the currency globally, the indexes show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 2.5 basis points to
117.5 basis points as of 9:41 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The gauge is on course for its lowest close since
Feb. 13, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index declined 1 basis point to
115 as of 11:59 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  The benchmark has fallen 12.5 basis points this year,
according to Westpac and CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 109.5 basis points
as of 8:53 a.m. in Hong Kong,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  prices show. The measure has increased 1.7 basis
point this month, according to prices from ANZ and CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  