-- Boston Scientific’s Study at Heart Meeting Under Review
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-05T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/boston-scientific-s-study-at-heart-meeting-under-review.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s study of a
heart device to reduce stroke risk, slated for presentation at a
medical heart meeting this weekend, is under review after the
company said only limited data about the product’s safety would
be released.  The company said it planned to present the results of the
“acute procedural safety” at the  American College of
Cardiology meeting  this weekend in  San Francisco . The device is
used to seal off a reservoir in the upper chamber of the heart
that allows blood to pool and form potentially devastating clots
that can trigger strokes. The study was designed to see whether
the product, known as the Watchman, could prevent strokes.  “The release yesterday surprised us,” said Beth Casteel,
a spokeswoman for the  American College of Cardiology . “We are
investigating with them how much they will present.”  The results of the study called Prevail were cited as the
most-anticipated findings slated for presentation at the three-
day meeting by  Miguel Quinones , professor at Weill Cornell
Medical College in  New York , and chairman of the heart
conference. More information may be available tomorrow about the
plans for the presentation, Casteel said in a telephone
interview.  Steve Campanini, a spokesman for Natick, Massachusetts-
based Boston Scientific, said the company is still evaluating
the efficacy data to see if it will be ready for presentation.  Results Questioned  The limited release may indicate the Watchman device failed
to meet one or two of the study’s main goals, those that aren’t
being presented, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells Fargo
in New York. In addition to the device’s safety in the week
after it is implanted, the study was designed to look at risks
of stroke, clots and unexplained deaths, and the clotting risks
more than a week after patients enrolled in the trial.  “We find this highly unusual given that Prevail is one of
the featured late-breaking trials at ACC,” Biegelsen wrote in a
note to clients. “Given the unusual nature of this development,
i.e. only one of three primary endpoints being presented, we
would not be surprised to see this decision change by
Saturday.”  Quinones didn’t know the company planned to limit the
presentation of the study results when he was asked last week to
identify the trial that may have the biggest impact on medical
care. When pressed, he picked the Boston Scientific-funded
study.  ‘Innovative Treatment’  “If we matched the fact that it’s an innovative treatment,
a new form of treatment, with a disease that is extremely
common, with findings that can be catastrophic, i.e., having a
stroke or bleeding in your brain, if you put it all together,
yes, it would probably be Prevail,” he said during a conference
call with reporters. “However, if the findings aren’t that
striking, then it’s just one more device that came in and went
out.”  The ACC meeting and the presentation of the Prevail data
will be the first major event for  Michael Mahoney , who took the
helm in November as Boston Scientific’s chief executive officer.
He said innovative new products and the integration of
acquisitions should return company to growth this year, making
it the first increase since 2009.  Share Rise  Investors have given Mahoney the benefit of the doubt,
sending shares up 41 percent since he took office. Boston
Scientific gained less than 1 percent to $7.38 at the close
today in New York.  The company had fallen from a high of $45.81 on April 5,
2004, to a low of $4.97 on July 26, 2012.  The Watchman device has had a roller coaster past and
projections about the future are unclear. It is already sold in
 Europe , where it competes with St. Jude Medical Inc.’s Amplatzer
Amulet device.  Boston Scientific  obtained  the technology in 2011 when it
acquired closely held Atritech Inc. for $100 million, with
another $275 million in potential payments linked to regulatory
and sales-based milestones. The  Food and Drug Administration  had
rejected Atritech’s application for Watchman a year earlier,
asking for additional information about its safety. Atritech had
begun the  Prevail  trial to evaluate the risks.  The Watchman is used to block off a  reservoir  that bulges
from the left atrium. When the heart beats normally, the
reservoir contracts with the rest of the heart and blood is
pushed out to fuel the body. For 6 million Americans, however, a
rhythm disturbance known as atrial fibrillation impedes the
contractions and allows the blood to pool, potentially forming
clots that can travel to the brain and cause strokes.  Inverted Umbrella  Boston Scientific’s device is threaded into the bulge and
opened like an inverted umbrella, sealing it off. It offers a
potential alternative to lifelong drug therapy that thins the
blood to prevent clots. While the blood thinners avoid the risk
of surgery, they can increase the chance of uncontrolled
bleeding. The Prevail trial was designed to see if the risks
from inserting the Watchman seen in earlier studies were
outweighed by its benefits.  “Atrial fibrillation is the most common arrhythmia seen in
adults, causing palpitations and fatigue,” said Ken Stein,
chief medical officer for Boston Scientific’s cardiac rhythm
management group. “The most feared complication is that it can
put people at risk for stroke, and the strokes tend to be
particularly devastating.”  Millions Apart  The Prevail trial and the earlier studies compared Watchman
with warfarin, a form of rat poison that for decades has been
the standard of care for atrial fibrillation. Since the study
began, three new pills have reached the market:  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Eliquis, Bayer AG and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Xarelto and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa.  “For patients who are able to take these drugs, they
really are wonderful,” Stein said in a telephone interview.
Still, half of those eligible to take them don’t, and 20 percent
of patients in studies quit taking the new drugs within two
years.  “What patients need isn’t just a better anticoagulant
drug,” he said. “What they need is an alternative for those
unwilling and unable to take blood thinners over the long
term.”  Just how many people may fall into that category is
unclear. Boston Scientific last month projected the market for
the closure devices may reach $500 million by 2017. Biegelsen,
the Wells Fargo analyst,  projects  Watchman sales of $159 million
by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  