-- Bovespa Futures Rise as Commodities Gain Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-05T12:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-gain-boosts-export-outlook.html
Bovespa-index futures advanced as
higher commodities prices boosted the outlook for Brazilian
exporters amid speculation that central banks around the world
will continue with measures to support economic recovery.  BRF  Brasil Foods (BRFS3)  SA, the world’s biggest poultry exporter,
may move after reporting fourth-quarter earnings that missed
estimates. Railroad company  ALL America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3)   and
medical-diagnostics firm  Diagnosticos da America SA  may be
active after both companies posted unexpected quarterly losses.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring in April gained
0.4 percent to 56,925 at 9:05 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real
climbed 0.1 percent to 1.9684 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 raw materials added 0.4 percent.  Global stocks  and commodities gained after Federal Reserve
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the U.S. central bank should
press on with $85 billion in monthly bond buying, while  Haruhiko
Kuroda , the nominee to be Bank of Japan governor, said he would
do whatever is needed to end 15 years of deflation. In the euro
area, officials indicated that budget policies may be eased
after a backlash against austerity plans.  Footwear maker  Arezzo Industria (ARZZ3)  & Comercio SA may be active
after naming Alexandre Cafe Birman chief executive officer.
Homebuilder  Even Construtora e Incorporadora SA  may move after
posting sales and profit that beat analysts’ estimates in the
fourth quarter.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has dropped 11 percent from this year’s high on
Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has slid 4.9 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.6 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 6.52 billion
reais ($3.31 billion) yesterday, which compares with a daily
average of 7.56 billion reais this year through Mar. 1,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  