-- BP Faces 2014 Trial Over Investors’ Gulf Spill Claims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-03-05T22:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bp-to-face-august-trial-over-investors-spill-claims.html
BP Plc will face a  jury trial  Aug.
25, 2014, in federal court in Houston on investors’
multibillion-dollar allegations that the company hid the true
size of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill to limit the effect on
its stock price.  The investors, led by  Ohio  and  New York  pension plans, sued
BP and certain officers in 2010, alleging violations of U.S.
securities law. The investors also claim the company publicly
claimed a commitment to and implementation of expanded safety
measures while internally cutting budgets and rejecting
employees’ safety warnings.  The investors asked U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison,
who is overseeing the lawsuit, for a February 2014 trial, while
BP wanted January 2015. Ellison set the Aug. 25, 2014, trial
date in a one-page order today.  “We are very pleased to have a firm trial date in August
2014,” Richard Mithoff, lead attorney for individual investors
suing over BP share losses, said in a telephone interview. “The
shareholders will now have their day in court.”  Investor securities-fraud suits are among hundreds of
claims filed in U.S. courts after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico in
April 2010. Eleven people were killed in the blast and hundreds
of miles of coastline were soiled in what became the largest
offshore spill in U.S. history.  Economic Loss  Injury, economic loss and environmental suits are combined
before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who
began a nonjury trial last week on liability for the incident.
Barbier will determine responsibility and whether one or more of
the companies involved on the project acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  The investor suit, which seeks unspecified billions of
dollars from BP in lost share value, is combined with other
shareholder actions before Ellison in federal court in Houston.  Ellison has limited the lawsuit to claims brought by
investors who bought shares on the U.S. stock exchange. BP has
denied fraud or any lack of attention to safety in court
filings.  Scott Dean , BP spokesman, declined to comment on the trial
date.  Guilty Plea  The shareholders also sued several BP officers, including
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  and BP America Inc.’s
chairman and president at the time of the incident,  Lamar McKay .
Ellison dismissed the claims against Dudley and McKay, while
allowing the suit to go forward against former BP Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  and Douglas Suttles, former chief
operating officer for exploration and production.  BP agreed to pay $525 million to settle a Securities and
Exchange Commission claim that the company underestimated the
size of the spill. The company also pleaded guilty to a felony
count of obstruction of Congress related to its spill size
estimates.  The plea was part of a $4 billion settlement of criminal
charges brought by the U.S. against BP over the incident. BP
also pleaded guilty to 11 other felony counts related to the
deaths of the crew members and two misdemeanor environmental law
charges.  Market Value  BP shares fell about 40 percent in the weeks after the
explosion, investors said in their complaint. The drop
eliminated billions of dollars in the company’s market value,
shareholders said.  The pension plans leading the litigation are suing on
behalf of investors in BP ADRs from Jan. 16, 2007, to May 28,
2010.  Mithoff, the shareholder attorney, told Ellison at a
hearing last month that investors would be ready by February
2014 to start the trial.  “With one or two exceptions,” Mithoff told Ellison, the
process of taking sworn statements from BP executives and
exchanging evidence “has already been substantially completed
over the last two years” through coordination with attorneys in
 New Orleans  who are leading the separate litigation against BP
over economic and medical damages from the spill.  ‘Fraud’ Theory  Richard Pepperman, BP’s attorney, told Ellison it was
“overly ambitious” to think the parties would be ready for
trial by early next year. He claimed that investors must prove
the alleged misrepresentations were material in order to pursue
the “fraud on the market” theory they’ve proposed in court
filings.  Ellison cautioned lawyers for both BP and the investors at
the hearing that there won’t be additional delays. “I’m pretty
stubborn on trial dates,” Ellison told the lawyers last month.
“That’s not a docket call date; it’s the day we pick a jury and
begin with opening statements.”  The case is In re  BP Plc (BP/)  Securities Litigation, 4:10-md-
02185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  