-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Rousseff Signal; Real Advances
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-05T21:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-rousseff-signal-real-little-changed.html
Brazil’s shorter-term swap rates
rose the most in a week after Correio Braziliense reported that
President Dilma Rousseff won’t oppose an increase in borrowing
costs as the central bank begins a two-day policy meeting.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 climbed
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.67 percent at
the close in Sao Paulo. The real advanced 0.3 percent to 1.9642
per dollar.  Support from Rousseff “would be one less obstacle for a
rate increase,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento SA in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “The central bank may change its
statement, better qualifying its language about rates being
unchanged for a prolonged period.”  Rousseff has given the central bank clearance to raise
borrowing costs as needed, the Brasilia-based newspaper Correio
Braziliense reported today without saying where it got the
information. The central bank will hold the target lending  rate 
at a record low 7.25 percent for a third straight meeting to
support the economy, according to the median forecast of 53
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Phone calls and e-mail messages to the Presidential Palace
and the Finance Ministry weren’t returned.  Inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of policy
makers’ preferred range for more than two years. At its last
three meetings, the central bank has said that keeping monetary
conditions stable for a “sufficiently prolonged period” is the
best way to contain inflation.  Slowing Growth  Growth in the world’s sixth-largest economy fell to 0.9
percent last year, the slowest pace since 2009, on declines in
agriculture and industrial production, the national statistics
agency said March 1. Price increases in mid-February exceeded
economists’ forecasts for the eighth consecutive month, while
annual inflation accelerated to 6.18 percent.  Brazil ’s real gained along with most of the 25 biggest
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg as  Europe ’s
economy showed signs of a rebound and traders wagered a signal
of future monetary tightening would boost demand for Brazilian
assets.  “With the possibility of a rate hike, the trend is for the
dollar to fall, though that should be limited to the 1.95 to 2
per dollar range,” Santos said. “Europe had better numbers,
which excited the markets.”  U.K. services unexpectedly accelerated last month as demand
strengthened, indicating the economy may stave off a recession
this quarter. A gauge of activity increased to 51.8 from 51.5 in
January, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply said today in  London .  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday
the U.S. central bank should continue with its $85-billion
monthly bond purchases. Her remarks echoed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s comment last week that the benefits of the Fed’s low
interest rates and $3.1 trillion balance sheet outweigh any risk
of financial instability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  