-- Buffett Says Gloat Like Rockefeller When Watching Trains
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-06T03:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/buffett-says-gloat-like-rockefeller-when-watching-trains.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said his
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  will benefit from rising U.S. oil
production as the company’s trains and tank cars move fuel
around the country.  Buffett, 82, highlighted demand for rolling stock made by
Berkshire’s Union Tank Car in his annual  letter  to shareholders
March 1. His company acquired the manufacturer, which traces its
roots to John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil Trust, as part of
the 2008 purchase of Marmon Holdings Inc. Buffett told investors
to watch for the UTLX logo.  “As a Berkshire shareholder, you own the cars with that
insignia,” he wrote to investors in his Omaha, Nebraska-based
company. “When you spot a UTLX car, puff out your chest a bit
and enjoy the same satisfaction that  John D. Rockefeller 
undoubtedly experienced as he viewed his fleet a century ago.”  U.S. oil output had a record surge last year as new
technology made drilling faster, cheaper and better at
unleashing crude from rock formations. That’s reducing reliance
on imported oil and benefiting railroads and tank car companies.  Berkshire’s railroad, Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , is now
carrying about 500,000 barrels of oil a day, or roughly 10
percent of what’s produced in the U.S. excluding  Alaska  and
offshore, Buffett said. That’s helped keep volume growing at
BNSF as coal shipments decline.  Oil, Gas  “Fortunately, they discovered oil where our railroad
was,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in an interview yesterday on CNBC.  BNSF is also working with its locomotive suppliers, General
Electric Co. and Caterpillar Inc., to explore buying units that
would run on natural gas, CEO  Matt Rose  said in a January
interview. Traditional locomotives use diesel engines to power
generators for the electric motors driving the wheels.  Tank-car leases are generating $1,500 per month for 10-year
deals, and more than double that for shorter terms, said  Justin Long , an analyst with Stephens Inc. based in  Little Rock ,
 Arkansas . Before the recent boom, the cars leased for about $650
per month, Toby Kolstad, president of Rail Theory Forecasts LLC,
said in December.  Oil Pipelines  Carrying crude by railroad costs almost twice as much as
moving it by pipelines, which are being expanded to handle
increased production from fields such as the Bakken in  North
Dakota  and Eagle Ford in  Texas , Long said. Even after more
pipeline is built, producers may still ship by rail because
there’s an ability to add or reduce tank cars quickly on the
route, he said.  Tank car makers have orders into 2014, Long said. After
next year, pipelines, such as  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed
Keystone XL conduit connecting  Alberta  to the U.S. Gulf Coast,
may diminish the crude-by-rail boom, he said.  “You have pretty good visibility that 2013 and 2014 will
be very strong years,” he said. “The question now is ‘Will you
see builds potentially come down in 2015?’ A lot of that is
dependent on pipeline capacity coming on.”  How long the tank car boom lasts also depends on the level
of domestic oil production and how many new tank cars are built,
Long said. Union Tank Car’s three main competitors --  Trinity
Industries Inc. (TRN) ,  American Railcar Industries Inc. (ARII)  and Greenbrier
Cos. -- have all announced increased manufacturing capacity.  Texas, Louisiana  Union Tank Car, with plants in Louisiana and Texas, built
about 4,300 cars in 2012 and plans to produce more this year,
Bruce Winslow, a spokesman for the company, said today.  The number of tank cars being built is outpacing the need
for replacement cars by as much as three times, Michael Baudendistel, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a
March 4 report. Supply and demand for tank cars should come into
balance by late 2014 or early 2015, he said.  “Historically, when new builds exceed replacement needs by
such a wide level in the capital goods sector, a ‘day of
reckoning’ is near when the industry overbuilds,” Baudendistel,
who has a hold recommendation on Trinity, American Railcar and
Greenbrier, said in the report.  Buffett often uses his letters and public appearances to
promote businesses and investments, including auto insurer Geico
and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the soft-drink maker that counts Berkshire as
its largest shareholder. Highlighting Union Tank Car may have
been Buffett’s way of advertising a business that receives
little attention.  ‘No Ink’  “He wanted to tell you a little about tank cars, which
probably get no ink at all,” said  Andrew Kilpatrick , who has
written a biography of Buffett.  Union Tank Car’s history is tied to the beginnings of the
U.S. oil industry and to the Standard Oil monopoly that made
Rockefeller the world’s richest person. The tycoon realized he
could control the industry through transportation and began
buying railcar companies, according to a  company history  online.  Tank cars were Rockefeller’s “‘secret weapon’ to dominate
the industry,” Union Tank Car said on its website.  Standard Oil spun off the tank car business, then known as
Union Tank Line, into a separate company in 1891 after “federal
and state government began flexing their new regulatory muscle
against the monopoly,” according to the website. The railcar
company continued to serve only Standard Oil until Rockefeller’s
business empire was broken up by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1911.  Marmon bought Union Tank Car in 1981, according to the
company history. Buffett took a controlling stake in Marmon, a
closely held collection of manufacturing and services business,
from the Pritzker family for about $4.5 billion, in a deal
announced on Christmas Day of 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  