-- Bush Citizenship Stance Spotlights Republican Border Rift
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/bush-citizenship-stance-spotlights-republican-border-rift.html
Former  Florida  Governor  Jeb Bush ’s
conflicting statements on a central issue in the immigration
debate underscore divisions among Republicans about allowing
undocumented immigrants to become U.S. citizens.  In a new book, Bush proposes that many of the 11 million
undocumented immigrants estimated to be living in the U.S. be
offered “permanent legal resident status” rather than
citizenship. That’s at odds with Bush’s previous position, as
well as that of a bipartisan group of senators working on
revisions to immigration law that would eventually allow a
pathway to citizenship for those in the country illegally.  Bush’s proposal “caught me off guard, and it undercuts
what we’re trying to do,” said Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , one of eight lawmakers in the
bipartisan group. “I can assure you the Hispanic community has
always assumed that, for the trade-offs that I am seeking, there
will be a pathway to citizenship.”  Bush, a leading voice in the  Republican Party  on
immigration and Hispanic politics, clarified in interviews this
week that he remains open to offering undocumented immigrants a
citizenship path, provided it can be done in a way that doesn’t
treat them “better than those that have waited patiently to
come legally and never get called to come.”  “If a compromise is done dealing with this principle, then
I could support such a compromise,” Bush, 60, said in an e-mail
to  Bloomberg News .  Senators’ Goal  That’s precisely the goal of the lawmakers working on the
legislation, said Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida,
another member of the bipartisan group.  Bush “could support a plan that has a path, so long as it
doesn’t give favoritism to those who have violated the law, and
that’s exactly what we’re working on,” Rubio told reporters
yesterday.  Rubio said he also had gone “back and forth” on the issue
of allowing the undocumented to ultimately become citizens.  “I just concluded that it’s not good for the country in
the long term to have millions and millions of people who can
never become, or are forever prohibited from becoming,
citizens,” Rubio said.  Graham said legalizing undocumented immigrants without
allowing them full citizenship is the wrong solution, both in
terms of policy and politics.  “I don’t like the idea of having millions of people here
for their entire life without being able to assimilate into
America,” Graham said.  Politically, he added, “We’re not going to be able to pass
any bill in the United States Senate without a pathway to
citizenship,” given Democratic control of the chamber.  Undocumented Immigrants  The views of Rubio and Graham aren’t shared by many other
Republican lawmakers, including House Judiciary Committee
Chairman Robert Goodlatte of  Virginia . Goodlatte, whose panel
has jurisdiction over immigration, has said he couldn’t support
citizenship for undocumented immigrants.  The issue divides Republicans even as many in the party
look for ways to improve its standing among Hispanic voters
following the 2012 elections. Exit polls showed that in winning
re-election, President  Barack Obama  beat Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  by 44 percentage points among Hispanics.  Democrats are watching the Republican fissures with barely
disguised glee. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  said
it’s Rubio who’s led on revamping immigration policy -- not
Bush.  “Let’s wait for a few minutes and see how Jeb Bush changes
his mind again,” Reid said yesterday. “His opinion on
immigration is not evolving, it’s devolving -- he keeps going
backwards. I think he’s, frankly, made a fool of himself in the
last 24 hours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  