-- Cargill and CHS to Form Flour-Milling Venture With ConAgra
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-03-05T18:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/cargill-and-chs-to-form-flour-milling-venture-with-conagra-1-.html
Cargill Inc., the largest closely-
held U.S. company, and CHS Inc. agreed to combine their Horizon
Milling joint venture with  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ’s flour unit to
expand their geographic reach and product portfolio.  The companies plan to form a new venture, Ardent Mills, in
late 2013, according to a statement today. The three owners will
receive about $800 million to $1 billion in cash distributions
from Ardent Mills when the transaction closes.  Ardent Mills will help food manufacturers manage volatile
and rising grain costs and satisfy changing consumer tastes,
including increasing demand for gluten-free and whole grain
products, according to Scott Portnoy, Cargill’s corporate vice
president.  “We want to be sure, as customers develop regional
strategies in  North America , that we are in the best position to
fill in any geographic gaps,” Portnoy said in a telephone
interview today.  Ardent Mills will receive grain from  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based CHS, the largest U.S. farmer-owned cooperative, according
to the statement. Ardent will have 44 flour mills, three bakery
mix plants and a specialty bakery in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Puerto
Rico . CHS will own 12 percent of the company.  ConAgra, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , and Minneapolis-based
Cargill will each own a 44 percent stake in Ardent Mills.  By partnering with Cargill and CHS, ConAgra is trying to
smooth out some of the commodity volatility and focus more on
its consumer food brands, as well as integrating Ralcorp
Holdings Inc., a cereal and snack maker it bought in January for
$6.7 billion, according to Jack Russo, a St. Louis-based analyst
for Edward Jones & Co.  Low Margins  “This is a lower margin business,” Russo said in a
telephone interview today. The move “will allow them to focus
on their core business.” He has a buy rating on ConAgra.  The three companies will contribute milling operations to
the new venture on a cash-free, debt-free basis in exchange for
the ownership interests. Ardent Mills is expected to be self-
financed through  cash flow  from operations and its own bank debt
and credit facility.  Most-active wheat futures gained 21 percent from June 1
through December 31 as the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s
burned fields. Prices have fallen almost 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  