-- Carrefour Shrinks to Boost Value in Revival Plan
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/carrefour-shrinks-to-boost-value-in-revival-plan.html
For  Carrefour SA (CA)  Chief Executive
Officer Georges Plassat, smaller means more valuable.  Since Plassat, 63, took over as CEO last May, the French
retailer has dispensed with assets in Colombia,  Malaysia ,
 Indonesia ,  Singapore  and  Greece , moves that have helped add
about 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) to the company’s market
value. He may not be done there.  Though Plassat has said the asset sales are over, he might
yet sell off underperforming operations in  Turkey ,  Poland  and
 Italy , Main First Bank predicts. Carrefour, which  analysts
expect  to report a fifth straight decline in annual earnings
tomorrow, may also downsize some hypermarkets in France,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Following a path similar to that taken by European peers
such as  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Metro AG (MEO) , the CEO is forsaking
international ambition to focus on boosting domestic sales that
have barely grown in the past decade. Under Plassat, Carrefour
has sold operations with sales of 5.2 billion euros, Deutsche
Bank estimates.  “Carrefour has become a lot more hungry for cash to
reinvest in its core European markets,” said Bryan Roberts, an
analyst at Kantar Retail in  London . “The more resources that
can be freed up to fix France, the better.”  John Kershaw, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London,
estimates that the company may have to invest more than 2
billion euros to revive the business, whose domestic stores have
been losing market share to rivals LeClerc and Intermarche. To
win back shoppers, Plassat has pledged to give more control to
store managers and reduce food prices, while adding more non-
branded goods and pick-up points for online orders.  ‘New Religion’  The company’s  stock  has risen 47 percent since Plassat’s
arrival, partially offsetting a 71 percent decline in the
preceding five years. The share of analysts with a buy rating on
the stock has risen to 44 percent from 13 percent in that time,
while the proportion with a sell  recommendation  has declined to
23 percent from 50 percent.  “Carrefour is like a new religion,” said Kershaw, who has
an outperform recommendation on the stock. “People are being
asked to believe, without any particular facts.” If Plassat can
increase margins, “then the profit and shares could run further
than the current valuation might suggest.”  The retailer’s European peers are also reconsidering their
international strategies as weakening economies add to
competitive pressure on domestic businesses.  Turkey, Poland  Tesco, the largest U.K. supermarket company, said Dec. 5 it
would likely exit the U.S. after investing 1 billion pounds
($1.51 billion) over five years in creating an unprofitable
convenience-store chain there. In that time, its British market
share reached a seven-year low.  Metro AG,  Germany ’s largest retailer, sold its Real grocery
stores in eastern  Europe  amid weakening sales across the region.
Royal Ahold NV of the Netherlands agreed to sell its 60 percent
stake in Swedish grocery chain ICA for more than $3 billion.  Carrefour, based in Boulogne-Billancourt,  France , will
decide in the coming months whether to invest in or exit Turkey,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Italy and
Poland are also under review, said the person, who declined to
be identified because no decision has been made.  Gildas Aitamer, an analyst at Planet Retail, doesn’t expect
Carrefour to sell many more assets, at least not this year.
“We will have to see how greedy Carrefour will be for cash,”
Aitamer said.  Oversized Empire  The retailer may say tomorrow that recurring operating
income declined 5.3 percent to 2.08 billion euros in 2012,
according to the median of 16 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The grocer in January maintained its forecast for
profit of about 2.07 billion euros on that basis.  Plassat will have to contend with competition at home from
closely held LeClerc, which has said it plans to overtake its
larger rival in France by keeping prices low and opening more
facilities where consumers shop online and pick up goods at a
store or warehouse. Carrefour stores had sales in France of 44.7
billion euros in 2012, versus 40.7 million for LeClerc,
according to Deutsche Bank.  Carrefour, whose French hypermarkets are on average 30
percent bigger than its large outlets in Spain, Italy and
Belgium, could also shrink the sales area of some stores,
Deutsche Bank analyst Sally Ronald said, and rent the space to
other businesses such as cafes. That has worked for rival  Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , Ronald said.  “Plassat has said that Carrefour has the structure of an
empire which we think primarily relates to the geographic spread
of the business,” Ronald wrote in a note. But it “could also
refer to Carrefour’s oversized stores.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  