-- McConnell Says Obama Delaying 2014 Budget Plan Until April
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-05T19:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/mcconnell-says-obama-delaying-2014-budget-plan-until-april-8.html
President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal 2014
budget may be delayed until as late as April 8, according to
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, pushing the proposal
further past its deadline for submission to Congress.  The administration said in February that the debate over
taxes and spending at the end of last year and the across-the-
board spending cuts that kicked in March 1 would push the target
date for submitting the budget to mid-March.  McConnell said today that lawmakers learned last week that
Obama won’t submit his budget plan until after Congress leaves
for a two-week recess, which ends April 8.  The president’s budget for the following fiscal year is
typically released on the first Monday in February, meaning it
would be two months late this year.  “That goes far beyond the pale of just missing
deadlines,” McConnell said.  A spokeswoman for the Office of Management and Budget,
 Jessica Santillo , said in an e-mail that she didn’t have an
update on the budget’s release. White House press secretary Jay Carney said, “We’re working on it,” when asked when the
document would be ready.  The budget plan, which provides Congress with an outline of
Obama’s priorities, would be for the fiscal year that begins
Oct. 1.  Republican Budget  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican and his party’s 2012 vice-presidential nominee, said
today he will release his budget proposal next week. He declined
to provide details on what it would include.  Carney said that efforts by lawmakers in the House and the 
Senate to address the budget mean there's “some reason to hope” 
that the White House and Congress can agree on a spending plan 
and avoid the standoffs that have marked the budget debate over 
the last two years.  Acting White House budget director Jeffrey Zients wrote in
a letter sent to Ryan in January that because the tax agreement
wasn’t reached until Jan. 1, the administration was “forced to
delay some of its FY 2014 budget preparations, which in turn
will delay the budget’s submission to Congress.”  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts spread over nine years, as part of a 2011 deal to
increase the U.S. debt limit. The reductions, which took effect
March 1, are to be split almost evenly between defense and non-
 defense spending .  The last time a budget plan was this late was when Obama
took office in 2009 and the budget was submitted May 11, or 98
days after the legal deadline. Former President George W. Bush,
in his first year in office, sent the budget to Congress on
April 9, 2001, or 63 days late, according to House Budget
Committee records.  The delay for Obama’s budget plan probably won’t change the
political debate over fiscal issues. The president has said he’s
planning to again seek funding for many of the proposals
contained in last year’s $3.8 trillion budget, which was never
adopted by Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  