-- China Watching Sany U.S. Wind-Farm Case, Minister Chen Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T06:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-watching-sany-u-s-wind-farm-case-commerce-minister-says.html
China  is investigating and watching
the progress of a case involving a Sany Group Co. affiliate
which U.S. President  Barack Obama  barred from building a wind
farm in  Oregon , Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said.  Under Chinese regulations, the government has a duty to
assist companies that have suffered damage if they request help,
Chen said at the National People’s Congress in Beijing today. He
didn’t specify whether Sany has sought assistance.  Obama on Sept. 28 ordered Sany affiliate Ralls Corp. to
divest all interest in the wind-farm project with locations near
or within restricted Navy airspace, the first time in 22 years a
president has blocked a transaction on grounds of national
security. Ralls can continue arguing Obama should explain his
order, even though it can’t challenge his authority to require a
sale, U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson ruled Feb. 22.  “Because this involves an enterprise and a foreign
government, the Chinese government is paying attention and
investigating in accordance with the law,” Chen said. “We are
still following the issue.”  The multi-agency Committee on Foreign Investment in the
U.S. in July cited “national security risks” raised by the
sale of wind-farm assets to Ralls. The company filed a lawsuit
Sept. 12 challenging the CFIUS ruling, and on Oct. 1 added the
president to the suit.  Ralls may lose about $20 million, including design and
construction costs, because of the ban, Zhou Qing, Sany’s in-
house lawyer, said Oct. 3.  The ban won’t stop Sany Group from pursuing acquisitions
overseas, Xiang Wenbo, president of Shanghai-listed unit  Sany
Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , said March 2.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  