-- Wen Warns on China Tensions in Final Speech as Premier: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T07:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-sets-7-5-goal-for-2013-growth-with-3-5-inflation-target.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
nation lacks a sustainable growth model and faces mounting
“social problems,” as he ends a decade in power that saw the
economy grow fourfold to be the world’s second largest.  “We are keenly aware that we still face many difficulties
and problems,” Wen told almost 3,000 delegates in his final
report to the National People’s Congress in Beijing today. He
set an economic  growth  target of 7.5 percent for this year,
unchanged from 2012, and an inflation goal of 3.5 percent.  Wen steps down at the congress, which runs through March 17,
after overseeing  China ’s rise to an $8 trillion economy that
surpassed Japan and  Germany  and sustained its expansion through
the global financial crisis. Those achievements have come at the
cost of surging inequality, environmental degradation and
growing financial risks, challenges that he leaves for incoming
Premier  Li Keqiang .  “There are also many problems Wen left behind, and the new
leaders are to face and tackle,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. They include
“the risk of a property bubble, significantly increased local
government debt, income equality and worsening pollution,” said
Zhang, who previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  An annual expansion target of 8 percent was in place from
2005 to 2011. Last year’s  inflation  goal was 4 percent. Wen
reiterated that interest rates and the  yuan ’s exchange rate will
become more market-based.  Unbalanced Growth  China needs to navigate a global recovery that’s “full of
uncertainty,” Wen said. In the domestic economy, “unbalanced,
uncoordinated and unsustainable development remains a prominent
problem,” he said, repeating a phrase that he’s used previously.
“Social problems have increased markedly.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 3.6 percent
yesterday, the most since August 2011, on measures to cool the
 property market , underscoring the challenge for the new
Communist Party leadership of balancing growth and price
concerns. The gauge rebounded 2.3 percent today.  “Li Keqiang will be thinking about how to keep the pace of
reform fast enough to prevent China from a hard landing,” said
Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong,
ranked by Bloomberg as the most accurate forecaster for
quarterly gross domestic product. “The Chinese economy is
losing competitiveness because of high wage growth, the
corporates have high leverage and there’s excess capacity.”  One-Child Policy  January saw Beijing engulfed by pollution and the
statistics chief reporting a drop in the workforce that may
constrain expansion. China’s Gini coefficient, a measure of
income differences, was 0.474 last year, according to the
government, higher than the 0.4 level that analysts say signals
a potential for social unrest.  Wen didn’t discuss changes to the one-child policy, saying
China “should adhere to the basic state policy on family
planning.” He also said that “we should resolve to solve the
problems of serious air, water and soil pollution.”  Wen also set a goal for M2  money-supply  growth of about 13
percent, following last year’s increase of 13.8 percent.  China is aiming for an 8 percent increase in foreign trade
in 2013, the National Development and Reform Commission said in
a separate report today, compared with last year’s 10 percent
goal. Exports advanced 7.9 percent in 2012 and imports rose 4.3
percent.  The retail-sales growth target is 14.5 percent and fixed-
asset investment is projected to rise 18 percent, according to
the NDRC report. Retail  sales  rose 14.3 percent last year and
investment increased 20.3 percent.  Biggest Risk  “The biggest risk this year is still growth, not
inflation,” said Joy Yang, chief  Greater China  economist at
Mirae Asset Financial Group in  Hong Kong .  The nation plans to run a  budget deficit  of 1.2 trillion
yuan ($193 billion), amounting to about 2 percent of gross
domestic product and 50 percent wider than last year’s deficit.
The Ministry of Finance said it will issue bonds to cover local
governments’ portion of the budget deficit, which will amount to
350 billion yuan.  Wen’s response to the global financial crisis included
lending that left local governments with 10.7 trillion yuan of
debt at the end of 2010. “We will continue to strengthen
management of local government debt” and “keep such debt at an
appropriate level,” Wen said today.  “There are concerns that some local governments are
accumulating too much debt for short-term high growth,”  Li Daokui , a former member of the central bank’s monetary policy
committee, told reporters at the congress today. “They are
consuming May’s grain in April.”  Price Pressures  The economy expanded 7.8 percent last year, the weakest
pace since 1999. The median estimate of 43 analysts surveyed in
February by  Bloomberg News  is for a pickup to 8.1 percent growth
in 2013. Expansion was 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the
first acceleration in two years.  “This year, China is still under considerable inflationary
pressure,” Wen said, citing upward pressure on prices of land
and labor and monetary easing in major developed countries. In
addition, “we need to leave some room for adjusting the prices
of energy and resources,” Wen said.  The  consumer price index  increased 2.6 percent last year,
less than half 2011’s rate, and economists project a 3.1 percent
rise this year, based on a Bloomberg survey.  Wen reiterated China will pursue a “prudent” monetary
policy and “proactive” fiscal policy. China has held off from
easing monetary policy since cutting interest rates in June and
July and lowering banks’ reserve requirements three times
through May.  Australia, Europe  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, the  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
a half-century low and reiterated it has room to cut further if
needed to boost demand. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
left the overnight cash-rate target at 3 percent.  “With inflation likely to be consistent with the target,
and with growth likely to be a little below trend over the
coming year, an accommodative stance of monetary policy is
appropriate,” Stevens said in a statement. “The inflation
outlook, as assessed at present, would afford scope to ease
policy further, should that be necessary.”  Economic releases around the world today include services
industry reports in  Europe .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  