-- China Boosts Defense Spending as Military Modernizes Arsenal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T09:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-boosts-defense-spending-as-military-modernizes-its-arsenal.html
China will boost defense spending
10.7 percent this year as the government modernizes its military
arsenal and adopts a more assertive stance in territorial
disputes with its neighbors.  Military spending is set to rise this year to 740.6 billion
 yuan  ($119 billion) from 669.1 billion yuan, the Ministry of
Finance said in a report. China has the second-biggest military
budget in the world after the U.S., which spent nearly six times
more on defense than China last year and is now cutting those
outlays.  Defense spending as a percentage of gross domestic product
remained unchanged in 2012 from a year earlier at 1.3 percent as
the country upgrades its fleet of fighter jets, ships and
missiles. The Communist Party says its modernization doesn’t
pose a threat, while  Japan  and other nations in the region argue
China has become more hostile in disputes over territory in the
resource-rich waters of the East and South China seas.  “The increase is consistent with their long-term
modernization plans,” said Taylor Fravel, a professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  who studies China’s
relations with its neighbors. “Any time you see a double-digit
increase in  defense spending , especially when nobody else in the
region is growing their budget at those rates, it generates
anxiety and concern.”  U.S. Cuts  The military outlays is in contrast with the U.S., where
defense expenditures totaled $677.2 billion in inflation-
adjusted dollars in 2012, down 3 percent from 2011. In December,
congressional negotiators agreed on $640.7 billion in defense
spending for this year. Automatic spending cuts from the so-
called sequester may trigger further reductions.  In the last year, China’s Navy commissioned its first
 aircraft carrier  and a frigate with stealth capabilities. The
country completed its first manned space docking, launched a
home-grown satellite navigation system and progressed with its
aerial drone program.  China  has also boosted its cyber-warfare capability,
according to technology experts. Computer-security firm Mandiant
Corp. said in a report last month that the Chinese army is
probably the source of hacking attacks against at least 141
companies worldwide since 2006. The Ministry of Defense later
said the accusations were “inaccurate and unprofessional.”  Government Outlays  Defense spending rose just over 11 percent last year. As a
percentage of GDP, defense spending was 1.3 percent in 2012, the
same as in 2011 and down from 1.4 percent in 2006. Defense
spending is projected to be 5.3 percent of total government
outlays in 2013, unchanged from 2012 and down from 5.5 percent
in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China and Japan have traded accusations over islands
claimed by both sides in the  East China Sea . Chinese protesters
ransacked Japanese businesses after Japan purchased the islands
in September. Last month, Japan said China used fire-control
radar twice on Japanese targets.  Chinese ships also blocked the  Philippines  last year from
inspecting Chinese fishing boats in a reef the Philippines calls
Panatag Shoal and China refers to as Huangyan Island. Those
moves may have backfired against China by aligning countries in
the region against it, Philippine Foreign Affairs Secretary
Albert Del Rosario said on Jan. 10, after meeting his Japanese
counterpart, Fumio Kishida.  Japan is paying “careful attention” to the double-digit
growth in China’s military spending, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga told reporters today in  Tokyo . “It is desirable
for China to increase transparency in its defense and military
policy, including expenditures.”  Pressing Claims  At the same time, China has avoided using its military to
press its claims in maritime disputes, sending marine
surveillance ships into waters surrounding the contested islands
with Japan.  Some in the army have also counseled caution. People’s
Liberation Army General  Liu Yuan , the son of former President
Liu Shaoqi, said in an editorial in the Global Times newspaper
on Feb. 4 that China’s economic growth is in a critical phase
and shouldn’t be interrupted by accidents.  China’s official defense budget doesn’t include items that
other countries would count, such as research and development
and foreign arms acquisitions, said Tai Ming Cheung, an
associate professor at the  University of California ,  San Diego .  The budget for domestic security will increase 8.7 percent
to 769.1 billion yuan, less than the 12.4 percent rise last
year. China has spent more on internal security than on national
defense since 2010.  Great Power  Increased military spending reinforces “the perception
throughout the region that China is committed to striving for
great power status,”  Denny Roy,  a senior fellow at the
Honolulu-based East-West Center whose work focuses on Chinese
security issues, said before the budget was announced.  China is planning to improve the transparency of its army
and will hold 40 exercises with the military and paramilitary in
2013, Han Xudong, a professor at the University of National
Defense under the  People’s Liberation Army , wrote in the Global
Times March 1.  Even as its budget expands, the military has also taken up
a frugality campaign announced by Communist Party General
Secretary Xi Jinping.  The army should give priority to high-tech weapons,
training and information technology, and tighten control over
receptions, celebrations and overseas trips, the official Xinhua
News Agency said last month, citing a new regulation.  In a Feb. 20 report, Xinhua said the military had also told
soldiers to recook unfinished rice and turn leftover vegetables
into “various pickles and appetizers” to cut down on waste.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  