-- China Backs UN Sanctions Targeting North Korean Diplomats
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-05T17:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-backs-un-sanctions-targeting-north-korean-diplomats.html
China  and the U.S. have agreed to
back additional sanctions on North Korea to punish the Communist
nation for its February nuclear test explosion, U.S. Ambassador
to the UN  Susan Rice  said today after a meeting of the  Security
Council .  A vote to adopt the measure is expected this week.  Russia ,
which like China has veto-power in the council, also supports
the sanctions, according to the RIA news agency, which cited
citing Russia’s UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin.  The new measures target “illicit activity” by North
Korean diplomats and bulk transfers of cash by the North Korean
regime. They’re aimed at halting the North’s imports of
technology for its weapons programs as well as its ability to
raise cash by selling its nuclear, missile and military
technology to other countries.  China is North Korea’s closest ally. China’s support in the
Security Council was necessary for approval of additional
sanctions.  North Korea  conducted its nuclear test despite
pressure from China not to do so.  The proposal “takes UN sanctions imposed on North Korea to
the next level,” Rice said. “The commitment to take further
significant measures in the event of further tests will
demonstrate clearly to North Korea the cost of its
provocations.”  North Korea said earlier today it may cancel the 1953
cease-fire that ended the  Korean War , citing the U.S. sanctions
effort as well as U.S.-South Korean joint military drills, the
 Associated Press  reported. The Korean People’s Army Supreme
Command warned of “surgical strikes” meant to unify the
divided Korean Peninsula and of an indigenous, “precision
nuclear striking tool.”  ‘Strong Signal’  The two Koreas remain technically in a state of war since a
truce, rather than a peace treaty, ended the three-year conflict
in 1953.  China’s UN Ambassador Li Baodong said he was pleased with
the result, which he said made clear to North Korea that the
international community wants to remove nuclear arms from the
Korean peninsula and see an end to the North’s nuclear weapons
and ballistic missile programs.  “A strong signal must be sent out that a nuclear test is
against the will of the international community,” Li said after
the Security Council session. “They have got to bring an end to
that program.”  ‘Brandish Threats’  In Doha, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  called for
North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un to take “responsible actions
for peace” rather than make threats.  “The world would be better served if he would direct his
people, and make a decision himself, to engage in a legitimate
dialogue in legitimate negotiations in order to resolve not just
American concerns, but the concerns of the Japanese, the South
Koreans, the Russians and everybody in the region,” Kerry said
at a news conference.  “We will continue to do what is necessary to defend our
nation and the region, together with our allies, but our
preference is not to brandish threats at each other,” Kerry
said. “It is to get to the table and negotiate a peaceful
resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  