-- China Services Industries Expand at Slower Pace, HSBC PMI Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T02:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-services-industries-expand-at-slower-pace-hsbc-pmi-shows.html
China ’s services industries expanded
at a slower pace in February, a private survey showed, adding to
signs that a recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy is
moderating.  The services  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today declined to 52.1 from 54
in January. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. A separate
government-backed survey published on March 3 showed non-
manufacturing industries expanded at the slowest pace since
September.  Today’s report may increase prospects that the economic
rebound will slow after two manufacturing indexes showed slower
expansions in February. The government is targeting 7.5 percent
growth this year, the same goal as in 2012, outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today.  “Service sector growth moderated on slower demand growth
in February, likely reflecting the impact of Beijing’s recent
frugality campaign as well as the greater volatility of the
readings around Chinese New Year period,”  Qu Hongbin , chief
China economist for HSBC in  Hong Kong , said in the statement.
Services may show “modest improvement” in coming months on a
“healthy labor market” and recovering growth in manufacturing,
Qu said.  The Shanghai Composite Index, the country’s benchmark stock
gauge, rose 0.3 percent at 9:51 a.m. local time. The index
dropped 3.6 percent yesterday, the biggest decline since August
2011, after the government intensified a three-year campaign to
cool property prices.  Holiday Timing  China’s economic data in the first two months are distorted
by the shifting dates of the weeklong Lunar New Year festival,
which fell in January last year and February this year.  The nation’s  economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the final
three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the first pickup in
two years. Expansion may accelerate to 8.2 percent in the three
months through March, according to the median estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Services industries, which include retailing,
telecommunications and transportation, accounted for 45 percent
of gross domestic product last year, up from 41 percent in 2003.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  