-- Chinese Billionaires Say They’re Seeking Acquisitions Overseas
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T07:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/chinese-billionaires-say-they-re-seeking-acquisitions-overseas.html
Chinese billionaires  Zong Qinghou ,
Pony Ma and Liu Yonghao said they’re looking for acquisition and
investment opportunities overseas as more of the nation’s
companies seek assets to bolster earnings.  Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co. Chairman Zong said he’s looking
for biotechnology companies and those that make energy-saving
electric motors.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  Chairman Ma said he’s
looking at startup companies and has invested in venture capital
funds to help find them. New Hope Group Co. Chairman Liu said he
plans agriculture-related investments in Southeast Asia,  Egypt 
and South Africa. All three spoke today at the annual meeting of
China’s parliament, where they’re delegates.  “What I prefer to do is to bring these companies into
China, so that it’s a good outcome for us and them,” Zong told
reporters. “If you go overseas and invest and increase the
competition in that overseas market, they aren’t very
welcoming.” Zong is China’s richest man, with a net worth of
$16.9 billion as of March 5, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Chinese companies have sought technologies that bolster
their ability to win market share internationally and at home,
where  General Motors Co. (GM) , Yum! Brands Inc. and other foreign
competitors have increased investments to tap the world’s
second-biggest economy. The Chinese government has encouraged
these acquisitions by offering financing from state-owned
lenders such as China Development Bank Ltd.  “We are still looking for opportunities,” Ma said at the
National People’s Congress.  “We looked at several in the U.S.
- small startup companies, those in the early stages of
operations.” Shenzhen-based Tencent, China’s largest Internet
company by market value, has spent “several hundred million
 yuan ” on overseas investment in the past two years, he said. Ma
had a net worth of $7.2 billion as of March 5.  Investment Banks  Zong said that Wahaha, which sells beverages and snack
foods in  China , has been in talks with several investment banks.
He declined to identify them.  Chinese companies announced more than $54 billion in
overseas acquisitions last year, compared with about $1 billion
in 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  last month completed a $15.1 billion takeover of
Nexen Inc., China’s largest overseas acquisition. China
Petrochemical Corp., know as Sinopec Group, also signed an
agreement last month to buy a $1.02 billion stake in U.S. shale
energy assets from Chesapeake Energy Corp.  China National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest energy
company, is also currently studying investment opportunities in
the U.S., Chairman Jiang Jiemin said at the parliamentary
meetings in Beijing today. Those would be its first investments
in the country.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  