-- China Studying Glencore’s Copper Trading Delays $35 Billion Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-05T17:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-studying-glencore-s-copper-trading-delays-35-billion-deal.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , awaiting
approval for its $35 billion takeover of  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc, will
resume talks in coming days with  China ’s competition regulator
on the influence the group will have in the copper market.  “We have been marketing Xstrata tons into China anyway in
the past, so it’s not a big increase which is under the control
of Glencore,” Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 56, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “The Chinese are sort of
getting their grips around it and we will await the outcome.”  Glasenberg is seeking to buy Xstrata to create the world’s
fourth-largest mining company by adding coal, copper, nickel and
zinc operations to its cotton-to-crude-oil trading empire. The
biggest publicly traded commodities supplier yesterday extended
to April 16 a deadline to complete the deal as it looks to clear
the final hurdle for a takeover that after 13 months has won
approval in  Europe ,  Australia  and South Africa.  “The issue is clearly that China is the world’s largest
consumer of copper, so they have a vested interest in it,”
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Paul Gait said by phone. “If
it became necessary to get the deal done, I expect Glencore
would be willing to offer some concessions.”  Glencore gained 5.7 percent to close at 391.2 pence in
London trading yesterday, the biggest gain in two months, while
Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata surged 6.8 percent to 1,174
pence, the most in almost six months.  Rusal Impairment  Glencore yesterday reported a 25 percent slump in 2012 net
income excluding “significant items” to $3.06 billion after
prices for its products dropped. That compared with the $3.14
billion mean estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Net income fell 75 percent to $1 billion on impairment charges
of $1.7 billion, mostly linked to its holding in aluminum
producer United Co. Rusal.  Glencore’s sales rose 15 percent to $214.4 billion and net
debt climbed 19 percent $15.4 billion. Adjusted earnings before
interest and tax from its trading business increased 11 percent,
while earnings from the industrial division fell 33 percent as
average prices for nickel, coal, zinc and copper averaged 10
percent to 20 percent lower.  Takeover target Xstrata yesterday posted a 37 percent
decline in net income excluding exceptional items to $3.65
billion.  MOFCOM Decision  The combined company would be the world’s third-largest
producer of mined copper, a metal used in pipes and wires.
China’s Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, is responsible for the
decision to sign off on the takeover.  “Of course there is uncertainty until the approval is
given, but we consider the risk fairly small,” Bernstein’s Gait
said. “What would surprise me would be if MOFCOM came to a
significantly different conclusion than the European
Commission.”  Glencore’s C$6.1 billion ($5.9 billion) acquisition of
 Canada ’s Viterra Inc., completed in December, was delayed as it
awaited MOFCOM clearance.  Glencore is in a weekly dialogue with Chinese regulators
and Glasenberg believes the deal will eventually be cleared, he
said during a presentation to analysts. The Baar, Switzerland-
based company began talks with MOFCOM in the third quarter last
year and they will resume in a few days, he said, adding that he
hopes to complete the deal by next month’s deadline.  Discussions are centered around potential remedies and the
combined group’s market share, Glasenberg said.  Beijing Appointments  The ruling Communist Party’s omission of Commerce Minister
Chen Deming from its new central committee announced in November
was a signal that he may be stepping down from the post. The
government is expected to appoint new ministers at legislative
meetings that opened yesterday in Beijing.  “We do supply a certain amount of copper concentrate to
China, so they are looking at that,” Glasenberg told reporters.
“However, there are 20 to 30 different companies supplying
copper to China and there are new big mines coming, so we are
not really a very big percentage of their imports.”  The world’s biggest mining companies including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group are selling unwanted assets to help
mitigate rising costs and stagnant prices. Glencore will review
all the assets in the combined company once the Xstrata deal is
completed, Glasenberg said.  “We will be assessing each asset, each project very
carefully and deciding whether to maintain, whether to sell,
whether to develop,” he said in the interview. “Sure it’s a
good opportunity if they do intend selling some of their non-
core assets. We will assess them at the time and competition
hopefully will be lower than we’ve seen in the past.”  Glasenberg, a 28-year veteran of Glencore and the company’s
largest shareholder with a 16 percent stake, took over as CEO in
2002 and has pursued a strategy of growth by acquisition.  “We will grow opportunistically,” Glasenberg told
analysts in a presentation. “We may look at bigger companies as
we go forward if we believe we can bring value and it adds to
the synergy of bringing the two companies together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  