-- China Unicom Chief Joins Congress as Tibet Representative
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T04:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/china-unicom-chief-joins-congress-as-tibet-representative.html
China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. (762) , the
nation’s second-largest wireless carrier, said Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Chang Xiaobing has joined the National
People’s Congress as a member of the  Tibet  delegation.  Chang is not ethnically Tibetan, and  China  Unicom has no
information on why he was chosen for that delegation, Zhou
Xiaoke, Unicom’s Hong Kong-based director of  investor relations ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions today. Chang has
previously served on the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference, which advises the legislature, he said.  “Many large state-owned enterprises are headquartered in
Beijing and their heads cannot be all elected to the Beijing
delegation,” Zhou said in the e-mail. “There is some mechanism
to allocate the qualified candidates to other delegations.”  Chang joins the Tibetan delegation at a sensitive time as a
rising number of activists from the region are setting
themselves on fire to protest Chinese rule. Chang is part of the
nation’s ethnic Han majority and is from the northern province
of Hebei that surrounds Beijing, according to a  biography  posted
on the online encyclopedia Baike run by Baidu Inc., the nation’s
largest search engine.  Last year, 83 Tibetans died after setting themselves
ablaze, and at least three more died in January, the Tibetan
government-in-exile said in a Jan. 25 statement.  The  Dalai Lama , the Tibetan spiritual leader, has lived in
northern India since fleeing in 1959, when China’s military took
over the region. China accuses the Dalai Lama of waging a
campaign for independence while the spiritual leader says he is
seeking autonomy for Tibet.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  