-- Citigroup Finishes $869 Million Debt Buyback From Hawaii
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-03-05T18:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/citigroup-finishes-869-million-debt-buyback-from-hawaii.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank, completed an $869 million buyback of auction-rate
securities it sold to  Hawaii , more than four years after the
market for the debt collapsed during the financial crisis.  The bank purchased the remaining $231 million balance of
the securities at face value, Governor Neil Abercrombie said in
a  news release . Under a 2010 agreement, Citigroup was required
to buy bonds still owned by the state in June 2015, he said.  “By working with Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., the state
of Hawaii was able to sell, without incurring any loss, all of
the securities in an accelerated manner,” said Abercrombie, a
74-year-old Democrat.  Hawaii’s treasury invested more than $1 billion in auction-
rate securities backed by  student loans , almost one-third of its
spare cash, in the eight months before the $330 billion market
for the short-term debt imploded during the credit crisis.  Demand for the bonds, which were sold by investment banks
as equivalent to cash, faltered when Wall Street firms stopped
stepping in as buyers of last resort. When the auctions failed,
investors were stranded, unable to sell their bonds without
losses.  Hawaii purchased all the auction-rate securities for its
short-term treasury account from Pete Thompson, a Citigroup
broker in Honolulu, the state capital. He now works for Morgan
Stanley in Honolulu, according to a filing with the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Thompson didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking
comment.  Auditor’s Report  “Citigroup is pleased to have worked closely with the
Abercrombie administration in the removal of all the auction
rate securities from the state’s portfolio well ahead of the
agreement schedule,” Frank Chin, Citigroup’s co-head of public
finance, said in the governor’s press release.  A March 2010 report by Hawaii’s auditor found that the
investment in auction-rate securities violated state law by
exceeding guidelines that limit short-term investments to five-
year maturities and student loan auction-rate securities to 20
percent of the treasury’s holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  