-- Citigroup’s Corbat May Exit Some Countries Amid Cost Cuts
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-03-05T21:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/citigroup-s-corbat-may-exit-some-countries-amid-cost-cuts.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, could exit or pull back from businesses in 21
countries that are among its least-efficient markets as Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  seeks to cut costs.  The countries produce less than 10 percent of New York-
based Citigroup’s revenue and have a “very low” return on
assets of 0.4 percent, Corbat, 52, said today in a presentation.  “These results are unsustainable,” Corbat said. “In
these markets, if there is not a clear path to acceptable
returns, we intend to significantly scale back or exit certain
business lines.”  Corbat is trimming spending as he takes over from former
CEO Vikram Pandit, 56, who expanded operations in  emerging
markets  before directors ousted him in October. More withdrawals
would add to Corbat’s decision to shutter some branches in the
U.S. and Brazil and pull back from consumer operations in
 Uruguay ,  Paraguay ,  Turkey ,  Romania  and  Pakistan .  “In these markets, we continue to serve institutional
clients, but did not believe we had a near-term path to
acceptable returns in our consumer business,” Corbat said in
today’s presentation.  Citigroup gained  1.5 percent to $43.60 at in  New York 
trading and has advanced 10 percent this year.  Citigroup has operations in more than 100 countries. More
than half of the lender’s 2012 revenue came from outside the
U.S., according to a financial supplement.  Inefficient Markets  Corbat said the 21 “Optimize or Restructure” markets had
an efficiency ratio, or expenses as a percentage of revenue, of
73 percent. Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined
to comment on what countries Corbat was referring to.  Corbat described 18 other countries as “Optimize Then
Grow” markets, including the U.S. and U.K. The markets yield
about 55 percent of Citigroup revenue, with high expenses
producing a 69 percent efficiency ratio, Corbat said.  “This presents a concentrated opportunity where we can
make real progress on efficiency and returns,” Corbat said.  The lender  has 20 “Invest to Grow” markets, which produce
30 percent of revenue and have a 49 percent ratio, the CEO said.
These markets include  Mexico ,  Singapore ,  India , Hong Kong and
 China , he said.  Corbat said he laid out targets for 2015 so that investors
can hold the lender accountable.  Citicorp Outlook  Citicorp, the division that holds the bank’s ongoing
businesses such as consumer banking and trading, should have an
efficiency ratio in the “mid-50 percent” range by 2015, Corbat
said. The division’s ratio at the end of 2012 was about 64
percent, according to Bloomberg’s calculations.  The bank overall will probably produce a return on assets,
or ROA, of 0.9 percent to 1.1 percent by 2015, Corbat said. The
ROA, which measures profit from investments, was 0.4 percent at
the end of 2012.  Citigroup’s return on tangible common equity, or ROTCE,
should be 10 percent or higher by 2015, Corbat said. The measure
of profitability was 5 percent in 2012, he said.  Corbat replaced Pandit after directors concluded that he’d
mismanaged operations, a person familiar with the matter said in
October. Along with exiting markets, cost-cutting will include
firing 11,000 workers, Corbat said in December.  “What’s changed is the nitty-gritty on how the business is
managed with a reasonable blueprint that makes sense,” Michael Mayo, an analyst with CLSA Ltd., wrote in a note to clients
today about the presentation.  Citi Holdings  Citi Holdings , the division that houses about $156 billion
of unwanted and unprofitable assets, is a “drag on earnings”
and must be scaled back, said Corbat, who ran the business until
the end of 2011. The unit lost $10.8 billion for 2011 and 2012
combined, according to a financial supplement.  Home loans account for the majority of assets in Citi
Holdings, Corbat said. While the lender has signed deals to sell
about $1.5 billion of mortgages so far this quarter, Corbat said
that a large sale of the home-loan portfolio at an acceptable
price isn’t possible.  Losses from Citi Holdings’ U.S. mortgages should decline as
housing prices stabilize and if the economy doesn’t slow, Corbat
said. Citigroup holds $8.4 billion of reserves against losses in
the portfolio, which the lender could begin to release “if
conditions remain favorable,” Corbat said.  Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , speaking at the
presentation, said that Citi Holdings could break even in 2015
if credit losses decline with litigation expenses tied to the
mortgage portfolio and the cost of repurchasing defective loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  