-- McKenna, Manatt, Jones Day, Cadwalader: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/mckenna-manatt-jones-day-cadwalader-business-of-law.html
McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP acquired
aviation boutique  law firm  Dombroff Gilmore Jaques & French,
giving the firm 15 new lawyers and two new offices in northern
 Virginia  and Miami.  The Dombroff Gilmore lawyers, who join MLA’s litigation
practice, include five partners: Thomas Almy, Morgan Campbell,
Mark Dombroff, Dane Jaques and  Mark McKinnon . Two of counsel and
eight associate counsel also join the firm.  “We are excited to add this group of aviation litigators
to MLA,” firm chairman Jeff Haidet said in a statement.
“Adding their experience and our presence in Northern Virginia
and South Florida positions MLA to provide a broader base of
services and reach to our clients -- a goal toward which we
continually strive.”  The group joining MLA has experience in contract disputes,
warranty claims, employment litigation, FAA enforcement actions,
NTSB investigations and major airline disaster litigation
practices, the firm said.  The attorneys have represented domestic and international
airlines, airports, a defense industry contractor,
manufacturers, fixed-base operators, airport service providers
and insurance providers, among others connected to the aviation
industry, according to the firm.  McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP has more than 575 attorneys and
public policy advisers in 15 offices in 12 U.S. cities.  Moves  Three K&L Gates Litigation Partners Join Manatt Phelps  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP hired three litigation
partners from K&L Gates LLP. Michael R. Gordon, Eli R. Mattioli
and Andrew L. Morrison joined the firm’s  New York  office as
partners in the litigation division.  “With decades of experience in commercial litigation, both
domestic and international, and arbitration disputes
encompassing a broad range of industries, Michael, Eli and
Andrew are an exceptional team who strengthen and expand our
strategic counseling capabilities,” said Matt Kanny, chairman
of Manatt’s litigation division. “We are fortunate to have them
with us.”  Gordon represents clients in litigation and arbitration
proceedings. Mattioli has experience representing companies in
domestic and foreign investments, sales transactions, corporate
and partnership matters, mergers and acquisitions,  investment
banking  and other matters. Morrison focuses his litigation
practice on securities fraud claims, fiduciary duty claims,
complex commercial disputes and financial services, among other
matters, the firm said.  A K&L Gates spokesman didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment on the moves.  Manatt, Phelps has 400 lawyers and professionals at nine
offices in the U.S. and  Mexico .  Chief IRS Health-Care Counsel Joins Jones Day in Washington  Catherine Livingston, health-care counsel in the  Internal
Revenue Service ’s Office of Chief Counsel since 2010, joins
 Jones Day ’s  Washington  office as a partner in the health-care
practice.  “She is perhaps the single most knowledgeable lawyer in
this city and indeed this country on the Affordable Care Act,
which is important to so many of our clients,” Greg Shumaker,
partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s Washington office said in a
statement. “We’re delighted to have someone with her depth on
tax issues related not only to that, but a variety of other
important health care matters as well.”  Livingston has been the principal legal adviser to senior
IRS leadership on the Affordable Care Act, the firm said. She
supervised the work of IRS attorneys developing regulations,
including the proposed guidance on the ACA employer mandate
provisions.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Former Justice Department Senior Appellate Lawyer Joins Orrick  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP hired Robert M. Loeb,
the former acting deputy director of the Appellate Staff of the
Civil Division at the U.S.  Justice Department , as a partner in
its  Supreme Court  and appellate litigation practice in
Washington.  Loeb spent 25 years at the Justice Department, where he
argued more than 100 appeals. He has represented the U.S.,
government agencies and government officials, including two
former Secretaries of Defense, in their individual capacities in
appellate matters, during both Democratic and Republican
administrations, the firm said.  “Few lawyers in private practice can match Bob’s
experience leading major appellate matters in the most complex
and high-stakes appeals,” Joshua Rosenkranz, head of the firm’s
Supreme Court and appellate practice, said in a statement.  Among Orrick’s clients in the practice, the firm has
represented Oracle Corp. in a copyright appeal over the use of
Java in the Android platform, a negligence dispute for L-3
Communications, a class-action appeal for UBS AG, and a patent
case involving the Wii gaming system for Nintendo Co, the firm
said.  Orrick has lawyers across 25 offices in the U.S., Europe
and  Asia .  Corporate and Technology Partner Joins Squire Sanders From DLA  Squire Sanders LLP announced that international corporate
and technology partner  Richard Horton , previously of DLA Piper
LLP, has joined the firm in both the Sydney and Silicon Valley
offices.  Horton, who is a dual-qualified U.S. and Australian
attorney, has spent the last 13 years in Silicon Valley, where
he focused on venture and strategic financings, mergers and
acquisitions, and cross-border intellectual property and
technology transactions for emerging growth and later-stage
technology and clean energy technology companies, the firm said.  Horton has experience helping Australian technology
companies move to Silicon Valley and assists U.S. and offshore
multinationals doing U.S. and Australian law deals in Australia.  His clients have included Yahoo! Inc., Boeing Energy,
Scatec Solar,  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) , Hewlett-Packard Co., Cisco
Systems Inc., Kmart Corp. and Telstra Corp., the firm said.  Squire Sanders  has more than 1,300 lawyers at 39 offices in
19 countries.  News  Securitization Lobby’s Board, Including Cadwalader, Quits  The main trade association for the securitization industry
is in turmoil after most of the board resigned, including law
firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, in a dispute with the
group’s executive director over governance and bonuses,
according to six people with knowledge of the matter.  The exodus at the  American Securitization Forum  puts the
future of the group in question, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the dispute isn’t public. Members
that quit include  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and law firm Cadwalader, the
people said.  The resignations came after the board attempted to remove
the forum’s executive director and former Cadwalader lawyer,  Tom Deutsch , but was unable to fire him because of the way the
association’s governing documents are written, said the people.
Part of the dispute concerns bonuses that Deutsch was paid, the
people added.  Deutsch, who  joined  the group’s staff in 2004 after working
as a lawyer at Cadwalader, issued a statement saying, “We
remain focused on the advocacy and educational needs of all of
the interests in the structured finance industry.”  While the statement didn’t directly address the mass
resignations, Deutsch said negotiations over the association’s
separation several years ago from the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association  have been “messier and more
difficult than expected.”  Other firms that have left the group or pulled their
employees off the board included Amherst Securities Group LP,
Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service and Natixis SA,
the people said. Ralph Daloisio of Natixis was the chairman of
the ASF board; he didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for Bank of America, confirmed that
the bank quit the forum, declining to comment further. Sean Dobson, head of Amherst Securities, left the board “due to
concerns around transparency and governance,” said  Tom Johnson ,
a spokesman for the bond broker. Spokesmen for other board
members either declined to comment, didn’t respond to messages,
or couldn’t be reached.  The ASF, based in New York, lobbies and holds conferences
for the industry, which packages loans and leases into
securities. Last year, securitization produced more than $500
billion of new bonds globally.  In testimony to Congress last year, Deutsch said the forum
had 330 members. According to the group’s website, members
include issuers, investors, financial intermediaries, rating
companies, legal and accounting firms, trustees and servicers.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York. at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  