-- Clock Runs as Obama Faces Pressure for Strike on Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-03-05T14:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/clock-runs-as-obama-faces-pressure-for-strike-on-iran.html
U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said
there remains “time and space” for diplomacy aimed at averting
military action to prevent  Iran  from becoming a nuclear weapons
power.  Still, the pressure on President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to move toward military action is growing as Iran
advances its uranium enrichment capabilities, and U.S.
lawmakers, Israel and Persian Gulf allies press for results.  Today, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said negotiating
time is “finite.”  “The clock is ticking and the president has made that
clear,” Kerry said in an interview in Doha with Andrea Mitchell
of NBC News. “The president’s policy is that Iran will not get
a nuclear weapon.”  Iran is using negotiations to “buy time” to pursue a
nuclear weapons program, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday in a video address to the American
Israel Public Affairs Committee’s annual conference in
 Washington . Although Iran’s uranium enrichment activities have
yet to cross Israel’s “red line,” the Islamic Republic is
“getting closer” to the point where it would be capable of
quickly producing a nuclear weapon, he said.  U.S. Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican, told the
group, a major pro-Israel lobby, that diplomatic efforts with
Iran “have failed, and it is very clear that they are on the
path of having a nuclear weapon.”  Saudi Doubts  Separately, Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal,
following a meeting in Riyadh with Kerry, said yesterday that
negotiations with Iran should have a time limit because the
Iranians “have not proved to anybody that they are sincere” in
their talks.  Biden, who addressed about 13,000 people at the Aipac
conference shortly before Netanyahu spoke, said that Obama “is
not bluffing” when he says he will prevent Iran from getting a
nuclear weapon. “We are looking to and ready to negotiate
peacefully, but all options, including military force, are on
the table,” Biden said.  For now, it’s important to show that the U.S. and its
partners have made a real attempt to settle the issue
peacefully, he said.  “If, God forbid, the need to act occurs, it is critically
important for the whole world to know we did everything in our
power, we did everything that reasonably could have been
expected, to avoid any confrontation,” Biden said. “And that
matters because, God forbid, if we have to act, it’s important
that the rest of the world is with us.”  Contingency Planning  The Pentagon is pursuing “serious contingency planning” -
- along with the administration’s strategy of “tough-minded”
and “crippling” sanctions -- “with the objective of
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon,” Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel said in written answers to the Senate
Armed Services Committee obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News.  Iran was the No. 6 producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries in February, and any rise in
tensions would hit oil markets. After declining in the past
month, West Texas Intermediate crude for April delivery advanced
33 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $90.45 a barrel at 9:01 a.m. on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange.  The U.S. and its negotiating partners --  France , the U.K.,
 Russia ,  China  and  Germany  -- presented a new offer to Iran last
week at talks in Kazakhstan. If Iran agrees to cease its output
of 20 percent enriched uranium, the group would ease
restrictions on Iran’s exports of petrochemical products and
some additional items, Russia’s chief negotiator and Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said in an interview.  Next Round  Negotiations are slated to continue on a technical level in
Istanbul and then resume in Almaty on April 5, when world powers
will be looking for a clear response from Iran. “The ball
remains in the Iranian court,” European Union foreign affairs
spokesman Michael Mann told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  In the meantime, Iran announced that it’s moving ahead with
plans to install 3,000 new-generation centrifuges at its Natanz
uranium-enrichment facility. Iran says its atomic program is for
civilian energy and medical uses, and the UN’s International
Atomic Energy Agency says it hasn’t detected any diversion of
enriched uranium for possible military use.  The head of the IAEA, Yukiya Amano, publicly urged Iran
yesterday to allow inspectors to visit the Parchin military site
in response to intelligence that Iran had secretly operated a
blast chamber there for testing nuclear-weapons components. Iran
has cleaned up the site about 20 kilometers (12 miles) southeast
of Tehran while preventing IAEA inspectors from visiting, saying
it’s not covered by inspection requirements.  ‘Red Line’  “Diplomacy has not worked,” Netanyahu said, speaking via
satellite from  Israel . Iran is “running out the clock. It has
used negotiations, including the most recent ones, in order to
buy time to press ahead with its nuclear program.”  Netanyahu said Iran hasn’t yet crossed the “red line”
that he laid out in a speech at the United Nations last
September, meaning the Islamic Republic hasn’t stockpiled enough
medium-enriched uranium to fuel a nuclear weapon if further
enriched.  “We have to stop its nuclear enrichment program before
it’s too late,” the Israeli leader added.  Netanyahu’s remarks indicated that his timeline for
possible military action is shorter than Obama’s. The prime
minister “made clear that the gaps between his position on Iran
and President Obama’s remain considerable,” Shimon Stein, a
research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National
Security Studies, said in a telephone interview.  Senate Resolution  Last week, 15 U.S. senators co-sponsored a non-binding
resolution by Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South
Carolina that cites concern about Iran’s nuclear activities and
expresses support if “Israel is compelled to take military
action in self-defense.” Today, some of the Aipac conference
attendees will lobby their representatives on Capitol Hill.  In public remarks yesterday in  Riyadh  with Kerry, the Saudi
foreign minister criticized Iran for continuing negotiations
“to ask for more negotiation in the future.”  “They reach common understanding only on issues that
require further negotiation,” said Prince Saud, whose Arab,
Sunni Islamic country is the U.S.’s most important Gulf ally and
a nation historically hostile to Persian Shiite Iran.  Kerry repeated the U.S. priority on negotiations to stop
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, while cautioning that
“talks will not go on for the sake of talks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  