-- CME Will Reduce Grain Trade Hours After Customer Survey
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-03-05T16:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/cme-says-it-s-reducing-grain-trading-hours-after-customer-survey.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, said it plans to scale back grain and oilseed
trading hours next month, backing off an expansion last May that
left markets open 21 hours a day.  Trading for Chicago Board of Trade and Kansas City Board of
Trade contracts will be cut to 17 1/2 hours a day starting April
8, pending approval from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Chicago-based CME said today in a statement. The
company said in January that it would seek customer feedback on
the extended hours. More than 4,000 people replied to a survey
on the issue, CME said.  Electronic trading of contracts including corn, wheat and
soybeans will be open Sunday to Friday from 7 p.m. to 7:45 a.m.
 Chicago  time, the exchange said. There will be a break in
electronic trading from 7:45 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., before floor
trading begins and electronic trading resumes, until settlements
at 1:15 p.m.  “It’s going to add that element of people gearing up for
the open in the morning that the markets have been missing,”
Jon Marcus, the president of Lakefront Futures and Options, LLC
in Chicago, said in telephone interview. “It will put that
extra zip into the markets, and that’s going to benefit
everybody. This will also give everybody a break.”  The CME expanded grain trading to 21 hours from 17 partly
to compete with new contracts offered by  Intercontinental
Exchange  Inc. 22 hours a day.  Dominant Location  The CBOT, where grain has been exchanged since 1877,
remains the dominant location for trading. The exchange handled
73.2 million corn futures contracts in 2012, down from 79
million in 2011, CME data show. Soybeans trading rose 15 percent
to 52 million contracts last year, while wheat volume rose 13
percent to 27.4 million.  ICE handled 464,155 corn, wheat, soybean, soybean-meal and
soybean-oil futures in 2012, since starting in May, exchange
data show. The biggest month for ICE was 84,024 contracts in
July. During that same month, CME handled 18.09 million.  Significant Feedback  “Over the past several months, we have received
significant customer feedback about the current CBOT grain
trading hours,” Tim Andriesen, managing director for
agricultural commodities and alternative investments at CME,
said in the statement. “While there were varying opinions about
what the modifications to hours should be, we believe these
changes balance the needs of our diverse global customers.”  In their Jan. 29 letter to customers, CME Executive
Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive Officer Phupinder Gill said they were considering a trading “pause” during
market-moving reports at noon in  Washington  from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, “if all exchange and trading venues
would do the same.”  “USDA has no plans at this time to change the release of
its key economic reports,” Gerald Bange, the chairman of the
USDA’s World Outlook Board, said in a telephone interview.  “Our commercial hedgers were a little disappointed by the
reduction in hours because the longer hours allowed them to
hedge cash-market trades almost immediately, reducing market
risks,” David Smoldt, a vice president at INTL FCStone Inc. in
 West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a telephone interview. “Markets
still will be open during USDA reports. It would be easier to
have the USDA release the market data when the markets are
closed, so everyone has time to review the information, and
maybe there would be less price volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 Jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  