-- Coach Priced Cheap Lifts Takeover Odds: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-03-05T21:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/coach-priced-cheap-lifts-takeover-odds-real-m-a.html
Coach Inc. (COH) ’s handbags and heels are
offering buyers one of the biggest bargains among luxury brands.  Shares of Coach have  lost 17 percent  since faster-growing
rival  Michael Kors  Holdings Ltd. went public in 2011 and began
an almost threefold rally. Even though Coach has the widest
profit margins among peers, the $14 billion company is trading
for only 13.6 times earnings, lower than 96 percent of similar-
sized rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coach’s valuation and cash generation -- enough to give it
the third-highest free cash flow yield among peers -- could
attract private-equity firms, Atlantic Equities LLP said.  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and PPR SA may be among suitors
drawn to its margins and the chance to  expand  Coach beyond the
U.S. and  Japan , which generated 86 percent of its sales last
year, according to AIM&R. A buyer would have to bid at least 32
percent more than yesterday’s  close ,  Edward Jones  & Co. said.  “If you’re out there looking for a deal, it meets a lot of
metrics,” Brian Yarbrough, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward
Jones, said in a telephone interview. “There is still growth
available. They have a great brand. They generate a ton of cash.
They have a great balance sheet. What’s not to like about it?”  Andrea Resnick, a spokeswoman for New York-based Coach,
declined to comment on the company’s takeover prospects.  More Competition  Coach, which  sells  accessories including purses, shoes,
wristlets and sunglasses, has seen its shares fall 38 percent
since last year’s peak. The retreat comes as Coach’s growth
stagnates amid competition from other handbag makers such as
Michael Kors, Tory Burch LLC and Fifth & Pacific Cos.’s  Kate
Spade .  Coach said in January that it failed for the first time to
gain or hold North American handbag market share in its latest
quarter. Michael Kors, a $12 billion company based in  Hong Kong ,
posted fiscal 2012 revenue growth that was four times faster
than the 15 percent pace at Coach.  “Coach is seeing some slight erosion among the key
constituencies of fashionistas and heavy handbag purchasers,”
Faye Landes, a New York-based analyst at Cowen Group Inc., wrote
in a March 4 note to clients. Michael Kors will “continue to
build on its strong position with consumers who care about
fashion.”  The slump in its stock left Coach trading yesterday at 13.6
times earnings, 62 percent less than Michael Kors and cheaper
than 27 of 28 other apparel, footwear and accessories designers
as well as specialty apparel companies valued at more than $5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median
price-earnings ratio was about 19.2.  Highest Margins  Still, Coach’s profit  margin  of 23.5 percent and operating
margin of 35 percent last quarter surpassed the figures at all
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The low valuation makes Coach vulnerable to a takeover,
according to Albert Saporta, managing director of Geneva-based
AIM&R, an alternative investment research firm.  “It’s by far the cheapest brand name you can find listed
in the U.S. or even in  Europe  for that matter,” Saporta said in
a phone interview. “Somebody could make an opportunistic bid.”  Private-equity suitors may find Coach’s balance sheet, free
 cash flow  and return on invested capital attractive, Daniela Nedialkova, a London-based analyst at Atlantic Equities, said in
a phone interview. Coach had $22.7 million in total  debt  as of
Dec. 29, compared with free cash flow of $1.05 billion during
the prior 12 months. The handbag maker’s free cash flow yield of
7.5 percent yesterday bested 92 percent of peers, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  International Expansion  A private-equity buyer could also accelerate Coach’s
international  expansion  much more rapidly in the face of the
domestic pressure from Michael Kors and other handbag makers,
according to Yarbrough of Edward Jones.  “If you’re private, you can do a lot more things,” he
said. “You can pull a lot more leverage and be a lot more
aggressive on the growth side than you can when you’re public.
And that’s the thing. They generate so much cash. You could ramp
up their international efforts probably two to threefold
compared to what they’re doing.”  A buyer would need to pay at least $65 to $70 a share for
Coach “to get the management team and shareholders
interested,” Yarbrough said. The shares closed at $49.28
yesterday. Today, they gained 1.7 percent to $50.10.  In addition to private-equity firms, Coach’s international
expansion opportunities, cash flow and high margins may also
attract luxury conglomerates such as LVMH and  PPR (PP) , AIM&R’s
Saporta said.  LVMH, PPR  Molly Morse, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for LVMH at Kekst &
Co., and Helene Saint-Raymond of PPR, declined to comment on
whether their companies would be interested in Coach. Both are
based in Paris.  Revenue growth at LVMH is projected to slow this year to
the worst rate since 2009, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In May 2010, PPR Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said the company
wouldn’t target Coach as it’s “a bit expensive.” Coach shares
have  gained  26 percent since then.  The potential size of any transaction makes a takeover
unlikely, David Glick, an analyst at Buckingham Research Group
Inc., wrote in a Feb. 27 note to clients.  “This deal would be one of the largest in retail and there
could likely be only a few potential buyers who could execute a
deal of this size,” Glick wrote.  ‘Biggest Barrier’  While size is the “biggest barrier” to a takeover, the
company’s high margins also mean there might not be much
opportunity for private-equity firms to make operational
changes, according to Liz Dunn, a New York-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  “It’s already a well-run company; it’s just a well-run
company that’s trading at a discount valuation,” Dunn said in a
phone interview. “Over time the market will appreciate the
future growth opportunities.”  Still, mergers are accelerating, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, with the value of deals announced worldwide last
quarter at the highest level since the financial crisis. Two
blockbusters were announced in the past month: the $28 billion
purchase of H.J. Heinz Co., and the $24 billion takeover of Dell
Inc.  Coach offers cash flow and international growth, “two
ingredients that would help make a buyout possible,”  David Schick , a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.
wrote in a Feb. 27 note to clients. The company is in the
process of transition, and “this period of uncertainty could
provide an interesting entry point to strategic, financial or
management buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  