-- Commerzbank Says in Appeal Dresdner Bonus Ruling Flawed
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-05T12:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/commerzbank-says-in-appeal-dresdner-bonus-ruling-flawed.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said a U.K. judge’s
decision to award bonuses to more than 100 Dresdner bankers who
sued the second-biggest German lender was “seriously flawed”
and should be overturned.  Judge Robert Owen ruled in May that Commerzbank must pay
out about 50 million euros ($65 million) to 104 Dresdner bankers
because of a promise made by management in 2008, before they
were employed by the Frankfurt-based lender. Commerzbank, which
bought Dresdner in 2009, said the awards weren’t deserved after
a 6.5 billion-euro loss at its investment-banking division.  The employees should have understood that “while
disappointing for them personally, the bank’s approach was at
the very least reasonable” and cutting their bonuses was
justified by “the worst performance in the history of the
bank,” according to documents for today’s appeals court
hearing.  At the 2012 trial, Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer
Martin Blessing said cutting bonuses by as much as 90 percent
was the right thing to do. Stefan Jentzsch, Dresdner’s CEO at
the time of the buyout, had told employees in a 2008 meeting
they would get a share of a guaranteed 400 million-euro bonus
pot if they stayed at the bank while it was sold.  European lawmakers want to ban bonuses that are more than
twice bankers’ salaries, strengthening what are already some of
the world’s toughest pay curbs. Blessing, who criticized the
Dresdner bankers for being motivated by money not loyalty, has
said he isn’t worried about the proposed rules.  German Bailout  Commerzbank bought Dresdner from  Allianz SE (ALV)  in January
2009, the same year it took an 18.2 billion-euro bailout from
 Germany .  Mark Levine, a lawyer for some of the Dresdner bankers,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  Commerzbank said Jentzsch’s comments weren’t legally
binding and it had the right to change terms of employment for
the bankers, according to court documents.  “The bank acted responsibly and reasonably in its decision
to reduce the bonus awards,” because of the 2008 losses,
Commerzbank spokesman Andrew Walton said in an e-mailed
statement.  The lender has been sued by employees in Germany,  Italy  and
 Japan  over bonus cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  