-- Connecticut Panel Split on Gun Control Proposals
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-03-06T05:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/connecticut-panel-split-on-gun-control-proposals.html
A bipartisan panel of  Connecticut 
lawmakers failed to agree on strengthening gun-control laws and
instead sent separate sets of recommendations to legislative
leaders in response to December’s mass shooting in Newtown.  Democrats on the 16-member Gun Violence Prevention Working
Group backed expanding an assault-weapons ban to include the
Bushmaster semiautomatic rifle used in the Sandy Hook Elementary
School massacre and limiting magazines to 10 rounds from 30 --
two steps Republicans didn’t recommend yesterday. Both sides
supported universal background checks for weapons buyers.  The split means Democrats must decide whether to draft a
bill without the disputed items or proceed with a measure
similar to proposals advanced by gun-control advocates and
Governor Dan Malloy, a Democrat. Legislative leaders from both
parties had said in January they wanted to find a bipartisan
consensus on the issue. The Newtown slaughter was the nation’s
second-worst school shooting.  “I thought we would reach a consensus, but like many
things in life this has been a learning experience,” said state
Representative Craig Miner of Litchfield, the Republican co-
chairman of the panel. “Many of these issues cannot be resolved
in two months.”  Legislative leaders convened the committee in January to
examine Connecticut’s gun laws, the mental-health system and
school safety in response to the Dec. 14 Newtown killings of 20
children and six educators. The massacre of 32 people at
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in 2007 was
the worst school shooting in the U.S.  Ominous Silence  Malloy last month urged lawmakers to expand the ban on
assault weapons, reduce the capacity of ammunition magazines and
require background checks on all firearms sales -- a move that
beat the committee to the punch. Malloy unveiled his plan Feb.
21 at an event near Newtown attended by Vice President Joe Biden, who is leading the Obama administration’s efforts to
strengthen gun controls.  Connecticut House Speaker Brendan Sharkey of Hamden and
Senate President Donald E. Williams Jr. of  Brooklyn , both
Democrats, have promised to bring an emergency gun-control bill
to the floor this session. Democrats hold the majority in both
chambers and don’t need Republican support to pass legislation.  Lawmakers on the panel also agreed on changes such as
banning armor-piercing ammunition, increasing penalties for gun
crimes, creating a registry for those convicted of firearms
offenses and requiring such offenders to check in with police
for five years.  “I think we do have broad consensus on many things,” said
Senator Martin Looney, a New Haven Democrat and co-chairman of
the gun-control panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  