-- Conoco Says Alaska Gas Supply Not Enough for Exports
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-03-05T06:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/conocophillips-says-alaska-gas-supply-not-enough-for-lng-exports.html
(Corrects story to remove metric ton conversion in fourth
paragraph.)  ConocoPhillips (COP)  may cease shipments
of liquefied natural gas from the U.S.’s only export terminal in
Alaska because of insufficient local supply.  The company, whose export license expires March 31, will
apply for a renewal only if there is enough gas at its Kenai
plant in south-central Alaska after meeting local demand, Amy
Burnett, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The terminal
is the only U.S. plant in operation that’s authorized to sell
domestically produced fuel to countries with which the nation
has no free trade agreement.  “Right now, ConocoPhillips is unaware of sufficient gas
supply to support exports,” Burnett said. “ConocoPhillips has
the flexibility to resume operations and apply for a new export
authorization if sufficient gas becomes available.”  ConocoPhillips shipped four spot LNG cargoes from Alaska to
Japan in 2012, according to data from the U.S. Department of
Energy. The Asian country  purchased  271,364 metric tons of gas
from the U.S. last year, according to finance ministry records.  The cargoes arrived at the western Japanese port of Himeji,
where  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  and  Osaka Gas Co. (9532)  have terminals
for receiving the fuel, according to ship-tracking data on
Bloomberg. Kansai Electric officials declined to say at the time
whether the company bought the cargoes. Osaka Gas didn’t buy the
shipments, officials with that company said.  ConocoPhillips had planned to mothball its Alaskan plant
after buying  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ’s 30 percent stake in the
facility, the company said in October 2011.  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501)  and  Tokyo Gas Co. (9531)  previously had a joint deal to buy LNG
from the Kenai. That contract, signed in 1969, expired in March
2011.  The Department of Energy awarded an export authorization
last year to  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , which plans to begin selling
LNG by early 2016 from a terminal in Sabine Pass, Louisiana.  LNG is natural gas cooled to minus 160 degrees Celsius
(minus 256 degrees Fahrenheit), shrinking the fuel to about
1/600 of its original size for transportation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  