-- Conoco Says U.S. Should Consider Allowing Oil Exports
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-03-05T20:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/conoco-says-u-s-should-consider-allowing-oil-exports.html
ConocoPhillips, the largest
independent U.S. oil and natural gas producer, said the
government should consider future exports of crude as domestic
output rises.  Rising oil and gas production from the “shale revolution”
means  North America  may become an energy exporter in the next
decade, Ryan Lance, chief executive officer of ConocoPhillips,
said in prepared remarks for a speech at the IHS CERAWeek
conference in Houston today. Increased output has created
bottlenecks and “price disconnects” that offer opportunities
for oil and liquefied natural gas shipments, he said.  “In the case of the U.S., this means allowing future LNG
exports -- and perhaps at some point even exports of oil,”
Lance said. “They would improve the U.S. balance of trade, and
create jobs and income -- both here and in the importing
countries.”  The U.S. became a net exporter of petroleum products in
2011 for the first time in 62 years, according to the  Energy
Information Administration . Monthly U.S. oil production exceeded
7 million barrels a day in November, for the first time in 20
years. Exports of U.S. crude have been banned except for limited
exceptions  since 1975 .  Exporting Oil  U.S. oil may potentially be exported to areas of the world
that have refineries that process light, sweet crude, Lance said
during a news conference in Houston today. Oil may be sent to
locations such as Mexico,  South America  and Europe, he said.  Oil exports could follow gas projects. Companies including
 Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  are proposing to export liquefied natural
gas, or LNG, amid a surge in production. Combined, there are
planned projects to liquefy more than 29 billion cubic feet a
day for export from the U.S.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ support for LNG exports is based on how
much possible gas it sees, Lance said.  ConocoPhillips, based in Houston, became an independent
producer last year with the spinoff of refining, chemical and
pipeline businesses to form a separate company known as  Phillips
66. (PSX)  Independent  oil companies  don’t have refineries or a
chemical unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  