-- Cooparaiso Sees Brazil Reaping Record Off-Year Coffee Harvest
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-05T09:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/cooparaiso-sees-brazil-reaping-record-off-year-coffee-harvest.html
Coffee growers in Brazil, the
world’s largest producer, will harvest a record crop for a
season in which trees enter the lower-yielding half of the two-
year cycle, according to growers cooperative Cooparaiso.  Production will be 47 million to 48 million bags in the
2013-14 season, Francisco Ourique, a manager at the cooperative
in Sao Sebastiao do Paraiso in the state of Minas Gerais, said
in an interview in  London  yesterday. That is down from 51
million bags a year earlier. The season in Brazil usually starts
in July, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . A bag
of coffee weighs 132 pounds (60 kilograms).  The output fluctuations between the high and low-yielding
half of the cycle have been decreasing because of new pruning
techniques and better husbandry as well as growers increasing
the amount of trees per hecatere, Ourique said. While the
historical record decline for an off-year is about 30 percent,
the drops in production now are about 10 percent, he said.
Output this season may fall as much as 7.8 percent, according to
Cooparaiso. In the last off-year, it fell 10 percent, data from
Conab,  Brazil ’s government crop-forecasting agency, showed.  “People are attributing the reduction in the biennial
cycle from a historical record of about 30 percent to around 10
percent to what we call harvest zero,” Ourique said. Harvest
zero is a pruning technique that allows producers to maintain
constant average production. That together with planting more
trees per hectare allows for smaller fluctuations from one year
to the next.  Dense Plantings  Coffee growers in Brazil have on average 2,700 trees per
hectare (2.47 acres) now, up from an average 1,750 trees per
hectare in the 1980s and 1990s, according to Ourique. That may
climb to 3,500 trees a hectare, he said. Cooparaiso has almost
6,000 members and produces on average 3.74 million bags of
coffee a year, according to its  website .  Minas Gerais , where it
is based, is Brazil’s largest arabica coffee-producing state.  The reduced fluctuation in Brazil’s production during the
on and off-year cycles due to a combination of new pruning
techniques and more dense plantings is “confusing players,”
Ourique said.  “If I have 4,000 trees competing for the same soil and the
price doesn’t pay for farmers to apply fertilizers three times a
year, the reaction to less adequate husbandry in the longer term
will bring some surprises,” he said.  “That’s because that same soil that had 2,000 plants per
hectare had a whole base of natural nutrients and applied
inputs. Now if I have 4,000-5,000 plants per hectare, if I don’t
feed them, they will starve. Today we know that for the next
harvest, few people applied inputs three times, most did it
twice.” More pronounced fluctuations may still occur, he said.  Leaf Rust  Arabica coffee fell 37 percent in  New York  last year,
partly on speculation that Brazil would have a record crop and
due to rising stockpiles. Inventories in warehouses monitored by
ICE Futures U.S. stood at 2.69 million bags yesterday, the
highest since March 2010, exchange data on Bloomberg showed. The
beans favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  were the worst performer in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials in 2012.  Demand for Brazilian coffee will probably rise as roasters
look to fill in the gap left by supplies from Central American
nations, which are battling leaf rust, a disease that affects
foliage, he said. Production from  Mexico  to  Peru  may drop by 2
million to 4 million bags the 2012-13 season that started Oct. 1
and more damage may occur in 2013-14, Ourique said.  “There is no way out,” he said. Roasters need 55 million
to 60 million bags of arabica a year, he said. “Where are they
going to get it from? This is an issue that evidently the market
has to start worrying more about.”  Leaf rust is a disease hard to treat because fungicides
have to be applied and re-applied every time it rains, said
Cooparaiso’s Ourique. Falling prices make it harder for
producers in Central America to fight the disease, according to
researcher F.O. Licht GmbH in  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in Brussels at  ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Weeks at 
 dweeks1@bloomberg.net  