-- Copper Substitution Seen by KME Accelerating on Slow Growth
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-05T13:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/copper-substitution-seen-by-kme-accelerating-on-slow-growth-1-.html
Copper is being replaced by cheaper
substitutes at a faster pace as slowing economic growth prompts
manufacturers and builders to save money, according to Riccardo
Garre, chief executive officer of KME Group SpA, a Florence,
Italy-based maker of parts used in cars, fridges and roofs.  Copper substitution including by aluminum, plastics and
fiber optics reduced demand by 400,000 to 500,000 metric tons
last year, equal to about 2 percent of global usage, according
to Wood Mackenzie Ltd., an Edinburgh-based researcher. Global
economies grew 3.2 percent last year compared with 3.9 percent
in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  estimated in January.  “Copper and products for the building industry are
enormously impacted by the slowdown of the economy,” Garre said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “That, in my opinion, is
accelerating the substitution. Especially for roofing products
and plumbing tubes, we see that on top of the slowdown.”  Copper usage fell 7.5 percent in Europe in the 11 months
through November last year as global demand grew by about 3.5
percent, according to the International Copper Study Group in
Lisbon. About 85 percent to 90 percent of KME’s sales are in
Europe, according to Garre.  Copper gained 4.4 percent last year on the London Metal
Exchange. The metal for three-month delivery rose 0.5 percent to
$7,761.25 ton by 1:01 p.m. in London, down 2.1 percent this
year.  Copper Output  KME has 12 production locations in  Europe  and one in  China ,
according to its website. Production of copper and copper alloy
products this year will be unchanged at about 435,000 tons after
output slumped 10 percent last year, Garre said.  “To assume that in 2013 the volume will be exactly the
same as in 2012, it means it’s really a negative vision,” Garre
said. “It will be the first time in copper that following the
crisis, the volumes stayed the same. It never happened during
the last decade in copper.”  KME, which has roots going back to 1886, makes products
including tubes, rods, bars and sections. Demand so far this
year has been comparable to the last quarter 2012, and stronger
for rolled products used in automotive, electronics and
electrical applications, Garre said.  “It is too early to say if it will continue or not but so
far this segment is the most promising compared with the other
products,” Garre said. “This is probably related to the
restocking effect.”  KME hasn’t had problems securing copper scrap to make its
products, Garre said. There is a risk of a shortage if Chinese
buyers come back to the European market, he said.  KME is “monitoring” changes in delivery rules at
warehouses monitored by the LME, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  