-- Danske Bank Shareholder Selling Its $965 Million Stake
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-06T10:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/danske-bank-shareholder-realdania-will-sell-1-01-billion-stake.html
Realdania, which now owns 4.87
percent of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said it sold 52 million shares in
Denmark’s largest lender to reduce exposure to the bank.  The sale of 5.2 percent of the bank raised 5.5 billion
kroner ($955 million) after shares were priced at 105 kroner
each, Realdania said in a statement today. The proceeds will be
re-invested in Realdania’s investment portfolio, according to
the philanthropic organization based in Copenhagen.  The stake was offered in an accelerated bookbuild to
institutional investors overnight. Danske shares fell 4.76
percent to 106 kroner at 11:02 a.m. in Copenhagen, the most
since the bank sold new shares on October 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They have gained about 14 percent in 
the past 12 months.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  managed the sale,
according to today’s statement.  “Realdania’s wish to diversify its investment is duly
noted, and I understand it completely,” Danske Chairman Ole Andersen said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “I’m glad that
Realdania is expressing its clear support for the bank’s new
strategy, which we’re continuing with to increase  shareholder
value .”  ’Very Positive’  Realdania’s sale “will likely turn out as a very positive
thing for Danske Bank shares,” said Christian Hede, an equity
analyst covering Nordic banks at Silkeborg, Denmark-based  Jyske
Bank A/S. (JYSK)  “There are plenty of possible buyers out there.”  Realdania, which became a shareholder in 2000 when Danske
took over Realkredit Danmark A/S, participated pro rata in the
Copenhagen-based bank’s share sales in 2012 and 2011 to maintain
its stake. The company said it will stay “a supportive
shareholder” with its remaining stake being subject to a 180-
day lock-up period.  “This is the first time after the financial crisis that
there’s a commercial option to sell,” said Realdania Chief
Executive Officer Flemming Borreskov. “Now the company has a
good management and a good strategy and will have to do a bit
more on its own.”  Danske saw a  fivefold surge  in net income to 1.15 billion
kroner last quarter as impairments dropped. The bank is
eliminating 3,000 jobs to stay competitive as it closes branches
and cuts back on corporate lending.  Maersk Support  “The Danske Bank stake accounts for more than 40 percent
of Realdania’s assets and the sale of shares and the expected
reinvestment in other assets is intended to achieve a more
balanced investment portfolio to support future philanthropic
projects,” Realdania said.  Danske’s share capital consisted of 1.01 billion shares by
the end of 2012. Other shareholders include Danish oil and
shipping group  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  and Swedish investor
group Cevian Capital, which own 22.8 percent and 5.1 percent,
respectively.  Maersk CEO Nils Smedegaard Andersen said last month his
Copenhagen-based company, which also participated in Danske’s
two latest private placements, has no plans to sell. Maersk’s
investment in Danske is based on a goal of ensuring  Denmark  has
a “strong” bank, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  