-- Dave Matthews, Bankers, Bronfman, Michael’s: NYC Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-05T15:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/dave-matthews-bankers-bronfman-michael-s-nyc-scene.html
At  No. 8  last night,  Dave Matthews ,
the musician, talked about walking around  New York  with his
iPhone, filming artist  Beezy Bailey  in a fat suit. The resulting
film and 28 silkscreens go on view tonight at  Robert Miller
Gallery  in a show of their collaboration.  “I will say he works hard,” Matthews said of Bailey, a
friend from  South Africa . “The people I most admire in the
world are the people that choose something and they just work.
You work and you work and that’s what makes you you.”  “Like bankers,” someone shouted out from the audience, to
laughter.  The conversation was moderated by Alanna Heiss, a co-
founder of P.S.1. who now runs  Art International Radio . The
event was part of a series put together by the No. 8 Cafe
Society and The Committee, entities producing cultural events.  John Cecchino, who works in finance, went home to change
out of his suit before coming to No. 8, where he hung out in a
white banquette with college friend Bobby Rossi, a partner in
the nightclub.  Amy Sacco, the doyenne of No. 8, who formally owned
Bungalow 8, said that when Matthews and Bailey arrived, she
thought  Tom Ford  and Quentin Crisp had just walked in, proving
even originals have their doppelgangers.  Date Joke  Three guys in finance walk into a benefit, eat small plates
from dozens of restaurants and conclude they now know where to
take a girl out.  So said Arin Chassine, one of those guys last night, at the
Careers through Culinary Arts Program Tasting Benefit at Pier
60.  Here’s where he may be going: Landmarc, for the
shredded pork over polenta; the Strand Bistro, which impressed
him with its lobster and corn risotto, and Shun Lee Palace, the
restaurant that doled out slices of Peking duck.  Friend James Cicalo liked the mini bulgogi burgers made by
chef Kyung Up Lim of Michael’s, the lunch hangout for media
executives that could be a romantic spot by night, at a table
with a view of the garden, perhaps.  Chef Lim said the burger ingredients were short rib
marinated in soy sauce, ginger, Asian pear and garlic. The sauce
was made with Korean pepper paste and maple syrup.  Italian Nights  The event honored Tony May, who with his daughter owns
SD26. May recalled the Italian nights he created at the Rainbow
Room, and said his passion for culinary education led him to co-
found the Italian Culinary Institute for Foreigners.  Michael McCarty , the owner of Michael’s restaurant, said
that back in the 1980s, May was the one who got culinary
students in  Italy  cooking Italian instead of French.  Edgar Bronfman Jr. said his only culinary credential was
being “an investor in a restaurant called the Four Seasons,”
housed in the tower his family built. Bronfman then noted that
May gave the restaurant’s co-owner, Julian Niccolini, his first
job in New York and “had the good judgment to fire him six
weeks later.”  The event raised money to train at-risk high-school
students in the culinary arts, including Anthony Evans, 18, of
the Bronx, who last night helped prepare the pork belly with
fried green tomato with chefs from the Red Rooster.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and
interviews by  Zinta Lundborg .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 