-- Delta Expands in Los Angeles to Compete Against American
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-03-05T19:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/delta-expands-in-los-angeles-to-compete-against-american.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is adding 17
flights a day in  Los Angeles  in a bid to win passengers away
from competitors who dominate service at the nation’s third-
busiest airport.  The flights will boost the number of seats in Los Angeles
by more than 10 percent, and include new service to eight
destinations such as Seattle, New Orleans and Nashville,
Tennessee, said Bob Cortelyou, senior vice president of network
planning at the Atlanta-based carrier.  Delta, the world’s second-largest airline, is trying to woo
fliers away from other airlines including  American Airlines  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , which both use Los Angeles as
a hub. The expansion also helps Delta funnel passengers into
that airport for connecting international service to cities such
as London, where its new partner Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.
has its hub.  “It’s the largest domestic revenue market and one of the
largest in the world,” Cortelyou said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s a strong economy in southern  California .”  By July, Delta will have 118 daily departures in Los
Angeles, up from 107 a year earlier. Delta has deepened its ties
to the city in recent years by sponsoring events such as the
Grammys and professional sports teams including the  Los Angeles
Lakers  and Los Angeles Kings.  All Los Angeles flights are being flown with dual-class
aircraft and about half of the new flights will be operated with
Delta’s main jet fleet, Cortelyou said. Delta got rid of its
last coach-only 50-seat regional jet in the Los Angeles market
in June 2012.  American, United  AMR Corp.’s American and United dominate service at Los
Angeles, with about 19 percent of passengers each, followed by
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  with 16 percent and Delta with 13
percent, according to data by the  U.S. Bureau of Transportation
Statistics .  Delta said last month it will add amenities on
transcontinental flights from New York’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport, such as sparkling wine and newspapers in
business class and expanded movie and on-demand TV choices, in a
bid to compete with United and others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  