-- Deutsche Post Sees Rising Earnings on Internet Commerce
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-05T09:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/deutsche-post-sees-rising-earnings-as-internet-boom-offsets-mail.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  said fourth-quarter
earnings rose 38 percent, beating estimates, and predicted
rising 2013 profit as booming online retail business will more
than offset the decline of traditional mail.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose to 827 million
euros ($1.08 billion) from 599 million euros a year earlier,
 Europe ’s largest postal service said in a statement today.
Profit beat the 791.7 million-euro average of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 3.2 percent to
14.6 billion euros. The stock rose the most in seven months.  “In 2013, we will continue to do everything in our power
to solidify and expand our market position in all business
segments,” Chief Executive Officer Frank Appel said in a
statement. “Although the first signs of economic stabilization
are emerging, we expect at least the first half of the year will
remain very challenging.”  Customers shopping online will continue to boost the Bonn-
based company’s parcel business by as much as 7 percent per
year, helping mitigate the effect of declining volumes in its
mail business, it said. High-tech consumers in emerging
countries including  China  also mean rising shipments of
electronics goods. The nation became the largest consumer market
for personal computers and smart phones last year, according to
Deutsche Post.  Shares Rise  Deutsche Post rose as much as 4.4 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Aug. 2, and were up 4 percent at 17.68 euros
at 9:40 a.m. in Frankfurt. That values the company at 21.4
billion euros.  Parcel volumes handled by the German group grew 9.8 percent
last year, while volumes declined by 3 percent in the company’s
mail business.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery firm, on Jan. 31 forecast profit for this year that
trailed analysts’ estimates as a weak economy saps demand. UPS
said it’s focusing on its own operations after terminating an
agreement to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  for 5.16 billion euros on
European regulator opposition.  Appel said the transaction had created uncertainty for
customers, and that Deutsche Post was benefiting in its
competition against UPS and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)   Uncertain Times  “Uncertainty is something customers don’t like,” he said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “Deutsche Post is
well positioned to gain market share in the express overnight
business.” The company has no need or ambition for major
acquisitions, the executive said.  Deutsche Post forecast Ebit to rise to 2.7 billion euros to
2.95 billion euros this year from 2.67 billion in 2012 and
proposed a dividend of 70 euro cents a share, unchanged from a
year earlier. The company is seeking to increase profit to as
much as 3.55 billion euros by 2015, as it reduces administrative
costs and expands its DHL express business.  “Global Forwarding/Freight was much better than expected
driven by a selective growth strategy and the management of
overhead costs,” Nadeshda Demidova, an analyst at Equinet Bank
in  Frankfurt , said in a note to clients. “The guidance for 2013
is better than expected.”  In global forwarding, Deutsche Post competes with Kuehne &
Nagel International AG, which yesterday said the global sea
freight market may gain as much as 3 percent this year, while
air freight may rise by 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  