-- Dollar Falls Versus Majors Before U.S. Jobs Data; Aussie Rises
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-06T07:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/dollar-remains-lower-versus-majors-before-u-s-jobs-data-ecb.html
The dollar fell for a second day
against most of its major counterparts before a private jobs
report in the U.S. forecast to show companies added positions.  The Dollar Index declined for a third day before the
 Federal Reserve  releases its Beige Book report. The euro was
little changed against the yen before European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and his board meet tomorrow. Speculation
that central banks will continue stimulus helped spur the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to a record in  New York . Australia’s
currency rose for a second session as data showed the nation’s
economic  growth  accelerated last quarter.  “The dollar is being sold in a risk-on trade,” said Kazuo Shirai, a trader at Union Bank NA in  Los Angeles . “The Dow
Average climbed to a record and Treasuries were sold. The market
is waiting for the jobs report.”  The dollar lost 0.1 percent to $1.3062 per euro as of 7:28
a.m. in  London  after falling 0.2 percent to $1.3052 in New York.
It was little changed at 93.34 yen from yesterday when it slid
0.2 percent. The euro traded at 121.93 yen from 121.76.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, lost 0.1 percent to 81.990.  U.S. companies took on more workers last month after adding
the most jobs in almost a year in January, figures from the
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute will probably
show today.  U.S. Jobs  Firms added 170,000 positions in February, following a
192,000 increase the previous month, economists forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Labor Department will release its
payrolls data on March 8.  The Swedish krona and  New Zealand dollar  have led gains
this week among 10 developed nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes as optimism about growth
in the world’s largest economy spurred demand for higher-
yielding assets. The Dow closed at a record 14,253.77 yesterday.  The ECB will probably maintain its benchmark rate at 0.75
percent this week, according to a Bloomberg survey. The central
bank will also update its December economic forecasts.  The euro area’s gross domestic  product  probably fell 0.6
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three-month
period, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before the data today. The European Commission  sees 
inflation at 1.8 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014.  Anticipate Easing  “‘Since the ECB’s last economic forecast in December, the
euro has appreciated, so that could weigh on their outlook for
inflation and the market may look to price in more ECB policy
easing,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender. “That probably could weigh on the euro into
week’s end.”  Australia’s dollar gained after the nation’s statistics
bureau said GDP expanded 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter and
revised growth for the previous three months up to 0.7 percent
from 0.5 percent previously.  Traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
lower its benchmark 3 percent interest rate by 31 basis points
over 12 months, down from wagers on 50 basis points of cuts on
March 4, a Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps shows.  “We’ve seen market pricing for more rate cuts by the RBA
get pared back, and that obviously helps support the Aussie,”
said Commonwealth Bank of  Australia ’s Dragicevich. The GDP data
showed “the previous quarter was revised higher, and the annual
rate was lifted, so that’s a good outcome.”  The so-called Aussie rose 0.2 percent to $1.0281 after
advancing 0.6 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  