-- Don’t Skewer Sandberg for Not Solving All Women’s Issues
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-03-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/don-t-skewer-sandberg-for-not-solving-all-women-s-issues.html
During the summer between her junior
and senior years of high school, Sheryl Sandberg worked as a
page for her Florida congressman, William Lehman. On the last
day of the session, Lehman introduced her to Speaker of the House
Tip O’Neill.  “I was nervous,” she writes in her new book, “ Lean In :
Women, Work and the Will To Lead,” but Lehman put her at ease
with a complimentary introduction praising her hard work.
O’Neill, who died in 1994, patted Sandberg on the head.  “She’s pretty,” he said to Lehman.  Then, turning to the woman who today is chief operating
officer of  Facebook (FB) , the speaker of the House asked, “Are you a
pom-pom girl?”  Sandberg, who ranks 10th on the Forbes list of “ The
World’s 100 Most Powerful Women ,” isn’t fielding questions
these days about whether she ever made the cheerleading team.  She is, however, taking a beating among many commentators
for the things “Lean In” doesn’t do: It doesn’t solve all the
problems of women who lack Sandberg’s resources and connections.
It doesn’t propose a way to enact child-care solutions at the
government level. It doesn’t map out a strategy to fight gender
discrimination in corporations.  Don’t Leave  These observations are true, but they don’t negate
Sandberg’s constructive ideas. In the frustratingly slow march
toward  gender equality , “Lean In” proposes workarounds to help
professional women survive.  Sandberg insists that if you’re a woman in the workplace,
you mustn’t “leave before you leave.” Sometimes in
anticipation of a pregnancy that could be years off, women begin
to forgo opportunities. “We compromise our career goals to
make room for partners and children who may not even exist
yet,” she writes.  The author has made risky moves to keep colleagues from
making those compromises. She recalls asking a Facebook employee
to manage a new project, but picking up vibes that the woman was
reluctant to assume more responsibility.  “Are you worried about taking this on because you’re
considering having a child sometime soon?” she asked. It was a
move that “would give most employment lawyers a heart attack,”
Sandberg writes. She’s got that right.  Marathon Training  Sandberg illustrates the problem by likening careers to a
marathon in which men and women arrive at the starting line
“equally fit and trained.” As the race begins, men are cheered
with shouts of “Lookin’ strong” even as women are told “Good
start -- but you probably won’t want to finish.”  As women struggle toward the finish line, “the voices can
even grow hostile,” she writes. “Spectators shout, ‘Why are
you running when your children need you at home?’”  Throughout this well-written book, Sandberg draws from
research examining everything from pay inequality to biases that
trip women up.  Particularly reflective of how things work in the real
world is a  Columbia Business School  experiment where students
were asked to read a case study about an entrepreneur named
Heidi Roizen who became a successful venture capitalist by using
her “outgoing personality” and “vast personal and
professional network.”  Half the students read the case study with Roizen’s real
name. The other half read a doctored version where Heidi was
changed to “Howard.”  Great Guy  The verdict: Heidi was selfish and not “the type of person
you would want to hire or work for.” And Howard? Now that was
someone they’d like to have as a colleague. What a guy.  Sandberg hopes to inspire a movement. If she succeeds,
that’s terrific, but history is not on her side.  People with a lock on power share their clout only when
they’re forced to. Pass legislation demanding gender quotas and
women get picked for corporate board seats, as happened in
 Norway . File a class action lawsuit that exposes sexist remarks
and pay inequity, and women start getting good jobs they were
qualified for all along, as happened at  Newsweek  in the 1970s
and  Smith Barney  in the ’90s.  Sandberg pushes a less militant approach. She’d like to see
more emphasis on success stories so that women are inspired not
to give up. She even advises that women smile a lot to get ahead
at the office.  Sandberg doesn’t cover all the important issues, but she
doesn’t deserve to be skewered, either. Women are too far behind
to indulge in the luxury of dismissing an advocate because she
hasn’t come up with a global solution. Working women need all
the help they can get.  “Lean In” is published by Knopf in the U.S. and W.H.
Allen in the U.K. (228 pages, $24.95, 16.99 pounds). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  is a columnist for Bloomberg View and the
author of “Tales From the Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual
harassment at financial companies. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Zinta
Lundborg  on music.  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in  New York  at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 