-- The Diploma Gap Between Rich and Poor
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-03-05T23:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/the-diploma-gap-between-rich-and-poor.html
When people get more education, they
become more productive and help strengthen the entire U.S.
economy.  So it is discouraging to see that students from
wealthy families are increasingly more likely to graduate from
college than are those from poor families. This perpetuates
inequality from one generation to the next and limits the
economic benefits that could come if a wider swath of the
population earned college degrees.  The widening gap in college completion rates is documented
in a  paper  by economists Martha Bailey and Susan Dynarski of the
University of Michigan. Looking at children born in the early
1960s, the researchers found that only 5 percent of children
from families in the lowest-income quartile completed college,
while 36 percent of those from families in the highest-income
quartile did.  For children born around 1980, the college completion rate
among low-income students rose to 9 percent, but among high-
income students it jumped to more than half (54 percent). In
other words, over two decades, the college income gap widened to
45 percentage points from 31 percentage points. This widening
was observed even after the researchers accounted for
differences in students’ cognitive skills.  It’s tempting to conclude that the advantages of wealth and
income have simply intensified, so the odds are increasingly
stacked against poorer students. No doubt that’s true to some
extent, but Bailey and Dynarski show that most of the change has
been driven by trends among female students. The gap between
rich and poor in both college entry and college completion
widened by almost twice as much for women as it did for men. (An
astonishing 85 percent of girls born in well-off families around
1980 entered college.)  Not Simple  It can’t simply be that wealthy families directly or
indirectly buy advantages for their children. If this were the
case, why wouldn’t it work as well for sons as for daughters?  So what has happened to widen the college gap and what can
we do about it?  Bailey and Dynarski focus on two crucial pieces of the
picture: inequality in high school graduation rates and
inequality in college completion among students who begin
college.  Gaps in high school graduation by income, the researchers
find, account for about half of the gap in college entry rates.
After all, college entry isn’t an option for people without a
high school degree. Among those who do finish high school,
though, the percentage who go on to enter college has risen to
about 70 percent among those born around 1980 -- up from about
half of those born around 1960. So raising high school
graduation rates among low-income students could make a
difference.  One way to do this has been suggested by the Hamilton
Project at the Brookings Institution: compulsory schooling. In a
 September 2012 paper  for Hamilton, economists Philip Oreopoulos
and Derek Messacar of the University of Toronto note that about
half of low-income and minority students don’t graduate with
their high school class. They propose that all states require
students to stay in school until age 18. This would at least
make more low-income students eligible to attend college.  To be sure, a high school degree won’t matter much if the
student isn’t adequately prepared for college, which is why
Oreopoulos and Messacar couple their suggestion with other
reforms to improve educational quality. And as I  have written 
before, to get more students to enroll in college, the financial
aid process must be simplified.  The final, and perhaps most perplexing, problem to solve
involves “persistence” -- a college student’s likelihood of
completing a degree. Less than 60 percent of students enrolled
full-time at four-year colleges graduate within six years, the
College Board has shown, and less than 30 percent of full-time
students at two-year colleges graduate within three years.  Finishing College  Not surprisingly, but somewhat depressingly, those who
don’t finish are disproportionately poor. Among those born
around 1980, only about a third of college students from low-
income families got their degrees, compared with about two-
thirds of those from affluent families.  As another indication of the challenge, the  college
completion report  from the KIPP charter school network shows an
impressive 95 percent of KIPP students receive their high school
degree, and 89 percent enroll in college -- but then less than
40 percent graduate from college. This is a crucial and
challenging problem. The  College Board ’s  College Completion
Agenda  recommends some strategies to support and motivate
students that might help, starting in preschool and continuing
after they reach college, but the truth is that no one yet knows
what will work.  At its heart, the widening gap in college completion rates
between rich and poor students undermines the traditional
American notion of equal opportunity. It also represents a
missed economic opportunity. Raising graduation rates among low-
income students would significantly increase average educational
attainment in the U.S. and, in so doing, bolster productivity.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 