-- Meat-Inspector Furloughs Seen by USDA as Several Months Away
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-05T16:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/meat-inspector-furloughs-to-take-several-months-vilsack-says.html
Furloughs of inspectors at
meatpacking plants under mandated U.S. budget cuts will take
“several months” to implement as workers have to be notified
ahead of time, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture is sending out notices
to union representatives this week that furloughs are possible,
Vilsack said today at a hearing of the House Agriculture
Committee. Meatpacking plants can’t operate without a USDA
inspector present, so keeping facilities open will be a
challenge, he said.  “We will do everything we can to minimize the
disruption,” he said. “We are looking at a several-month
period before furloughs can be implemented.”  About $85 billion in federal spending cuts for this fiscal
year began taking effect March 1 under so-called sequestration,
a budget mechanism stemming from failed deficit-reduction
negotiations. Democratic and Republican leaders have indicated
they would revisit the reductions after they pass legislation
needed to keep the government running beyond March 27. A Senate
plan to avert sequestration partly by ending about $5 billion in
annual farm subsidies failed to receive a vote last week.  Furlough Forecasts  Slaughterhouses operated by  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD)  may shut for as many as 15 days after meat inspectors
are sent home without pay, and weather forecasts important to
farmers could be compromised by idled meteorologists at the
National Weather Service, the government has said. Tyson and
Cargill Inc., two of the largest U.S. meat processors, said last
week they don’t expect furloughs of meat inspectors to occur
before at least April.  Vilsack said that the latest calculations of what the USDA
needs to save indicate “the furlough days may be in the
neighborhood of 11 to 12 days” and that the mandated days off
without pay will be staggered.  Predictions that meatpacking plants will need to close as
inspectors are furloughed are roiling commodity prices,
committee Chairman Frank Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican, told
Vilsack, questioning whether the disruptions predicted by the
administration of President  Barack Obama  will be as dire as
portrayed.  “Members of this committee have heard from constituents
that these statements about the interruption of production have
affected prices, caused concern among financial markets, and
alarmed buyers and sellers in the retail and food-service
community,” Lucas said.  Meat, poultry and egg processors are prohibited from
operating without the presence of federal inspectors. A 15-day
furlough may cost the industry more than $10 billion in
production losses and workers may lose more than $400 million in
wages, Vilsack said in a Feb. 5 letter to Senate Appropriations
Committee Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski.  The USDA is responsible for the safety of meat, eggs and
poultry products, with about 8,400 personnel inspecting the
nation’s 6,300 slaughterhouses and processing plants. The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration handles other products that account
for about 80 percent of the U.S. food supply.  Each year, contaminated food kills about 3,000 people and
sends another 128,000 to hospitals, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  