-- Hedge Funds Most Bearish on Loonie in Bias Bets: Canada Credit
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-05T13:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hedge-funds-most-bearish-on-loonie-in-bias-bets-canada-credit.html
Hedge funds are amassing record bets
against the Canadian dollar on speculation the  Bank of Canada 
will drop its bias toward raising  interest rates , putting it in
unison with the rest of the Group of Seven nations.  Futures contracts wagering on a decline in the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart held by so-called leveraged
funds totaled C$6.3 billion ($6.1 billion) in the week ended
Feb. 26, according to Citigroup Inc., citing U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission figures. Overall, the data showed
traders  reversed bets  on a rise in the Canadian currency during
the five-day period for the first time in eight months.  Weak exports and record debts are eroding growth in the
world’s 11th-largest economy, with the slowest expansion
forecast this year since 2009. Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark
Carney  remains the lone central-bank head in the G-7 suggesting
a rate increase. BlackRock Inc. and State Street Canada are
among the fixed-income managers speculating that Carney may drop
his tightening bias when the central bank meets tomorrow, making
Canadian-dollar denominated assets less attractive to
international investors.  “It’s not clear the tightening bias means much in that
environment,” Gabriel De Kock, head of U.S. foreign-exchange
strategy at Morgan Stanley in  New York , said in an interview
yesterday.  “Most folks believe the Bank of Canada isn’t going
to raise rates this year.”  Eight-Month Low  Carney said Feb. 25 some of the risks to the economy he
highlighted the prior month are materializing and policy makers
are sticking to their assessment that rate increases have become
less urgent than they had anticipated. The Bank of Canada has
warned rates could rise in every policy decision since April.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0263 per
 U.S. dollar  at 8:40 a.m. in Toronto, after declining yesterday
to an almost eight-month low. It touched C$1.0342 on March 1,
the weakest since June 29. One loonie buys 97.44 U.S. cents.  Yields on Canadian  two-year   government bonds  fell to 0.907
percent, the lowest in nine months, on March 1 when a report
showed the economy grew slower than the government forecast in
January. Derivatives point to 12.8 basis points of easing by the
central bank’s final meeting of the year, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on trading in overnight-index swaps.  Median Forecast  “The foreign-exchange market is effectively pricing in
Bank of Canada easing as well,”  Greg Anderson , New York-based
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “If they went to a
completely neutral bias, where the implication is they could
either hike or cut at the next change, then probably the
Canadian dollar is going to weaken.”  The median forecast of 47 contributors surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the loonie to trade at 98 cents by the end of
fourth quarter.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, the nation’s fifth-biggest bank, issued C$1 billion of
five-year notes with a coupon of 2.22 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government was unchanged yesterday from March 1 at 127 basis
points, or 1.27 percentage points, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Canada Corporate Index. Yields were little
changed at 2.83 percent, the data show.  Provincial bond spreads held steady at 73 basis points,
while yields declined to 2.51 percent, from 2.52 percent on
March 1, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian
Provincial & Municipal Index.  Consumer Prices  Corporate bonds have returned 1.1 percent this year,
compared with gains of 0.2 percent by provincial bonds and 0.1
percent by federal  government securities , Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  Inflation at the lowest level since 2009 and a gloomier
outlook prompted Canadian Imperial Bank to delay the bank’s call
for a rate increase until the third quarter of 2014 from earlier
in the year.  Consumer prices  rose 0.5 percent in January from a
year earlier, Statistics Canada said Feb. 22.  “The tightening bias is not convincing the markets that
the bank is going to move anytime soon,” Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  CIBC expects the central bank to maintain
its bias in tomorrow’s policy statement.  ‘Too Bearish’  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the Bank of Canada
won’t raise its 1 percent overnight target rate by this year. In
January, the forecast called for a quarter-percentage point
increase at the end of the year.  The Canadian currency has lost 1.2 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes as the nation’s 25-year commodity-fueled
expansion shows signs of faltering. The worst for the currency
may already be priced in, Anderson said.  “The market has gotten too bearish on the Canadian dollar
here going into this meeting and may get surprised the other way
as there’s no change in the statement,” Anderson said. Traders
will seek to unwind trades where they are running short
positions versus other paired trades, triggering a gain in the
loonie following tomorrow’s rate announcement, he said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators had 21,433 more
bets the Canadian dollar would fall than bets it would gain, so-
called net shorts, on Feb. 26, compared with 19,379 more bets it
would gain, or net-longs, a week earlier, the CFTC data show.  Oil Sands  Policy makers pared their forecast for economic growth Jan.
23 when they released their last policy report to 2 percent this
year from an October prediction of 2.3 percent. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict Canada’s economy will expand 1.75
percent in 2013, compared with growth of 1.8 percent in the U.S.
and an average 1.12 percent in the Group of 10 economies.  Alberta oil remains trapped by bottlenecked pipelines,
limiting an engine of growth that contributes about 15 percent
of gross domestic product, the central bank said in January. The
economy expanded at an annualized pace of 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter,  Statistics Canada  said March 1.  The differential for Western Canada Select to U.S. West
Texas Intermediate was $27 yesterday. The discount reached a
record $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14.  “Traders are finding it easy to sell the Canadian dollar
on any negative news or any geopolitical hiccup,” Adam Button,
a currency analyst at Forexlive.com, said by phone from
 Montreal . “And when there is good news, the Canadian dollar
rallies are minimal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  