-- Medicare Plans Were Overpaid by Up to $5.1 Billion, Audit Finds
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/medicare-plans-were-overpaid-by-up-to-5-1-billion-audit-finds.html
Health insurers that offer private
plans in the U.S. Medicare program for the elderly and disabled
were overpaid by as much as $5.1 billion over the past three
years, government auditors said.  The  report , from the Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, comes as insurers are fighting a
proposed 2.2 percent cut in a rate used to determine their
payments in the Medicare Advantage program. About a quarter of
Medicare’s 49 million beneficiaries sign up for Advantage plans,
in which their care is covered by insurers led by  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  instead of the government.  The plans were paid about $135 billion in 2012, according
to the GAO. Payments will fall by about $11 billion in 2014 if
the proposed cut is enacted, UnitedHealth said in a March 1
letter to Medicare’s acting administrator,  Marilyn Tavenner .  “The cuts result in higher costs for millions of
beneficiaries, diminish choice for Medicare enrollees,
compromise the viability of the Medicare Advantage program and
undercut Medicare Advantage’s ability to deliver better quality
at lower costs,” John Larson, chief executive officer of
UnitedHealth’s Medicare and Retirement unit, wrote in the
letter.  A spokesman for UnitedHealth, Matt Stearns, said in an e-
mail that the company wouldn’t comment on the GAO report.
UnitedHealth had about 2.6 million Medicare Advantage members in
the fourth quarter of 2012, the most of any insurer, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Sicker Patients  The overpayments happened because Medicare Advantage plans
claimed that their patients were sicker on average than those in
the traditional fee-for-service program, the GAO said in its
report. Medicare didn’t adjust its payments to the plans to
sufficiently account for what the GAO called “differences in
diagnostic coding” by the insurers.  The report “doesn’t take into account what plans are doing
to identify beneficiaries who have potential health risks and
then putting into place programs and services to make sure
patients are getting the care they need,” said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans,
the industry’s Washington lobby group.  Advantage plans “go out of their way to make sure they
know patients’ health risks so they can intervene early and
avoid complications down the line,” he said in a phone
interview.  The 2010 health-care overhaul, the Affordable Care Act,
 reduced  payments to Advantage plans by about $206 billion
through 2019. The GAO report “makes it clear that there is more
to be done” to reduce overpayments to Advantage plans, said
Senator Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, in a statement.  He
requested the report with Representative Henry Waxman, a
California Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  