-- Egypt Pound Forwards Advance as Foreign Reserves Beat Estimates
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-05T15:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/egypt-pound-forwards-advance-as-foreign-reserves-beat-estimates.html
Egyptian pound forwards
strengthened for a second day after the country’s foreign
currency reserves dropped less than economists’ forecasts.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.4 percent
today to 7.145 a dollar, indicating investors expect the
currency to weaken 5.6 percent in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts were trading as weak as 7.4
a dollar last month, the data show.  Reserves fell to $13.5 billion in February, the lowest
level in at least 15 years, central bank data showed yesterday.
That beat the $13.2 billion median estimate of five economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The better-than-anticipated figure was
due to “precautionary” measures to ration the use of dollars,
Nidal Assr, central bank sub-governor, said yesterday. Reserves
have plunged 60 percent since the 2011 uprising that ousted
 Hosni Mubarak  as investors and tourists shunned the country.  “The squeeze in NDFs is a product of people being happy we
didn’t see a sharper drop in reserves,” Stephen Bailey-Smith,
 emerging markets  strategist at Standard Bank Plc, said by phone.
“There’s also a little more optimism about the potential of an
IMF deal before the elections.”  Economic Plan  The government outlined an economic plan last week designed
to help secure a $4.8 billion loan from the  International
Monetary Fund , including raising taxes on some goods and
gradually lifting fuel subsidies. The IMF agreement has been on
hold since November amid a political crisis between the ruling
Islamist regime of President Mohamed Mursi and opposition
groups. The National Salvation Front, the biggest opposition
group, said it will boycott parliamentary elections set to start
in April.  The yield on  Egypt ’s $1 billion of 5.75 percent dollar
bonds was little changed at 7.13 percent as of 5:10 p.m. in
Cairo, near the highest level since June, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That brings its increase this year to 111
basis points, or 1.10 percentage points.  The pound was unchanged at 6.7442 a dollar, having weakened
about 8 percent since the central bank started auctioning
dollars to local lenders in December to limit access to the U.S.
currency. The regulator sold $518.1 million at the auctions in
February, or 41 percent less than the previous month. Illegal
currency dealers are charging as much as 7.4 pounds a dollar,
the state-run news website Ahram Gate said last week.  “There’s clearly a shortage of dollars but the failure of
the the black market premium to widen further shows it’s not
becoming more severe,” Bailey-Smith said. “It’s still not a
sustainable state of affairs. You have to restore the confidence
cycle and I’m of the view that elections could deliver that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  