-- Lehman Said to Plan Maui Hotel Sale on Travel Rebound
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-03-05T16:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/lehman-said-to-plan-maui-hotel-sale-on-travel-rebound.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. plans
to put its Ritz-Carlton Kapalua resort in  Hawaii  on the market
in the next few months as tourism across the islands reaches
record levels.  Lehman, once the world’s fourth largest investment bank, is
looking for a broker to market the property, said a person with
knowledge of the plan who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public. The company financed the resort before
filing for bankruptcy in 2008 and gained control after
foreclosing on the loan.  Jeffrey Fitts, Lehman’s New York-based head of real estate
and a managing director at Alvarez & Marsal, the advisory firm
managing the liquidation, said in August that the firm would
only sell assets to repay creditors once the timing is right.
It’s now preparing to trade the luxury Maui resort as Hawaii
benefits from a travel rebound that’s sent tourism revenue to a
record and prompted property investments across the islands.  A Lehman spokeswoman declined to comment on the planned
sale.  A joint venture of New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Gencom Group bought the Ritz-Carlton Kapalua in March 2006
and renovated the property before defaulting in April 2009 on a
$260 million loan from Lehman. The Ritz-Carlton Kapalua sits on
54 acres and has 463 guest rooms and suites. It also features
six restaurants, a spa and two championship golf courses,
according to its website.  Occupancy Rates  Hotel occupancy in Hawaii was 77 percent last year up from
73 percent in 2011 and average nightly rates climbed 7.5 percent
to $204.86, according to Hendersonville, Tennessee-based
research company STR. Both, annual occupancy and rates, were the
highest in at least six years, according to STR.  Lodging revenue, including room rentals and food and retail
sales, rose 15 percent to a record $3.62 billion last year
through Sept. 30, according to Honolulu-based consulting firm
Hospitality Advisors LLC. That’s compared with a low of $2.59
billion in the first nine months of 2009, when the U.S. was in a
recession after the credit crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 