-- Telenet Names John Porter as CEO as Duco Sickinghe Resigns
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2013-03-05T10:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/telenet-names-john-porter-as-ceo-as-duco-sickinghe-resigns.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , said
Duco Sickinghe will step down as chief executive officer at the
end of the month and will be succeeded by John Porter.  Telenet and Sickinghe, who headed Telenet for almost 12
years, decided in mutual agreement that he will end his
executive duties on March 31 and continue as a director until
the company’s annual shareholders’ meeting on April 24, Telenet
said in a statement. Sickinghe didn’t comment on his next move.  Porter, 55, was CEO of Austar United Communications Ltd., a
provider of subscription television in  Australia  that was
controlled by Liberty Global until it was sold to Foxtel last
year. Porter has 30 years of experience in the industry and is
the “ideal candidate” to lead Telenet in its next growth
phase, Telenet said. Porter’s “track record and history with
Liberty Global will ensure the continued momentum and success of
Telenet,” the company said.  “We regret that Duco Sickinghe is leaving Telenet as he
was key in the success of Telenet,” Emmanuel Carlier, an
analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, wrote today in a note. His
leadership resulted in the company “systematically
outperforming its peers and the market.”  Shares in Telenet fell as much as 3.4 percent to 37.745
euros in Brussels trading, the biggest intraday percentage
decline since Liberty Global said it wouldn’t raise an offer to
gain full control of Telenet on Jan. 18. The stock traded at
38.125 euros, down 2.4 percent, at 11:20 a.m. local time.  “We fully respect Duco’s decision and we have very much
appreciated his contributions to the Company during his
tenure,” Telenet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  