-- Telenor Gains as Fading India Risk May Boost Payout: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-03-05T12:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/telenor-gains-as-fading-india-risk-may-boost-payout-oslo-mover.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  climbed to a five-year
high after Morgan Stanley upgraded its rating on the Nordic
region’s largest phone operator as improvements in India boost
the company’s dividend prospects.  The Fornebu, Norway-based company gained as much as 2.7
percent to 127.9 kroner in Oslo, the  highest  intraday level
since January 2008, and traded 1.4 percent higher as of 1:38
p.m. local time. More than 1.1 million shares traded, about two-
thirds of the three-month average. The shares have gained 43
percent since last year’s low of 88.05 kroner on June 4.  Telenor’s total dividend payout could grow by 18 percent on
a compound annual growth basis between 2012 and 2015, Morgan
Stanley analysts including Terence Tsui said in an e-mailed note
today. “The key driver behind the dividend growth is that
losses in  India  are dramatically coming down, as Telenor’s high
investment phase in India draws to a close,” they said.  Telenor is seeking growth in  Russia , India and other parts
of Asia as competition intensifies in the Nordic region, where
almost everyone already has a mobile phone. The company is also
cutting costs in an effort to maintain earnings growth and plans
to find savings of 5 billion kroner ($878 million) over the next
four years, it said on Sept. 19.  “In the context of a challenging environment across the
sector, we see Telenor’s growing dividend, re-rating potential
and receding risks in India as supportive for an overweight
rating,” said Morgan Stanley, which upgraded its  recommendation 
from equalweight and increased its 12-month price target to 150
kroner from 137 kroner.  Indian Combination  Telenor is in talks with Tata Teleservices Ltd. to combine
their operations in India, three people with direct knowledge of
the matter said in November. The combination would create
India’s fourth-largest operator by users and may give Telenor
access to airwaves in all areas of the world’s second-biggest
mobile phone market.  Mobile-phone companies including Telenor, which earlier had
its Indian spectrum canceled, and Tata Teleservices are seeking
to revive growth in a nation where competition has driven call
rates to a penny a minute.  Telenor is counting on an improved performance in Russia by
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , 36 percent owned by the Norwegian company. It’s
also expressed an interest in bidding for mobile licenses in
Myanmar, while Vecernji List reported on Feb. 18 that Telenor is
seeking to buy Croatia’s Tele2, without saying where it got the
information.  “The M&A track record at Telenor has been mixed, in our
opinion, with some success in Asia, such as in Thailand and
 Malaysia  based on increasing mobile penetration rates in the
region, but with some concerns over other investments like India
and VimpelCom,” Morgan Stanley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  