-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China as Stimulus Lifts Exporters
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-03-05T23:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/emerging-stocks-rise-from-11-week-low-on-china-targets-stimulus.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from an 11-week low and currencies strengthened as  China  pledged
to increase fiscal spending and investors speculated that
exporters will get a boost from U.S. monetary stimulus.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which got 62 percent of revenue
from outside of South Korea in 2011, climbed to a one-week high.
Chinese banks including China Minsheng Banking Corp. drove an
advance in the CSI 300 Index. Brazil’s Bovespa index reversed
gains as Diagnosticos da America SA, a Brazilian medical-
diagnostics company, tumbled. The South Korean won rose the most
in a month against the dollar.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,049.94 in  New York . China’s  Finance Ministry  said that it will
boost fiscal spending by 10 percent this year as the country
held its growth target at 7.5 percent. U.S. Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday the central bank should
press on with $85 billion in monthly bond buying. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  jumped to a record.  “Yellen’s speech is boosting emerging markets today,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-market strategist at Amiya Capital LLP
in  London , said by e-mail. The stimulus “keeps rates low and
forces investors to seek risk,” he said.  MSCI’s emerging-markets gauge has declined 0.5 percent this
year, compared with a 6.1 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed-country stocks. The measure of developing nations
trades at 10.5 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with
the MSCI World’s 14 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Volatility Index  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund  jumped 1.2 percent to $43.42. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 6.8 percent to 17.63.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials
advanced 0.9 percent, snapping a five-day decline, as aluminum,
copper and zinc led metals higher.  Mexico’s IPC Index rose 0.3 percent, climbing for the first
time in three days. Chemical maker  Mexichem SAB (MEXCHEM*)  surged 4.9
percent, the most since July 26, after Corporativo GBM SAB
raised its rating on the stock to the equivalent of buy. Trading
volume was more than triple the three-month average.  Brazil’s Bovespa index slid 1 percent, after rallying as
much as 1.3 percent earlier today. Dasa fell the most since July
after reporting its first loss since 2010. BRF Brasil Foods SA,
the world’s biggest poultry exporter, gained 1.9 percent in  Sao
Paulo  after earnings exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Chavez Death  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  died at 4:25 p.m. local
time after a battle with cancer, Vice President Nicholas Maduro
said. Five-year  credit-default swaps  on the nation’s debt rose 3
basis points after the announcement to 640 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index gained 1.8 percent as
mining companies advanced.  ArcellorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  rose
2.4 percent, and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s
second-biggest producer of the metal, added 3.8 percent  Russia’s Micex Index climbed 1.4 percent, gaining for the
first time in four days as GMK  Norilsk Nickel  rose 3 percent.
 OAO LSR Group (LSRG) , a Russian property developer, jumped 2.8 percent
in London. The company recommended a 20 ruble-per-share dividend
for 2012, the same level as the previous year.  Poland’s WIG20 Index added 1.6 percent, with  KGHM Polska
Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the largest European mine
output, advancing 2.1 percent.  Technology Shares  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index gained for a seventh day,
the longest winning streak since Jan. 24, rising 0.5 percent.
 Tofas Turk Otomobil Fabrikasi AS (TOASO) , the Turkish carmaker co-owned
by Fiat SpA, climbed 3 percent to a record, after the company
said it would pay 0.96 lira a share in gross dividends.  All 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose as utility and technology companies had the biggest gains.
Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of smartphones and
televisions, climbed 0.7 percent in  Seoul  and  Novatek
Microelectronics Corp. (3034)  advanced 4.4 percent in Taipei.  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , representing China’s biggest companies
in the  Shanghai  and Shenzhen stock exchanges, surged 3 percent.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2.3 percent, snapping a two-
day decline. Taiwan’s Taiex index added 0.8 percent.  “In the short term, China’s plan would be good for
equities as it provides liquidity to markets,” Laurentia Amica Darmawan, who helps manage $530 million at PT First State
Investment Indonesia, said in Jakarta. “Is it sustainable? I’m
a bit doubtful about the impact for the medium term.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  gave the targets in his final opening
address to almost 3,000 lawmakers at the annual meeting of the
National People’s Congress in Beijing.  Fiscal Spending  Fiscal spending is targeted to rise 10 percent and revenue
will grow 8 percent, excluding funds to be transferred from the
stabilization fund, China’s Ministry of Finance said in a budget
report presented to the National People’s Congress.  Minsheng Banking jumped 7.5 percent in Shanghai after
slumping 6.8 percent yesterday. Ping An Bank Co. surged 10
percent in Shanghai to the highest level since December 2009.  China Resources Power Holdings Co., an energy producer that
owns wind farms, rose 5.4 percent. China will step up efforts to
cut emissions and improve  energy efficiency  this year, the
National Development & Reform Commission said in a report today.
The country plans to bolster domestic demand by boosting retail
sales 15 percent this year, the commission said.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex Index  advanced  1.4 percent, the
biggest jump since Nov. 29.  The won strengthened 0.6 percent and the Czech koruna added
0.7 percent against the dollar, leading gains among 25 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 283 basis points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  