-- Energy Future’s Oncor Utility Valuation Lowered by CreditSights
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-03-05T21:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/energy-future-s-oncor-utility-valuation-lowered-by-creditsights.html
The value of Energy Future Holdings
Corp.’s regulated unit has fallen by $400 million because of a
drop in utility valuations, CreditSights Inc. said in a research
note.  Energy Future’s stake in Oncor Electric Delivery is worth
$7.3 billion, compared with $7.7 billion a year ago,  Andy DeVries , a New York-based analyst at CreditSights, wrote today
in a note. While Oncor posted a 9 percent increase in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for 2012
compared with a year ago, its total value declined because of a
5 percent decrease in the valuation of utility industry peers,
DeVries said.  Energy Future, the largest power producer in Texas formerly
known as TXU, faces a material restructuring within 12 months as
it struggles to make  debt  payments amid a collapse in natural
gas prices that set electricity rates, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a Feb. 26 note. Energy Future’s private-equity owners,
led by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital, have sought to protect Oncor
from a potential restructuring by paying off intercompany loans
while changing the terms of outstanding bonds to isolate the
regulated distribution unit.  Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Dallas-based Energy Future,
declined to comment on the report.  “Oncor represents the only hope of recovering a dollar of
the sponsor’s failed $8 billion investment in TXU”, DeVries
said in the note.  Private-equity owners led by KKR and TPG invested $8.3
billion in the $48 billion buyout of Energy Future in 2007, the
largest in history. KKR has retained  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  as an
adviser to help restructure Energy Future’s $37.8 billion in
long-term debt, people familiar with the situation said last
month.  Oncor owns power lines in and around Dallas,  Fort Worth  and
Midland, Texas and delivers electricity to more than 3 million
homes and businesses. Energy Future owns an 80 percent stake in
the utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  