-- Epic’s Faulkner Says Rivals May Use Data Pact as Weapon
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-03-05T19:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/epic-s-faulkner-says-rivals-may-use-data-pact-as-weapon.html
Epic Systems Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Judy Faulkner, whose company provides electronic medical
records for about half the U.S., said her rivals are attacking
her business under cover of easing patient access to data.  Epic wasn’t asked to join the alliance announced yesterday,
which suggests the pact may be more about containing Epic than
connecting doctors and patients, Faulkner said today in an
interview at an industry conference in New Orleans.  “We did not know about it. We were not invited,” Faulkner
said. “It appears on the surface to be used as a competitive
weapon and that’s just wrong. It’s wrong for the country.”  Faulkner, who co-founded the closely held company 34 years
ago, said she still has no interest in taking Verona, Wisconsin-
based Epic public, despite approaches from Wall Street banks.
She predicted a shakeout in an electronic medical records
industry that has swelled with new businesses as the government
increased subsidies for physicians to buy their products.  Cerner Corp. (CERN) ,  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  and three other providers said
yesterday they would form a nonprofit group to set standards for
exchanging data across their systems. The industry has been
criticized for building closed computer networks that make it
harder for doctors and patients to share data with rival
systems.  ’Monumental’ Step  The alliance was a “monumental” step toward unlocking the
flow of information in U.S. medicine, McKesson CEO John Hammergren said at a joint news conference with the other
companies.  Athenahealth Inc. (ATHN) ,  Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX)  and  Greenway Medical Technologies (GWAY)  Inc. also joined the
group.  The five vendors together account for 41 percent of the
market for electronic medical records in hospitals, said Andy
Burtis, a McKesson vice president. Epic on its own has contracts
to provide records for almost half the U.S., said  Barbara
Hernandez, a spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  The company has 290 customers and $1.5 billion in annual
revenue, she said.  Asked if Epic had been invited, the five companies
yesterday said the rest of the industry was welcome to join.
Faulkner said Epic needed more information before deciding what
to do. The federal government is already developing data-sharing
standards, said Carl Dvorak, Epic’s executive vice president.  “I would really sincerely hope they put their energy
behind true national standards,” he said of the other
companies. The alliance “is yet another distraction.”  Cerner is based in Kansas City,  Missouri ; McKesson in San
Francisco; Athenahealth in Watertown,  Massachusetts ; Allscripts
in Chicago; and Greenway in Carrolton,  Georgia .  Jennifer Bosshardt, a Cerner spokeswoman, and Kris Fornter,
a McKesson spokesman, didn’t immediately return phone calls
seeking comment on Faulkner’s statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at +1-212-617-5406 or
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at +1-212-617-2563 or
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  