-- Herbalife Director Dunn Says Ackman Throwing Rocks
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-03-05T21:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/herbalife-director-dunn-says-ackman-throwing-rocks.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  Director Jeff Dunn
said hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman  is wrong in his analysis
that the company is a pyramid scheme and is just “throwing
rocks” to support his short position in the shares.  “I wouldn’t be here if I had any questions about it,”
Dunn, chief executive officer of Wm. Bolthouse Farms Inc. and a
former  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  president, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “From a direct-selling standpoint, this company is a
gold standard.”  Since joining the board of Cayman Islands-based Herbalife
in November 2009, Dunn, 55, said he has seen nothing that
validates Ackman’s concerns. Dunn said he met extensively with
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Johnson  and researched the
 company  before accepting the board seat.  Ackman, founder of Pershing Square Capital Management LP,
touched off a hedge fund showdown in December by accusing
Herbalife of using inflated pricing, misleading  sales  data and
complicated incentives to hide a pyramid scheme.  Carl Icahn ,
chairman of  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , has defended Herbalife and
taken a 13.6 percent stake. Dunn is the first director other
than Johnson to publicly speak about the allegations, which the
company denies.  “You certainly have short sellers and other people out
there banging their drum, but they don’t have what I’d call pure
objectivity,” Dunn said. “They are trying to support their own
assertions. There doesn’t seem to be a lot of data that supports
it. It’s more about throwing rocks.”  Herbalife fell 0.8 percent to $40.74 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 24 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 8 percent.  Coca-Cola Executive  Dunn’s day job is running vegetable-juice maker Bolthouse
Farms, which Madison Dearborn Partners LLC sold to  Campbell Soup
Co. (CPB)  in August. He spent 22 years at Coca-Cola before resigning
as president and chief operating officer of its North America
unit in 2003 during a management shakeup after sales slowed.  Dunn defended Herbalife’s direct-selling model, in which
customers proselytize on behalf of products such as meal-
replacement shakes and bars, aloe drinks and skin creams.  “That high-touch selling is really a part of the future of
building brands and businesses around the world,” Dunn said.  The method has come under fire several times in Herbalife’s
32-year history. In May, Greenlight Capital Inc.’s  David Einhorn 
sent Herbalife plummeting after raising questions on a company
conference call about disclosures related to its 3.2 million
independent distributors. Einhorn has said he has closed his
short position in Herbalife.  Urging Investigations  Ackman predicts regulators, including the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission,
will feel compelled to investigate Herbalife’s business model.
Ackman sold short 20 million shares of Herbalife stock, betting
regulators would shut the company, distributors would flee or it
would collapse on its own.  “Most of his assertions and his analysis of the marketing
plan and questions around that are just wrong,” Dunn said.
“His findings are wrong. They looked at the financials
wrongly.”  Ackman said today in an interview that the company still
hasn’t answered any of the 284 questions he posed in a 40-page
treatise last month.  “If I were an independent director on this board, I would
make sure the independent directors had separate counsel to
assess the validity of the allegations we’ve levied against this
company,” he said.  ‘Not Aware’  Dunn declined to say whether any investigation is under
way. Regulators aren’t saying either. Herbalife President Des Walsh said in a Feb. 27 interview in  Los Angeles  that the
company is “not aware of any regulatory action planned by the
FTC -- any investigation of any kind.”  Walsh also said distributors haven’t fled or sales declined
in the wake of what he called Ackman’s “flawed” strategy to
profit on his short position on the stock. Herbalife is
nonetheless using the recent criticism to look for ways to
improve company disclosures and methods, Walsh and Dunn said.  “We take anybody’s questions seriously,” Dunn said. “We
are constantly assessing our own relationship to the company as
a board and making sure we have as much transparency as possible
into the business practices, as well as the products and the
financials of the company.”  Icahn Directors  Dunn and fellow Herbalife directors, including Stone Tower
Capital LLC co-founder Michael Levitt and former Lifetime
Entertainment Services LLC Chief Executive Officer Carole Black,
have nominated two members of Icahn’s inner circle to join them.
Jonathan Christodoro and Keith Cozza will stand for election
April 25 after the company allowed Icahn to boost his stake to
as much as 25 percent. Christodoro, 36, is managing director at
Icahn Capital LP, and Cozza, 34, is chief financial officer at
Icahn Associates Holding LLC.  Icahn said when he disclosed his investment on Feb. 14 that
he would seek talks with the company about strategic
alternatives, including taking it private. Walsh said in the
interview last week that the company would “certainly”
consider going private in a buyout “in the right
circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  