-- Mercuria Offers Forties; North Sea Buzzard Oil Field Resumes
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-05T17:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/mercuria-offers-forties-north-sea-buzzard-oil-field-resumes.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA failed to
sell Forties crude even as it offered at the lowest level in
almost a week. Total SA bid unsuccessfully for the grade for a
second day.  Production at the  North Sea  Buzzard oil field is increasing
after scheduled maintenance was completed yesterday ahead of
plan, according to the platform’s operator Nexen Inc.  North Sea  Mercuria offered Forties lot F0316 for loading March 22 to
March 24 at 10 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, a Bloomberg
survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing
window showed. That’s the lowest since Feb. 27. Three shipments
traded on Feb. 28 at plus 20 cents and 25 cents.  Total bid for a March 28 to March 31 cargo at 5 cents more
than the benchmark without finding a seller, the survey showed.
That’s 5 cents less than its unsuccessful bid yesterday.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days fell 1 cent to a premium of 5 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
least since Dec. 31.  Brent for April settlement traded at $110.76 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $110.09 in the previous session. The May
contract was at $109.82, a discount of 94 cents to April.  The Brent pipeline system remains shut for a fourth day,
the operator, Abu Dhabi National Energy Co., known as Taqa, said
today from Aberdeen. The company hasn’t yet said when the
pipeline will resume.  The proportion of Buzzard crude entering the Forties
pipeline system fell to 19 percent for the week ending March 3,
according to data published today on BP Plc’s website. That
compares with 33 percent in the previous week and is the lowest
since Nov. 4. Higher-sulfur Buzzard is the largest contributor
to the Forties blend.  Crude shipments from Dansk Undergrunds Consortium, the
producer part-owned by A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S, will increase to
six cargoes in April, a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg
News  showed.  Mediterranean/Urals  Vitol Group failed to find a buyer for Russian Urals at
$2.30 a barrel less than Dated Brent on a delivered basis to
Augusta,  Italy , the Platts survey showed. That’s 30 cents higher
than its offer yesterday. That compares with a March 1 trade at
minus $2.35.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
widened by 3 cents to $2.35 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $2.73 a barrel,
compared with $2.70 yesterday.  Pertamina Persero PT bought 1.55 million barrels of Azeri
Light and Tengiz crude for May delivery to Balikpapan and
Cilacap refineries in  Indonesia , according to a company official
who asked not to be identified because the deal is confidential.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell 10 cents to $3.40 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. Yesterday’s
price was the highest since Oct. 12 2011.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc declared force majeure on Bonny Light
grade after discovering an oil leak on its Nembe Creek Trunkline
on March 3, Precious Okolobo, a Lagos-based spokesman said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Nigeria ’s oil thieves are back in action, sabotaging
pipelines to rob  Africa ’s biggest crude producer of more than a
10th of its daily production.  “The situation in the last few weeks is unprecedented,”
Shell Nigeria’s Managing Director Mutiu Sunmonu said yesterday.
“The volume being stolen is the highest in the last three
years; over 60,000 barrels a day from Shell alone.”  Output from the Alen field in  Equatorial Guinea  will start
in the third quarter, Glencore International Plc said.  “All of the development wells have been drilled and
completed and construction of the production platform continues
as planned” and on budget, Glencore said today in its
preliminary results for 2012.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. issued a tender to buy low-sulfur
crude for loading in the second half of April, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  