-- Merkel’s Working Poor Pose Election-Year Dilemma as Divide Grows
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-03-05T23:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/merkel-s-working-poor-pose-election-year-dilemma-as-divide-grows.html
Every Saturday, about a hundred
people arrive in a silent procession at a small church in the
north of Berlin, armed with empty shopping carts.  Some smoke, others play with their children as they wait
patiently to be called for the packets of noodles, vegetables
and cans of soup that are handed out. They are Germany’s poor,
come for out-of-date food that has been collected from
supermarkets by the Laib und Seele charity.  “It’s scary, nearly every week more people sign up who
can’t make ends meet,” Antje Grund, a local coordinator for the
charity, said in a Feb. 23 interview while preparing some of the
900 kilograms (2,000 pounds) of food that are doled out each
week. “There are pensioners and  unemployed , but even people who
have a job and a regular income come to us to get food.”  While  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is blamed in countries such
as Greece and  Spain  for insisting on austerity that has deepened
public suffering, a growing number of people at the heart of
 Europe ’s biggest economy are also in need. Merkel’s Cabinet is
due to discuss the subject in Berlin today as they take delivery
of the government’s “poverty and wealth” report.  As Germany enjoys unemployment near a two-decade low and
growth is forecast to outstrip the 17-nation euro-area average
this year, the reforms that sparked the country’s economic
revival are also eating away at a certain strata of population.  Of Germany’s 82 million-strong population, 15.8 percent are
at “at risk of poverty,” according to a 2012 study by the
European Union’s statistics office, Eurostat. That compares to
14 percent in  France  and a 27-nation EU average of 16.9 percent.  Campaign Theme  While the depths of poverty seen in crisis-wracked euro
countries like  Greece  are still rare in Germany, a burgeoning
low-wage sector and shrinking middle class are emerging as one
of the battlegrounds upon which Merkel’s chances of a third term
may be decided. The main opposition  Social Democratic Party  has
taken up the  income gap  as a campaign theme for federal
elections on Sept. 22, announcing plans to initiate legislation
to introduce a minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.09) per hour.  “A lot of people don’t feel like they’ve profited from
Germany’s growth in recent years,” Ulrich Deupmann, a former
German government adviser who is now a partner at management
adviser Brunswick Group Inc. in Berlin, said by telephone. “The
SPD realized this and knows that its  minimum-wage  proposal
allows it to differentiate itself from Merkel’s party,” the
 Christian Democratic Union , or CDU.  U.K. Comparison  The percentage of the population classed as on low incomes
is on the rise, a German Institute for Economic Research study
showed in 2012. Germany’s share of low-wage earners, defined as
earning less than two-thirds of the median wage, is now more
than double the 8.8 percent in France and, at 22.2 percent in
2010, edged past the 21.6 percent in the U.K., according to
 separate figures  compiled by Eurostat.  The flexibility that allowed that to happen can be traced
back to a set of labor-market reforms and associated welfare
cuts pushed through 10 years ago this month by Merkel’s SPD
predecessor, Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder . Known as Agenda 2010,
the package is credited by the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development for helping to reduce the
German jobless rate to 6.9 percent at present from a post-World
War II high of  12.1 percent in March 2005 . Unions say the
measures created a pool of jobs that don’t pay enough to live.  Schroeder’s Reforms  “Schroeder’s reforms helped compensate the loss of middle
income jobs in the 1990s by introducing a low-income sector,”
 Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Deka Bank in  Frankfurt , said
in an interview. “The drawback is some find it harder to earn
sufficient income for a family.”  Merkel’s Social Democratic challenger in this year’s
election,  Peer Steinbrueck , is attempting to capitalize on the
mood of “social injustice” with a campaign program focused on
narrowing the income divide through higher taxes for the wealthy
and the promotion of affordable housing. The proposals for a
minimum wage can help “correct mistakes” made by the SPD in
the Agenda 2010 program, said Deupmann of the Brunswick Group.  Under pressure in an election year, Merkel’s party has said
it wants to make employers and labor unions agree on minimum pay
levels in sectors where none exist, while continuing to oppose a
basic minimum wage as advocated by the SPD. Merkel too called
for “fair wages” in January.  No Bleak Desert  “The minimum wage issue is the symbol of the theme of
justice, and I understand that,” Karl Schiewerling, the CDU’s
labor-market spokesman, said in the lower house of parliament on
Feb. 28. “But we must avoid giving the impression that  Germany 
is a sort of bleak desert of impoverishment where everyone is
living on the edge of hunger.”  To be sure, the Berlin church where people gather for food
is no urban jungle: the surrounding streets are lined with
family homes with garages and neat gardens.  Even if rising rents, electricity and water bills are most
commonly cited as the source of financial trouble, a child’s
trip to the dentist, which is not covered by health insurance,
can be all it takes to tip a household into debt, Bettina Heine,
a debt-management counsellor in the western Berlin district of
Charlottenburg, said in a telephone interview.  “We’re definitely seeing a rise in cases with the young,
pensioners and people with precarious employment contracts,”
Heine said. “There is no archetype of an over-indebted
person.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  