-- Tesla Libel Suit Over BBC’s ‘Top Gear’ Dismissed in U.K.
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-05T14:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/tesla-libel-suit-over-bbc-s-top-gear-dismissed-by-u-k-court.html
A U.K. appeals court dismissed a
libel lawsuit from  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , a maker of electric
vehicles led by billionaire Elon Musk, against the British
Broadcasting Corp. show “Top Gear.”  The court rejected Tesla’s appeal of last year’s decision
to strike out its “libel and malicious falsehood” case against
the  BBC . The Palo Alto, California-based company said “Top
Gear” faked a scene that appeared to show a Tesla Roadster
running out of power, which led to lower sales.  The “Top Gear” review wouldn’t have misled “a reasonable
viewer” into thinking the Tesla car’s range was less than the
company’s estimate of “200 miles under normal driving
conditions,” Martin Moore-Bick, an appeals court judge in
London, said in his decision today.  Musk last month told Bloomberg Television that a story by
 New York  Times reporter John M. Broder, which claimed that the
car-maker’s Model S sedan fell short of its estimated range, was
“fake.” Shares in the company have fallen more than 9 percent,
from $39.24 to $35.58, since Feb. 8, the day the Times article
first appeared.  “I am pleased that the Appeal Court has upheld the
previous ruling and the case has been struck out,” Andy Wilman,
executive producer of Top Gear, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “I’d also like to apologize to the judges for making
them have to watch so much ’Top Gear.’”  Track Test  The BBC show tested the Tesla Roadster in 2008, driving two
vehicles around a track to “push the cars to the limits of
their performance in terms of acceleration, straight line speed,
cornering and handling,” according to the judgment.  “Top Gear” claimed the car ran out of power after 55
miles, in contrast to the company’s estimated range. Tesla
claimed it had missed out on $171,000 in lost sales as a result
of the show’s review of the car.  Sales of the Tesla Roadster “within the U.K. have been
lower than expected and, in particular, have fallen well below
the level of sales in the EU and the United States,” lawyers
for Tesla said, according to the judgment.  A lawyer for Tesla at Carter-Ruck in  London  couldn’t be
immediately reached to comment on the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  