-- Estee Lauder M.A.C. Driving Sales From Nigeria to Brazil
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-03-05T21:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/estee-lauder-m-a-c-driving-sales-from-nigeria-to-brazil.html
When  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL)  opened a
store selling M.A.C. makeup in Lagos, Nigeria, this month, it
didn’t have much company.  Going where rivals aren’t is standard operating procedure
for the 29-year-old cosmetics line. M.A.C. has long courted
various ethnic groups, including American blacks, and Estee
Lauder sees the brand as the key to unlocking  emerging markets .  M.A.C. is already the best-selling high-end makeup in
 India , Brazil, South Africa and  Turkey , according to the
company. The brand’s tony stores are a revelation in nations
such as Nigeria, where Western-style retailers are so scarce
that wealthy shoppers are forced to search out upmarket brands
on trips overseas. Once M.A.C. has a foothold in a market,  Estee
Lauder  sends in its other brands such as Clinique and Aveda.  “The biggest play for the corporation, period, in terms of
market development today, is the M.A.C. brand,” group president
John Demsey said in an interview at the brand’s base in New
York’s Soho neighborhood. “It is the singular biggest source of
growth for the company.”  Estee Lauder’s sales in the U.S. slowed after the recession
as consumers traded down to less pricey brands such as Revlon
and  Procter & Gamble Co.’s (PG)  CoverGirl. While Estee Lauder’s U.S.
sales have recovered in the past two years, the New York-based
company is increasingly focused abroad, where it generated 63
percent of its revenue in fiscal 2012. Estee Lauder had revenue
of $9.71 billion in fiscal 2012; it doesn’t break out M.A.C.
sales.  In the past five years, Estee Lauder has more than  tripled ,
compared with a 40 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Consumer Staples Index. The shares are trading at a 48 percent
premium to the index on a price-to-earnings basis. Estee Lauder
rose 1.5 percent to $65.85 at the close in New York.  Celebrity Pitchers  In 1984, Frank Toskan, a makeup artist, and Frank Angelo,
who ran a chain of hair salons, founded M.A.C. in Toronto. The
brand, which stands for Make-Up Art Cosmetics, was originally
created for professional make-up artists. Estee Lauder bought a
majority stake in 1994, acquiring the rest four years later.  M.A.C.’s mission statement is “All Races, All Sexes, All
Ages,” and it has long courted minority women who couldn’t find
makeup that complemented their skin tone. M.A.C. is the top
seller of high-end makeup to American blacks, according to Estee
Lauder, with its products making up half of the sales in that
category.  The brand “speaks to multiethnic consumers,” Estee Lauder
Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Freda said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Our China’  The company introduced the brand to  Brazil  in 2002 and took
over distribution there three years ago and began opening
stores. M.A.C. global brand president Karen Buglisi calls Brazil
“our  China .” Sales took off when soap opera star Isis Valverde
began using M.A.C. makeup. Estee Lauder plans to open five free-
standing stores there this year and will have 30 by the end of
April.  In 2008, M.A.C. opened a store in Paris’s Strasbourg St.
Denis, near a cluster of West African beauty supply-stores
frequented by African immigrants. Typically Estee Lauder sells
its products in more upscale precincts of Paris.  “No one in the prestige business in their right mind had
ever considered doing such a thing,” Demsey said of setting up
shop in Strasbourg St. Denis.  Still, it wasn’t long before wealthy Nigerian travelers
discovered the M.A.C. store in Paris. The location became one of
the company’s top stores in  France  and, as in Brazil, the brand
became popular in Nigeria.  Tiwa Savage  To help attract shoppers, the Lagos M.A.C. store is hosting
appearances and performances by celebrities from the country’s
thriving film and music industries, including the singer Tiwa
Savage. It’s also sponsoring lessons for local make-up artists
and demonstrations for customers. A second store is planned for
later this year.  The brand’s AIDS charity, and its donation of 100 percent
of sales from its Viva Glam lipstick to the fund, may also
resonate in a country where HIV is endemic. The charity has
raised $280 million since its founding in 1994.  Nigeria is not Brazil. While M.A.C. sells what it calls
“entry-level prestige” products at its Lagos store, 68 percent
of Nigerians live on $1.25 or less a day, according to the World
Bank. A lack of infrastructure, along with corruption and
counterfeiting, also pose challenges, said Fflur Roberts, the
head of global luxury goods at Euromonitor International.  Still, “it’s definitely worth their while,” said Roberts,
who is based in  London . “It’s just a question of how long it
will take.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  