-- Hetco Hires Ex-Tudor Quant Research Head Lopez de Prado
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-03-05T21:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hetco-hires-ex-tudor-quant-research-head-lopez-de-prado.html
Hess Energy Trading Co. hired Marcos Lopez de Prado, former head of global quantitative research at
hedge fund Tudor Investment Corp.  Lopez de Prado, 38, joined Hetco on March 1 as head of
quantitative trading and research, Stephen Semlitz, a managing
director at New York-based Hetco, said in a telephone interview
today.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for Tudor, declined to
comment on the departure.  Lopez de Prado last week left Tudor, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named because
the information isn’t public. He had worked at the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund, which oversees $12.1 billion,
since June 2008, the person said. Lopez de Prado said he
couldn’t comment on his move.  Hetco , which trades oil, refined products and natural gas,
was formed in 1997 by  Hess Corp. (HES)  and two former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. traders. New York-based Hess said yesterday it will
divest its stake in the trading firm as part of a streamlining
plan to focus on exploration and production.  Lopez de Prado is at least the 10th person to leave Tudor
since December. He focused on quantitative execution algorithms,
or trading strategies that carry out orders, and will continue
to work with Tudor on certain initiatives, according to the
person briefed on the situation. He also helped lead risk
management related to the firm’s high-frequency trading, and
previously worked at Peak6 Investments LP, UBS AG and Citadel
LLC.  Lopez de Prado has a doctorate in financial economics from
 Madrid ’s Complutense University and was admitted to American
Mensa with a perfect test score, according to his LinkedIn
biography.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  