-- MetLife CEO Says Insurer Isn’t Systemically Important
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-03-06T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/metlife-ceo-says-insurer-isn-t-systemically-important.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steven Kandarian  said the insurer shouldn’t be designated a
systemically important financial institution by U.S. regulators
because its failure wouldn’t threaten other companies.  “We don’t think we’re a SIFI,” Kandarian told reporters
March 4 in Washington. “We don’t have the interconnectedness.
If we go down, no other company goes down.”  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators created by the Dodd-Frank law, can choose companies
to be subject to Federal Reserve oversight, including tougher
standards for capital and liquidity.  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s
finance unit have all said they are in the final stage of review
by the council, or FSOC.  Mary Miller , the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for
domestic finance, said she hopes the council will vote on
designations in the next few months.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, raised capital with
a share sale amid the 2008 worldwide financial crisis, and
didn’t accept rescue funds from the U.S. government.  Being named systemically important would hurt both
customers and shareholders of the New York-based company,
Kandarian said this week. MetLife is “serving a need” for
financial protection, he said.  MetLife said last month that it had won government approval
to deregister as a bank-holding company, as it sought to reduce
U.S. oversight. The insurer completed the sale of its deposit
business to GE in January.  Fed Supervision  Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets, including  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., are automatically subject to
heightened supervision by the Fed. The council, led by Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew and including Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , can designate non-bank financial companies such as
insurers, hedge funds and asset managers.  The Treasury, in previous statements, has said it doesn’t
intend to announce which companies are being evaluated for
possible designation. Treasury spokeswoman Suzanne Elio declined
to comment.  William Wheeler, president of the Americas for MetLife,
said in testimony to a House panel in May that if the largest
U.S. insurers are named SIFIs and face “costly requirements,”
they would “either have to raise the price of the products they
offer, reduce the amount of risk they take on, or stop offering
certain products altogether.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  