-- EU Said To Weigh Extra Years For Irish Rescue Loans
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-05T12:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/eu-said-to-weigh-extra-years-for-irish-rescue-loans.html
The European Union is weighing
whether to extend Ireland’s rescue loans by five years or more,
buttressing the government’s efforts to become the first country
to exit a bailout since the euro-region debt crisis began.  European Union finance ministers meeting in Brussels today
agreed to ask bailout authorities to recommend the “best
possible option” for helping Ireland and Portugal regain full
market access as they near the end of their bailout programs.  “Both programmes are on track and performing well despite
challenging macro-economic circumstances,” the ministers said
in a statement, after discussing whether they would be “ready
in principle” to considering adjusting the aid loan maturities.  For Ireland, five options are under consideration, two EU
officials said on condition of anonymity because deliberations
are still under way. Alternatives to a five year plus extension
include taking no action at all, extending the loans by two-and-
a-half years or five years, and re-profiling current loans so
that more of them come due later without extending overall aid
maturities, the officials said. The Irish Finance Ministry
declined to comment on the specific options.  “There’s a willingness across all members to do something
for Ireland and Portugal in this area,” Irish Finance Minister
Michael Noonan told reporters today. “There are varying levels
of difficulty which different countries have in positioning
it.”  Bundling Decisions  Noonan mentioned five options, without discussing details,
and said that other EU nations might need to seek approval from
their parliaments depending on how debt extensions are
structured. He said some nations might seek to bundle decisions
on Ireland, Portugal and a new aid package for Cyprus in order
to minimize their requests to national lawmakers.  Ireland’s five-year note yield fell 7 basis points to 2.74
percent at 12:41 p.m. in Dublin. The yield on the Irish bond
maturing in October 2020 fell 9 basis points to 3.75 percent.  Prior to 2020, Ireland is scheduled to repay over 33
billion euros ($43 billion) in EU and IMF funding, with 6.7
billion euros due in 2015 followed by 6.1 billion euros in 2016,
according to Ryan McGrath, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald
Ireland.  “The maturity extension would ease funding pressure in
the years immediately following the bailout exit,” he said.  Loan Relief  The EU may be able to commit to loan relief for Ireland and
Portugal next month, Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn told reporters in Brussels yesterday. “I hope we can
conclude this work and give a strong message of confidence”
when the ministers meet in Dublin in April, Rehn said.  If ministers agree today, the EU will call on the so-called
troika of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and
the International Monetary Fund to study options for helping
Ireland and Portugal return to markets for funding.  The two nations received loans from two different European
programs: the EU-wide European Financial Stabilization Mechanism
and the euro-area’s temporary firewall, the European Financial
Stability Facility. Ireland’s rescue loans have maturities
ranging from five years to more than 20 years, Noonan said
before yesterday’s talks.  Total Bailout  “Our ask is an extension of 15 years on average,” Noonan
said. “We’ll see how that goes. I don’t think there’s a
disposition to go that long.”  Ireland’s total bailout was 67.5 billion euros, including a
22.5 billion-euro loan from the EFSM, 17.7 billion euros from
the EFSF and 4.8 billion euros in bilateral loans from the U.K.,
Sweden and Denmark. It received a further 22.5 billion euros
from the IMF. The EFSM loans have a weighted average maturity of
12.4 years from the time they were drawn down, while the EFSF
loans have a weighted average life of 11.7 years.  The IMF loans, which are not under discussion for altered
terms, have a lifespan of 4.5 years to 10 years, with a weighted
average term of 7.5 years. The bilateral loans also have a
weighted average term of 7.5 years.  Ireland also is seeking the possibility of retroactive
direct bank recapitalization from the euro area’s permanent
firewall, the European Stability Mechanism, once such aid
becomes available. Finance ministers are working toward a mid-
year deadline for designing how the program might work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  