-- EU to Quiz Germany Over Draft Rules for Google’s News Clips
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-05T12:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/eu-to-quiz-germany-over-draft-rules-for-google-s-news-clips.html
Germany  will be quizzed by European
Union regulators over a draft law that limits what  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
and other so-called aggregators, can use to bundle news clips on
the Internet.  EU regulators analyzed the bill passed by German
parliamentarians last week and will seek further information
from the country’s government, Carlo Corazzo, a spokesman for
the European Commission, said in an e-mail. The Brussels-based
authority received complaints over the draft law on ancillary
copyright, he said.  Google and others may continue to show short news items on
their Internet sites without being required to pay, German
lawmakers decided in last week’s parliamentary vote. Publishers
including  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann SE, which face
falling revenue from newspapers and magazines, have argued that
 search engines  and aggregators like Google News should pay for
displaying short excerpts from news stories.  Publishers would retain the exclusive right of use for any
content exceeding “single words or very small text excerpts,”
under the draft agreed last week. The bill by Germany’s Justice
Ministry gives publishers one year during which they have the
sole rights to commercially use their journalistic content. The
draft needs to be approved by Germany’s upper house before it
can enter into force.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels declined to
comment. Google said last week in response to the German vote
that “ancillary copyright in its most damaging form has been
stopped” and the best outcome for Germany would be no new
legislation that may threaten innovation.  Google, which doesn’t display ads on its news aggregator
pages in  Europe , argued its so-called “snippets” are actually
helping publishers by driving traffic to their sites.  Corazza referred to  EU rules  that seek to cut technical
standards set by one country which may hamper trade across the
27-nation bloc. He didn’t say who complained to the EU
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 