-- EU to Register Chinese Solar Panels, Highlighting Tariff Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-05T10:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/eu-to-register-chinese-solar-panels-highlighting-tariff-threat.html
The European Union ordered its
customs officials to register imports of Chinese solar panels,
underscoring the threat of tariffs on the shipments in the
biggest EU trade dispute of its kind.  The step, part of inquiries into whether Chinese producers
of solar panels receive trade-distorting  government aid  and sell
them in the 27-nation EU below cost, would allow the bloc to
impose duties retroactively. Both probes stem from complaints by
EU ProSun, an industry group led by  Germany ’s  Solarworld AG. (SWV)   The two cases cover 21 billion euros ($27 billion) of EU
imports in 2011 of crystalline silicon photovoltaic modules or
panels and cells and wafers used in them. Levies against
subsidies are called countervailing duties and those against
below-cost -- or “dumped” -- imports are anti-dumping duties.  “Imports of the product concerned should be made subject
to registration in order to ensure that, should the
investigations result in findings leading to the imposition of
anti-dumping and/or countervailing duties, those duties can, if
the necessary conditions are fulfilled, be levied
retroactively,” the European Commission, the EU’s trade
authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal .
Registration will start tomorrow and last nine months.  Last September, the EU opened an inquiry into whether
Chinese makers of solar panels such as Suntech Power Holdings
Co. dump them in  Europe  and harm European competitors including
Solarworld. Two months later, the EU began a separate
investigation into whether Chinese producers receive subsidies.  EU Timeline  EU governments must decide by early December whether to
impose anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on Chinese solar
panels for five years. The commission must decide by early June
whether to apply provisional anti-dumping duties and by early
August on possible preliminary countervailing levies.  EU ProSun hailed the commission decision on registration,
saying it would slow imports from China because of the
possibility that European importers would later be forced to pay
punitive duties on the goods.  “This is a very important step,” Milan Nitzschke,
president of EU ProSun, told reporters today in Brussels. “This
has an immediate impact on imports. We expect the amount of
imports to go down very rapidly and significantly.”  Chinese companies have gained more than 80 percent of the
market in Europe for solar goods compared with almost zero in
2004, EU ProSun said on Sept. 6 when the commission opened the
dumping case.  Europe accounts for around three-quarters of the global
photovoltaic market.  China  produces about 65 percent of solar
panels worldwide, the commission said six months ago when
opening the dumping case. The EU is China’s main export market
for the renewable-energy technology, accounting for roughly 80
percent of Chinese sales abroad, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  