-- Europe’s Misdirected Anger Over Executive Pay
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-03-05T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/europe-s-misdirected-anger-over-executive-pay.html
Anger in  Europe  over executive pay
is finding its way into legislation. The European Parliament,
backed by almost all of the European Union’s finance ministers,
plans to  cap bankers’ bonuses , and 68 percent of Swiss voters
endorsed a referendum initiative to ban “golden parachutes” and
put other curbs on bosses’ pay.  Agitated voters, grandstanding politicians and intelligent
policy rarely go together, and this is a case in point.  Let’s agree that people are right to be disgusted. In the
last decade top bankers led the world into the deepest economic
slump since the 1930s, and their firms had to be rescued by
taxpayers, yet the culprits aren’t exactly suffering. In most
cases they still have their jobs and by ordinary standards
they’re still outrageously well-paid. Bonuses -- whose purpose,
one is always told, is to reward excellent performance -- have
fallen but are still being  handed out .  Meanwhile, lower down the capitalist food chain, workers are
being laid off or told to take pay cuts. It’s tough out there,
say chief executives calling in from Davos, and we all have to
make sacrifices. Absolutely, say Europe’s ministers of finance;
that’s why we have to cut essential public services and raise
your taxes.  Mild Miracle  Considering the complacency, lack of contrition and in many
cases sheer nerve of those responsible for the calamity of the
past five years, the miracle is that the popular backlash
against capitalism has been so mild. But being morally in the
right isn’t enough. If policy is to serve voters’ interests,
rather than merely gratify their anger, it has to be carefully
designed. These initiatives aren’t.  The first question is whether it’s wise for the government
to have any kind of say on how firms pay their executives.
Straight away there’s a crucial distinction -- between banks and
financial enterprises that enjoy an implicit  public subsidy 
(through the prospect of a bailout if they get into trouble) and
ordinary public companies that don’t.  Regulatory reform has pared back the subsidy for banks but
hasn’t eliminated it. If taxpayers are exposed to losses,
regulators are not just entitled to monitor and curb the risks
that banks are taking -- they’re obliged to. This obligation
includes regulating pay structures, since those can influence
the amount of risk a bank takes on.  So doesn’t capping bonuses, as the European Parliament
demands, serve that purpose? Not really.  It’s bewildering, first of all, that Europe’s parliament is
insisting on bonus caps in return for consenting to new
international rules on bank capital. Requiring  more capital  is
the best and simplest way to reduce the banking subsidy and
hence the incentive to take undue risks. The new rules don’t go
nearly far enough in this respect. Rather than calling for them
to be strengthened, the parliament wants a concession on
bankers’ pay. Go figure.  The parliament wants to limit banking bonuses to 100
percent of salary, or 200 percent if shareholders approve.
There’ll be loopholes, of course, but for the sake of argument
let’s assume they aren’t exploited and the policy works as
intended. Banks will simply fold average variable pay into basic
salary. Most likely, such limits won’t do anything to cut
bankers’ pay overall, the very issue that upsets the public.  Reducing risk is a legitimate purpose of the policy. But
too-timid capital rules mean that banks will still be run on the
basis that employees and shareholders get all the upside of
dangerous investments, while taxpayers are on the hook for part
of the downside. The underlying problem isn’t addressed.  One remedy, if capital rules can’t be suitably strengthened,
is not a cap on bonuses, but rules that lock them up and  grab
them back  if things go wrong. Bankers should be made to retain a
stake in their firm’s losses. Big bonuses relative to basic
salary -- so long as they can be clawed back -- would serve that
purpose well. Yet the EU appears to be ruling out this strategy.  Swiss Solution  The Swiss vote is directed not at banks specifically, but at
public companies in general. Where subsidies aren’t involved,
the starting position is very different. Unless you think the
market for executives is fundamentally broken -- which I don’t -
- pay is a matter for directors and shareholders, not the
government. Concerns about inequality are best addressed through
adjusting taxes and public spending rather than by micro-
managing executive pay.  Yet you can’t help but notice that shareholders aren’t
always good at holding to account the managers running their
companies. Well, you might say, that’s the shareholders’ problem
-- but if public policy can help to align managers’ interests
with shareholders’, that does serve the wider purpose of making
capitalism work more like it’s supposed to.  Just like the EU’s plan for bankers’ bonuses, the proposed
Swiss ban on “golden hellos” and “golden parachutes” is unlikely
to make much difference, because the value of those benefits can
always be packaged in other ways -- perhaps, if the executives
concerned have a sense of humor, as performance bonuses.  I like another part of the plan, though: the idea that
shareholders should be able to hold a binding, not merely
advisory, vote on executive pay. Advisory votes are common these
days: The Dodd-Frank financial-reform law prescribes them for
most big U.S. public companies, for instance, and the U.K. has
had them since 2002. Trouble is, directors aren’t always good at
taking advice from their employers.  Executives at Citigroup, for instance, stand to collect $579
million from profit-sharing plans that include a scheme
 shareholders voted against  last year, according to regulatory
filings examined by Bloomberg. Shareholders are owners. They
ought to be able to tell their top executives what they’ll be
paid, not just advise them on the subject in the confident
expectation of being ignored.  Yet don’t expect this to cut executive pay much, if at all:
Shareholders know the best managers are worth every penny of
what they get. It follows that mandatory say-on-pay won’t do
anything to curb inequality, either. There are better policies
for that.  Sadly, here’s what the Swiss and EU initiatives have in
common: Good politics they may be, but neither is fit for
purpose, and they’ll divert support from ideas that are.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 