-- Euro-Area Services Output Contracts Less Than Estimated
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-03-05T10:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/euro-area-services-output-contracts-less-than-estimated-1-.html
Euro-area  services output  shrank
less than initially estimated in February, adding to signs the
currency bloc’s economy may be beginning to emerge from a
recession.  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
euro-area services industry fell to 47.9 from 48.6 in January,
London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. That’s
above an  initial estimate  of 47.3 published on Feb. 21. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction. Euro-area  retail sales 
rose the most in three years in January, separate data showed.  The currency bloc’s recession deepened in the fourth
quarter, as the economy recorded its worst performance in almost
four years with a contraction of 0.6 percent. Gross domestic
product will decline again in the first three months of this
year before returning to growth in the second quarter, according
to the median of 21 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The region still looks set to see a much smaller drop in
GDP in the first quarter compared to the 0.6 percent decline
seen in the final quarter of last year,” Chris Williamson,
chief economist at Markit, said in the report. The outlook
“seems to largely depend on whether  Germany  can continue to
expand and offset the weakness in France, Italy and Spain, which
seems a tall order.”  Retail Sales  German consumers helped push euro-area retail sales higher
in January, the European Union’s statistics office said today.
Retail sales in Germany rose 3.1 percent in the latest month and
sales for the 17-nation currency bloc increased 1.2 percent, the
biggest jump since December 2009.  A composite gauge of euro-area  services and manufacturing 
output fell to 47.9 from 48.6 in January, Markit said in its
report. Markit’s index of euro-zone  manufacturing output ,
released on March 1, held at 47.9.  The jobless rate in the euro area rose to a record in
January, climbing to 11.9 percent, data showed on March 1.
Still,  economic confidence  in the euro area increased more than
economists forecast in February, the European Union said on Feb.
27.  Last week’s unemployment data “suggest that the euro zone
is going to remain a very weak spot on the global stage,”
Julian Callow, chief international economist at Barclays Plc,
said on March 1 on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
 Francine Lacqua . “Nobody is sure what is going to come next.”  Rabobank Groep, the biggest mortgage lender in the
Netherlands, said on Feb. 28 that it would struggle to match
2012 results this year as it expects limited economic growth
while cost pressure continues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  