-- Ex-China Official Says Firms Forced to Fix Vitamin Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-06T00:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ex-chinese-official-testifies-in-u-s-vitamin-c-antitrust-trial.html
A former Chinese official testifying
for vitamin C exporters sued by U.S. companies said they had no
choice but to follow China’s rules and thus can’t be blamed for
price-fixing in the $500 million market.  Qiao Haili, a retired  Ministry of Commerce  official who
oversaw the vitamin C companies, testified yesterday in federal
court in  Brooklyn ,  New York . A key witness for the defense, he
told jurors vitamin C makers were required by the Chinese
government to adhere to agreed-upon pricing and volume
restrictions.  Hong Kong-based  China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (1093) , its
Weisheng Pharmaceutical unit,  North China Pharmaceutical (600812)  Co.,
and its Hebei, China-based unit Hebei Welcome Pharmaceutical Co.
are accused of fixing prices for bulk vitamin C sold in the U.S.  Speaking through a translator, Qiao testified that the
agency where he worked would “convene meetings, discuss export
pricing and prevent malicious competition in order to protect
the healthy development” of vitamin C manufacturers in China.  Qiao told jurors that he instructed the defendants to form
a subcommittee for the purpose of conducting the industry
coordination of vitamin C exports.  ‘Strictly Implement’  “Defendants were required to strictly implement industry
coordination measures under the chamber’s supervision, with
penalties imposed for any attempts at circumvention,” lawyers
for the defendants said in court documents.  Animal Science Products Inc., a livestock-supplement firm
based in Nacogdoches, Texas, and Ranis Co., a food company based
in Elizabeth,  New Jersey , filed complaints in 2005 accusing the
Chinese companies of conspiring to inflate prices for bulk
vitamin C.  U.S. bulk vitamin C buyers alleged the Chinese companies
acted voluntarily, abusing their dominance over the global
market from at least late 2001 through mid-2006.  Together, the firms supplied about 80 percent of the
vitamin C in the U.S., William Isaacson, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in his opening statement last month. Prices
rose to as much as $15 a kilogram ($6.82 a pound) in April 2003
from about $2.50 a kilogram in December 2001 as a result of the
alleged conspiracy, the plaintiffs said. The scheme cost U.S.
businesses $54.1 million in damages, Isaacson said.  State Action  Initially, Aland Jiangsu Nutraceutical Co. and Shenyang,
China-based  Northeast Pharmaceutical Group (000597)  Co. were also accused
of participating in the scheme. Those companies settled with
plaintiffs before the trial.  State action isn’t an unusual defense in antitrust cases
targeting foreign companies, said Jeffrey S. Jacobovitz, an
antitrust lawyer at Arnall Golden Gregory LLP who isn’t involved
in the case.  However, when the foreign government is accused of direct
involvement, “it changes the nature of the litigation,” he
said in a phone interview. “The political overtones are
important to the extent that the government probably will not be
pleased to be accused of facilitating antitrust violation.”  Qiao’s testimony marks the first time a former Chinese
official has testified in a U.S. court, according to lawyers in
the case.  Qiao formerly served in the Ministry of Commerce as an
official at the  China  Chamber of Commerce of Medicines and
Health Products Importers & Exporters and specifically oversaw
vitamin C export regulation, according to court papers.  Export Regulator  Prior to his career as a vitamin C export regulator, Qiao
spent 21 years in the Chinese army and received a college degree
in Chinese literature, according to the papers.  He joined China’s commerce ministry, formerly the Ministry
of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, in 1992 and retired
in 2011, according to court filings.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan allowed Qiao to take the
stand, setting aside plaintiffs’ objections that, according to a
brief filed in November, he would exceed “the bounds of proper
lay witness testimony” by describing Chinese legal matters.  In a September 2011 ruling, Cogan found that the Chinese
government didn’t necessarily compel price-fixing by the
companies after policy changes in 2002. Around that time, China
told the U.S. and the  World Trade Organization  that it had given
up export administration of the nutrient, according to Cogan’s
order.  ‘Self-Disciplinary’ Organization  A new charter in 2002 described the subcommittee as “a
self-disciplinary industry organization jointly established on a
voluntary basis,” according to the ruling.  Cogan noted in his order that he disagreed with an
interpretation of Chinese law submitted to the court by the
ministry, which said in a 2009 filing that vitamin C makers were
subject to a “system of self-discipline.”  “Self-discipline does not mean complete voluntariness or
self-conduct,” the Ministry said in the filing. “Under this
regulatory system, the parties involved consult with each other
to reach consensus on coordinated activities for the purpose of
reaching the objectives and serving the interest as set forth
under Chinese laws and policies.”  The case is In re Vitamin C  Antitrust Litigation , 1:06-
md-01738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  