-- Ex-InterMune CEO Harkonen’s Wire-Fraud Conviction Upheld
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-05T19:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ex-intermune-ceo-harkonen-s-wire-fraud-conviction-upheld.html
Ex- InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  Chief Executive
Officer W. Scott Harkonen’s fraud conviction for disseminating
misleading information about a drug’s clinical trial was upheld
by an appeals court that rejected his free speech arguments.  Harkonen was convicted of  wire fraud  for his role in
publicizing information about the drug Actimmune for the
treatment of  lung disease , a use the medicine wasn’t approved
for. He sought reversal on grounds that he was engaging in
“genuine scientific debate” about the drug in a press release
issued about results of a clinical trial.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco said the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution
doesn’t protect fraudulent speech.  “A jury found, beyond a reasonable doubt, that Harkonen
issued the press release with the specific intent to defraud,
and that finding is supported by the evidence presented at
trial,” the court said in an opinion yesterday.  The U.S.  Justice Department  has charged drug companies for
illegally promoting medicines for uses not approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration and collected billions of dollars
in penalties. While doctors are free to prescribe any drug to
treat illnesses regardless of FDA approvals, drugmakers are
prohibited from promoting medicines for unapproved uses.  Billions Paid  GlaxoSmithKline Plc pleaded guilty last year to illegal
promotion of two drugs and failure to provide clinical data on
another and agreed to pay $3 billion to resolve government
investigations. Pfizer Inc. agreed to pay $2.3 billion in 2009
over charges related to the marketing of the painkiller Bextra
and other drugs.  Harkonen’s case was closely watched by the pharmaceutical
industry. The  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
America , a trade association for drug companies, filed a brief
in support of Harkonen’s appeal.  Harkonen, a physician, was accused of crafting a deceptive
press release in 2002 to boost sales of Actimmune. InterMune
marketed Actimmune as a safe, effective treatment for idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, a fatal lung disease, although the
drug wasn’t approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
prosecutors said.  Harkonen’s press release, which said Actimmune reduced
deaths by 70 percent in patients with mild to moderate IPF, was
false and misleading, according to a March 2008 federal grand
jury indictment. After the company’s clinical trials failed to
show that Actimmune was effective in treating IPF, Harkonen
directed employees to conduct additional analyses of death-rate
data by breaking patients up into subgroups, according to the
indictment.  Home Confinement  A federal jury in  San Francisco  convicted Harkonen in
September 2009 and a judge sentenced him to six months of home
confinement and fined him $20,000. The government had sought a
10-year prison sentence.  Harkonen will seek review of his case by a larger panel of
appeals court judges, his lawyer said.  “The central issue is whether the government may
criminally prosecute a speaker for his scientific interpretation
of valid study results,” Mark Haddad, his lawyer, said in an e-
mail. “The implications of the decision, if allowed to stand,
are profound.”  InterMune, which made Actimmune to treat rare bone and
immune disorders, agreed in 2006 to pay $36.9 million to settle
U.S. claims it illegally marketed the drug for unapproved uses
and caused false claims for reimbursement from government health
programs.  New York Ruling  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York ruled in December
that the federal government can’t prosecute pharmaceutical
makers and their sales staff for promoting drugs for “lawful,”
unapproved uses, reversing a conviction of a salesman it said
was “clearly prosecuted” for “his words.”  Alfred Caronia, a sales representative for Orphan Medical
Inc., was convicted in 2008 of conspiracy to introduce a
misbranded drug into commerce by promoting the narcolepsy
medication Xyrem for unapproved uses. Caronia appealed,
contending that the conviction violated his First Amendment
right of freedom of speech.  The California case is U.S. v. Harkonen, 11-cr-10209, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The New
York case is U.S. v. Caronia, 09-cr-05006, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit ( New York ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  