-- Rosneft Nominates Ex-Morgan Stanley Chief to Revamped Board
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-03-05T15:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ex-morgan-stanley-chief-mack-to-join-revamped-rosneft-board.html
OAO Rosneft nominated former
executives from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as well as
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s chief executive officer to its board as the company
prepares to become the world’s largest traded oil producer.  The 10 nominees included John Mack, former chairman and CEO
of Morgan Stanley, Donald Humphreys, who was senior vice
president for finance at Exxon, and BP head Robert Dudley,
according to a regulatory filing today. Rosneft will hold a
shareholder meeting on June 20 to elect the board.  “Having such experienced and well-known directors will be
taken as a positive in terms of corporate governance and show
that the company is determined to be treated as an international
oil major,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Sberbank CIB,
said today by telephone.  Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil producer, already has links
with BP and Exxon. It plans to close a $55 billion deal in the
first half of this year to acquire TNK-BP from London-based BP
and a group of billionaires. The company also has a strategic
agreement to explore Russia’s offshore and tight-oil deposits
with Exxon in return for opportunities abroad.  CEO Igor Sechin, a long-time ally of Russian President
Vladimir Putin, travels to Houston today where he’ll present the
company’s development strategy, a separate statement shows.  Rosneft nominees also include Matthias Warnig, managing
director of the Nord Stream AG pipeline group. Warnig is a
former East German Stasi agent who has known Putin since at
least 1991, and also serves as board chairman of Russia’s oil
pipeline monopoly OAO Transneft and  United Co. Rusal. (486)   Shareholders at the June 20 meeting, to be held in St.
Petersburg, will also vote on dividend payments, according to
the filing. The register to participate in the meeting closes on
May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  