-- Ex-Maldives Leader Arrested After Leaving Refuge, Office Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-05T13:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ex-maldives-leader-arrested-after-leaving-refuge-office-says.html
The former president of the Maldives
was arrested as he campaigned for an election scheduled for
September, a move his office said was evidence the government is
not committed to a free vote.  Mohamed Nasheed, who two weeks ago left the Indian High
Commission in Male where he had sought refuge, was arrested at
1:45 p.m. local time today by armed police officers, according
to a statement issued by his spokesman, Paul Roberts. There was
no arrest warrant or court summons and he was taken to the
Dhoonidhoo island detention center, according to the statement.  Calls to Masood Imad, a spokesman for President Mohammed
Waheed Hassan, and the Indian Ministry of External Affairs in
New Delhi were not answered. Nasheed was detained on charges of
abuse of power, the  Associated Press  reported, citing police.  Nasheed was ejected from office last year in controversial
circumstances after he ordered the arrest of a senior judge. He
alleges his ouster was politically motivated, in effect a coup.
Nasheed was the first president of the Indian Ocean archipelago
to be democratically elected. Waheed, his deputy, succeeded him.  “Nasheed was supposed to be on an election campaign trip
but instead he is languishing in jail,” his office said. “Dr.
Waheed has proven that he can’t be trusted to hold a free and
fair election -- despite his assurances to the international
community.”  Nasheed entered the Indian High Commission in the Maldives
on Feb. 13 and left 10 days later. Nasheed left because he was
under the impression that the government would not arrest him
and would be free to campaign ahead of elections due in
September, according to Roberts.  Nasheed, leader of the Maldivian Democratic Party, won the
2008 election, ending Maumoon Abdul Gayoom’s 30 years in power.
Gayoom became president in November 1978 and held office for six
consecutive terms in elections in which he was the only
candidate.  The Maldives, a group of 1,190 coral islands with a
population of about 400,000 people, is located southwest of
 India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  