-- Ex-U.S. Guard Sentenced to 9 Years in China Spying Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-05T19:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ex-u-s-guard-sentenced-to-9-years-in-china-spying-case.html
A former civilian guard at a U.S.
consulate compound being built in  China  was sentenced to nine
years in prison after admitting that he tried to sell classified
photographs and information about the building to the Chinese.  Bryan Underwood, 32, learned of his punishment today in
federal court in  Washington  after pleading guilty in August to
attempting to communicate national defense information to China.
He planned to sell the information and access to the compound
under construction in the southern city of Guangzhou for as much
as $5 million, according to the U.S.  “Bryan Underwood betrayed America’s trust by attempting to
sell access to secure areas of the very U.S. Consulate compound
he was charged to protect,”  Lisa Monaco , head of the  Justice
Department ’s national security division, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Underwood was charged in 2011 with attempting to pass
secret information to China’s Ministry of State Security and
making false statements. The guard lost a substantial amount of
money in the stock market in March 2011 and then devised a plan
to sell the information, the U.S. said.  Underwood sneaked a camera into the compound and took
photographs of a restricted building, the U.S. government said.
He also wrote a letter to the Chinese ministry expressing
interest in initiating a business arrangement, according to
court papers.  Underwood is “very sorry for all that has occurred and he
understands he must be punished,” his lawyer, Erich Ferrari,
said in an e-mail.  “He is looking forward to rebuilding his life,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Underwood, 11-cr-00261, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  