-- Exile From Nazi Germany Gets House Arrest in Tax Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/exile-from-nazi-germany-gets-house-arrest-in-tax-case.html
A man who said he fled  Nazi Germany 
as a teenager was sentenced to three months of house arrest
after pleading guilty to hiding $5.7 million from U.S. tax
authorities using Swiss bank accounts at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and Wegelin & Co.,  Jacques Wajsfelner, 83, admitted in August that he failed
to file Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts Reports resulting in
more than $419,000 in  tax evasion . His lawyer yesterday asked
for a sentence of two years’ probation, saying Wajsfelner placed
his money in Swiss accounts in reaction to having post-traumatic
disorder after having lived under the Nazis.  Wajsfelner was born in  Germany  and left in his teens,
according to his attorney, Jeffrey Denner. He became a U.S.
citizen and worked in real estate and advertising in New York
and  Boston , the lawyer said.  “This was as a result of his overriding irrational fear,
that this is going to happen again,” Denner told U.S. District
Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald yesterday before she imposed
sentence. “When he was a child, the Germans took their money
and they lost everything. He thought that this was an insurance
policy. It wasn’t rational.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Daniel Levy  told the judge that
some period of incarceration or loss of liberty was mandated
because of the length of time Wajsfelner, who has a net worth of
$14 million, evaded taxes and because he lied to agents with the
 Internal Revenue Service  in September 2011.  No Prison  Buchwald said she didn’t think a prison term was necessary,
citing factors including Wajsfelner’s age. She sentenced
Wajsfelner to serve a total of six months of supervised release,
including the three months of house arrest, and pay a fine of
$20,000. He previously agreed to pay a civil penalty of more
than $2.8 million.  Denner had submitted a report by Roger Gray, a forensic
psychiatrist, who said Wajsfelener committed his crimes, “not
to evade taxes but to have an anchor.”  Wajsfelner “described the life-long and pervasive fear of
what governments could do to people and the need for ‘a safety
net,’” Gray wrote. The defendant told the psychiatrist that,
“If my mother had had money in a Swiss bank, my brother and I
could have stayed in  Switzerland .”  The case is U.S. v. Wajsfelner, 12-cr-00641, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  