-- FBI Investigating Unmanned Aircraft Near New York Airport
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-05T20:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/fbi-says-it-is-investigating-unmanned-aircraft-near-jfk.html
(Corrects pilot’s name in company’s press statement in
sixth paragraph.)  The FBI said it’s investigating an
unmanned aircraft spotted by a pilot on an arriving flight
yesterday near  John F. Kennedy International Airport  in New
York.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation is seeking the public’s
help in identifying and locating the craft, which came within
about 200 feet (61 meters) of an Alitalia SpA flight, said John
Giacalone, special agent in charge of counterterrorism for the
FBI’s New York office. The craft was described as no more than
three feet wide with four propellers, according to the FBI.  “Our paramount concern is the safety of aircraft
passengers and crew,” Giacalone said. The Alitalia plane was
about three miles from Kennedy Airport’s runway 31R when the
incident occurred, the FBI said.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  is investigating a
report from a pilot at an unspecified international carrier who
claimed to have seen “a small unmanned or remote-controlled
aircraft,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The pilot said the drone was at about 1,500 feet altitude.
The plane didn’t take evasive action and landed without
incident, according to the FAA.  Orange Object  The captain of Alitalia flight 608 from  Rome  to New York
JFK, Sergio Blasoni, and his co-pilot spotted an object, which
appeared to be a “drone” aircraft, John Di Rienzo, a New York
spokesman for Rome-based Alitalia, said in an e-mail. The crew
“landed the  Boeing 777  safely, and, as per procedure,
immediately alerted air traffic controllers,” he said.  “We saw a drone, a drone aircraft,” the pilot said in a
radio call to the airport tower, according to a recording on the
LiveATC.net website, which posts air-traffic radio calls from
around the U.S.  When the controller asked the pilot’s altitude, he replied:
“About one-thousand five hundred.”  Later, the controller issued a warning to other aircraft.
“Caution, report of a drone on about a five-mile final,” the
controller said.  Ron Marsico, a spokesman for the  Port Authority  of New York
and New Jersey, which operates the airport, referred calls to
the FAA. The  New York City Police Department  said it had no
information about the incident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  