-- FDIC Promises Big U.S. Banks a Helping Hand on Next Living Wills
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-05T20:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/fdic-promises-big-u-s-banks-a-helping-hand-on-next-living-wills.html
Big banks’ pleas for more how-to
help on their plans to dismantle themselves in a failure will be
answered with additional guidance from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., said Chairman  Martin Gruenberg .  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp.  face filing a second round of so-called living wills, and
the industry has been waiting for more feedback on the plans
they submitted last year. Gruenberg said in an interview today
that his agency is planning to send those firms further guidance
to prepare for the July 1 deadline, when stakes will be higher
than they were the first time.  The chairman said he’s heard from the big banks that they
want more information and he still needs to hash out final
details with the Federal Reserve on what that advice will look
like. In this second round, Gruenberg confirmed the 11 banks in
the top asset tier won’t have the safety net they had last year
when they were told their plans wouldn’t be rejected if they
weren’t credible.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act overhaul of the U.S. financial
system required banks make detailed plans for their own demise
and file those plans with banking regulators. While the plans
are meant to take the firms through court-led bankruptcies, the
FDIC was also given authority to handle failing bank holding
companies that can’t be safely dismantled in the courts.  The aim of the living wills is to give regulators a plan
for shutting down complex financial firms without taxpayer
bailouts or the turmoil that followed the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The institutions are frustrated,” said John Corston, a
Deloitte & Touche LLP director who works on living wills.
Because banks are “not totally clear how they did” in the
opening round, he said he’d be surprised if the next plans --due
in less than four months -- were subjected to significantly more
strenuous standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 