-- Fiat Chief Urges End to Until-We-Die European Austerity
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-03-06T10:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/fiat-chief-urges-end-to-until-we-die-european-austerity.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  spoke out against deeper budget cuts in Europe
as  Renault SA (RNO)  CEO  Carlos Ghosn  urged  government spending  to
revive the region’s anemic sales, which he forecast won’t
recover for another three years.  “At this point, austerity doesn’t work, the impact on
Italian consumers is catastrophic,” Marchionne said yesterday
at the Geneva auto show. “I understand austerity, but we can
lose weight until we die.”  Automakers, grappling with a sixth straight year of
declining European deliveries, join growing opposition to the
region’s austerity measures. European Union finance ministers
indicated this week that they may allow looser budget policies
following a deadlocked election in  Italy , protests across
southern Europe against welfare-state cutbacks and French
government resistance to spending reductions.  The region’s car sales in January fell to the lowest for
that month since records began in 1990, with Spain’s market,
once the region’s fifth-biggest, now lagging behind  Belgium ,
even though Spain has four times as many people. Europe’s sales
declines will depend on how much state spending is cut, Ghosn
told reporters in Geneva, adding that he supports government
incentives on trade-ins of older cars to promote sales.  French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said last
weekend he favors car-scrapping incentives to revive the
country’s auto market and push people to buy more fuel efficient
models, as opposed to a proposal being discussed to raise the
taxes on  diesel fuel . The government isn’t likely to make any
decision on the matter yet this year, he said yesterday.  Europe Recession  The economy of the 17 nations sharing the euro has been in
a recession since the third quarter as governments in countries
such as Italy and Greece battle a sovereign-debt crisis with
spending reductions. The European auto market contracted 7.8
percent to a 17-year low in 2012.  “It’s about finding answers to the high youth unemployment
in Europe and about a society that isn’t drifting apart, but is
in balance,”  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  CEO  Martin Winterkorn  said in Geneva
regarding the crisis gripping the region.  Daimler AG (DAI)  CEO Dieter Zetsche told journalists at the show
that the European market’s two-month performance was worse than
expected. Registrations in February dropped more than 10 percent
from a year earlier in  France  and Germany, according to car-
industry figures from those countries.  “There is only the question: is it going to be bad or very
bad?” Ghosn said of the region’s market.  Spain Incentives  Spain’s government is imposing its fifth package of
austerity measures in a year, including a higher sales tax and
cuts in  unemployment benefits , public-sector jobs and wages. At
the same time, the country has renewed an incentive program to
lure consumers into trading in old cars. Annual auto sales in
the country are now 33 percent of what they were at the 2007
peak, James Muir, who runs VW’s Seat brand, said.  “We understand why  Spain  is doing it right now. They have
a very high level of unemployment,” Susan Docherty, head of
Chevrolet Europe, told reporters. “In the case of Spain right
now, it’s just getting people into the showroom.”  In Italy, the economy has contracted for six consecutive
quarters through the three months ended Dec. 31 as tax increases
and tighter bank credit curbed investment and took money out of
the hands of consumers. Elections in the country last month
ended with inconclusive results that may lead to another ballot
amid a voter backlash.  Spending Cuts  “Austerity without growth means only unemployment,
taxation, burdens for everybody, no hope,” Marco Tronchetti Provera, chairman of Italian tiremaker  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC) , said in
an interview in Geneva. The country’s vote showed “we have to
look also for growth, as unemployment is the real issue.”  Marchionne said he does not support government intervention
to boost the region’s ailing auto market.  “I prefer not to have incentivized items, I like natural
demand,” Marchionne, who is the current head of the region’s
ACEA lobby group, told reporters in Geneva today after meeting
top executives from the other automakers.  Car-industry executives at the Geneva show outlined efforts
to counter the European sales decline with spending cuts. Car
discounting, which in Germany in 2012 was at the steepest level
in two years, will probably extend into 2013.  Cutting Costs  “We’re paying attention to everything when it comes to
cost reduction,” Jerome Stoll, Renault’s sales chief, said in
an interview. “I hope this price war ends soon, as it condemns
the car industry. Those who are cheapest on the market will face
bankruptcy.”  Carmakers’ incentives hurt earnings last year while failing
to revive the market. Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest auto manufacturer, reported a 576 million-euro
($751 million)  operating loss  for 2012. Renault’s automotive
division and the European operations of Fiat,  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  were also unprofitable last year.  Peugeot CEO Philippe Varin, who said he only favors
targeted government incentives to replace aging diesel models,
said he’s scaling back research and development spending by 600
million euros this year as the market continues to drop.  “No one is immune to the competition levels out there,”
said Stephen Odell, Ford’s Europe chief. “Last year, we made
the conscious decision that our share would reduce from prior-
year levels because we weren’t going to chase business that
didn’t make sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Geneva at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Geneva at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  