-- Fiat in Talks With Banks About Chrysler Deal, CEO Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-03-05T15:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/fiat-in-talks-with-banks-about-chrysler-deal-ceo-says.html
The chief executive officer of  Fiat
SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, who wants to merge the two
automakers, said the Italian company is meeting with banks about
financing such a deal.  “It’s the right thing to bring these two organizations
together,”  Sergio Marchionne  said of Fiat and Chrysler at a
group interview at the  Geneva Motor Show . “We do have
availability of funding to try and close this transaction.”  Marchionne is relying on  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler to sustain earnings as he works to end losses at Turin,
Italy-based Fiat’s mass-market brands in  Europe  by as soon as
2015. The Italian carmaker would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro
($1.35 billion) loss in 2012 without Chrysler.  The executive didn’t comment in detail about the
discussions with banks.  “I have renewed a number of friendships in the banking
sector,” Marchionne said today. “I’ve received a number of
warm and fuzzy notes from CEOs and chairmen who want to help.
They recognize the fact that this is a valid thing to do.”  Fiat was discussing financing options with banks to
straighten its balance sheet in preparation to buy the 41.5
percent of Chrysler it doesn’t own, three people familiar with
the matter said last month. The company has started the
valuation process for the holding, Marchionne said today.  The United Auto Workers union’s voluntary employees
beneficiary association, a medical benefits trust for Chrysler
retirees, owns the remaining Chrysler stake not held by Fiat.  Different Objectives  A Fiat-Chrysler merger can be done “in a way which meets
both VEBA’s objective and ours,” Marchionne said. If Fiat and
the VEBA can’t agree, the “only alternative is to take it for
an” initial public offering, he said. “It’s highly unlikely
that ultimately, faced with a real market test, that Fiat and
VEBA would disagree on value.”  Officials from Chrysler and the VEBA met yesterday with
banks about an IPO, Marchionne said. The process will help set a
price for the stake, which Fiat has enough resources to acquire,
he said.  Marchionne, during an appearance at a Chrysler transmission
plant in  Indiana  last week, said he didn’t expect “any clarity
on this until the third quarter of this year.” The CEO said at
that time his “best estimate” is that Fiat has a 50-50 chance
of avoiding a Chrysler IPO and creating “one organization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Geneva at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Geneva at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  