-- FirstRand First-Half Profit Rises 15% as Bank Lures Clients
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-03-05T16:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/firstrand-first-half-profit-rises-15-as-bank-lures-customers.html
  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South  Africa ’s
second-largest lender, said fiscal first-half profit rose 15
percent as it added customers and helped corporate clients
structure transactions.  Net income increased to 7.57 billion rand ($836 million) in
the six months through December from 6.59 billion rand a year
earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement
today. Diluted earnings per share excluding one-time items
climbed 29 percent to 1.31 rand and the lender boosted the half-
year  dividend  25 percent to 55 cents a share.  FirstRand, which owns a vehicle-financing unit and a
consumer bank, increased lending in 2012 even as the South
African economy cooled. The lender has been expanding through
acquisitions in Africa, with a bid to buy Merchant Bank  Ghana 
Ltd. the latest transaction aimed to bolster earnings.  “An excellent set of numbers, driven by very strong
topline growth,” Greg Saffy, a Johannesburg-based analyst for
RMB Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mailed response to questions
today. “All divisions performed strongly during the period. We
expect share price strength on the back of these numbers.”  FirstRand closed at 32.20 rand in Johannesburg, up 4.4
percent, giving it a market value of 181.5 billion rand. The
 shares  have gained 3.9 percent this year after increasing 50
percent in 2012.  ‘Difficult’ Environment  South Africa ’s central bank has approved the Ghanaian
purchase and FirstRand is now awaiting sign-off from  Bank of
Ghana , Sizwe Nxasana, chief executive officer of the lender,
said in a telephone interview in Johannesburg today. FirstRand
still wants to buy a retail bank in  Nigeria  and will deploy more
capital to expand in Mozambique, Tanzania and  Zambia  rather than
buy assets in those countries, he said.  The bank’s return on equity rose to 21.9 percent in the
period and its total capital adequacy ratio was 14.9 percent,
above the upper end of the group’s target of 13.5 percent,
according to the statement. While the value of non-performing
loans declined, the bank’s credit-loss ratio increased to 91
basis points as it provided for impairments.  While a “difficult macroeconomic environment” may
continue, the group expects  First National Bank ’s focus on
consumer banking and Rand Merchant Bank’s client activities to
“drive non-interest revenue growth,” FirstRand said. “With
respect to advances growth, new business volumes in the retail
lending books are expected to moderate in the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  