-- Foreign Weapons Reach Syrian Moderate Rebels, Kerry Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-06T04:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/foreign-weapons-reach-syrian-moderate-rebels-kerry-says.html
The U.S. has gained greater
confidence in recent months that foreign supplies of weapons for
Syrian rebels are reaching moderate factions, Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said.  Throughout the two-year Syrian uprising, President  Barack Obama ’s administration has said that one reason for not sending
U.S. arms was they might end up strengthening radical Islamist
factions that have taken a lead in some of the fighting. The
U.S. has said it isn’t sending weapons, though it acknowledges
that other nations are doing so.  While the U.S. is increasing aid to the Syrian opposition
and refugees, Kerry indicated in interviews that he doesn’t
anticipate a U.S. policy shift on sending weapons to rebels in
the conflict that has claimed more than 70,000 lives.  “That’s not my job to do,” he said in an interview with
ABC News in Doha, the last stop on his trip to  Europe  and the
Mideast. “That’s the president of the  United States ’ decision,
and I don’t think this is a president who ever takes any option
off the table. But for the moment, he feels like what we’re
doing is the right policy.”  At a news conference in Qatar, one of the  Persian Gulf
states  reported to be sending weapons, Kerry made clear that the
U.S. knows the sources and types of arms going to the rebels, as
well as the recipients. That information is shaping Obama’s
decisions about how his administration should support  Syria ’s
opposition, Kerry said.  ‘Greater Guarantees’  “There are greater guarantees that weapons are being
transferred to moderates and directly to the Syrian
opposition,” Kerry said yesterday in an appearance with Qatari
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, who is
also foreign minister. He added that “you can’t guarantee that
one weapon or another may not fall, in that kind of a situation,
into hands that you don’t want it in.”  Kerry made his remarks as Syrian rebels, including fighters
from the radical al-Nusra Front, claimed to have seized much of
the city of Raqqah in the northeast from President Bashar al- Assad’s forces. Al-Nusra, an Islamist group, is classified as a
terrorist organization by the U.S.  The Syrian conflict, which began in March 2011, has
dominated much of Kerry’s first trip as secretary of state. He
has discussed the situation there with his counterparts in
Europe and the  Middle East , and he unveiled new non-lethal aid
for fighters during a stop in Rome.  Kerry’s made his remarks in Doha shortly after suggesting
in an interview with  Fox News  that the U.S. is training rebel
forces. The  New York  Times had reported Feb. 27 that the U.S.
was helping to train rebels “at a base in the region.”  Significant Support  That report offered no other detail and neither did Kerry
in the Fox interview. A State Department official later said
that Kerry wasn’t referring to any specific U.S. activity.
Instead, the official, who asked not to be named to discuss the
secretary’s comment, said Kerry was referring to the totality of
effort by allies and partners.  “When you look at the whole of those countries that are
engaged, the numbers of nations that have come to the table to
stand with the Syrian people, there is a very significant amount
of support toward the Syrian coalition,” Kerry said at the
press conference.  Kerry announced at a conference in  Rome  last week that the
U.S. would directly aid Syrian rebel fighters. The U.S., in its
first official contact with the Free Syrian Army, plans to
provide non-lethal items such as medical equipment and ready-to-
eat meals, and also will give the political opposition $60
million to provide basic services and better governance in areas
it now controls, Kerry said.  U.S. ‘Awareness’  The U.S. knows about the weapons going to the Syrian
rebels, “not that the United States is engaged in a specific
allotment process or designating process,” Kerry said
yesterday.  “But obviously we are aware and it’s that awareness
informs the president’s decisions about what is needed and what
the United States is prepared to do at this point in time,” he
said.  In  Washington , Marine General James Mattis, the outgoing
commander of U.S. Central Command, which has responsibilities in
the Mideast, recommended against the U.S. providing weapons
because of the difficulty of ensuring that they wouldn’t reach
extremist factions.  “We don’t want to inadvertently, with the best of
intentions, arm people who are basically sworn enemies,” Mattis
said in testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Doha at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  