-- Forint Extends Decline to 5-Week Low on Central Bank Takeover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-05T11:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/forint-extends-decline-to-5-week-low-on-central-bank-takeover.html
The forint retreated for a second
day, reaching its lowest against the euro in more than five
weeks on speculation Hungary’s government will use expanded
powers at the central bank to deplete foreign-currency reserves.  The currency has led losses in emerging-market peers this
week after former economy minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  began his
six-year tenure as Magyar Nemzeti Bank president by rewriting
the central bank’s founding document to concentrate power in his
hands. Hungary will debate using the reserves for stimulus
measures or to help foreign-currency mortgage holders,  Mihaly
Varga , who is taking over from Matolcsy in the government, told
TV2 in an interview yesterday.  “These are exactly the type of policies that could derail
what has been a fairly good ride for forint assets over the last
nine months or so,”  Benoit Anne , London-based head of emerging-
market strategy at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , wrote in a research
report today.  The forint depreciated 0.3 percent to 299.41 per euro by
11:47 a.m. in Budapest, extending its drop in the past two days
to 1.6 percent. The forint appreciated 8.1 percent in 2012, the
second-best performance among more than 100 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The Debt Management Agency raised 60 billion
forint ($262 million) in three-month Treasury bills at an
auction today. The average yield was 4.93 percent, the  lowest 
since May 2010, according to data from the agency on Bloomberg.  DZ Bank AG expects the forint “to remain under pressure
and even see chances for euro-forint to break above the 300
threshold in the coming days,” Gabor Malatinszky, a Budapest-
based analyst at the bank, wrote in an e-mailed report.  Rate Cuts  Matolcsy stripped central bank vice presidents, including
two current ones who were appointed by his predecessor, of the
right to independently act on behalf of the bank, according to
the document, which Matolcsy signed on Feb. 28 as Economy
Minister and which entered into force yesterday.  Policy makers delivered seven consecutive quarter-point
rate cuts, bringing the benchmark to 5.25 percent, matching the
lowest on record. Outgoing central bank president Andras Simor
and his two deputies opposed the easing.  Yields on  Hungary ’s five-year forint-denominated bonds rose
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.71 percent.
The yield fell to 5.6 percent on Feb. 13, the lowest in more
than seven years.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, expects a further
“moderate” drop in yields as the market prices in more easing,
Gergely Tardos and Levente Papa, Budapest-based analysts at the
bank, wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  