-- Former SAC Manager Makes Buying Good Artwork Easier
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/former-sac-manager-makes-buying-good-artwork-easier.html
Larisa Leventon, a former portfolio
manager at SAC Capital Advisors, wants to shake up the art
market.  Her new website,  Dot Dash 3 , allows artists and curators to
take real artworks and place them in a virtual gallery of their
own design.  Online buyers can “walk” through the spaces, view
sculpture, paintings and videos, and then buy the art with a
click. Currently, there are six solo exhibitions and one group
show on view.  Leventon, 41, met with me in a cafe in  Greenwich Village ,
just days after her site went live. Wearing a purple blouse,
black cashmere cardigan, and a silver link bracelet, she told me
about her plan to democratize the art world.  Tarmy: Can you describe the features of your site?  Leventon: For people looking to buy, it allows them to
discover art in a novel way. For artists and curators, it gives
them unlimited possibilities for how to create a space.  Tarmy: How did you choose the artists?  Leventon: I talked a lot with various curators and explored
different programs. I was looking for emerging artists, but
emerging artists with a good track record.  Finance Background  Tarmy: Did your background in finance influence your
approach?  Leventon: Absolutely. As a portfolio manager, I invested in
public equities. Every day I had to decide whether the stock was
undervalued or overvalued. And it’s not emotional -- you might
like the management, the company and everything they stand for,
but it all comes down to facts, to data, to the numbers.  When you transfer that to the art world, there’s a lot of
subjectivity involved: Do you go emotionally for the work? You
also have to separate yourself when you look at the art.  Tarmy: In what way?  Leventon: There’s art I might love, but then I look at
certain other components, and the data, so to speak, of what’s
in front of me. You meet the artists, explore their thinking,
you can make projections, say, if something that they’ve done is
part of something bigger.  You look at art in the context of time: You can hop forward
in 10, 20, 40 years -- is this work still relevant?  Art Appreciation  Tarmy: So you’re not talking about art as a commodity?  Leventon: Art is an asset, and some people look at it that
way, but you have an appreciation component -- hopefully you’re
buying it to enjoy it.  But say you’re presented with 50 artists who have other
“components” checked off, then you choose what moves you.  Tarmy: Did you leave SAC to start this site?  Leventon: No, I left it to do my own fund, and my side
project was that I just wanted to get some art because it was
the first time that I wasn’t occupied 24/7 with stocks.  I was not comfortable living with something that just
looked good -- I wasn’t buying it simply for decoration. And
then I embarked on this process and discovered the art world.  Tarmy: Who are your potential customers?  Leventon: Anyone who buys art. Even people who don’t buy
art today.  I really wanted to make the price point affordable, so in
the first exhibition the prices range from $300 to $12,000. What
I was aiming to do was take the legwork out of a situation where
someone says “I have $1,000 to spend on a piece of art, and I
want to buy something that’s meaningful.”  Market Inefficiency  Tarmy: Right, it’s an impossibly broad mandate.  Leventon: The landscape is quite vast, and the art market
is not efficient in terms of pricing from an asset-valuation
point of view. So where do you go?  You can buy a poster for $1,000, or you can buy a beautiful
original by an artist who is breaking out and building a career
in a meaningful way. I think if you present that choice to
anyone, the answer is obvious.  Tarmy: You’re demystifying the art world, then?  Leventon: When you think about music or film, when you
think about any other form of art, it’s much more democratized
than visual art.  If you ask somebody on the street who their favorite
contemporary artist is, how many people would be able to name
five artists working today?  From a cultural standpoint it’s very important to change
that.  For more information:  http://www.dotdash3.com .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and
Catherine Hickley on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 