-- FSA Mostly Clears Itself on Missed Libor-Rigging Signals
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-05T18:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/fsa-mostly-clears-itself-over-missed-libor-manipulation-warnings.html
The U.K. Financial Services
Authority missed more than two dozen warnings that Libor rates
were inaccurate, a lawmaker said after a report cleared the
regulator of failures on the scale of other financial crisis-
related scandals.  The regulator missed 26 signals that the London Interbank
Offered Rate didn’t reflect market conditions, which should have
“set alarm bells ringing,” Andrew Tyrie, chairman of the U.K.
Treasury Select Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  When Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($439 million)
by the U.S. and U.K. in June last year, the bank admitted
submissions used to set interest rates were rigged in an effort
to profit from bets on derivatives and to help the bank appear
financially healthier than it was. The London-based lender also
said it had alerted regulators to problems with Libor before the
investigation, communicating with the FSA, Bank of  England ,
Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the British Bankers’
Association 33 times in 2007 and 2008.  The regulator, facing lawmaker criticism that it missed
warning signs on the rigging of benchmark interest rates for
years, said the internal report on how it handled “dislocation”
in the Libor rate from 2007 until May 2009 found that there were
areas where the regulator could have performed better. The
report found no failures on the scale of previous scandals
involving its oversight of Northern Rock Plc or  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc .  Low-Balling Clues  At the time, “the FSA’s bank supervisors were primarily
focused on ensuring they understood the prudential implications
of severe market dislocation,” FSA Chairman Adair Turner said
in a statement. The agency “had no formal regulatory
responsibility for the Libor submission process. As a result,
the FSA did not respond rapidly to clues that low-balling might
be occurring.”  The report confirms lawmakers’ “concerns that the FSA was
slow to act,” Tyrie said. “The FSA’s successor bodies will
need to do better. The Treasury Committee’s scrutiny of them
will be intensive.”  97,000 Documents  Out of 97,000 documents the FSA searched in its review,
none referred to attempts by traders to manipulate rates, the
regulator said. Many indicated “dislocations” in Libor, where
there was a divergence between banks’ submissions and actual
rates, a wider range of submissions, or disparities because
there wasn’t sufficient data on which to base the rate. The FSA
said it was “acutely aware” of that situation in 2007 to 2008.  “Clear evidence of this dislocation did not, in itself,
however, carry any implication that ‘low-balling’ was
occurring,” the FSA said.  About $300 trillion of contracts worldwide, including home
mortgages,  interest-rate swaps  and loans, are tied to Libor.  The FSA concluded it was too focused on dealing with the
financial crisis that followed the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and should have considered the likelihood low-ball
rate submissions were occurring. It also said it should have
better managed the information it received.  The FSA opened its investigation into rate manipulation in
early 2010, a year-and-a-half after the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s probe. Barclays, RBS and  UBS AG (UBSN)  have been
fined about $2.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for rate-
rigging, and more than a dozen other firms are under
investigation.  Barclays Concerns  In its discussion with the FSA, Barclays “consistently”
raised concerns its competitors were submitting artificially low
quotes used in setting the rate, the bank told lawmakers in
July. When it was fined, Barclays admitted to colluding with
other banks to manipulate Libor and similar benchmarks.  The Bank of England had no knowledge of criminal wrongdoing
and passed along any market rumors about the Libor-setting
process to the FSA, the central bank said in a statement today.  “As senior Bank officials made clear in public, it was
widely known that the interbank market had effectively closed,
and so there were questions about what the Libor rates were
based on,” Britain’s central bank said.  The BOE will take over prudential regulation when the FSA
is abolished at the end of the month.  The British government last week formally started the
search for a replacement body to oversee Libor after the British
Bankers’ Association, the industry group that created the
benchmark in 1986, agreed to relinquish oversight.  Libor Poll  During the time period the FSA reviewed, Libor was
calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson Reuters Corp.
on behalf of the BBA, which asked firms to estimate how much it
would cost to borrow from each other for different periods and
in different currencies.  Gary Gensler, the chairman of the CFTC, recently questioned
the long-term viability of Libor, saying underlying markets on
which it relies may be permanently disrupted. The rates must be
anchored to real transactions in order for people to have
confidence in them, he said in an interview last month.  Northern Rock was the first British casualty of the U.S.
subprime market’s collapse and was taken over by the British
government in February 2008.  RBS (RBS)  also received a bailout by the
U.K. and remains the largest government-owned lender in Britain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  