-- FSA Report to Offer Explanation on Missed Libor Warnings
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/fsa-report-to-offer-explanation-on-missed-libor-warnings.html
The U.K. finance regulator, facing
lawmaker criticism that it missed warning signs on the rigging
of benchmark  interest rates  for years, may say there was no
clear way for it to spot the manipulation.  The Financial Services Authority will issue a report today
after an internal audit of the agency’s contact with  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  workers and other finance industry employees to determine
whether warning signs were ignored. The agency may also state it
wasn’t notified of any wrongdoing regarding rate setting, didn’t
oversee the benchmarks themselves and that lenders also missed
red flags that rates were manipulated.  “There are some issues for which you just cannot have a
police force big enough ever to spot all these problems,”  Adair Turner , chairman of the FSA, told U.K. lawmakers last week. “We
could not have got at it by intensive supervision.”  After Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($437 million)
by the U.S. and U.K. in June last year, it said it had alerted
regulators to problems with the London interbank offered rate
before the investigation. The London-based lender said it spoke
to the FSA, Bank of  England ,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
and the British Bankers’ Association 33 times in 2007 and 2008.  The FSA opened its investigation into rate manipulation in
early 2010, a year-and-a-half after the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s probe began. Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have been fined a total of more than
$2.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for rate-rigging, and
more than a dozen other firms are still being investigated.  Artificially Low  In its discussion with the FSA, Barclays “consistently”
raised concerns its competitors were submitting artificially low
quotes used in setting the rate, the bank told lawmakers in
July. When it was fined, Barclays admitted to colluding with
other banks to manipulate Libor and similar benchmarks to profit
from derivatives and to make its finances appear healthier.  Turner said that, after reviewing information provided to
the FSA or  Bank of England  by Barclays, and looking at other
occasions when banks communicated about rate suspicions, no
clear indication of trader manipulation was missed.  “Neither us nor the CFTC, or any other authority, had any
way to spot the trader manipulation,” Turner told the
 Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards .  Last year Turner told another group of lawmakers asking
about Libor that the FSA “should have spotted it earlier.”  Andrew Bailey , the U.K.’s chief banking supervisor, is
scheduled to testify tomorrow before the banking standards
committee, which was set up last year in the wake of the Libor
scandal. Bailey will lead the Prudential Regulation Authority,
which oversees banking and insurance industry stability, on
April 1 when the FSA is broken up.  Robert Diamond , who quit as chief executive officer of
Barclays in the wake of the Libor fine, told lawmakers the bank
also took too long to discover the actions of 14 traders who
manipulated rates.  The British government last week formally started the
search for a replacement body to oversee Libor after the British
Bankers’ Association, the industry group that created the
benchmark in 1986, agreed to relinquish oversight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  