-- German Stocks Rise on Stimulus Optimism; Carmakers Gain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-05T09:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/german-stocks-rise-on-stimulus-optimism-carmakers-gain.html
German stocks  advanced amid
speculation that central banks will continue stimulus measures
and as  China  said it would raise its budget deficit to support
consumer demand.  Deutsche Post AG gained the most in seven months as fourth-
quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates. RWE AG climbed to its
highest level in seven weeks after saying it will sell its Dea
oil and gas unit.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  increased 1.5 percent to 7,807.79 at 10:22
a.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge has added 2.6 percent so far this
year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a budget avoiding automatic
fiscal changes that had threatened to push the world’s biggest
economy into a recession. The broader HDAX Index rose 1.4
percent today.  “It seems that after the announcement of the Chinese
government, the upwards trend received some new support,”
Marcus Silbe, an analyst at Close Brothers Seydler Research AG
in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mail. “China promised deficit
spending to meet its growth target this year of 7.5 percent. The
banking sector got some tailwind after the announcement to relax
the credit supply.”  China will raise its budget deficit by 50 percent this year
as the central government cuts taxes and boosts measures to
support consumer demand in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Kikuo Iwata, a nominee for Bank of  Japan  deputy governor,
said the central bank should buy longer-term bonds to help it
achieve a 2 percent inflation target.  Bond Buying  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday
the U.S. central bank should press on with $85 billion in
monthly bond buying. Yellen, the central bank’s No. 2 official,
echoed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s comment last week that the
benefits of the Fed’s historically low interest rates and near-
record $3.09 trillion balance sheet outweigh any risk of
financial instability.  “In the short-term, the hopes of stimulus are increasing
confidence in the market,” Silbe said.  In the euro area, officials indicated that budget policies
may be eased after a backlash against austerity plans. Economic
strains may “justify in a certain number of cases reviewing
deadlines for the correction of excessive deficits,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn told
reporters late yesterday.  Deutsche Post AG gained 3.7 percent to 17.62 euros.
 Europe ’s largest postal service said fourth-quarter earnings
rose 38 percent and forecast profit to increase in 2013.
Earnings before interest and taxes rose to 827 million euros
($1.08 billion) from 599 million euros a year earlier, the
company said in a statement. Profit beat the 791.7 million-euro
average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  RWE Divests  RWE added 3.4 percent to 29.65 euros. Germany’s second-
largest utility will divest its Dea oil and gas unit to cut
capital spending. The sale will “take considerable pressure off
future capital expenditure and therefore make an essential
contribution to improving RWE’s financial headroom,” the Essen-
based company said today in a statement.  RWE also reported a 0.8 percent decline in annual earnings.
Recurrent net income dropped to 2.46 billion euros in 2012 from
2.48 billion euros a year earlier, missing the 2.51 billion-euro
average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Recurrent
net, which is adjusted for exceptional items, is used to
calculate the company’s dividend.  Banks Gain  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s largest lender, rose 2.7
percent to 34.05 euros. Exane BNP Paribas SA raised its
recommendation on the shares to outperform, similar to a buy
rating, from neutral. Commerzbank AG, the country’s second-
biggest lender, climbed 1.6 percent to 1.42 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG advanced 2.8 percent to 71.31
euros. The largest maker of luxury cars said it sold more than
250,000 vehicles in January and February, an increase of 6
percent from a year earlier. It also forecast the global car
market to grow by 4 percent this year.  Volkswagen AG, the world’s second-biggest carmaker, added
2.5 percent to 166.65 euros. Daimler AG, the third-largest maker
of luxury cars, climbed 2.6 percent to 46.16 euros.  A gauge of auto-related stocks rose the most among the 19
industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  