-- Pope Betting Has Ghana’s Turkson in Lead
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-03-05T09:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ghanaians-pray-for-cardinal-turkson-as-africa-s-chance-for-pope.html
Cardinal Peter Turkson was a soccer-
loving 11-year-old when he declared to a playmate after a day
running through forest paths near his Ghanaian home village that
he would dedicate his life to the Catholic Church.  “He said with a solemn and serious tone after a period of
silence, ‘Pawusey, I would like to be a priest,’” Daniel
Pawusey, a 61-year-old retired mechanic, said in an interview in
the Western village of Nsuta Wassaw. “I didn’t take him
seriously. I didn’t quite understand what was at stake.”  Turkson’s journey has taken him from his rural hometown in
the West African nation’s mining heartland to the Vatican and
now to possibly becoming the world’s first black pope. The 64-
year-old is the 2-to-1 favorite to replace  Pope Benedict XVI  as
head of the Catholic Church, according to results today from
betting company  Paddy Power Plc (PAP)  in Dublin. He’s placed third by
London-based  William Hill Plc. (WMH)   More than 200 cardinals began meeting in the Vatican this
week to discuss the state of the church and decide on a date to
begin the conclave and elect a new pope. Benedict’s successor is
expected to be in place by Easter, on March 31, according to
Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi.  Turkson’s advantage stems in part from his insider role. He
was named a cardinal in 2003, the first Ghanaian and the
youngest African, by  Pope John Paul II . Turkson left his
position as Archbishop of Cape Coast and became president of the
Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace in 2009.  Finance Regulator  That’s put him a position to advocate, among other things,
a global authority to govern world financial policy and curbs on
multinational mining companies that push African farmers from
their lands. Unlike Benedict, who before becoming pope spent a
quarter century as the Vatican’s chief doctrinal policeman,
Turkson has been active in the political world. He sought to
mediate, for instance, conflict in neighboring Ivory Coast.  When it comes to church doctrine, Turkson may be more
willing to push for change than Benedict did, said the Rev.
Joseph Arthur, who runs the St. Francis De Sales cathedral in
Cape Coast.  “He is quite liberal and can bring reforms through
dialogue where he deems necessary, especially issues of whether
priests can marry or women becoming priests,” Arthur said. “I
also know he will be very traditional and conservative on the
church’s position on issues of homosexuality and abortions.”  Africa  is becoming more and more important to the church.
Catholics make up 13.1 percent of Ghana’s population of 24.6
million and constitute the third-biggest Christian group in the
country, after Pentecostals/Charismatics and Protestants,
according to the 2010 census.  ‘Spiritual Authority’  The number of baptized Catholics in Africa more than
tripled from 1980 to 2010 to 186 million, the Vatican said in
March 2012, equivalent to the populations of Ghana and  Nigeria ,
Africa’s most populous nation. At the same time, the continent’s
population has grown to more than 1 billion in 2010, from about
500 million in 1980, according to the  United Nations .  Religious belief “operates at every level of society in
Africa,” according to Stephen Ellis, Leiden, the Netherlands-
based author of “Worlds of Power,” a study of religious
thought in Africa. Many Africans are members of several
religious congregations simultaneously and may practice rituals
regarded in the west as belonging to different systems of
belief, he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  At a service just before 7 a.m. on a Sunday morning last
month at  St. Francis De Sales , a towering, cream-colored hilltop
church in Cape Coast on the Atlantic Ocean, young men in suits
and women wearing ankle-length dresses prayed for the man who
was ordained a priest in the church in 1975 and went on to
become an archbishop 18 years later.  Carpenter’s Son  “He has spiritual authority and can be an inspiration to
the world,” church administrator Arthur said in an interview
after the service. Turkson will become pope if the “Holy Spirit
is allowed” to choose, he said.  The fourth of 10 children, Turkson grew up in Nsuta Wassaw
where his father, a carpenter, worked at the  Ghana  Manganese
Co., according to a biography from the Archdiocese of Cape
Coast. His decision to train for the priesthood “sent
shockwaves through the family,” he is quoted as saying in the
biography.  “Nobody believed that I, of all the kids, was the one who
wanted to go to the seminary,” Turkson said, describing himself
as “pretty rough and tough” and “troublesome to the point
that the best one could probably do to me was whip me.”  Fishing Town  As a teenager, he left for the nearby fishing town of
Elmina to enroll at St. Theresa’s Seminary, where his passion
for science and mathematics earned him the nickname Archimedes,
after the ancient Greek mathematician. In 1973, he and a
classmate were sent to  New York  to obtain a master’s degree in
theology.  “Life in New York was really nice and far better than what
we knew,” Martin Essilfie, his former classmate and now a
priest in the Ghanaian town of Winneba, said in an interview.
“We had all the facilities available.” In the U.S., Turkson
worked with street children in a black neighborhood, according
to the biography.  Turkson’s office in  Rome  said he wasn’t available for an
interview.  Catholicism was brought to Ghana by Portuguese traders, who
in 1572 opened a small school in the coastal fort at Elmina that
they also used for imprisoning slaves before they were shipped
across the Atlantic.  Peace Council  The religion began to spread at the turn of the last
century as priests embarked on academic, agricultural and
artisanal training missions in the interior, according to a UN
report. The  Anglican  Church, established by British colonial
rulers, didn’t make as much of an impact because it built very
few schools, the report said. Ghana was the first country in
sub-Saharan Africa to attain independence, in 1957.  Turkson is known as a skilled mediator. He served as
general secretary of the Synod of Bishops for Africa and was
chairman of Ghana’s National Peace Council, which led
negotiations between presidential candidates after a disputed
2008 election. In 2010, Benedict sent him to  Ivory Coast , which
borders Ghana, to mediate in a political crisis.  As president of the Pontifical Council for Justice and
Peace, Turkson in 2011 called for changes in the way markets are
regulated. Economic injustices were creating “a climate of
growing hostility,” he told reporters in Rome as he published a
document proposing the global authority with universal
jurisdiction over financial policy.  Turkson has also criticized multinational mining companies
for depriving African farmers of a livelihood. “It’s not only
multinationals that are to blame but our governments too,” he
told U.S. Catholic magazine in a 2010 interview.  For childhood friend Pawusey, Turkson’s position as a top
candidate to lead the church is unprecedented: “My friend with
whom I played and ate from the same bowl will rewrite the
history of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net 
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  