-- Goldman’s Brazil Investment-Bank Chairman Said to Depart
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-03-06T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/goldman-brazil-investment-bank-chairman-wainstein-said-to-leave.html
Daniel Wainstein, chairman of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Brazil  investment-banking business,
will leave the company, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  Goldman Sachs has been discussing the changes with
Wainstein for the past several months, according to a person at
the New York-based firm who asked not to be identified because
the decision hasn’t been announced. Wainstein, 42, and Andre Laport Ribeiro are Goldman Sachs’s only partners in Brazil.  Wainstein asked to leave after working at the firm since
2000, one of the people said. He was appointed chairman of
Brazil investment banking in April 2012, when Antonio Pereira
and Fabio Bicudo were named co-chief operating officers. The
bank ranked sixth in equity underwriting in Brazil last year,
with $732 million in transactions, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was No. 8 among merger advisers with $14.3 billion in
deals, the data show.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on Wainstein’s departure.  Goldman Sachs said in October it would double capital in
Brazil to 800 million reais ($407 million) while closing its
asset-management business in the country.  The firm, which doesn’t disclose Brazil revenue or profit,
named Paulo Leme as chairman for the country a year ago. Goldman
Sachs has said its strategy in Brazil is to focus on complex
products with higher profit margins, such as convertible debt
and receivables securitization.  Local Competition  U.S. and international banks are competing against Brazil-
based companies such as Bradesco BBI SA, Banco Itau BBA SA and
Banco BTG Pactual SA, which have used their stronger local
contacts to squeeze out foreign firms.  Goldman Sachs completed its strategy to become a full-
service bank in Brazil in 2009, after two failed attempts to buy
local firms. In 1998, Goldman Sachs tried to buy Banco de
Investimentos Garantia SA, which was acquired by Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Seven years later it sought to purchase Banco Pactual SA,
an investment bank later acquired by UBS AG. Pactual was sold
back to BTG Partners in 2009 and is now Banco BTG Pactual SA.
BTG went public last year in a $1.94 billion initial offering
that Goldman Sachs helped underwrite.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  