-- Google Exception in Obama’s Cyber Order Questioned as Unwise Gap
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/google-exception-in-obama-s-cyber-order-questioned-as-unwise-gap.html
Telecommunications companies want
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to rethink a decision
that may exempt  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
software and Microsoft Corp.’s Windows from an executive order
on cybersecurity.  Obama’s Feb. 12 order says the government can’t designate
“commercial  information technology  products or consumer
information technology services” as critical U.S.
infrastructure targeted for voluntary computer security
standards.  “If e-mail went away this afternoon, we would all come to
a stop,” said Marcus Sachs, vice president of national security
policy at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S.
phone company. “Hell yeah, e-mail is critical.”  Technologies used in personal computers, software and the
Internet “are the lifeblood of cyberspace,” Sachs said. “If
you exclude that right up front, you take off the table the very
people who are creating the products and services that are
vulnerable.”  Obama’s order is aimed at areas such as power grids,
telecommunications and pipelines. The goal is to protect
“systems and assets whose incapacitation from a cyber incident
would have catastrophic national security and economic
consequences,” White House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in
an e-mail. “It is not about Netflix, Twitter, Facebook, and
Snapchat.”  Voluntary Standards  Under the executive order, the Department of  Homeland
Security  is to identify critical infrastructure, translating the
order’s broadly worded information technology exclusions into
specific guidelines.  The order expands a government program for sharing
classified information about computer threats with  defense
contractors  and Internet-service providers and calls for
computer security standards for companies in critical
industries. While adherence to the standards is to be voluntary,
the executive order tells federal agencies that directly
regulate affected industries to consider binding rules.  Telecommunications and cable companies don’t want to face
regulatory burdens and costs that aren’t shared by technology
companies,  David Kaut , a Washington-based analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview.  “The telecom community is concerned the tech industry is
going to get a free pass here,” Kaut said. “You have an
ecosystem and only the network guys are going to get submitted
to government scrutiny.”  Hacker Targets  Critical infrastructure such as power grids rely on
 information technology , Verizon’s Sachs said. Such technology
should be part of the solution to U.S. cybersecurity, he said.  Obama’s order isn’t meant to “get down to the level of
products and services and dictate how those products and
services behave,” said David LeDuc, senior director of public
policy for the Software & Information Industry Association, a
Washington trade group that lobbied for the exclusions.  If countries impose differing security guidelines for
technology products and services, such actions can amount to a
type of trade barrier if rules are written to favor their own
companies, LeDuc said.  Samantha Smith , a Google spokeswoman, Michelle Hinrichs, a
spokeswoman for Microsoft, Steve Dowling of Apple, and Jodi Seth
of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  all declined to comment.  ‘Shared Responsibility’  “The nation’s cybersecurity policy framework should be
structured in a way that takes into account the shared
responsibility of the entire Internet ecosystem,” Ed Amoroso,
chief security officer at  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest U.S. phone
company, said in a Feb. 15 e-mail reacting to Obama’s order.  Telecommunications companies think the order’s exclusions
may leave out technologies that play a vital role in the total
security picture, Stewart Baker, a former Homeland Security
Department official, said in an interview.  “If you’re attacking people, you go for the weakest link
and the weakest link is often some commercial product,” said
Baker, a Washington-based partner at the law firm Steptoe &
Johnson LLP.  Twitter Inc. said Feb. 1 that hackers may have gotten
access to data on 250,000 users of its microblogging site.
Facebook, operator of the largest social network, said Feb. 15
that some of its employees’ laptops were infected after visiting
a mobile developer’s site.  Apple said Feb. 19 some of its internal Mac systems were
affected by a malicious software attack.  Microsoft (MSFT) , the largest
software maker, said Feb. 22 a small number of its computers
were infected by malware in an attack similar to those against
Facebook and Apple.  Swiping Secrets  Obama, in announcing the executive order in his  State of
the Union  speech, said the U.S. needs to boost cyber defenses
for vital U.S. facilities.  “We know hackers steal people’s identities and infiltrate
private e-mail. We know foreign countries and companies swipe
our corporate secrets,” Obama said. “Now our enemies are also
seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial
institutions, and our air-traffic-control systems.”  Obama’s executive order mirrors parts of a Senate bill that
was blocked last year by Republicans who said the standards
would be burdensome to industry. Lawmakers are working on new
legislation.  The Internet Association, a trade group whose members
include Google, Facebook, and Amazon.com Inc., urged the White
House and Congress to “ensure that all Internet services are
not subject to regulation,” the group’s president, Michael Beckerman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Obama administration and Google opposed revisions to an
international telecommunications treaty negotiated at a United
Nations conference in Dubai last year, saying new language
related to cybersecurity and other topics could open the door to
Internet regulation and censorship by other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  