-- Grillo Says Party to Vote Only for 5 Star Italian Government
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-05T14:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/grillo-says-party-to-vote-only-for-5-star-led-italy-government.html
Italy ’s Five Star Movement will only
provide voting support for a new government that it leads, said
the populist group’s founder, Beppe Grillo.  Five Star “won’t back a technocratic government” in a
vote of confidence, Grillo said today in a  post  on his website,
commenting on possible support for an administration of non-
elected figures. “The only solution we propose is a government
of the 5 Star,” Vito Crimi, the head of the party’s senators,
said in the same post.  After emerging as Italy’s biggest party in last month’s
elections, Five Star holds a blocking minority in the upper
house of parliament. Democratic Party chief Pier Luigi Bersani,
who leads the coalition with the most votes, has a majority in
the lower house and has called on Five Star to support him in
the Senate.  Grillo’s party may consider staging a confidence-vote walk-
out to allow a new government that shares its program to ease
the gridlock, two senators-elect said yesterday, declining to be
identified because no deal has been made. Crimi told reporters
late yesterday that Five Star is not ruling out abstentions.  Yields Drop  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 10 basis points to 4.78
percent at 3:13 p.m. in  Rome , up 33 basis points from the close
on Feb. 22, the last trading day before the election started.
Moritz Kraemer, head of sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor’s,
said the vote had no implication on Italy’s debt rating and that
he will be watching to see what government emerges.  “The dust needs to settle,” Kraemer told reporters today
at a conference in  London . “The situation is unclear. We are
assuming fiscal policy will remain intact. The real challenge
for Italy is on the growth side.”  Italy’s economy contracted for six consecutive quarters
through the three months ended Dec. 31 as tax increases and
tighter bank credit curbed investment and took money out of the
hands of consumers. Italians, seeking a reprieve from fiscal
austerity, repudiated the budget rigor imposed by Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  with their votes for Grillo and three-time former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi .  Talks among Italy’s four biggest political groups are
ongoing before the new parliament’s first day on March 15.
Monti, who finished fourth in the election, said in a statement
yesterday that he asked Grillo, Bersani and Berlusconi to
separate meetings to discuss European Union policy as the
premier prepares for an EU summit next week.  Bersani may get a mandate from President Giorgio Napolitano
to explore forming a government, Corriere Della Sera newspaper
reported today, without citing anyone. If Bersani fails to
secure enough parliamentary support, Napolitano may appoint a
caretaker government, Corriere said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 