-- Guggenheim Sees Opportunities in Spanish Construction
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-03-05T17:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/guggenheim-sees-opportunities-in-spanish-construction.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC’s Todd
Boehly, president of the $170 billion asset manager that owns a
stake in the Los Angeles Dodgers, said he’s seeing opportunities
in infrastructure and construction in Spain.  “We’re spending a lot of time around infrastructure and
we’re building global partnerships with companies across the
world, particularly right now in Europe,” Boehly said today in
an interview with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” Guggenheim has looked
at deals in Greece, although hasn’t found anything, he said.  Guggenheim, which is expanding into different businesses,
in January  hired   Ross Levinsohn , former interim chief executive
officer of Yahoo! Inc., to oversee a newly formed digital media
unit. In addition to the $2.15 billion purchase of the Dodgers
by Guggenheim Baseball Management announced in March, Guggenheim
in September agreed to buy Dick Clark Productions, which
produces “New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” and “The Golden Globes,”
along with Mandalay Entertainment and Mosaic Media Investment
Partners LLC.  Guggenheim continues to see opportunities in media, Boehly
said. Since Guggenheim is a private partnership, it has the
ability to invest in deals with a longer time horizon than
publicly traded rivals, Boehly said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating whether junk-bond pioneer  Michael Milken  acted as
an adviser to Guggenheim in violation of a lifetime ban from the
securities industry, a person with knowledge of the matter said
last week. Boehly said Milken is a “valued client” at
Guggenheim who invests in its funds as a limited partner, and
isn’t involved in the management of the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  