-- Icahn Gains Ground on Ackman Holding Herbalife: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/icahn-gains-ground-on-ackman-holding-herbalife-chart-of-the-day.html
Carl Icahn  gained ground on  William
Ackman  in their opposing bets on  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  after pledging
to hold his 13.6 percent stake until the shares reach a level
that would leave his rival with losses of about $488 million.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that Ackman’s return on his $1
billion bet against Herbalife has been cut to 16 percent from 27
percent since company shares began rising Feb. 26. The same
advances have lifted Icahn’s return on his $506 million
investment in Herbalife to almost 14 percent, while Dan Loeb’s
Third Point LLC now has an estimated paper profit of 32 percent
on his bullish bet, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ackman announced on Dec. 19 that his Pershing Square
Capital Management LP had sold short more than 20 million
Herbalife shares after a year of research led him to conclude
the company was operating a pyramid scheme. After publicly
criticizing Ackman’s bet in late January, Icahn proceeded to buy
more than 14 million Herbalife shares at an average cost of
$36.11 each, saying the company was poised to benefit from a
rising consumer focus on nutrition and avoiding obesity.  Icahn, 77, last week promised not to sell any of his
holdings for one year in return for receiving two board seats at
Herbalife, unless shares trade at an average of $73 each for
five consecutive days, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. That would translate into
approximately $488 million in losses for Ackman’s Pershing
Square, assuming its short position hadn’t changed.  Icahn revived a decade-old feud with Ackman in January,
saying that his rival’s public announcements on the Herbalife
short sale risks subjecting New York-based Pershing Square’s
hedge fund clients to the “mother” of all short squeezes. A
trader who borrows and then sells stock in anticipation of a
decline can incur big losses if others start buying the same
shares in unison, pushing the price up in a so-called short
squeeze.  Ackman and Loeb haven’t disclosed the exact price at which
they established their positions. Based on average trading
prices during the period they invested, Ackman sold short at
about $48.58 a share while Loeb bought his stake for about
$31.10 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  