-- Life Technologies Said to Attract Interest From Buyout Group
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-03-06T14:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/life-technologies-said-to-attract-interest-from-buyout-group-1-.html
A buyout group comprising  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group , TPG Capital and Temasek Holdings Pte is
exploring an offer for  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , a maker of DNA-
sequencing equipment and laboratory materials, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  The group is actively talking to banks on financing, said
the people, who asked not to be named as the negotiations are
private. Bids for Carlsbad, California-based Life are due next
month, according to the people.  While Life has attracted interest from some strategic
suitors, Chief Executive Officer Gregory Lucier favors a buyout
over a deal with a competitor because he wants to keep the
reins, said two people. The  board  engaged Deutsche Bank AG to
review options and ensure it pursues strategic offers, they
said.  Life, whose market value tops $10 billion, said in January
that directors were working with Deutsche Bank, as well as
Moelis & Co., to examine strategic alternatives. The company
competes with  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and  Pacific Biosciences of
California Inc. (PACB)  in the market for gene-sequencing machines.  The deliberations are at an early stage, and the consortium
may decide against an offer. If the group succeeds in bidding,
it could potentially be the largest leveraged buyout undertaken
by a consortium of the world’s top private-equity firms since at
least the end of 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Performance  Life shares had risen 33 percent in 12 months through
yesterday. They advanced as much as 4.7 percent yesterday
following the Bloomberg report, and climbed 0.3 percent to
$61.91 at 9:36 a.m. today in  New York .  Representatives at Life, Carlyle, TPG and Blackstone
declined to comment. Temasek said in an e-mailed statement it
doesn’t comment on market speculation.  Bain Capital LLC also explored a bid for Life and is now
backing away from the process, said another person familiar with
the matter. A representative at Boston-based Bain didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Life’s technology can be used to provide a blueprint of a
person’s DNA, information that may eventually be used to
diagnose disease, identify the risks of certain conditions or
better target medicines. Last year Life’s peer Illumina rebuffed
repeated overtures from  Roche Holding AG , the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  