-- IGT Shareholders Elect One Nominee From Dissidents’ Slate
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-05T22:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/igt-shareholders-elect-one-nominee-from-dissidents-board-slate.html
International Game Technology (IGT) , the
largest slot machine maker, said shareholders elected one board
nominee proposed by a dissident investor group critical of the
company’s strategy and stock performance.  Investors elected Daniel Silvers, one of three nominees
proposed by former casino analyst Jason Ader, according to
Mariya Barnes, a spokeswoman for Las Vegas-based IGT. Two other
dissidents, including the former chairman and chief executive
officer, were rejected at the annual meeting today.  Current management, led by Chairman Philip Satre and CEO
Patti Hart, has argued the company is turning around and making
the online investments necessary to meet the demands of younger
gamblers. The dissidents, including former chairman and CEO
Charles Mathewson, had argued the company was neglecting its
core business.  “IGT has seen a $1 billion increase in market value since
the Ader Group started pressuring management,” Ader said in a
telephone interview. “We plan on keeping the pressure on
management and seeking additional seats next year. Our goal is
to improve IGT’s discipline in corporate governance and capital
allocation.”  IGT rose 2.1 percent to $16.86 at the close in New York.
The stock has gained 19 percent this year.  Silvers is an executive with Ader Investment Management. He
was recommended by the proxy advisory firm Institutional
Shareholder Services. David Roberson, a former  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  executive, wasn’t re-elected, Barnes said. Vote counts
weren’t immediately available.  IGT said about 80 percent of its 265 million shares
outstanding were voted at the meeting.  Silvers received 112 million votes. Mathewson received 29
million and Raymond J. Brooks Jr., the third nominee, received
32 million, according to the company. Roberson received 84
million, least among the incumbents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  