-- Milk Powder Surges Most in 2 1/2 Years on New Zealand Drought
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-03-05T19:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/milk-powder-surges-most-in-2-1-2-years-on-new-zealand-drought.html
Whole-milk powder auction prices
climbed the most in 2 1/2 years,  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) 
said.  Powder for May delivery rose 19.3 percent, the most since
Sept. 1, 2010, according to a trade-weighted index on the
company’s GlobalDairyTrade website. The near-term contract for
 New Zealand  product rose to $4,343 a metric ton, the highest
price since March 1, 2011. The  New Zealand dollar  rose as high
as 83.33 U.S. cents from 82.77 cents yesterday.  Auckland-based Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, last week reaffirmed its forecast payment to farmers,
saying it expects higher global dairy prices in the first half
of 2013. Prices have gained 36 percent this year as dry
conditions in parts of New Zealand curb milk collection.  “The auction result is certainly positive, but it needs to
be seen in the context of lower volumes thanks to the worsening
New Zealand drought,” said  Mike Jones , currency strategist at
 Bank of New Zealand , in a note to clients.  New Zealand’s government last week declared a drought in
Northland, at the top of the  North Island , and said that other
regions may follow. Farmers who produce about 46 percent of New
Zealand’s milk are experiencing extreme dry conditions,
according to ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. estimates.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade  auctions . The company offers monthly
contracts with delivery starting from two months after the sale.
Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for June delivery rose 17.3% while prices
across all five product contracts out to September rose 18
percent, Fonterra said.  In other auctions, prices for May delivery of milk fat,
butter, casein, cheddar, milk protein concentrate, skim and
butter-milk powder also increased. Lactose wasn’t offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  