-- India Routs Australia to Give Dhoni Record 22nd Test Cricket Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-05T07:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/india-beats-australia-by-an-innings-and-135-runs-in-second-test.html
India  routed Australia by an innings
and 135 runs to go 2-0 up in their four-match cricket series,
giving Mahendra Singh Dhoni a national record 22nd elite Test
victory as captain.  Resuming day four at 74-2 in Hyderabad, Australia slumped
to 131 all out before lunch to become the first team in 136
years of Test cricket to lose by an innings after declaring in
its first innings. Ravichandran Ashwin finished with 5-63 and
fellow spin bowler Ravindra Jadeja took 3-33.  India, which is trying to rebound from a 2-1 loss to
 England  in its last home series, would regain the Border-
Gavaskar trophy by avoiding defeat in either of the remaining
two matches following a 4-0 sweep in  Australia  in 2011-12. The
third Test starts March 14 in Mohali.  “At the end of the day it’s the whole team that wins,”
Dhoni, who passed the record of 21 Test wins as India captain he
shared with Sourav Ganguly, said at the presentation ceremony.
“It’s a collective effort and credit goes to each and every
individual who’s been part of the side.”  India had led by 266 runs on the first innings by amassing
503 in reply to Australia’s 237-9 declared.  For the second straight match, Australia struggled against
India’s slow bowlers, who combined to take 14 of the 19 wickets
to fall. Indian spinners got all 20 in the series opener.  “We have a lot of work to do as a team in all three facets
of the game,” said Australia captain Michael Clarke. “Our
batters have to take a lot of the responsibility. We haven’t
scored enough runs in our first innings in both Test matches,
and that’s unacceptable in the best of batting conditions.”  Top Scorer  India batsman Cheteshwar Pujara took the man-of-the-match
award after top scoring with 204 and sharing a 370-run stand
with Murali Vijay that was an Indian record for the second
wicket in elite Tests.  “It was a really important partnership,” Pujara said.
“That was the important phase of our innings because it set up
a big total for us.”  Australia added one run to its second-innings total today
before Shane Watson was caught by Dhoni off Ishant Sharma’s
bowling. Clarke, the world’s No. 2-ranked Test batsman, made 16
before Jadeja beat his defense to flatten his off stump with a
turning delivery.  Jadeja then removed two batsmen within the space of six
balls to reduce Australia to 111-6. The left-armer had  Ed Cowan 
caught for 44 when the opener edged a delivery that deflected
off Dhoni’s pad and into the hands of Virender Sehwag at first
slip. In the next over, Jadeja ran out Moises Henriques with a
direct hit as the Australians went for a quick single.  Ashwin then trapped Glenn Maxwell leg-before-wicket and
Jadeja had  Peter Siddle  caught by  Virat Kohli  to leave Australia
at 130-8. Ashwin then wrapped up the victory by dismissing
Matthew Wade and James Pattinson, who faced 27 balls without
scoring a run.  “When they’ve had momentum they’ve grabbed hold of it and
run with it for as long as they possibly could,” Clarke added.
“We’ve had guys get in and not make big scores and that’s
unacceptable in these conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  