-- India Mulls Linking Mumbai Airfields to Ease Congestion
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-03-06T10:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/india-mulls-linking-mumbai-airfields-to-ease-congestion.html
India  is considering building the
nation’s first aircraft taxiway bridge to connect Mumbai airport
with a neighboring airfield as land acquisition delays stall
work on a proposed $2.7 billion new facility.  The plan is to link the main airport with the Juhu
airfield, Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said in an interview in
New Delhi. That will help ease congestion at India’s second-
busiest airfield as smaller planes can be taxied to the
adjoining facility, Singh said at his residence on March 4.  India’s move to ease congestion at its financial hub has
been stuck as efforts to buy land at the proposed Navi Mumbai
site stalled because of compensation talks with farmers, Singh 
said. Fixing the nation’s air transport infrastructure, ranked 
worse than Ethiopia and  Namibia  by the  World Economic Forum , 
is critical to sustaining economic growth that has prompted 
British Airways, Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Middle East 
carriers to add flights.  “There’s a land compensation problem,” Singh said about
the delays in the Navi Mumbai project.  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) , which controls the main
Mumbai airport, rose 3.3 percent to 11.05 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, its highest level since Feb. 27.  The world’s second-most populous nation needs about $12.2
billion of investments in airport infrastructure in the five
years to 2017, according to the Planning Commission, a
government body that formulates five-year economic and social
programs. The number of passengers may surge more than 50
percent to 370 million in that period, it said.  Private Operators  In 2006, The government handed over airports in Mumbai and
New Delhi to private operators as part of plans to modernize the
facilities. About half-a-dozen airlines started operations in
the past eight years as rising disposable incomes prompted more
Indians to shun trains in favor of planes, straining the
utilities.  “Mumbai airport is choked,” said Amber Dubey, a Gurgaon,
India-based partner at consultancy  KPMG . “The Navi Mumbai
project is taking some time, and we’re basically clutching at
straws here.”  In November 2010, India’s environment ministry approved
construction of the 150 billion-rupee ($2.7 billion) Navi Mumbai
airport to help ease congestion at the main facility. The
government had set a goal to complete the first phase of the
airfield by 2014.  Juhu Airfield  The Juhu airfield, built in 1928, currently houses the
Bombay Flying Club and occupies 384.5 acres of land, according
to the website of  Airports Authority of India , which runs the
facility. The airfield’s boundary is about 600 meters away from
the main airport, according to KPMG’s Dubey.  There is a rail line, an overbridge, a proposed local metro
and residential buildings between the two airfields, according
to Dubey.  Mumbai International Airport Ltd., controlled by GVK Power,
handles 32 aircraft movements per hour using a single runway,
compared with Gatwick’s 60 on a single runway, according to a
June 2012 civil aviation ministry document. The Indian airport,
which had 29 million passengers in the year ended March 2011, is
expanding capacity to handle 40 million passengers a year,
according to the operator’s website.  “India is a big market and it’s bound to grow as far as
aviation is concerned,” Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  