-- Rupee Forwards Rise From Two-Month Low on Global Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-05T11:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/india-rupee-rises-from-two-month-low-on-global-stimulus-optimism.html
India ’s rupee forwards extended a
rebound from a two-month low on speculation policy makers in the
U.S. and  Japan  will maintain economic stimulus policies that
have boosted capital flows into  emerging markets .  The currency gained for a second day as India scrapped a
proposal to tighten rules for overseas investors seeking to
benefit from double taxation treaties. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  must
expand its monetary base and buy bonds with maturities of more
than five years, Kikuo Iwata, a government nominee for deputy
governor, said in a parliament hearing today. Federal Reserve
Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday the U.S. central bank
should press on with $85 billion in monthly debt buying while
tracking possible costs and risks from the program.  “The rupee’s gains are mostly driven by global
sentiment,” said Vikas Babu, a trader in Mumbai at state-run
Andhra Bank. “The tax clarifications helped equities, which
supported the rupee. However the positivity will not last long
as importers will jump in to buy dollars.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards advanced 0.2 percent to
55.89 per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloombberg. The contracts had dropped to 56.20 yesterday, the
lowest level since Jan. 8. Offshore non-deliverable contracts
were at 55.90 versus 55.99. Forwards are agreements to buy or
sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  The rupee ended at 54.9250 per dollar in the spot market,
compared with 54.8650 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It had risen as much as 0.5 percent earlier, with
gains limited by importers’ purchases of dollars, according to
 Andhra Bank. (ANDB)   One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, fell 20 basis points,
or 0.20 percentage point, to 9.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  