-- Ineligible Farmers Got India Aid in $9.5 Billion Debt Waiver
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-05T10:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/india-rewarded-ineligible-farmers-with-9-5-billion-debt-waiver.html
Almost a tenth of Indian farmers
whose debts were written off by the government were not eligible
for relief, according to an audit of a $9.5 billion plan that
helped the ruling Congress party win a second term in power.  There were errors in nearly 25 percent of the cases where
debt assistance was offered from 2008, the  Comptroller and
Auditor General of India  said in a review submitted to
parliament. About 13 percent of farmers the government
considered qualified for help were denied funding by banks, the
auditor said.  Lapses and errors “raised serious concerns about the
implementation of the scheme,” it said in its report. The
program was intended to cover 43 million farmers.  The  Congress-led  federal coalition is vulnerable to attacks
from opposition politicians over its handling of  government
spending  after a series of scams unearthed by the auditor dented
its popularity. The agency had earlier criticized the sale of
mobile-phone permits and the award of coal assets, sparking
corruption probes and street protests. A general election must
be held by May next year.  The auditor in a series of recommendations said bank
officials who certified claims should be held responsible. Where
specific cases of tampering are found, the Department for
Financial Services should take “stringent” action, according
to the report.  Farm Suicides  The auditor reviewed the debt relief program in 25 states
April 2011 and May 2012. Its staff spoke to more than 90,000
farmers, including 9,000 who were not selected as beneficiaries.  More than 8 percent of farmers whose debt was cleared were
not eligible, the auditor concluded, as the money had been
borrowed to support businesses, buy cars or purchase land.  Congress swept to the biggest election victory in almost
two decades in 2009 after announcing a series of pro-poor
measures. The rural debt program was aimed at helping  India ’s
247 million farmers, reeling under rising costs and higher
interest payments on loans.  About 250,000 Indian farmers committed suicide between 1995
and 2011, the New York-based Center for  Human Rights  and Global
Justice said in a  report  that year. That is almost one every 30
minutes, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  