-- Martowardojo Moves Closer to Bank Indonesia Governor Role
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-03-06T05:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/indonesian-commission-to-test-martowardojo-for-central-bank-job.html
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
made progress on his bid to appoint Indonesia Finance Minister
 Agus Martowardojo  the next central bank chief as a parliamentary
panel agreed to put the candidate through a fit-and-proper test.  “Agus Martowardojo meets the criteria,” Emir Moeis,
chairman at the Indonesian parliament’s Commission XI, which
oversees financial affairs, told reporters in Jakarta after a
more than two-hour meeting late yesterday. “If we are to
replace the finance minister again, this will create new risks
and that’s what took us so long to consider.”  The president last month nominated Martowardojo as his sole
candidate to succeed Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution,
whose term ends May 23. Martowardojo, 57, was rejected for the
top central bank post by the committee when Yudhoyono proposed
him in 2008.  Last night’s decision advances Yudhoyono’s bid to reshuffle
his top policy-making team as Southeast Asia’s biggest  economy 
grapples with a weakening currency, a current-account deficit
and inflation stemming from power-tariff increases and higher
wages. The president’s choice of Martowardojo had met with mixed
reactions as some analysts questioned his record as finance
minister and others praised his banking experience.  Challenging Time  “It is important that parliament does not prolong the
uncertainty,”  Helmi Arman , a Jakarta-based economist at
Citigroup Inc., said before the committee’s decision. “BI must
not be left without a solid leadership, especially as the macro
environment has become more challenging.”  The Indonesian rupiah was little changed at 9,688 a dollar
while the  Jakarta Composite index  of shares rose 1 percent as of
11:07 a.m. local time today. The currency has fallen more than 5
percent in the past 12 months, the worst performer after the yen
and Indian rupee among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The decision to proceed with Martowardojo’s nomination was
unanimous, said Maruarar Sirait, a commission member from the
Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle. He said that it’s the
president’s right to nominate only one candidate, adding that
several factions suggested naming more than one.  “After this process, I think Martowardojo will become the
BI governor,” Harry Su, a Jakarta-based head of research at PT
Bahana Securities, said by phone today. “The biggest risk for
 Indonesia  and the new governor obviously is maintaining both
inflation as well as currency volatility.”  Panel’s Considerations  The finance committee has 14 members from Yudhoyono’s
Democrat Party faction, 10 from the Golkar faction, and eight
from former President Megawati Soekarnoputri’s Indonesian
Democratic Party of Struggle faction among its 49 members. After
a candidate passes the commission’s scrutiny, the decision would
then have to be endorsed by a plenary session of parliament.  The commission will hold Martowardojo’s fit-and-proper test
on March 25, with a decision probably as soon as the next day,
said Achsanul Qosasi, a member from Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party.
The finance commission decided to proceed with the test for
Martowardojo to avoid a prolonged vacancy at Bank Indonesia,
Sirait said. Still, the date chosen gives the president time to
submit another name if he decides to do so, said Harry Azhar Azis, a vice chairman at the panel.  A rejection would have forced Yudhoyono to submit a new
nomination, according to Citigroup’s Arman. Should the second
candidate be turned down, the president can re-appoint the
current governor to avoid a leadership vacuum, he said.  Prolonged Vacancy  The process underscores the difficulty that Indonesia’s
political system can pose for a speedy succession at the central
bank. Of the members of the finance committee, 12 are from
opposition parties. Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party has the most
number of people on the commission.  Nasution, 64, assumed the central bank governor post in
September 2010 after more than a year as acting governor. It
took the president about a year to nominate him after the
previous governor, Boediono, resigned in May 2009 to become
Yudhoyono’s running mate in the presidential election.  Martowardojo started his career at Bank of America Corp.,
according to the Finance Ministry’s  website . He was president
director of PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by
assets, before becoming finance minister. The Amsterdam-born
banker holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Indonesia, according to Bank Mandiri’s website at
the time of his appointment to the finance role.  Finance Minister  The finance minister “is a good choice,” Zulkieflimansyah,
vice chairman at Commission XI, said Feb. 26. “There won’t be
any problem for him to get it, most likely he’ll win it,”
Zulkieflimansyah, who goes by one name, said then.  Yudhoyono hasn’t said who he would appoint to replace
Martowardojo at the finance ministry should he win Parliament
approval to move to the central bank. Julian Aldrin Pasha, a
presidential spokesman, has denied rumors that Martowardojo and
Bank Indonesia Governor Nasution will switch jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  