-- Iran’s Rial Gains 10% as Government Boosts Dollar Supply
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-03-05T12:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/iran-s-rial-gains-10-as-government-boosts-dollar-supply.html
Iran ’s rial gained 10 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  after the Persian Gulf country’s
government made more foreign currency available to the market,
Economy Minister Shamseddin Hosseini said.  “We expect the dollar to continue its downward trend in
the market,” Hosseini told reporters today at a Tehran
conference, according to a  Fars  news agency. It didn’t give
details of the government action.  Iran’s national currency was trading at 33,200 rials per
dollar today compared with about 37,000 to the greenback in
street markets on Feb. 28. The increase in the rial’s value in
the last six days comes after nuclear talks that both sides
agreed were on the right track.  Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said in
Tehran today that Iranian officials are “optimistic” about the
next rounds of negotiations with representatives of the U.S.,
the U.K., Russia, China,  France  and Germany.  “A positive atmosphere was created in the talks” in
Almaty,  Kazakhstan , Mehmanparast told reporters in comments
aired live on state television. “If this atmosphere prevails,
an acceptable outcome for both parties may be reached.”  The value of the rial, which in January 2012 was trading at
16,900 to the dollar on the street, has slumped as financial and
economic sanctions against Iran were tightened to force it to
curb its atomic program. European Union countries have halted
oil imports from the Islamic Republic since July and U.S.
measures that came into force last month are further restricting
the government’s access to hard currencies.  ‘Balanced, Responsive’  The offer extended to Iran in Almaty was “balanced” and
“responsive” to Iranian concerns, EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  said last week. In exchange for Iran’s
agreement to cease its output of 20 percent enriched uranium as
part of its nuclear program, the group offered to ease curbs on
its exports of goods including petrochemical products, the chief
Russian negotiator, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov, said
Feb. 27.  Technical talks are scheduled in Istanbul on March 18, and
political discussions with international negotiators will resume
in Almaty on April 5-6. The U.S. and the EU say  Iran’s nuclear
program  may have a military dimension, a claim the country
rejects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  