-- ISDA Plans Biggest Overhaul to Credit Derivatives Since 2003
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-03-05T15:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/isda-planning-biggest-overhaul-to-credit-derivatives-since-2003.html
The International Swaps &
Derivatives Association is planning the biggest overhaul of the
 $24 trillion  credit  derivatives market  since 2003.  New York-based ISDA is seeking feedback from market
participants on a set of possible changes to the  standards 
governing credit-default swaps, including plans to ease
settlement of contracts triggered by a sovereign debt exchange,
according to Mark New, the organization’s assistant general
counsel in the Americas.  Greece’s debt restructuring last year raised concern about
potential flaws in the insurance contracts. No time frame has
been set for changes to the market created by banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which will follow a 2009 revision of rules
that included new standards boosting transparency and
confidence, New said.  “This review is about looking back at the experience of
the past 10 years since the 2003 definitions were published and
thinking about what have we learned in that time and what
changes might need to be made,” New said in a phone interview.
“The working group is very much ongoing and considering a lot
of different proposals.”  There are a total 2.14 million contracts covering a gross
$24 trillion worth of credit products, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry
for the derivatives market.  One of the suggestions being considered would allow
sovereign default swaps to be settled with packages of other
assets in a government bond exchange. That would prevent
distortions in payouts, a concern after  Greece  undertook the
biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history.  Greek Bondholders  Greek bondholders were forced to write off more than 100
billion euros ($130 billion) of debt in return for new bonds
worth 31.5 percent of their original investment. The smooth
settlement of default-swaps was “a lucky break,” Michael
Hampden-Turner, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said
at the time.  ISDA is also seeking to ease the transfer of swaps
contracts when companies merge. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The proposals don’t address expropriation of debt by a
government, the most recent test for the market. Investors are
concerned that settlement of swaps on  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  will be
distorted because the securities that could be delivered in
exchange for compensation were seized by the Dutch state. ISDA
yesterday said it will publish an  initial list  of deliverable
obligations after determining the nationalization constituted a
restructuring credit event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  