-- Hitachi Zosen, Statoil Work on Floating Offshore Wind Technology
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-05T01:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hitachi-zosen-statoil-work-on-floating-offshore-wind-technology.html
Hitachi Zosen Corp. (7004) , an industrial
machinery maker, wants to use its partnership with  Statoil ASA (STL) 
to bring technology for floating offshore wind turbines to the
Japanese market more quickly.  Hitachi Zosen, which started as a shipyard in 1881, in
November signed a technical cooperation  agreement  with Statoil,
 Norway ’s oil and gas producer. Statoil’s “Hywind” project
features the world’s first full-scale floating wind turbine.  “We are looking at how we can bring technology cultivated
in Norway to Japan,” Takashi Fujita, general manager of Hitachi
Zosen’s strategic planning department, said in an interview in
Tokyo. “It won’t be that difficult. Both partners want to
reduce time to bring the floating offshore technology to reality
as much as possible.”  Japan  is working to boost clean energy investment with an
incentive program that started in July. It pays above-market
rates for power from wind, solar, geothermal and other renewable
sources, part of the program to diversify the sources of the
nation’s energy after the meltdown at Fukushima two years ago.  Britain and Germany are leading the world in developing
offshore wind projects, taking advantage of steady breezes in
the North Sea and experience drilling for oil in the waters.
Japan wants to develop the floating technology for wind farms,
since its islands are surrounded by deep oceans.  Floating Windmills  Hitachi Zosen plans to start with turbines fixed to the
seabed and expand to floating windmills in offshore wind, Fujita
said. The company, which spun off its shipbuilding business in
2002, first will focus on the Japanese market and expand to
Southeast Asian countries such as the  Philippines  and Indonesia.  Fujita said Statoil is providing Hitachi Zosen with
technology that allow for stable power generation from turbines
in the ocean, declining to elaborate citing confidentiality.  Hitachi Zosen leads a group including  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  JFE
Holdings Inc. (5411)  to study offshore wind technology. The group plans
to complete pilot plants of about 7.5 megawatts each by 2016
before building wind farms with a combined capacity of 300
megawatts in 2022.  Statoil received approval from the Maine Public Utilities
Commission to build a $120 million offshore wind farm,
the Portland Press Herald reported in January.  The deepwater demonstration facility in the Gulf of Maine
will have four, 3-megawatt floating turbines and may begin
generating power by 2016, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  