-- Italian Prosecutors Open Probe Into Monte Paschi Insider Trading
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-03-05T10:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/italian-prosecutors-open-probe-into-monte-paschi-insider-trading.html
The probe into  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA  widened as Italian prosecutors opened an
investigation into allegations of  insider trading  in the Italian
lender's shares and carried out raids in three cities.  The move marks a broadening of the inquiry into how the
world’s oldest lender hid losses before seeking a government
rescue bailout. Former Monte Paschi managers are already being
probed over allegations of obstructing regulators, market
manipulation and false accounting related to the acquisition of
Banca Antonveneta SpA, people with knowledge of the situation
said last month, asking not to be identified.  Addresses in Turin, Milan and Lecce linked to two current
board members were today searched by the finance police,
according to a statement from the Siena prosecutor. The board
members themselves aren’t under scrutiny. The finance police
also seized a further 6 million euros ($7.8 million) of assets
from former managers as part of their continuing fraud probe. A
spokeswoman for the Siena, Italy-based bank declined to comment.  Monte Paschi has dropped 31 percent in Milan trading since
Jan. 17, when Bloomberg reported the lender engaged in a
derivative with Deutsche Bank AG in 2008, dubbed “Project
Santorini,” that obscured losses before it sought a government
bailout the following year.  The shares gained as much as 2.5 percent and were 1.8
percent higher at 20.3 euro cents as of 11:34 a.m. in Milan
trading today.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and Chairman
 Alessandro Profumo , appointed last year to turn around the
company, last week received an additional 4.1 billion euros in a
taxpayer bailout after failing to meet regulators’ minimum
capital requirements.  The lender said on Feb. 6 it will take a 730 million-euro
hit to assets after reviewing structured deals from 2008 and
2009 that hid losses on earlier derivatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  