-- J.C. Penney Falls After Vornado Said to Sell Shares
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C l y d e   E l t z r o t h
-- 2013-03-05T21:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/j-c-penney-falls-after-report-vornado-selling-shares.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  slid to an almost
four-year low after  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , once its second-
biggest shareholder, sold almost half of its stake in the
struggling department-store chain, according to two people
familiar with the offering.  Vornado sold a 10-million share block of J.C. Penney stock
at $16.40 each through Deutsche Bank AG, said the people, who
asked not to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly. J.C. Penney fell 11 percent to $14.96 at the close in
 New York , the lowest price since March 2009.  The department-store company, led by former  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
retail chief Ron Johnson, last week reported a 25 percent
decline in annual revenue to $13 billion, the lowest since at
least 1987. Johnson, who joined as CEO in November 2011, has
lost customers with a shift to everyday low prices, which he has
since backtracked on, and as he tries to transform most of the
company’s stores into a collection of 100 boutiques. Vornado
chairman  Steven Roth  is a member of J.C. Penney’s board.  “We think Vornado could be back in the market in the near-
term to sell its remaining 8.6 million shares,” Lorraine Hutchinson, an analyst at Bank of America Corp. in New York,
wrote in a note today. “Our work indicates that monetizing J.C.
Penney’s real estate would be difficult and substantially less
lucrative than the market initially thought.”  Hutchinson reiterated her underperform recommendation, the
equivalent of a sell, on the Plano, Texas-based retailer’s
stock, saying it will remain under pressure “due to
deteriorating investor confidence” in the turnaround.  Penney Shares  J.C. Penney dropped 24 percent this year after slumping 44
percent in 2012. Vornado rose 3.4 percent to $84.11 today.  Vornado, the owner of more than 100 million square feet of
U.S. properties, last week reported a $224.9 million loss on its
10.7 percent stake in J.C. Penney.  Vornado, with 23.4 million shares, was the second-biggest
investor in the retailer after hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman ’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP, which has 17.8 percent of
shares. It now ranks third below Dodge & Cox, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m a director of J.C. Penney so I can’t talk very much
about it, but J.C. Penney is an investment that is in progress
now, and it would be inappropriate for me to talk about what our
holding period might be, or our plans in terms of sale or not-
sale,” Roth said on a conference call on Feb. 27.  Roth Shift  It’s a shift from November, when Roth was vocal about his
support for Johnson.  “The creation of a unique retailer and what  Ron Johnson 
calls a specialty department store has the prospects of being
enormously successful,” Roth said in a Nov. 2 earnings call.
“This is a tough period. We understand that, but we remain
committed to the investment.”  Joey Thomas, a spokesman for J.C. Penney, said in an e-mail
yesterday that the company doesn’t comment on market activity.  “With Vornado selling, the value of J.C. Penney-owned real
estate should be questioned,”  Rick Snyder , an analyst at Maxim
Group in New York, wrote in a note today. Snyder estimates J.C.
Penney’s real estate is worth about $50 per square foot, and at
that level, it would not be enough to cover the company’s $2.9
billion of long-term debt.  J.C. Penney’s  shares declined  50 percent from June 13,
2011, the day before Johnson was announced as J.C. Penney’s next
CEO. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index gained 46 percent
in that time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Eltzroth in New York at 
 celtzroth1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  