-- J&J, Bayer Fail to Win U.S. Backing for Expanded Xarelto
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-05T21:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/j-j-bayer-fail-to-win-u-s-backing-for-expanded-xarelto-use.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) 
failed to win approval to expand use of their blood thinner
Xarelto to prevent heart attacks and strokes in patients with
serious chest pain or history of cardiac illness.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration raised questions
about Xarelto’s use in reducing the risks for patients with
acute coronary syndrome, Johnson & Johnson said in a statement.
Xarelto was approved in July 2011 to prevent blood clots in
patients undergoing knee and hip surgeries and its use has since
been expanded to patients with irregular heartbeats and deadly
leg and lung blood clots.  Acute coronary syndrome is an umbrella term for situations
when the blood supplied to the heart is blocked, according to
the  American Heart Association . The condition leads to 1.2
million hospitalizations each year.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta
and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Effient have already been on the market as
a treatment for acute coronary syndrome.  J&J  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $77.66 at the close
in New York. Bayer gained 3.2 percent to 77.99 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  The FDA last year had rejected the expanded use application
by New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and Leverkusen, Germany-
based Bayer. Agency advisers who had recommended against
approval in May, cited missing data from 1,000 patients who
withdrew from a late-stage trial of the drug.  J&J owns rights to the medicine while Bayer sells the drug
in  Europe .  Xarelto is one of the medicines being promoted to replace
warfarin, a more than 50-year-old drug that requires constant
monitoring and dose adjustments to keep blood from getting too
thin and putting patients at risk of severe bleeding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  