-- Jets’ Revis Says Playing for NFL’s 49ers Would Be ‘Awesome’
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-05T07:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/jets-revis-says-playing-for-nfl-s-49ers-would-be-awesome-.html
New York Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis said in an interview with Seattle Seahawks fullback
Michael Robinson that he was disappointed to learn he was being
shopped in trade talks and that it would be “awesome” to join
the San Francisco 49ers.  Revis discussed his future in the National Football League,
the Jets and his rehabilitation from knee surgery in the “Real
Rob Report” that was  posted online  yesterday.  Revis, who played two games last season before tearing a
ligament in his left knee, is set to become an unrestricted free
agent following the 2013 season, when he’s due to make $6
million with the Jets. The Jets actively talked to other teams
about trading Revis at the NFL’s scouting combine last month,
according to the New York Daily News.  “This hit home,” Revis, 27, said in the interview with
Robinson. “Especially being one of the best players out there.
Come to find out you’re being shopped, it hits home, but it
really doesn’t matter where I’ll be at. I’m confident in what I
can do. Whether it’s there with the  New York  Jets or with
another team, I have to do what I have to do and play ball.”  The San Francisco 49ers were one of the teams that talked
with the Jets about a trade for Revis, who was selected as an
All-Pro in three of his first five NFL seasons, Yahoo Sports
reported last month. The 49ers reached the Super Bowl last month
before losing to the Baltimore Ravens.  “Looking at their roster and their team, I would just be
an addition to help them win that trophy,” Revis said. “So
would it be awesome? Yeah. My main goal as a player is to hold
that Lombardi Trophy up in the air and get that ring. They’re
definitely a contender and will be a contender for the next few
years. We’ll see.”  Jets coach Rex Ryan said yesterday on a conference call
that there’s “no truth” to speculation about a trade with the
49ers and new general manager John Idzik said the team’s focus
with Revis is “purely on getting him better.” Idzik said Revis
is ahead of schedule on his rehab program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  