-- Jonas Kaufmann’s Tough Roles Fueled by Water, Gummi Bears
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/jonas-kaufmann-s-tough-roles-fueled-by-water-gummi-bears.html
Jonas Kaufmann is at the top of his
game.  The world’s greatest Wagnerian tenor, he goes onstage
tonight in the title role in Francois Girard’s new production of
“Parsifal” at the  Metropolitan Opera .  Kaufmann, 43, has no trouble with the grueling 5-plus hour
stint as the holy fool who resists temptation, defeats the evil
sorcerer and saves the Knights of the Holy Grail.  The hard part for him is standing still.  Sporting a crisp blue shirt, his signature curls mussed,
Kaufmann radiates quicksilver energy. We spoke in an aerie at
the Metropolitan Opera.  Lundborg: How do you prepare for a long night like
“Parsifal?”  Kaufmann: I had some problems with low blood pressure years
ago -- dizziness on stage -- so I drink a lot of salted water,
which helps keep the mineral level up.  I also like Scottish shortbread.  Lundborg: So, a bread and water regimen?  Kaufmann: Plus Gummi Bears. I love Gummi Bears.  Lundborg: What’s the toughest thing about a role like this?  Kaufmann: Of course, you need to have the right technique,
you need to know how to sing these phrases, you need to memorize
it.  You also need to keep concentrated for all these hours --
I’d say this is more challenging than singing it all through. If
you add it up, my singing lasts about 30 minutes: The waiting
time in between the phrases is what makes it so difficult.  Alert Goalie  I compare it to being a goalie who is waiting for 85 out of
90 minutes and there’s not one shot to the goal -- it’s so
difficult to keep 100 percent on power level without having
anything to do.  Lundborg: In the second act of this production, there’s a
big red cave, the floor running in blood, entered through a
slit. Where are you?  Kaufmann: The projections at the end of the first act are
skin -- it looks like a desert but it’s skin.  And then in Act 2, the stage opens and it’s actually the
wound. You could call the Flower Maidens the bacteria infecting
the wound, and I’m the right antibiotic to kick them out and
heal Amfortas.  Lundborg: You’ve been singing for two decades -- what’s the
most fun for you now?  Quick Learner  Kaufmann: I’m a quick learner, thank God, so I’m not
spending so much time in the studio to learn the music or the
words or in the rehearsal room for the staging.  What I really like is the performance because you’re
actually free to really act and slip into the character -- be
that person and live the life of that person.  It’s never exactly the same. I treat the words that I’m
singing as fresh and new and out of that moment. And you can
influence your colleagues and they can influence you -- it’s
like a game.  Lundborg: What’s happening with Tristan?  Kaufmann: Tristan will sit in his box for quite a while.
It’s not that I’m frightened of that part. I know that the third
act is extremely demanding.  I believe I could sing it now because my voice is very
solid, sustainable. I can sing for a long, long time without
getting tired or stressed.  Tristan is also very low, and tenors often tend to force
their voice in the middle register to be heard enough. That is
also not necessary because I have a very long voice -- I can
sing almost the bass register till Sarastro.  Pandora’s Box  Lundborg: So, why not do it?  Kaufmann: When you open this Pandora’s box of Tristan,
you’ll never get back to normal parts. All the houses will force
you to do it, and that’s what will kill you.  Lundborg: How do you pick and choose what you do?  Kaufmann: I want to know who the director is, the
conductor, the other singers. I actually make suggestions
myself, whom I want to direct, conduct, sing with -- it makes
life much easier and increases the fun factor onstage.  Many general managers have realized that when they give me
the possibility to be part of the process, it’s actually also my
baby that we’ve created. It’s my heart’s blood, my ideas which
are in that as well, so it’s a guarantee for them to keep me
attracted to the project.  Lundborg: Are you going to go on as long as Placido Domingo?  Kaufmann: No, I think there’s life after opera.  Lundborg: What will you do -- run an opera house? Direct?  Kaufmann: I don’t want to say, “Never, ever.” Many times my
colleagues say I should be a director because I have so many
thoughts about these things.  But as long as I’m having fun onstage, I’ll keep doing it.  Lundborg: On your new Wagner CD, did you pick your favorite
bits?  Kaufmann: Yes, especially the Wesendonck lieder. Wagner has
written them for a female voice, but I love those songs so much.  He set his girlfriend’s poetry, but she was talking out of
his heart and soul.  Why not give Wagner a male voice to express his feelings?  “Parsifal” runs through March 8 at the Metropolitan Opera,
 Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metoperafamily.org/metopera/index.aspx ?  For more information:  http://www.jonaskaufmann.com/en .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and
Catherine Hickley on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 