-- JPMorgan Seeks Bigger Payout With Smaller Buyback, CFO Lake Says
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-05T23:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/jpmorgan-seeks-bigger-payout-with-smaller-buyback-cfo-lake-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank, asked regulators to approve a higher quarterly
dividend and reduced stock buyback after suffering its biggest
trading loss ever last year.  “We know that we would like to increase our dividend,”
Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake told investors during a
Boston investor conference sponsored by Citigroup Inc. “We did
ask for buybacks, but lower than last year.”  The  Federal Reserve  forced JPMorgan to suspend a $15
billion share repurchase program last year after the lender
disclosed derivatives losses that eventually swelled to more
than $6.2 billion. JPMorgan’s board of directors cut Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s pay for 2012 in half after a
review of the so-called London Whale episode held him partly
responsible for the botched trades.  Dimon previously told analysts that JPMorgan reduced its
2013 buyback target by at least 20 percent to less than $3
billion per quarter. The bank is  projected  to raise its 30-cent
quarterly dividend to 35 cents a share, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The entire  capital plan  needs Fed approval as part of the
central bank’s annual review of the biggest U.S. lenders, with
an answer expected by mid-March.  “We’re going to find out over the course of the next week
or so whether or not we get our capital plan approved,” Lake
said today.  Stress Test  While JPMorgan executives want to return more capital to
shareholders, next year’s payouts will depend on new
international capital rules and how they affect the Fed’s so-
called  stress test , Lake said.  “We’ll make our decision when we know how things shake out
toward the end of this year,” Lake said. “And we’d like to
return capital back to shareholders. So we hope to have a chance
to do that.”  JPMorgan purchased $1.6 billion shares before its buyback
program was shut down last year. The Fed later approved the
repurchase of $3 billion in  additional shares  in this year’s
first quarter, leaving $10.4 billion of the original amount
still unused.  Dimon has said he’s inclined to buy back shares when the
price falls below tangible book value, a theoretical measure of
what the company would be worth in a liquidation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  