-- Kenyatta Leads Kenya Presidential Race as Tallying Delayed
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-03-06T19:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/kenyatta-leads-kenyan-presidential-race-as-tallying-is-delayed.html
Kenyan Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, who is accused of crimes against humanity, led Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga  in a presidential vote as the shilling
slumped amid investor unease about a delay in the results.  Kenyatta had 53 percent of the vote with ballots from more
than two-fifths of polling stations, while Odinga had 42
percent, according to provisional data on the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s website. The figures
haven’t been updated in at least a day after electronic results
transmission broke down and the IEBC opted to announce hand-
delivered final returns orally, as the law requires.  “The concern among Kenyans right now chiefly is whether
results can actually be trusted after all these system
failures,” Tom Ocholla, a politics professor at the University
of Nairobi, said by phone. “It may be hard for the losing side
to accept the results.”  The election is the first since fraud allegations by
Odinga’s party after a December 2007 vote spawned two months of
violence that killed 1,100 people and left 350,000 homeless.
 Kenya  is  East Africa ’s largest economy and the regional hub for
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Shilling Slump  The shilling headed for its biggest decline in more than a
year as investors became “jittery” over the slow pace of
results, said  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , a Nairobi-based lender. The
currency slid 1.4 percent to 86.75 per dollar by 9:01 p.m. in
Nairobi, poised for its biggest drop since Jan. 4, 2012.  “Yesterday people thought we would get a clear win in the
first instance, but now it looks like it will take much longer
and we have inquiries from clients who seem concerned,”
Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at Nairobi-based  Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , said in a phone interview.  Shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange gained for a
sixth day, extending the bourse’s All Share index advance to
15.2 percent this year. Turmoil after the last election
triggered an 8.5 percent plunge in the Kenyan shilling and cut
economic growth to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent in 2007.  The final results should be finished by Friday morning IEBC
Chairman Isaack Hassan told reporters in Nairobi. About half of
the 290 returning officers are in Nairobi with tallies for their
constituencies, he said.  Isolated Incidents  Kenyatta, the 51-year-old son of Kenya’s first president,
Jomo Kenyatta, is facing trial at the  International Criminal
Court  for orchestrating violence during the last elections. He
is running along with his one-time political rival  William Ruto ,
a former Cabinet minister who has also been indicted by The
Hague-based court. Both deny the charges.  Odinga, 68 and the son of Kenya’s first vice president,
lost in 1997 and 2007, when he accused outgoing President Mwai Kibaki of stealing the vote. It sparked attacks against members
and allies of Kibaki’s Kikuyu community and led to retaliation
against Odinga’s Luo supporters.  Both candidates have taken similar positions on economic
policy. They have pledged to increase investment in expanding
the road network and boosting agriculture to help bolster growth
and create 1 million new jobs every year.  Kenya’s economic growth has attracted greater outside
interest in the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Foreign investors
accounted for almost half of all share trading in 2012 from
about 10 percent five years earlier.  Violence  The country is the world’s largest exporter of black tea
and supplies a third of the flowers traded in  Europe .  Tullow Oil
Plc (TLW)  last year found the country’s first crude deposits. The
economy may grow as much as 6 percent this year, from about 5
percent last year, provided no serious violence follows the
elections, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The African Union’s chief observer, Joaquim Chissano, said
the vote was “credible and transparent.” The European Union
urged Kenyans to “maintain a peaceful atmosphere” pending the
announcement of final results, chief observer Alojz Peterle told
reporters in Nairobi today.  Many polling stations extended voting hours to cope with a
turnout of more than 70 percent among 14.3 million registered
voters. A change in the election system, which meant voters had
to cast six ballot papers in separate boxes, is among factors
that led to a “large number” of spoiled votes, Hassan said
yesterday.  Rejected Votes  The commission rejected a total of 341,140 ballots, while
it has counted 5.35 million valid votes, according to
provisional results announced so far.  Odinga’s Coalition for Reform and Democracy wants the
spoiled ballots counted as votes cast, Chairman Franklin Bett
told reporters yesterday. That may mean Kenyatta is unable to
secure more than 50 percent of the vote required to avoid a
runoff, Bett said.  Rejected votes have so far been excluded from the
candidates’ percentages in provisional tallies. The commission
is seeking an opinion from Attorney General Githu Muigai, Chief
Executive Officer James Oswago said today by phone.  Kenyatta’s Jubilee Coalition criticized what it described
as an effort by the U.K. to canvass for the inclusion of
rejected ballots, according to an e-mailed statement today.  Claims that the U.K. has a position on the rejected ballots
are “unhelpful and wrong,” Christian Turner, the high
commissioner to Kenya, said on his  Twitter  account.  Kenyatta has 492,220 votes to Odinga’s 375,299 out of the
24 constituencies for which final results have announced by the
electoral commission. A runoff between the top vote-getters will
be held in April if neither gets the required majority and a
quarter of ballots cast in at least 24 of 47 counties.  Aside from the president, voters chose 290 lawmakers as
well as governors, women’s representatives and senators for 47
counties and 1,450 delegates for county assemblies. Kenya
enacted a constitution in 2010 that created a devolved
government to help share resources and power more equitably.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  