-- Kenyatta Leads Kenya Poll as Odinga Raises Voting Concerns
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-03-05T20:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/kenyatta-leads-kenya-vote-as-odinga-voices-concern-over-process.html
Kenyan Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, who is accused of crimes against humanity, led Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga  in a presidential vote that both
complained had suffered from technical faults and delays.  Kenyatta has 53 percent of the vote with results from more
than two-fifths of polling stations counted, while Odinga has 42
percent, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries
Commission’s website. Final results will start being announced
tomorrow as returning officers bring in the physical ballots as
required by law, Chairman Isaack Hassan said.  “There is growing concern over the slow pace at which they
are being relayed,” he told reporters in the capital, Nairobi,
acknowledging a failure in the real-time transmission of
provisional results. “What matters here is the final results
and they are coming in.”  The election is the first since fraud allegations by
Odinga’s party after a December 2007 vote spawned two months of
violence that killed 1,100 people and left 350,000 homeless.
Kenya is East  Africa ’s largest economy and the regional hub for
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Turmoil after the last election triggered an 8.5 percent
plunge in the Kenyan shilling and cut economic growth to 1.5
percent in 2008 from 7 percent in 2007. The shilling advanced
0.6 percent to 85.50 per dollar by the close in Nairobi today,
its strongest level in almost four months.  ‘Massively, Peacefully’  “The shilling has strengthened a little bit due to the
fact that so far we remain peaceful despite the relatively slow
tallying of votes,” Raphael Agung, a senior trader at Nairobi-
based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by phone.  Kenyatta, the 51-year-old son of Kenya’s first president,
Jomo Kenyatta, is facing trial at the  International Criminal
Court  for orchestrating violence during the last elections. He
is running along with his one-time political rival  William Ruto ,
a former Cabinet minister who has also been indicted by The
Hague-based court. Both deny the charges.  Kenyans “voted massively and peacefully” and “isolated
violent incidences did not jeopardize the process as a whole,”
the  African Union  said in a statement today that also noted
there were challenges that unfolded during the voting.  At least 14 people were killed, including eight police
officers, in attacks in Coast province before polls opened
yesterday. Authorities blamed the Mombasa Republican Council, a
separatist group that had called for a boycott of the vote.  Odinga Hopeful  Odinga, 68 and the son of Kenya’s first vice president,
lost in 1997 and 2007, when he accused outgoing President Mwai Kibaki of stealing the vote. It sparked attacks against members
and allies of Kibaki’s Kikuyu community and led to retaliation
against Odinga’s Luo supporters.  Although behind, Odinga expects to capture the lead once
votes from his support bases are tallied, running mate Kalonzo Musyoka told reporters in Nairobi.  Kenya’s economy is expected to grow by as much as 6 percent
this year, from an estimated 5 percent last year, provided no
serious violence follows the elections, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Economic growth has attracted greater outside interest in
the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Foreign investors accounted for
almost half of all share trading in 2012 from about 10 percent
five years earlier. The  Nairobi All Share index  has advanced 14
percent this year, the third-best performance in sub-Saharan
Africa after Nigeria and  Ghana  for dollar investors.  Spoiled Votes  Many polling stations extended voting hours yesterday to
cope with a turnout of more than 70 percent among 14.3 million
registered voters. A change in the election system, which meant
voters had to cast six ballot papers in separate boxes, led to a
“large number” of spoiled votes, Hassan said.  Aside from the president, voters chose 290 lawmakers as
well as governors, women’s representatives and senators for 47
counties and 1,450 delegates for county assemblies.  Kenya 
enacted a constitution in 2010 that created a devolved
government to help share resources and power more equitably.  Kenyatta’s camp urged the IEBC to remedy the problems
affecting counting, according to an e-mailed statement.  “We are especially concerned at the slow progress of
collecting votes in Nairobi and Nakuru,” Kenyatta spokesman
Murigi Macharia said in the statement.  ‘Not Rigging’  Odinga is “extremely concerned about all the anomalies and
failures that we’ve seen,” adviser Salim Lone said by phone
from  New York , citing flaws in the manual voter list and
electronic identification systems. “We are not alleging
rigging. We are just very worried about the impact.”  The manifestos of Kenyatta and Odinga highlight similar
priorities. They have pledged to increase investment in building
infrastructure and developing agriculture to help accelerate
economic growth and cut poverty.  Kenya, ranked a low-income nation by the  World Bank , is the
world’s largest exporter of black tea and supplies a third of
the flowers traded in  Europe . It may also become an oil producer
after  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  last year found the country’s first crude
deposits.  “We do not expect any materially different market
implications, as the flag-bearers of both leading coalitions are
successful businessmen in their own rights,” Michael Kafe, a
pan-African economist at Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “The independence of the
 Central Bank  of Kenya and Ministry of Finance should be
preserved under either candidate’s government.”  Kenyatta’s family controls land holdings, Brookside Dairy
Ltd., which also has units in Tanzania and  Uganda , and has
stakes in the K24 television station, Commercial Bank of Africa
and other companies, according to Forbes magazine. Odinga’s
family owns East African Spectre, a Nairobi-based gas cylinder
manufacturer, and a Kisumu molasses plant.  A runoff will be held in April if no candidate gets more
than 50 percent of support and a quarter of votes cast in more
than half the 47 counties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  