-- U.S. Keystone Decision May Delay TransCanada Six Months
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-03-05T22:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/keystone-ruling-delay-may-set-back-transcanada-pipe-six-months.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s timeline for the
Keystone XL pipeline may be pushed back at least six months if
the Obama administration doesn’t issue final approval by the end
of June, extending lower Canadian crude prices that threaten
oil-sands growth.  TransCanada expects a decision by mid-year to complete its
pipeline by early 2015. If a decision is pushed past September,
the company faces choosing between spending more or delaying
startup until mid-2015, Alex Pourbaix, TransCanada’s president
of energy and oil pipelines, said today in an interview at the
IHS CERAWeek conference in Houston. Some analysts predict a
longer review of the conduit, which would transport 830,000
barrels a day of oil-sands crude to the Gulf Coast.  “We would love nothing more than to put those Americans to
work as soon as possible, and hopefully this year, but that’s
going to take ultimately a final decision on the permit by the
State Department,” Pourbaix said.  The U.S. State Department released a  draft environmental
assessment  last week, as it decides whether to approve the $5.3
billion conduit. Environmentalists opposed to the pipeline say
it would speed up oil-sands development and lead to more global
warming. Canadian heavy-crude prices have plummeted to a record
low compared with U.S. crude because oil-sands output can’t get
to Gulf Coast refineries.  Shelving Projects  A later decision “prolongs the pain” at least half a year
for oil-sands developers by keeping the gap between Canadian and
U.S. crude near a record, Phil Skolnick, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp. in New York, said by phone yesterday. “If
Keystone XL doesn’t happen or gets delayed a full year plus,
you’re talking about projects having to be put on the shelf.”  TransCanada  rose  0.7 percent to C$48.69 at the close in
Toronto.  The State Department, led by John Kerry, doesn’t have a
“specific date” targeted for a Keystone XL decision, Beth
Gosselin, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday. It’s
reviewing the pipeline project because the conduit crosses an
international border.  Final Phase  The department will begin its final phase of the review
after a 45-day comment period ends, Gosselin said. It will then
consult with eight federal agencies, a process that can last as
long as 90 days, to form a recommendation for Kerry, she said.
Federal agencies have 15 days to review the final decision.  “There’s too many imponderables. You don’t know if Kerry
and Obama want to delay it further or expedite it,” Michael
Formuziewich, who helps manage C$2.2 billion ($2.1 billion) at
Leon Frazer and Associates Inc. in Toronto, including
TransCanada shares, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Right
now, the market is not that shocked at the idea that it would be
delayed.”  Canadian heavy-oil prices fell to $42.50 a barrel less than
U.S. crude on Dec. 14, the widest gap since Bloomberg began
keeping track, because oil-sands producers can’t easily export
crude to other markets, resulting in a glut. Western Canada
Select was $25.80  less than  West  Texas  Intermediate today.  2008 Proposal  TransCanada applied to build Keystone XL from Alberta to
the Gulf Coast in 2008. The company split up the project last
year and started building a leg from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to
Texas, after U.S. President  Barack Obama  rejected the line amid
concerns it threatened an aquifer in  Nebraska . The company
rerouted the northern leg in Nebraska to avoid the most
sensitive areas and re-applied for approval in May.  The State Department, in its draft environmental
assessment, said Keystone XL wouldn’t worsen climate change
because oil-sands projects would be developed regardless of
whether a pipeline was built. It didn’t issue a recommendation
on whether Keystone XL should be built.  TransCanada’s Pourbaix called the report “gratifying” in
a phone interview yesterday. The “right decision” would be for
the U.S. to speed its review of Keystone XL, Pourbaix said.  “I expect that the decision will come some time around the
middle of the year,” and the line will be built by early 2015,
he said.  The company is ready to begin construction once it gets
approval, Pourbaix said. TransCanada has procured and stored all
the pipe and other major equipment along the route and secured
the necessary labor agreements, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  