-- Korea Rate-Cut Bets Rise as Park Seeks to Kick-Start Economy
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-05T06:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/korean-rate-cut-bets-rise-as-park-seeks-to-kick-start-economy.html
South Korean three-year bond yields
that have held  below  the policy rate for a month are prompting
speculation the central bank will cut borrowing costs as soon as
next week as President Park Geun Hye seeks to revive growth.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due December
2015 was 2.63 percent today, the lowest for a benchmark three-
year security in data going back to August 2000 and less than
 Bank of Korea ’s seven-day  repurchase rate  of 2.75 percent. It
stayed below the benchmark rate for more than three months
before the central bank last reduced borrowing costs in October.
The monetary authority will review policy on March 14.  Park pledged in her Feb. 25 inauguration speech to
revitalize the economy at a time when Korean exports, which
account for more than half of gross domestic product, are under
threat from the Japanese yen’s 24 percent plunge against the won
in the past six months. Deutsche Bank AG said on Feb. 8 that it
expected a 25 basis point cut in March and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said yesterday there would be a reduction in the first half,
most likely in April.  “We are long on bonds,” said Moon Dong Hoon, who oversees
12 trillion won ($11 billion) as managing director of fixed
income at KB Asset Management Co. in  Seoul , adding that he has
increased holdings of five-year debt. “Freezing  interest rates 
will be out of sync with policies to be rolled out by the new
finance chief.”  Forecast Cut  The Korean economy expanded 1.5 percent last quarter from a
year ago, matching the slowest pace in three years, official
figures show.  Industrial production  unexpectedly fell in January
from December as output of chips and electronic components
dropped, Statistics  Korea  said on Feb. 28. Exports declined 8.6
percent last month, according to a March 1 report.  The Bank of Korea lowered its forecast for economic growth
in 2013 to 2.8 percent on Jan. 11 from an October estimate of
3.2 percent. The economy will expand 3.8 percent in 2014, and
inflation will accelerate to 2.8 percent from a projected 2.5
percent this year, according to the monetary authority.  Governor Kim Choong Soo held the benchmark seven-day repo
rate steady on Feb. 14. For a second month, the decision wasn’t
unanimous. An improved global outlook increases the odds of
 South Korea  exceeding this year’s growth target, Kim said in a
Feb. 19 interview, damping expectations for a rate cut.  “Data aren’t strong enough to call it an economic
recovery,” KB Asset’s Moon said. “Prices remain subdued, the
won is strong, foreign capital continues to flow in, and the new
government wants to boost growth. The foreign exchange holds the
key to the BOK’s action.”  Supplementary Budget  A supplementary budget may be announced by Park’s
administration in March to bolster growth, Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank said in its Feb. 8 report. Slower expansion
warrants monetary and fiscal stimulus, needed to offset the
negative impact of a weaker yen, the bank’s Hong Kong-based
economist Juliana Lee wrote. An extra budget of about 10
trillion won will bolster gross domestic product growth by 0.4
percentage point, according to the report.  “The talk of a supplementary budget is a double-edged
sword to the  bond market  as it means an increase in debt sales
but also shows the fragile status of the economy,” KB Asset’s
Moon said.  The  yield  on the 2.75 percent government bonds due
September 2017 fell 15 basis points in the past month to an all-
time low of 2.73 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate on the 3.75 percent notes due June 2022 fell
one basis point to 2.94 percent today, matching a record-low of
2.93 percent earlier. The  yield premium  investors demand to hold
10-year debt over three-year securities was 31 basis points
yesterday after reaching a seven-month high of 39 basis points
on Jan. 4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Control Tower’  “Market players are probably uncomfortable with current
yield levels,” said Cha Sang Yong, head of the fixed-income
department at Kyobo Axa Investment Managers Co. in Seoul.
“Expectations for a rate cut will not die down. If the BOK
keeps rates on hold in March, people would think then it will
come along in April.” Cha said he has been buying 10-year bonds
because yields on the three- and five-year notes are below the
policy rate.  Newly-appointed Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok, 62, also
serves as deputy prime minister for the economy, a move that
Barclays Plc said was intended to elevate the finance ministry’s
status as an economic “control tower.” Hyun has a Ph.D. in
economics from the  University of Pennsylvania  and worked for the
 World Bank  and South Korea’s finance ministry before becoming
head of the nation’s top research body in 2009, according to
 Korea Development Institute ’s website.  Strengthening Won  Global investors have pumped a net $353 million into South
Korean local-currency bonds so far this this year following
inflows of $6.4 billion in 2012, according to fund researcher
EPFR Global. Consumer prices increased 1.4 percent in February
from a year earlier, the fourth month in a row they have
advanced less than 2 percent, official data show.  The won strengthened 4.5 percent against the dollar over
the past six months to 1,087.04 as of 1:28 p.m. in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg yesterday. The Korean
currency will appreciate 4.5 percent to 1,040 by year-end,
according to the median estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The KDI said in its semi-annual economic report on Nov. 25
that monetary policy should be used more actively to help
stabilize the economy as inflationary pressures remain subdued
and as expectations of a stronger won draw overseas capital.  Japanese Stimulus  The plunging yen has eroded the competitiveness of
exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co., which said in January
that currency gains could trim its operating profit by 3
trillion won this year.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  reported a 51 percent
slump in operating profit the same month and said it expects a
difficult year.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may add more stimulus as early as April,
with prospective governor Haruhiko Kuroda saying yesterday in
 Tokyo  the central bank will do whatever is needed to end 15
years of deflation should he be confirmed as its head. The
monetary authority hasn’t bought enough assets and should
consider buying large amounts of longer-term bonds, he said.  The yen, which lost 16 percent against the dollar in the
last six months, will weaken a further 2.1 percent by the end of
the year, according to the median estimate of 57 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Household Debt  Korea’s one-year interest-rate swap has fallen 11 basis
points this year to 2.68 percent. Five of 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg expect the benchmark rate to be cut to 2.5 percent
by the end of this quarter, with the rest seeing no change.  “The Korean economy is still export-driven and can’t shake
off the impact of the yen’s weakness,” said Kwon Young Sun, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura International Ltd. “However,
unless the  currency market  turns notably unfavorable, we don’t
forecast the central bank will cut rates, which could trigger a
further buildup of  household debt ” that rose to a record high
of 959.4 trillion won last quarter, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  