-- Krona Rises as Swedish Outlook Feeds Best Gains: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-05T13:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/krona-rises-as-swedish-outlook-feeds-best-gains-stockholm-mover.html
The krona rose to its strongest
level against the euro since September as economic data
suggested  Sweden ’s recovery is gathering pace and after policy
makers made clear they won’t stem the currency’s ascent.  The krona advanced as much as 0.4 percent against the euro
and traded 0.3 percent higher at 8.3348 as of 1:38 p.m. in
 Stockholm . It’s the best performer in the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Index that tracks 10 developed-nation currencies,
having gained 4.6 percent this year.  Swedish policy makers have said they won’t be dragged into
currency wars, prompting Danske Bank A/S yesterday to publish a
note predicting further krona appreciation. Finance Minister
 Anders Borg  pledged yesterday not to interfere with the  exchange
rate , while central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said last month
the krona’s ascent has brought it to a level he’s “happy”
with. At the same time, economic data suggest Sweden’s recovery
is gaining strength. The services sector expanded for a second
month in February, a report showed today.  “We’re in a situation where most things are heading in the
right direction,”  Carl Hammer , chief currency strategist at SEB
AB in Stockholm, said by phone. “We’re in a strong
strengthening trend and in the fairly near future, it’s in the
cards that we will test the 8.25 to 8.20 range” against the
euro, he said.  Yields Rise  Swedish debt yields also gained today as the recovery
outlook brightened. The nation’s two-year note yield rose four
basis points to 1.18 percent, its highest since April.  The yield on the 3.5 percent bond due 2022 rose seven basis
points to 1.97 percent, widening the spread to similar-maturity
German bunds to 53 basis points, the biggest yield difference
since 2004.  Swedish  consumer confidence  improved for a second month in
February, rising to minus 1 from minus 2.9 the previous month,
the Stockholm-based National Institute of Economic Research said
on Feb. 22. A manufacturing confidence index rose to minus 11
from a revised minus 17.  Improving consumer and manufacturing confidence and an
expanding services industry have eased pressure on the Riksbank
to cut rates further, underpinning gains in the krona.  Sweden’s  central bank refrained  last month from a rate cut
that had been predicted by nine of the 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank’s six-member board agreed to leave the main
repo rate at 1 percent after cutting it four times since
December 2011.  The krona has gained about 6 percent against the euro in
the past 12 months, and is up 4.5 percent against the dollar in
the same period.  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said last week exporters
must learn to adapt to the strong currency and find other ways
to stay competitive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  