-- Nadal Loses to Del Potro in Hard-Court Tennis Return in New York
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-05T05:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/nadal-loses-to-del-potro-in-hard-court-tennis-return-in-new-york.html
Juan Martin del Potro defeated
 Rafael Nadal  in an exhibition tennis match between former  U.S.
Open  champions at  New York ’s Madison Square Garden, Nadal’s
first competitive appearance on a hard court in 12 months.  Argentina’s Del Potro was a 7-6 (7-4), 6-4 winner last
night in the BNP Paribas Showdown, which also featured a women’s
match between  Serena Williams  and  Victoria Azarenka , the top two
players in the WTA Tour rankings. Williams won 6-4, 6-3.  Nadal, an 11-time Grand Slam champion who missed seven
months due to knee injuries, was back on a hard-court surface
for the first time since March 2012, when he played in the ATP
Sony Open in Miami. Nadal and Del Potro mixed hard-hitting
groundstrokes with light-hearted moments and acrobatic play,
including numerous between-the-legs shots.  “It was an amazing opportunity to play here at Madison
Square Garden,” Nadal, a 26-year-old Spaniard, said in a
televised interview. “This kind of thing just happens once in
life and we tried to enjoy it as much as possible.”  Nadal has won two of the three clay-court events he’s
played since returning, including a 6-0, 6-2 rout of fourth-
ranked  David Ferrer  in the Mexican Open final on March 2.  Currently fifth in the ATP Tour rankings, Nadal is
scheduled to play his first hard-court tournament of the season
this week at the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, California.  Nadal’s knee injuries forced the 2010 U.S. Open champion to
miss last year’s tournament, so last night’s match was his first
in New York in 18 months. Del Potro, 24, won the U.S. Open in
2009.  Nadal’s Return  “It was fantastic for me playing against Rafa in this
stadium,” said Del Potro, who’s ranked seventh in the world.
“The good thing for everybody is that Rafa is back. It’s
amazing how quickly he’s recovered and he’s playing really well.
He’s going to be fighting for the No. 1 very soon.”  Del Potro  won the final five points of a tiebreaker to take
the first set and took control of the second set when he broke
Nadal’s serve for a 3-2 lead. During one point early in the
second set, both players hit shots between their legs while
Nadal returned another ball off his head.  After having his service broken in the second set, Nadal
pulled actor  Ben Stiller  out of the stands to play several
points as his doubles partner. Del Potro enlisted the help of a
preteen girl, who won over the crowd by hitting several winners
without an error during their rallies.  “Ben was fantastic to come out here tonight. He needs to
practice a little more tennis,” Nadal joked. “And to play with
a kid is a fantastic experience for all of the fans and for her,
too. We enjoyed all of the show.”  In the 2012 event at Madison Square Garden,  Andy Roddick 
beat  Roger Federer  in straight sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  