-- Swann Is Ruled Out of Cricket Series as Rain Prevents Start
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-06T04:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/new-zealand-sends-england-in-to-bat-in-cricket-opener-swann-out.html
England spin bowler Graeme Swann was
ruled out of the Test cricket series against New Zealand because
of an elbow injury that needs surgery as the entire first day
was wiped out by rain after the home team chose to bowl.  Swann, 33, will fly to the U.S. next week for the operation,
the England and Wales Cricket Board said.  James Tredwell  will
take his place in the squad, while Monty Panesar was chosen as
England’s spinner for the opening match against the Black Caps
in Dunedin.  Following the surgery on his right elbow, Swann will
“undergo a period of recovery and rehabilitation allowing an
anticipated return to competitive cricket in the early summer,”
the board said in a  statement .  England is scheduled to host New Zealand in two Tests
starting May 16 before back-to-back five-Test Ashes series, in
the U.K. beginning July 10 and then in Australia from Nov. 21.  Swann, whose 212 Test wickets are the second-most by an
England spinner, wrote in his column for the Sun newspaper
yesterday that he was still experiencing pain after undergoing
elbow surgery in 2009.  “When I had my op, the surgeon removed 29 fragments of
bone but had to leave a couple around the elbow because of their
proximity to the nerve,”  he wrote . “It means the joint tends
to stiffen up and it certainly hurts whenever I bang it. This
year of all years, I don’t want the elbow to cause any problems.
I want to be fit for as much Test cricket as possible.”  Play Abandoned  After  New Zealand  captain Brendon McCullum won the toss at
University Oval and opted to bowl, bad light delayed the start
before rain started falling. Play was abandoned at about 4:15
p.m. local time following two inspections from the umpires.  As of tomorrow, play will start half an hour early each day
to make up time during the remainder of the match.  New Zealand, which handed debuts to 32-year-old left-arm
spin bowler Bruce Martin and batsman Hamish Rutherford, has lost
eight of its past 11 elite five-day matches and last won a Test
series against England 14 years ago.  The teams are scheduled to play a best-of-three contest,
with matches to follow in Wellington and Auckland.  NEW ZEALAND: Hamish Rutherford, Peter Fulton, Kane
Williamson,  Ross Taylor , Dean Brownlie, Brendon McCullum
(captain), BJ Watling, Bruce Martin, Tim Southee, Neil Wagner,
Trent Boult.  ENGLAND:  Alastair Cook  (captain), Nick Compton, Jonathan
Trott,  Kevin Pietersen , Ian Bell, Joe Root, Matt Prior,  Stuart
Broad ,  Steve Finn ,  James Anderson ,  Monty Panesar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  