-- Nexen Boosting Buzzard Oil Field Production After Maintenance
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-05T13:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/nexen-boosting-buzzard-oil-field-production-after-maintenance.html
Production at the North Sea Buzzard
oil field is increasing after scheduled maintenance was
completed yesterday ahead of plan, according to the platform’s
operator  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   “We safely completed the full shutdown scope on March 4,
some 10 hours ahead of plan and are currently ramping up
production,” Patti Lewis, a Calgary-based spokeswoman for
Nexen, said today via e-mail in response to questions from
Bloomberg News. The 200,000 barrel-a-day field was scheduled to
have four days of work in the first week of March, Lewis
confirmed Feb. 14.  Buzzard produces about half of the Forties crude stream.
Forties is one of four grades that make up Dated Brent, and as
the most abundant and cheapest, typically sets the benchmark
that is used to price more than half of the world’s oil. The
other blends are Brent, Oseberg and Ekofisk.  Pricing agency Platts, a unit of McGraw Hill Cos., proposed
changes to the Dated Brent benchmark last month with the
intention of lessening the dominance of Forties and
incorporating a higher proportion of the other three grades. The
agency’s move followed a similar amendment by  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  to the contract it uses to buy and sell North Sea crudes.  The April loading program for Forties is expected to be
published on March 7. The schedule for this month has had many
changes, with nine cargoes now set to load later than planned,
four lots were brought forward and one consignment dropped. In
total, 20 shipments of the grade are set to be exported this
month, including one cargo deferred from February.  The proportion of Buzzard crude entering the Forties
pipeline system fell to 19 percent for the week ending March 3,
according to data published today on  BP Plc (BP/) ’s website. That
compares with 33 percent in the previous week and is the lowest
since Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  