-- Norway Cracks Down on Mortgage Debt to Fight Bubble Risk
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-03-06T11:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/norway-cracks-down-on-mortgage-risk-to-fight-housing-bubble.html
Norway ’s financial regulator is
throwing its weight behind a government proposal to force banks
to assign higher loss probabilities to mortgage assets as the
nation looks for ways to cool its overheated property market.  The Financial Supervisory Authority in Oslo will add
stricter risk-weight recommendations to a raft of measures,
including curbs on covered bond issuance, all designed to
prevent a repeat of the 1990s crisis that sent Norway’s real
estate prices plunging 40 percent and left households with
unsustainable debt loads.  “The FSA shares the ministry’s concern for household
indebtedness and soaring  house prices ,” Morten Baltzersen, who
heads the watchdog, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“We agree with the ministry that the risk weights on house
loans need to be increased.”  The  Finance Ministry  in December proposed tripling risk
weights to 35 percent, more than double the recommendation in
neighboring  Sweden , after Norwegian house prices and private
debt burdens soared to records. The FSA’s response signals banks
should start adjusting to the stricter requirements, now that
the measures have won both government and regulatory backing.  House prices  in Western Europe’s biggest oil exporter have
doubled since 2002, and rose an annual 8.5 percent last month,
according to the Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents. At
the same time,  household debt  will swell to more than 200
percent of disposable incomes this year, the central bank
estimates. In the years leading up to the 1990s bubble, the debt
ratio reached about 150 percent.  Rich Countries  As central banks in the U.S.,  Japan  and the euro area keep
 interest rates  at unprecedented lows to aid growth, some of the
world’s richest countries like Norway, Switzerland and Sweden
are battling overheated housing markets fueled by cheap money.
Norway’s central bank has kept its  main rate  at 1.5 percent
since March last year as policy makers try to balance an
overheated housing market against keeping krone gains in check.  Low interest rates have contributed to imbalances in the
housing market that the FSA says can’t go unfettered any longer.
Banks’ internal risk models have also failed to capture the
threat of losses that the development has caused, according to
the regulator.  “We endorse the Finance Ministry’s view that risk weights
in the banks’ internal risk models do not sufficiently capture
the underlying relevant risk on residential mortgage lending,
particularly the systemic risk involved,” Baltzersen said.  Already Adapting  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest bank, is already adapting to the
stricter requirements. The lender says it has set aside 53
billion kroner ($9.3 billion) in additional reserves in the past
five years and is aware the FSA wants it to raise more capital.  Higher risk weights mean the price of mortgages will rise,
Thomas Midteide, a spokesman at DNB, said in an e-mailed reply
to questions.  “The question is no longer if the banks will increase
margins, but when,” Midteide said. “We have not set a date for
an increase on  mortgage margins . But we have to plan measures
now to adapt to the proposals.”  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  sees a 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) impact
on its risk-weighted assets stemming from Norway’s new mortgage
risk weights, according to a presentation published on its
website today.  Risk weights on  mortgage loans  in Norway are currently 11
percent, under Basel II rules. That compares with 15 percent in
 Germany  and as high as 35 percent in  Spain , according to data
provided by Sweden’s central bank. A 35 percent floor would be
the highest in the Nordic region.  Await Outcome  Baltzersen said the government should await the outcome of
European legislation based on Basel III, known as the Capital
Requirements Directive IV, before committing to a risk-weight
level. The ministry plans to send a proposal on mortgage lending
rules for a hearing this month.  The FSA this week also endorsed the ministry’s plan to
limit banks’ use of covered bonds to finance mortgages. The
regulator said it evaluated “qualitative” rules on shifting
loans to covered bonds and that oversight is best done on a
bank-by-bank basis.  Norwegian banks’ reliance on offshore funding is another
source of concern, Baltzersen said. At the end of October, about
77 percent of bank funding stemmed from foreign sources,
amounting to 1.08 trillion kroner, Statistics Norway data show.  Banks “are to a large extent reliant on wholesale market
funding in foreign markets. The experience from the last years’
turmoil in international money and capital markets underlines
the importance of making the market funding more robust,”
Baltzersen said. While “the market funding has become more
resilient, Norwegian banks should continue their efforts to make
their market funding even less vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  