-- Lockheed Got the Message on F-35’s Costs, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-05T18:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/lockheed-got-the-message-on-f-35-s-costs-pentagon-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  got the
message on curbing costs for its F-35 fighter, according to the
Pentagon official who last week said the company was trying to
“squeeze every nickel” out of the Defense Department.  Air Force Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, the top
defense official overseeing the Joint Strike Fighter, said he
used an appearance at an Australian air show last week to
express frustration over insufficient progress in driving down
costs on the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons system.  “What you should have inferred from my comments” was that
“I need everybody” connected with the program “to worry about
affordability,” Bogdan said today at a defense industry
conference in Arlington, Virginia. “That was a shot across the
bow because I have been slightly frustrated with real results,
real actions that need to happen to reduce costs.”  The estimated cost for a planned fleet of 2,443 F-35s has
climbed 70 percent to $395.7 billion since 2001.  Bogdan included  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney
unit, which makes the plane’s engines, in his criticism. He said
today he has spoken with senior executives of both companies,
and they “assured me that they will concentrate” on improving
their relationship with the Pentagon and try to drive down long-
term costs.  “I believe they are sincere about that,” Bogdan said.
“The question is now, will the action back up the words?”  Bogdan said in his presentation at today’s conference,
sponsored by Aviation Week, that he’s seeing progress in
reducing costs in the latest contracts for initial production
and wants to see the trend continue throughout the remaining 90
percent of production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  