-- Oerlikon CEO Could Raise 1.2 Billion Francs for Acquisitions
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-03-05T08:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/oerlikon-ceo-could-raise-1-2-billion-francs-for-acquisitions.html
OC Oerlikon Corp. (OERL)  could raise 1.2
billion Swiss francs ($1.27 billion) for takeovers if needed as
the world’s largest maker of textile machinery reported full
year earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 22 percent to 547 million francs, beating the
524 million-franc estimate of analysts in data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 6.4 percent to 2.9 billion francs, also
beating estimates.  “We are much more flexible for acquisitions this year,”
Chief Executive Officer Michael Buscher said in a telephone
interview, adding that Oerlikon has 1.2 billion francs of
available debt. Buscher will focus on adding to existing units
making vacuum pumps and coatings for cars, he said.  Buscher is moving Oerlikon away from its traditional
textile machinery base to focus on more profitable areas. He
agreed to sell the natural-fibers and textile-components units,
with an enterprise value of 650 million francs, to Chinese
investor Pan Xueping’s Jinsheng Group in December. Oerlikon
predicted its order intake, sales and underlying profitability
will hold steady in 2013.  Shares of the engineering firm, whose largest shareholder
is Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , the world’s 45th-
richest man, more than doubled last year. The stock traded 3.3
percent higher at 12.5 francs at 9:34 a.m. in Zurich.  “Oerlikon delivered a good set of full year earnings,
outperforming market expectations,” Patrick Laager, an analyst
at Credit Suisse AG in Zurich said in a note to clients.
Earnings momentum as well as an increasingly robust balance
sheet for acquisitions make Oerlikon “one of the most
attractive stocks in the Swiss industrial space,” he said.  The natural fibers sale, announced in December, will bring
proceeds of as much as 500 million francs to Pfaeffikon,
Switzerland-based Oerlikon. Buscher said he expects the deal to
close in the second quarter, one quarter ahead of prior
expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  