-- Oil Output on U.S. Land Lagging Amid Boom, Report Finds
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-05T18:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/oil-output-on-u-s-land-lagging-amid-boom-report-finds.html
Oil and gas production in federal
areas is lagging behind the boom on private lands, a report by
non-partisan congressional researchers found, bolstering
complaints made by Republicans and energy-industry lobbyists.  The Congressional Research Service cited Department of
Interior data showing a decline in oil output on federal lands
and waters from 2009 through 2012, while production on private
lands jumped more than 31 percent over that same period.
Statistics for natural gas production showed a similar trend.  “A web of red tape and a backlog of delayed permits are
blocking important energy production opportunities on federal
lands,” Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican,
said today in a statement as the Energy and Commerce Committee
released the report. “Where the states have been in charge, we
have seen energy development boom in a safe and responsible way,
but under federal control we have seen a sharp decline.”  President  Barack Obama  has set a target of reducing U.S.
oil imports by a third by 2025 through more domestic oil
production and increased use of natural gas and renewables. Net
imports of crude and petroleum products accounted for 45 percent
of the nation’s oil consumption in 2011, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  The Interior Department said it has worked to reduce a
backlog of pending permits, and reports  dramatic increases  in
deepwater drilling. An agency report in 2012 found only 24
percent of U.S. acres under lease were producing, according to
the congressional document.  Record Highs  “Domestic oil and gas production has grown each year the
president has been in office, with domestic oil production
currently higher than any time in nearly a decade and natural
gas production at its highest level ever,” Jessica Kershaw, a
spokeswoman for the Interior Department, said in an e-mail. In
the last fiscal year, energy payments generated more than $12
billion in revenue for the Treasury, up $1 billion from a year
earlier, she said.  The spread of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling
is boosting oil and gas drilling in shale formations, leading
U.S. crude production to its highest levels in two decades,
according to the  EIA . Increases in Texas and North Dakota drove
the increase, it said.  Fracking, in which millions of gallons of water are mixed
with sand and chemicals and shot underground to break apart
underground formations, is also responsible for natural gas
gains. U.S. gas production rose by 4 trillion cubic feet, or 20
percent, since 2007, while production on federal lands fell by
about 33 percent, the research report said.  ‘Gas Plays’  In part, that’s a result of geography. “The big shale gas
plays are primarily on non-federal lands and are attracting a
significant portion of investment for natural gas development,”
it said.  Permitting delays also play a role. It took longer for oil
companies to get their applications for permits to drill
approved by the Bureau of Land Management in 2011 than it did in
2006, but that’s because it took industry longer to fill out the
application, according to the report.  The congressional report, dated Feb. 28, concludes that
speeding up permitting could boost production on federal lands.  Still, “the regulatory framework for developing resources
on federal lands will likely remain more involved and time-
consuming than that on private land,” the research service
concluded. Also “having more lands accessible may not translate
into higher levels of production on federal lands, as industry
seeks out the most promising prospects and highest returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  