-- Oil World Cuts South American Soy Outlook as China Demand Grows
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-05T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/oil-world-cuts-south-american-soy-outlook-as-china-demand-grows.html
Soybean output in parts of  South
America  may be smaller than previously estimated because of dry
weather, and delayed shipments from the region are reducing
supplies in China, the world’s biggest consumer, Oil World said.  Argentina’s soybean harvest may be 49 million metric tons,
less than the 50 million tons estimated two weeks ago, the
Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed report.
 Paraguay  may produce 7.8 million tons, below the previous
forecast of 8.2 million tons. Output in Brazil, set to become
the world’s biggest exporter, may also be lower than previously
expected, while remaining at a record level, Oil World said.  A drop in soybean stockpiles in China will accelerate
through the first half of April as South American exports are
delayed because of shipping bottlenecks in Brazil and reduced
farmer selling in  Argentina , according to the report. As of late
January,  Argentina  farmers had only sold about 13 percent of the
crop, a record low, Oil World said. Prices rose to a record last
year on the Chicago Board of Trade after drought damaged crops
in the U.S. and Chinese  demand  gained.  “We expect that Chinese soybean stocks will be down
sharply from a year earlier at the end of July 2013,” Oil World
said. “It will be difficult to replenish stocks of imported
soybeans because arrivals from South America will be hardly
sufficient to cover Chinese crush requirements in May, June and
July amid the sharply reduced exports from the U.S.”  Farmer Sales  In  Brazil , producers have sold about 60 percent of soybean
crops, compared with 57 percent at the same time a year earlier,
Oil World said. Trucking costs from  Mato Grosso , the biggest
growing region, are as much as 80 percent higher than a year
earlier as rain muddied roads, diesel prices rose and new
legislation required drivers to make more frequent rest stops.  A new highway connecting the Brazilian port city of Santos
to northern Mato Grosso is set to open April 5, Oil World said.
The route stretches from the Atlantic Ocean to the  Pacific
Ocean , traveling through Bolivia and  Peru  to northern  Chile . The
route from Mato Grosso to eastern  China  may be about 17,500
kilometers (10,900 miles), compared with 26,000 kilometers when
shipped via the ports of Santos or Paranagua.  “The resulting reduction of transportation costs will
increase profitability of soybean growing in central and
northern Brazil and thus improves China’s market access to
Brazilian soybeans,” Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  