-- Moldova Government Collapses After Premier Loses Confidence Vote
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-03-05T17:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/moldova-government-collapses-after-premier-loses-confidence-vote.html
Moldovan Prime Minister Vlad Filat’s
government collapsed after losing a confidence vote in
Parliament, setting the country on course for early elections
unless a new majority is formed by mid-April.  Fifty-four lawmakers in the 101-member chamber voted
against Filat’s Cabinet as deputies from the coalition member
 Democratic Party  joined the opposition Communist Party to remove
the premier, the Chisinau-based Infotag news service said today.
Filat’s Liberal Democratic Party didn’t participate in the vote.  Filat lead the government of one of  Europe ’s poorest
countries, with a median net monthly wage of 3,478 Moldovan leu
($284), through a political crisis that started in 2009.
Elections that year, which ushered in a Communist majority, had
to be repeated after the winning party was unable to get a
president elected, leaving the country without a leader until
last year.  “Unfortunately, personal ambitions appeared to be more
important than duties,” Valeriu Strelets, head of the Liberal
Democratic Party faction in Parliament, said in a telephone
interview today. “It was a very strange vote, because the
Democratic Party has its ministers in the current government.”  The Moldovan leu gained 0.3 percent to 12.26 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 12.3185 on
March 1, its weakest in three months.  Moldovan President Nicolae Timofti must start consultations
with the parties to identify another candidate for prime
minister after he accepts Filat’s resignation. Early elections
will be held unless a candidate can secure parliamentary backing
within 45 days.  The Democratic Party called the no-confidence vote over a
personnel row and Filat’s request to renegotiate the coalition
agreement, Democratic Party Honorary Chairman Dumitru Diacov,
said in a telephone interview today.  The  Liberal Democratic Party  will again nominate Filat for
prime minister and Moldova can avoid early elections if “our
partners will be guided by sense, not emotions,” Strelets said.  “Filat put himself in such situation,” Diacov said. “I
can’t rule out early elections,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  