-- Sohu Leads Stock Rally on Buyout Talk: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-06T08:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hollysys-up-as-spending-to-fuel-economy-china-overnight.html
Sohu.com Inc. , owner of China’s
second-largest online video website, soared the most since
August, driving gains among Chinese Internet stocks in New York
on a newspaper report the company is in talks to be privatized.
Sohu denied the story.  Sohu shares jumped 12 percent, leading a 1.2 percent
advance in the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-
traded Chinese companies in the U.S. Sohu’s games unit
Changyou.com Ltd. also surged the most in seven months, while
online retailer E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. posted the
steepest advance since November.  Hollysys Automation
Technologies Ltd.  rose the most since November after the
government said it is seeking to open new railway lines in 2013.  Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post reported Beijing-based
Sohu is talking to investment banks and private equity funds
about taking the company private, citing four unidentified
people in the financial industry. No such discussions are in
progress or being “currently contemplated,” Sohu’s Chief
Financial Officer  Carol Yu , said in a statement distributed by
PR Newswire today.  “Shares were driven up by the going-private talk as it
shows the company’s management thinks the stock is
undervalued,”  Henry Guo , an analyst at research firm ABR
Investment Strategy LLC, which focuses on technology and media
companies, said yesterday by phone from San Francisco. “Sohu
has many business lines and none of them is the leader in their
areas, causing investors to discount the company’s valuation.”  ETF Gains  Chinese U.S.-listed equities were also bolstered by a
Ministry of Finance plan to boost spending, increasing the
budget deficit by 50 percent this year, and Premier Wen Jiabao
saying that economic growth will be unchanged at 7.5 percent in
2013.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 0.8 percent to
$38.22, climbing from a three-month low. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  added 1 percent to 1,539.79, the highest level since
2007. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to a record.  Sohu’s shares surged to $48.84 yesterday, the biggest rally
since Aug. 6. The jump reversed a loss this year for a gain of
3.2 percent. Changyou rose to $32.24 in New York, the highest
level since Jan. 22.  Baidu Inc. , which runs China’s most-used search engine,
added 1.2 percent to $91.37.  Dangdang Earnings  E-Commerce , the country’s biggest online book retailer,
surged 9.6 percent to $4.13, the steepest advance since
November. The Beijing-based company, known as Dangdang, is
scheduled to report fourth-quarter results tomorrow.  Dangdang’s sales for the last three months of 2012 may
exceed its previous  guidance  of 1.6 billion yuan ($258.8
million), and net loss may be smaller than analysts’ average
estimate,  Tian X. Hou , founder of T.H. Capital LLC, wrote in an
e-mailed note yesterday.  Hollysys, a Beijing-based automation control system
manufacturer, soared 6.9 percent to $12.84. The company said in
a Jan. 7 statement it won a contract to supply signaling system
for a section of Xiamen-Shenzhen high-speed rail line.  China aims to open more than 5,200 kilometers (3,232 miles)
of new railway lines and build 80,000 kilometers of highways
this year, according to report by China’s top planning agency
yesterday on the government’s website.  Coal Prices  Huaneng Power International Inc. , China’s largest
electricity producer, soared for a sixth day, rising 5.3 percent
to $43.95, the highest level since December 2007.  China’s benchmark price for thermal coal was unchanged for
a ninth week as of March 3, after dropping to a four-month low
of 620 yuan ($99.66) to 630 yuan a metric ton in December, data
from China China Coal Transport and Distribution Association
show. Coal stockpiles at Qinhuangdao port rose to 7.19 million
metric tons.  “Huaneng Power is a pure coal-fired company which
leverages more on coal price decreases than its peers,”  Michael Ding , lead manager of the China Region Fund at U.S. Global
Investors Inc. in San Antonio, Texas, which oversees $2.2
billion, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  China’s fiscal deficit will widen to 1.2 trillion yuan
($193 billion) in 2013 from 800 billion yuan last year,
amounting to about 2 percent of gross domestic product, the
finance ministry said in its budget report to the National
People’s Congress in Beijing yesterday. China kept its economic
growth target at 7.5 percent for 2013, unchanged from last year,
and set an inflation goal of 3.5 percent.  ‘More Spending’  “What people were most bullish about was China’s
increasing its allowed deficit and they were happy the economic
growth target wasn’t revised down,”  Dave Lutz , head of
exchange-traded fund trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore, said by phone. “That means they are going to
do more governmental spending.”  Suntech Power Holdings Co. , the world’s biggest solar-panel
maker, sank 4.7 percent in a second day of losses to $1.21. The
company had the biggest decline on the China-US gauge.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  rose 0.6 percent to
11,169.52 yesterday in its first rally in three days, while the
Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares jumped 2.3
percent to 2,326.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  