-- Lonmin Mineworkers End Strike at Two South African Shafts
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-06T16:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/lonmin-strikes-halt-output-as-miners-seek-union-office-shutdown.html
Lonmin Plc (LON) , the platinum producer
that suffered violent strikes last year, said miners who downed
tools yesterday at two South African shafts returned to work.  “We learnt early this morning that everything is back to
normal,” said Cecilia de Almeida, a spokeswoman for Lonmin who
works for Brunswick Group. More than 5,800 had stayed away to
demand the National Union of Mineworkers, which is jostling for
supremacy with a rival union, close its representative office.  Worker tensions at Lonmin mines have resurfaced as labor
groups vie to add members. Competition between unions
contributed to 10 days of violence at the company’s Marikana
operations near Rustenburg in August, which resulted in 44
deaths. At stake is Lonmin’s recovery from a $698 million annual
loss, which led it to cut expansion plans and renegotiate debts.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union,
rivaling the NUM, now accounts for about 51 percent of
membership at Lonmin, according to the company’s Executive Vice
President for Processing Natascha Viljoen. AMCU membership more
than doubled in October, Lonmin said in a Jan. 14 report.  The AMCU is awaiting an agreement to recognize its
majority, according to Viljoen. The NUM, which used to be the
dominant union at Lonmin, now represents about 30 percent of
workers, she said.  Union Power  The union with the most representation is empowered to
negotiate labor terms. Rock-drill operators who sought to engage
directly with the company last year, independently from the NUM,
were unable to do so because labor agreements didn’t allow it,
Viljoen said.  No incidents of violence were reported as Lonmin’s Newman
and Saffy shafts in Marikana were suspended yesterday, said
Executive Vice President for Mining Mark Munroe. Saffy produces
260 saleable ounces of platinum per shift, while Newman’s output
is 220 ounces, Sue Vey, a company spokeswoman, told reporters.  Lonmin fell 0.6 percent to 45.21 rand in Johannesburg
trading, its third consecutive decline.  The platinum producer, 25 percent owned by  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
said in October it would cut spending and offer $817 million of
stock to investors to meet pledges to creditors as it resumed
operations after the strikes.  Annus Horribilis  “Lonmin has put that ‘annus horribilis’ behind it and we
further believe that the market has not given Lonmin enough
credit for two years of operational improvements quietly going
on behind the turmoil,” Citigroup Inc. said in a note
yesterday.  The AMCU on Feb. 25 signed an agreement aimed at creating
peace and stability in the country’s mining industry, four days
after the NUM endorsed the plan.  Other companies affected by union rivalry in South Africa
include  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest producer of
the metal, which reported clashes between members of labor
groups at a mine last month.  The Johannesburg-based company, known as Amplats, shut a
NUM office last week and no longer recognizes the union as the
majority organization. The NUM accused the AMCU of intimidation.  “It’s part of their strategy that if they get the NUM
offices to close, it won’t exist,”  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman
for the NUM, said by phone. The union’s office at Lonmin’s
operations, near the AMCU’s, remains open, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  