-- Lonmin Says Miners Refuse to Go Underground at Two Shafts
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-05T16:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/lonmin-miners-refuse-to-go-underground-at-saffy-newman-shafts.html
Workers at two of  Lonmin Plc (LON)  shafts
refused to go underground for the morning and afternoon shifts
today, demanding that a union close its office at the operations
of the world’s third-largest platinum producer.  “Newman and Saffy will be out for the entire day,”
company spokeswoman Sue Vey told reporters today in Marikana,
about 170 kilometers (106 miles) northwest of Johannesburg,
referring to two of Lonmin’s shafts. “The company is meeting
with all the unions.” There are more than 5,800 workers at the
two shafts, including more than 600 contractors, Vey said.  Employees demanded the National Union of Mineworkers close
its representative office at the company before they would go
underground, Natascha Viljoen, executive vice president for
processing, told reporters. No incidents of violence were
reported, Executive Vice President for Mining Mark Munroe said.  Tension between members of the NUM and the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union contributed to 10 days of
violence at Lonmin’s Marikana operations in August in which 10
people died. Police opened fire on striking workers at the mine
near Rustenburg on Aug. 16, killing 34 protesters in the
deadliest police violence since the fall of apartheid in 1994.  The NUM, which used to be the dominant union at the
company’s operations, represents about 30 percent of workers,
while the AMCU speaks on behalf of 51 percent, Viljoen said.  Shares Drop  Lonmin declined 1.1 percent to 332.6 pence by 4:09 p.m. in
 London , while the stock dropped 1.6 percent to 45.49 rand by the
close in Johannesburg.  The Saffy shaft produces 260 saleable ounces of platinum
per shift, while Newman’s output is 220 ounces, Vey told
reporters.  The AMCU on Feb. 25 signed an agreement aimed at creating
peace and stability in the country’s mining industry, four days
after the NUM endorsed the plan. The signing took place at the
fourth meeting called by Resources Minister Susan Shabangu since
clashes between members of the labor groups at an  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  mine last month injured at least 12.  “Lonmin is committed to upholding the principles of the
Peace Accord, and has therefore engaged the employees who are
currently calling for the removal of the NUM and has also
informed the Department of Mineral Resources and Department of
Labour respectively about the situation,” the company said in
an e-mailed statement.  Today’s strike coincides with a media tour to the
operations.  “Workers used the press visit as an opportunity and
they’ve been heard,” Vey said.  The stoppage should be short-lived, Citigroup Inc. said in
an e-mailed note.  “Lonmin has put that ‘annus horribilis’ behind it and we
further believe that the market has not given Lonmin enough
credit for two years of operational improvements quietly going
on behind the turmoil,” Citigroup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  