-- Topaz Exchange, EU Pension Trades, Borg: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-05T13:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/topaz-exchange-eu-pension-trades-borg-compliance.html
International Securities Exchange
Holdings Inc. plans to start an options market called Topaz
Exchange. If approved it will be the 12th U.S. exchange for
equity derivatives.  The operator of the third-largest individual exchange for
U.S. options will own the Topaz venue, according to a  filing 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission published on March
1. Gary Katz, president and chief executive officer of the
International Securities Exchange, said it would start a second
market to compete with rivals  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ,  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  a year ago.  Compliance Policy  Irish Seek EU Approval of Banker Bonus Deal Opposed by U.K.  Ireland seeks backing from other European Union nations for
draft rules on bank capital requirements that include bonus
curbs opposed by the U.K. and criticized by lenders as a threat
to competitiveness.  Finance ministers from the EU’s 27 nations are discussing
the pay curbs in Brussels today along with other parts of a
compromise deal brokered by Ireland, which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency, and the European Parliament. The U.K.
signaled the discussion would be more than a formality.  Bonus rules were a late addition to EU legislation on how
it will apply global rules drawn up by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. Talks between national governments and the
EU Parliament had dragged on for 18 months before the Irish
presidency negotiated the pay agreement in order to move the
broader effort forward.  If finance ministers give their formal endorsement today,
the Irish presidency will move forward in collaboration with EU
lawmakers to finish drafting the legislation. The bill must then
be approved by a weighted majority of EU states and the
Parliament.  The U.K. appeared isolated this morning as an array of
ministers told reporters that they could accept the draft
compromise.  France, Austria, Denmark, and Luxembourg, in addition to
Ireland, publicly backed the deal.  For more, click here and see Interviews, below.  FDIC to Seek Comment on Policy for Unwinding Failed Banks  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will seek comment
this year on a plan for taking apart failed financial firms,
Chairman Martin Gruenberg said at the  Institute of International
Bankers  Annual Washington Conference.  Gruenberg supports changing bankruptcy law to allow
unwinding of complex financial companies through the courts.  The FDIC currently is capable of resolving large banks,
though it is still working with other countries on cross-border
protocols.  The FDIC was assigned responsibility under Dodd-Frank for
creating method for unwinding failed financial firms.  Pension Funds Clash With EU’s Semeta About Transaction-Tax Harm  Opponents of a European Union financial-transactions tax
say pension funds will be hurt even if their home governments
don’t sign up.  Households across Europe will see retirement-planning costs
rise if the EU imposes the transaction tax, according to  APG ,
the largest Dutch pension fund. Brussels-based industry group
PensionsEurope said the proposed tax, which aims to raise
revenue for national governments, would have a heavy effect on
taxpayers already reeling from bailout costs.  The proposed levy would tax trades on stocks, bonds and
derivatives with any connection to the nations that sign up to
participate. Pension funds aren’t exempt from the effort, which
has the backing of 11 nations.  EU Tax  Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, in a Feb. 25 interview
in Washington, said the levy would encourage pension funds to
shun secondary markets and stick to long-term investments.  APG  disagrees. Pension plans trade frequently, in large
volumes, to hedge risk and comply with investor-protection
regulations, said spokesman Harmen Geers.  Even if pension funds were exempted from the proposed levy,
they’d still be affected by its effects on their trading
partners, Geers said.  The EU on Feb. 14 unveiled its proposal for a 0.1 percent
tax for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent on derivatives
trades with ties to participating countries. To prevent traders
from escaping the levy by operating outside the tax’s zone, the
EU plan invokes “residence” and “issuance” ties to firms in
participating nations. That means, for example, that a French
bond traded in London would still be affected.  For more, click here.  Turkish State Banks May Begin Islamic Banking, Zaman Says  The global economic crisis has made banking without the
payment of interest “attractive” and two state banks may start
carrying out banking activities in a manner compliant with
Islamic law, Zaman reported, citing Turkish Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan.  Vakifbank and Halkbank may offer Islamic banking services,
Zaman said, without citing sources.  Compliance Action  FSA Mostly Clears Itself Over Missed Libor Manipulation Warnings  The U.K. Financial Services Authority said a review of its
handling of the investigation of Libor manipulation found no
failures on the scale of previous scandals involving its
oversight of Northern Rock Plc or Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  The regulator, facing lawmaker criticism that it missed
warning signs on the rigging of benchmark interest rates for
years, said today that an internal report on how it handled
“dislocation” in the London Interbank Offered Rate from 2007
to May 2009 found that there were areas the regulator could have
performed better.  At the time, “the FSA’s bank supervisors were primarily
focused on ensuring they understood the prudential implications
of severe market dislocation,” FSA Chairman Adair Turner said
in a statement. “The FSA had no formal regulatory
responsibility for the Libor submission process. As a result,
the FSA did not respond rapidly to clues that lowballing might
be occurring.”  After Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($439 million)
by the U.S. and U.K. in June last year, it said it had alerted
regulators to problems with the London interbank offered rate
before the investigation. The London-based lender said it spoke
to the FSA, Bank of England, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
and the British Bankers’ Association 33 times in 2007 and 2008.  The FSA opened its investigation into rate manipulation in
early 2010, a year-and-a-half after the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s probe began. Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  RBS (RBS)  have
been fined than $2.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for
rate-rigging, and more than a dozen other firms are still being
investigated.  Separately, the Bank of England said it will be “alert”
to potential issues of financial misconduct as it adds banking
regulation to its powers.  In response to a report today by the Financial Services
Authority into the handling of Libor manipulation, the BOE said
its accepts the recommendations in the review to the Prudential
Regulation Authority.  HSBC CEO Gulliver Receives $2.9 Million Bonus Amid Record Fine  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chief Executive Officer Stuart Gulliver
received a 1.95 million-pound ($2.9 million) bonus for 2012 even
after the British lender paid a record fine for breaking anti-
money laundering rules.  The award, down from 2.2 million pounds in 2011, reduced
Gulliver’s total compensation to 7.4 million pounds, from 8
million pounds a year earlier, HSBC said in its annual report
published  yesterday . The London-based bank paid staff 3.7
billion pounds in bonuses for last year, a 7 percent drop from
2011.  Europe’s largest bank by market value yesterday reported a
decline in annual profit and said costs rose for a third year,
missing its target. The bank’s reputation was “crushed” after
it agreed to pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S. probes of money
laundering in places such as Mexico, Gulliver said on Feb. 6.  Some 60 percent of Gulliver’s award is deferred for five
years and is subject to the “successful completion” of the
prosecution agreement with U.S. regulators, according to HSBC.
The bank said it had clawed back an undisclosed amount from
bonuses paid in previous years.  HSBC paid 204 employees more than 1 million pounds last
year, up from 192 employees in 2011.  Shepherd Energy Says It Breached Nasdaq Power Rules by Mistake  Shepherd Energy AB, the Stockholm-based investment firm,
said it accidentally breached Nordic power market-manipulation
rules that led to its 150,000 Norwegian kroner ($26,200) fine
from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  “The fact that we bought and sold a contract at the same
price within a short time interval was unintentional, and we did
not intend to manipulate prices,” Arne Oesterlind, manager of
the firm’s Shepherd Energy Fund, said yesterday by e-mail. “We
have not made any money from the transaction, nor have we caused
additional costs for other counter-parties.”  In April, Shepherd bought 1 megawatt-hour of Nasdaq OMX’s
July 2012 power contract while selling 7 megawatt-hours of the
same product at the same price in the over-the-counter market,
the exchange said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday.  The suspected manipulation is a “very serious violation,
as it can undermine the trust and integrity” of the  market ,
according to the statement. “Shepherd should have been aware of
what signals these actions gave or could give to other market
participants.” The exchange said it couldn’t rule out that
Shepherd’s actions were non-deliberate.  Nasdaq OMX’s Nordic energy exchange is the world’s largest
power derivatives market, with more than 330 trading and
clearing  members  in 15 countries.  Treasury’s Miller Sees Systemic-Risk Votes in Next Few Months  Mary Miller, the U.S Treasury undersecretary for domestic
finance, said the Financial Stability Oversight Council may vote
“in the next few months” on whether to designate some
companies systemically important, a move that could bring them
under Federal Reserve oversight.  Miller, who spoke at an  Institute of International Bankers 
conference in Washington yesterday, said the authority to apply
the designation to companies, “is not a power the council
wields cavalierly.” She added that careful assessments of the
firms “take time.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit are in the final
stage of review by the council, a group of regulators created by
the Dodd-Frank law to prevent another financial crisis.  Sheila Bair, former chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., said last week that U.S. regulators lack the
will and courage to designate non-bank financial companies
systemically important.  The oversight council also is reviewing and analyzing
public comments received on its recommendations for tightening
rules for money-market mutual funds, Miller said.  SNS Reaal Investors Won’t Get Compensation, Dijsselbloem Says  SNS Reaal NV shareholders whose securities were seized as
the Netherlands took control of the Dutch bank and insurer last
month won’t get any compensation, according to Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  “It’s my opinion that without expropriation, SNS Reaal and
SNS Bank would have gone bankrupt,” Dijsselbloem said in a
letter published on the ministry’s website yesterday.
Dismantling the lender would “have been insufficient to pay all
unsecured creditors, and nothing would have remained for
subordinated debt holders, let alone shareholders,” he wrote.  Dijsselbloem took control of  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  on Feb. 1 after
losses on real estate loans brought the lender to the brink of a
collapse. The nationalization, which became irrevocable after a
ruling from the highest Dutch administrative court on Feb. 25,
included issued shares, subordinated bonds and loans.  According to Dutch legislation, the government has to
compensate parties it expropriated, taking into account the
company’s future prospect without a nationalization. On that
basis, the compensation offer is zero, Dijsselbloem said.  Investors who suffered losses can submit their objections
to the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal,
which will rule on whether Dijsselbloem’s offer is adequate.  Trading in Marcel Thirylaan Certificates Suspended in Brussels  Trading in Marcel Thirylaan real estate certificates was
suspended pending a statement, Belgium’s  Financial Services and
Market Authority  said in an e-mail.  KBC Real Estate, a unit of  KBC Group (KBC) , offers the Marcel
Thirylaan certificates among its “real estate securitisation”
products and services, according to its  website .  “Real estate certificates are debt claims, which may or
may not be listed on an exchange, that offer a variable rate of
interest,” KBC Real Estate said in a statement on its website.
The certificates “entitle holders to beneficial ownership of
real estate,” the company said in the statement.  Interviews  EU Bonus Cap Will Erode Confidence in Rules, FSA’s Bailey Says  A cap on bonuses in the European Union will erode banks’
faith in the judgment of regulators, Andrew Bailey, the U.K.’s
chief banking supervisor, said in a speech in London today.  “The thing that concerns me is whether a tight system with
many rules will encourage people to do the right thing,” Bailey
said. “I don’t think it will.”  “It’s a good illustration of the tension between judgment
and rules,” he said.  Volcker Sees Challenge Unwinding Fed Stimulus ‘Liquor’  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker discussed U.S.
monetary policy, the challenge of timing the unwinding of the
Fed’s stimulus measures and banking regulation.  Volcker spoke before the National Association for Business
Economics in Washington after receiving the organization’s first
lifetime achievement award for economic policy.  For the video, click here.  Borg Defends Swedish Riksbank’s Right to Set Currency Policy  Sweden’s government distanced itself further from moves
elsewhere across the globe to manipulate currencies by pledging
not to interfere with the central bank’s exchange rate policy.  The stance is in contrast with efforts from France to
Japan, where governments have pushed for monetary policy steps
targeting exchange rates. In Japan, the government’s preferred
candidate to take over as central bank governor has spoken in
favor of additional stimulus measures. French Industry Minister
Arnaud Montebourg said last month his government wants the
European Central Bank to “confront a new currency war” after
the euro became “too strong.”  “I would never dream of commenting on monetary policy,”
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said in an interview in
Stockholm yesterday. “The entire responsibility for monetary
policy and currency interventions is with the Riksbank.”  Sweden’s central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said in an
interview last month the krona’s ascent is justified and has
brought the exchange rate to a level he’s “happy” with. Sweden
has distinguished itself as a nation that won’t be dragged into
so-called currency wars as governments elsewhere try to boost
trade competitiveness through exchange-rate devaluations.  Sweden’s central bank refrained last month from a rate cut
that had been predicted by nine of the 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank’s six-member board agreed to leave the main
repo rate at 1 percent after cutting it four times since
December 2011.  “In some other countries, governments and central banks
share duties with respect to the exchange rate,” Borg said.
Sweden’s decision to leave all monetary policy and currency
decisions to an independent central bank is “very wise,” he
said.  Comments by Ingves and other policy makers in the largest
Nordic economy show that “Sweden will stay side-lined on any
global currency war, being a lone rider among central banks in
not viewing its currency as overvalued,”  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  senior
analyst Christin Tuxen said in a note yesterday.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Securitization Lobby in Disarray After Most Directors Quit  The  American Securitization Forum , the leading trade
association for the securitization industry, fell into turmoil
last week when most of the board resigned in a dispute with the
group’s executive director over governance and bonuses,
according to six people familiar with the matter.  The exodus puts the future of the trade group in question,
said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
dispute isn’t public. Members that quit include  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, the people said.  The resignations came after the board attempted to remove
the forum’s executive director Tom Deutsch, but was unable to
fire him because of the way the association’s governing
documents are written, said the people. Part of the dispute
concerns bonuses that Deutsch was paid, the people added.  Deutsch didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages seeking
comment. Jon Teall, a spokesman for the group at Teall &
Associates, declined to comment.  Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for Bank of America, confirmed that
the bank quit, declining to comment further. Spokesmen for other
board members either declined to comment or couldn’t immediately
be reached.  ASF, based in New York, lobbies and holds conferences for
the industry, which packages loans and leases into securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 