-- Ophir Rises in London as Share Sale Eases Financing Concerns
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-03-05T16:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ophir-advances-in-london-as-share-sale-eases-financing-concerns.html
Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , a U.K. explorer in
East and West Africa, climbed the most in nine months in  London 
after announcing plans to raise about $833 million in a share
sale, easing concern that funds will run out.  Ophir advanced 11 percent to 513 pence, the biggest gain
since May 16. Trading volumes were five times higher than the
three-month daily average.  The company plans to sell 168 million shares, offering two
for five existing shares at 275 pence apiece, a 40 percent
discount to yesterday’s closing price, it said yesterday. The
London-based explorer also sold about 19.9 million new shares at
460 pence, it said today in a separate statement.  The share sale “has the potential to remove the main
limiting constraint on the explorer, its balance sheet, leaving
it free to negotiate fair farmdown” agreements, Brian
Gallagher, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London,
said today, raising his rating on the stock to  buy  from hold.  The company has fallen 21 percent from its September high
after indicating it will be short of money for drilling projects
this year. Mittal Investments Sarl, Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  sold shares last month, while SVM Asset
Management Ltd. and Guinness Atkinson Asset Management Inc. said
Ophir was becoming a takeover target.  Stock Sale  Ophir’s sale of new shares will equate to about 47 percent
of the current outstanding equity, according to estimates from
Laura Loppacher, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in London.
“We had previously anticipated a close to $300 million equity
fundraise, requiring about 10 percent equity dilution.”  Ophir said in October it would spend $650 million on its
drilling program, which exceeded its cash available for
investments by about $450 million, according to Morgan Stanley.
The explorer has been seeking partners to share project costs
and opened its books to interested parties.  “Potential buyers were using Ophir’s balance sheet as an
opportunity to pitch low-ball bids during farmdown
negotiations,” said Tom Robinson, a London-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “Funding now allows Ophir management the
opportunity to test the boundaries of the upside case --
something we believe remains significant.”  The company plans to drill more than 10 wells targeting
about 1.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent resources in the
next 12 months, it said today in a separate statement.  In West Africa, Ophir together with Vitol Group and  Rialto
Energy Ltd. (RIA)  plans to drill a well at the Starfish prospect in
the Accra Block off  Ghana . It will start three wells in Gabon,
of which two will be shared with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   “A further exploration and appraisal drilling program is
also envisaged in Equatorial Guinea, after the introduction of
new partners into the license,” Ophir said.  In East Africa, it plans to drill at least three wells in
Tanzanian and one in Kenyan deep waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 