-- Boeing Faces LOT Dreamliner Claim as Thomson Refunds Clients
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-05T18:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/lot-airlines-to-push-boeing-for-compensation-after-787-grounding.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  faces increased pressure
from the 787 Dreamliner fleet grounding as LOT Polish Airlines
SA pushes ahead with compensation claims and Thomson Airways
promises refunds for passengers shunted onto older planes.  LOT, the first European carrier to receive 787s, wants
payment by the end of June, Poland’s Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said in an interview with Polskie Radio 3 today.
U.K.-based Thomson said 787 flights planned for May and June
will be carried out using older Boeing 767s, and that passengers
who paid extra to fly on the new jet will be reimbursed.  “We will ensure that we are adequately compensated for the
situation we and our customers are facing,” Thomson spokeswoman
 Grace Jones  said by e-mail. Some 767 leases have been extended
and other fleet adjustments have been made within the  TUI Travel
Plc (TT/)  group to deal with the gap, she added.  LOT is the first airline to publicly demand compensation
from Boeing for the grounding. The global 787 fleet was parked
and deliveries halted on Jan. 16, just after the Warsaw-based
carrier received its first jets, leaving one of them stuck in
 Chicago , where it flew on an inaugural trans-Atlantic flight.  Norwegian Takes A340s  Thomson said it was “disappointed” that the U.S.
planemaker has not issued a new delivery time line. Passengers
will also be allowed to reschedule travel plans, it said.  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) , another 787 customer-in-waiting,
said today it signed an agreement with Lisbon-based lessor HiFly
to rent two Airbus SAS A340-300s, along with crews, to commence
long-haul services if its Dreamliners are delayed.  Europe ’s fourth-biggest discount carrier would fly the
A340s, previously operated by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Dubai-
based Emirates, to  New York  and Bangkok.  LOT, unprofitable since at least 2008, had counted on the
787s to help it cut its fuel costs, Budzanowski said. Poland
will also want Boeing to provide backup airplanes if it turns
out that the Dreamliners aren’t able to fly, he said.  LOT said last month it has ditched the 787 from its summer
plan and is seeking gap-filler planes, while adding that it
could restore them should Boeing come up with a fix in time. The
lease of three Boeing 767s will be extended, as the Dreamliners
will probably remain out of service until October, LOT said.  Payment Freeze  The carrier may halt payments for the two 787s it has
already taken until the compensation issue is resolved, Tomasz Balcerzak, its head of operations, said on Radio 3. The carrier,
which is losing around $50,000 a day from the grounding, is
prepared to sue Boeing should the talks fail, he said.  Poland plans to sell LOT after it completes cost cuts that
will eliminate more than 360 jobs. It lost a likely buyer in
June when Turk Hava Yollari AO, or  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , ended talks
because of European Union rules capping outside ownership.  The carrier received a 400 million-zloty rescue loan from
the government in December, and Prime Minister Donald Tusk said
earlier this year that Budzanowski’s place in his cabinet
depends on solving LOT’s problems “quickly.”  British Airways (IAG) , the largest European airline due to
receive 787s this year, also expects deliveries to be late,
 Willie Walsh , the chief executive officer of BA-parent
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, said last week.  British Airways would keep existing 767s flying until the
new model arrives, he said.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , responsible for
grounding the Dreamliner, last month began reviewing Boeing’s
proposed fix for the battery glitches that led to the move.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  