-- House Budget Panel Considers Age 56 for Medicare Transition
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-03-05T20:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/house-budget-panel-considers-higher-age-for-medicare-transition.html
House Republicans may propose
protecting fewer Americans from changes in Medicare as part of
their effort to balance the U.S. budget in 10 years, lawmakers
said.  Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan promised in 2012 that
people then age 55 and older would continue to be covered by the
traditional Medicare program under his proposal to partially
privatize the health care plan for retirees. The panel is
considering raising the age to 56 in this year’s budget, New
Jersey Republican Scott Garrett, a member of the committee, said
today.  People younger than that would be offered subsidies to buy
private insurance under Ryan’s proposal, passed by the House in
2011 and 2012. The Medicare age change is in a “list of
options” being studied as the budget panel drafts a 2014 budget
Ryan plans to introduce next week, Garrett said.  “The question is how do you save Medicare,” Budget
Committee Vice Chairman Tom Price, a Georgia Republican, said in
an interview today. “How do you get there? How do you make the
money work, the finances work with an aging population?”  House Republicans’ budget plan also may seek to roll back
the expansion of Medicaid to cover more low-income people in
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, said a Republican aide
who asked for anonymity and wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  People become eligible for Medicare at age 65. Medicare
trustees reported in April 2012 that 48.7 million people
received benefits in 2011 at a cost of $549 billion.  Senate Democrats  The House’s 2011 and 2012 proposals to partially privatize
Medicare didn’t advance in the Senate, where majority Democrats
support higher taxes for top earners instead of cuts to
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  House Republicans have “committed themselves to advancing
an even more extreme version of the Ryan budget, and that says a
lot,” Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said. “There’s no way
to accomplish the goals they’ve laid out without gutting
education, health care research, and of course, Medicare
benefits.”  “This is not what the American people want,” said Reid, a
Nevada Democrat.  The House Budget Committee is considering ways to balance
the  federal budget  in 10 years, a goal Republicans set as they
decided this year to postpone the debate over raising the
government’s borrowing authority at least until May.  Laying ‘Groundwork’  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said Ryan
and other Budget Committee members are laying the “groundwork”
for budget legislation. The committee is still working on the
details, the speaker told reporters in  Washington .  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican and his party’s 2012 vice-
presidential nominee, told reporters today he will spell out his
budget proposal next week. He declined to comment on any
details.  “With respect to Medicare, House Republicans will again
put forward a real solution to protect and strengthen Medicare
for current seniors and future generations,” said Will Allison,
a Ryan spokesman, in an e-mail. “His reforms ensure no changes
for those in or near retirement, a sharp contrast to the real
harm inflicted on seniors by the president’s health-care law.”  Creating Competition  Republicans contend that providing subsidies to senior
citizens to buy private insurance would create competition and
drive down costs. Democrats maintain the concept won’t work,
saying the subsidies won’t keep pace with health-care prices,
leaving seniors to pay bigger bills or forgo care.  “The Republicans have said for the last two years if
you’re over 55 years old don’t worry, it won’t impact you, and
now it’s a big ‘whoops,’” Representative Chris Van Hollen of
 Maryland , the top Budget Committee Democrat, said in an
interview.  Garrett said it is a “natural progression’” to raise the
transition age to 56 now that a year has elapsed since the House
passed its proposal. “The people who were 55 last year are now
56,” he said.  Still,  New York  Republican Peter King said he was
“concerned” about a proposal that would “change the
commitments we made” on Medicare. He said he wanted “to see
the extent of what it means.”  Garrett and two other Republicans on the budget committee,
Ken Calvert of  California  and James Lankford of  Oklahoma , said
the blueprint isn’t finished.  New Revenue  The Republican aide who spoke on condition of anonymity
said the specific age for the Medicare transition to subsidizing
privately purchased case is being worked out. Budget drafters
envision starting the program in 2022 or 2023, the aide said.  Budget drafters are also considering expanding means-
testing for some Medicare programs, including Part B for doctor
visits and Part D for prescription drugs, the aide said.
Individuals with incomes of more than $85,000 and couples with
incomes of more than $170,000 already pay higher premiums.  The $660 billion in new revenue from raising taxes for the
wealthiest Americans, passed by Congress Jan. 1, would be used
to balance the budget, the aide said. The plan would reduce the
debt by $4.5 trillion over a decade, the aide said.  Health Law  Republican budget drafters are considering repealing the
expansion of Medicaid coverage to more low-income people under
Obama’s health-care overhaul law set to take effect next year,
the aide said. It also would repeal subsidies for health-
insurance exchanges where eligible Americans can buy coverage at
a lower rate.  Price said the budget would include  defense spending  at the
level it was before $85 billion in federal spending cuts for
this fiscal year began March 1. About half of those cuts will
come in defense spending.  Price said the panel is still deliberating the defense
portion. The goal is to keep defense at higher levels, so the
U.S. can “have the kind of resources available to protect the
country,” he said.  Louisiana Republican John Fleming in January said party
members discussed raising the transition age in the Medicare
proposal at their policy retreat in Williamsburg, Virginia.  Also today, government auditors said health insurers that
offer private Medicare plans were overpaid by as much as $5.1
billion over the past three years. The Medicare Advantage plans
were paid about $135 billion in 2012, according to the
Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of
Congress.  Insurers are fighting a proposed 2.2 percent cut in a rate
used to determine their payments in Medicare Advantage. About a
quarter of Medicare beneficiaries sign up for Advantage plans,
in which their care is covered by insurers led by  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  instead of the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  