-- Toyota Blinks on Camry Discounts After Sales Drop: Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-03-06T08:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/toyota-blinks-on-camry-discounts-after-sales-drop-cars.html
To see the constant tension at
automakers between sales volumes and profit margins, look no
further than the current state of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry.  The Camry sedan has been the top-selling car in the U.S.
for 11 years. In February sales results announced last week,
however, there was a shocker: Camry sales slumped 9.5 percent
from a year earlier, the biggest drop in 16 months, knocking
Toyota’s sales growth to about half what analysts had estimated.  The rough month reflects rising competition for Toyota,
which regained the title of world’s largest automaker in 2012.
In the midsize car segment that accounts for 22 percent of U.S.
light-vehicle sales, Camry faces models that have been revamped
in the past year, including the  Ford (F)  Fusion and Nissan Altima,
which both came with bigger discounts last month, according to
researcher Edmunds.com.  While Camry’s sales would have to continue to slide to lose
its No. 1 title -- it outsold its nearest competitor by 22
percent last year and kept that same lead so far this year -- a
swoon for its trademark product would be a blow for Toyota.  “It’s a lot tougher for Camry to maintain the level of
dominance that we saw last year,” Alec Gutierrez, analyst for
Kelley  Blue Book , in  Irvine ,  California . “To maintain its
dominant position, Toyota’s going to have to look carefully at
its incentive approach.”  Across its entire lineup, Toyota’s prices were 5.9 percent
higher than in February 2012, the biggest increase of any major
automaker, researcher TrueCar Inc. said last week. That compares
with an industry average increase of 1.2 percent, according to
TrueCar, which tracks auto industry sales and incentives.  No-Interest Financing  Just last week, Toyota finally offered a tidbit: no-
interest financing on the 2013 Camry, excluding the hybrid
version. The question now is whether it will take an even bigger
bite out of its margins to protect the U.S. market-share gains
Toyota has made in the first two months of the year.  Of the top four midsize sedans in February, Camry had the
second-lowest incentives at $1,505 per car, according to
Edmunds.com.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Altima offers about $260 more
and Ford Motor Co.’s Fusion about $650 more.  Honda (7267)  Motor Co.’s
Accord, the perennial No. 2, is also new this year. Honda
offered $567 for the Accord that went on sale in late 2012.  Toyota already offered no-interest loans on the 2012 Camry
and last week extended them to the non-hybrid version of the
2013 Camry.  Honda is benefiting from Toyota’s pricing discipline. Sales
of its flagship Accord jumped 35 percent in February. Two months
earlier, Camry’s lead over the Accord was fewer than 2,000 and
Honda’s compact Civic had even outsold Camry that month as the
top-selling car, 33,118 to 31,407.  ‘Competitive Segment’  Ford is also closing in with the redesigned Fusion sedan,
sales of which rose 28 percent last month. Nissan’s Altima, the
third-best selling midsize car in the U.S. last year, slid 16
percent.  “We know it’s a competitive segment,” said  Mike Michels ,
a Toyota spokesman. “All three of those makes are very high
profile in their marketing, and all three companies want to make
an impact with consumers,” he said.  Camry’s February slump comes against a backdrop of a
resurgent U.S. auto industry. The three Detroit automakers
reported increased sales last month, with  General Motors Co. (GM)  up
7.2 percent, Ford up 9.3 percent and Chrysler Group LLC up 4.1
percent.  Toyota is also facing mounting competition in  China , the
world’s biggest auto market, where the company last year lost
market share to GM Japanese brands have failed to fully recover
from riots in September sparked by a territorial dispute.  President Akio Toyoda today overhauled his top management
for a second straight year, strengthening his control over the
carmaker.  Snowy Northeast  The drop in Camry sales may be temporary because Toyota was
particularly hurt by a snowstorm in a region where its models
have a higher than average share, according to Jessica Caldwell,
an industry analyst for Edmunds.com, a vehicle pricing and data
company in  Santa Monica , California.  New York  City,  Long Island 
and parts of southern  New England  received snow the weekend of
Feb. 16 and 17. There was also a winter storm the last week of
February.  “They probably missed some sales in  Boston  and the
Northeast because of the snow,” said Caldwell, who had
projected Toyota sales to rise 5 percent. “When Camry’s down,
that’s a big impact for Toyota since it’s such a big part of
their sales.” Toyota’s February vehicle sales rose 4.3 percent.  While Toyota’s nationwide market share was 14.4 percent
last year, it was 18 percent in the Boston area, Caldwell said.  Profit Margin  Toyota’s profit margin has shrunk to less than 2 cents of
earnings for every dollar of sales, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s worse than 97 percent of rival global
automakers with a market value of more than $10 billion. GM has
a profit margin of 3 percent, while Honda’s is 3.2 percent, the
data show.  Investors haven’t expressed much concern, particularly
after the yen began tumbling against all major currencies from
mid-November. Toyota shares have risen  47 percent  for the past
12 months, double the 24 percent gain in the benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  “Although the Camry is quite symbolic for Toyota, I’m not
very concerned about the drop impacting the company’s profit,”
said Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. “Having low incentives is a good sign since it
means the company believes the sales drop to be temporary, and
even if it’s prolonged, Toyota could sell more by increasing
incentives.”  Prius Sales  The decline for Camry, as well as a 14 percent drop for the
Toyota City, Japan-based company’s Prius hybrid line, led to a
2.8 percent slump for the company’s cars in February.  Bill Fay, Toyota’s group vice president for U.S. sales,
attributed the drop for Prius to a bigger marketing push a year
ago when it went to a four-vehicle lineup.  “We were in the middle of launching and putting a lot of
marketing support behind the Prius family,” Fay said on a March
1 conference call. A year earlier, the company was introducing
the Prius v and Prius c, and the Prius line “was getting an
awful lot of our attention and marketing focus.”  By comparison, Toyota light truck sales rose 16 percent
last month -- double the industry’s 7.8 percent increase --
helped by weather concerns, said Michels, who is based at the
company’s U.S. sales unit in Torrance, California.  “Certainly the little bit of bounce on trucks and SUVs we
saw had a lot to with bad weather,” he said. During the month,
the company also marketed the new Avalon sedan and compact RAV4
sport-utility vehicle more heavily than Camry, Michels said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  