-- Carmakers Expand Production Reach to Limit Currency Risk
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-05T15:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/toyota-expands-european-production-to-limit-currency-risk.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Renault SA (RNO)  and
Nissan Motor Co. are among carmakers widening their global
production footprint to limit exposure to  currency risk .  Toyota plans to expand production in  Europe  to about 75
percent of sales from 63 percent to 64 percent within two years,
Chief Regional Officer Didier Leroy said. Its luxury Lexus brand
is entirely produced in  Japan .  “We want to have a business model that completely frees us
from the exchange notion,” Leroy said in an interview at the
Geneva International Motor Show.  The yen has depreciated 6 percent against the euro this
year and was trading at 121.56 per euro as of 3:11 p.m. in
 London  after dropping to 127.71 in February, the weakest since
2010. It’s down 7 percent against the dollar. Still, Toyota’s
impact from the exchange rate this fiscal year will be less than
10 million euros ($13 million), Leroy said.  Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who holds the
same title at partner Renault, said the yen isn’t in positive
territory for Japanese carmakers.  “It’s less of a handicap today,” he said in an interview
with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg Television. “It doesn’t mean it’s
an asset. They’re more competitive compared to one year ago. It
certainly doesn’t make them more competitive compared to four
years ago.” The yen reached almost 170 per euro in July 2008.  Localized Production  The market is “very far” from a devaluation of the yen
currently, Ghosn told reporters in Geneva today, adding that
many carmakers have been relying on one currency for too long.  The current logic is “localize your production” and that
trend will continue, he said.  “Currency fluctuations are having a huge impact on where
the automakers are choosing to put their production,” Anil Valsan, global lead analyst for automotive at Ernst & Young,
said in an interview. “More natural hedges are what automakers
are trying to do rather than financial hedging. That’s where the
emphasis will be going forward.”  Renault’s Philippe Klein, executive vice president for
corporate planning, product planning and programs, said the
French carmaker is evaluating how foreign-exchange fluctuations
affect sourcing.  “In an ideal world, we would like to be balanced: if I
sell in rubles I would like to build in rubles,” Klein said.
“We’re trying to reach that objective.”  Peugeot Parts  PSA Peugeot Citroen Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin
said his company is also trying to build where it sells.  “When you are a generalist carmaker, you have to be close
to the markets that you serve, so that you are not exposed to
currencies,” the executive said at the car show. “The future
will be more local exposure.”  Nissan still sees “headwinds” from the yen and aims to
produce and sell in the same market to avoid exchange risk
rather than hedge, Andrew Palmer, Nissan executive vice
president, told reporters today in Geneva. A rate of 100 yen to
the dollar is considered “neutral,” he said.  Toyota’s European research and development chief Masahisa Nagata said yesterday that the yen is still too strong and an
appropriate rate is 130 per euro.  “We’re currently keeping in our forecasts exchange rates
at 105-110 even if it’s currently at 121-123,” Leroy said. “We
don’t want to slacken by saying ‘the  exchange rate  is perfect,
we’re in the best of all worlds.’ We really want to have a
cautious business model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  