-- HP Faces Mounting Pressure to Remove Chairman Ray Lane
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hp-chairman-lane-among-directors-opposed-by-iss.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  faces mounting
pressure to remove Chairman  Ray Lane  and several other board
members after proxy advisers Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. and Glass Lewis & Co. urged investors to block their re-
election over failures to properly vet acquisitions.  Shareholders should vote against Lane, John Hammergren, and
G. Kennedy Thompson, ISS said in a report released in advance of
the company’s annual meeting, set for March 20. Glass Lewis
urged the removal of Hammergren, Thompson,  Marc Andreessen  and
Rajiv Gupta, the lead independent director.  Both proxy advisers faulted Lane’s board for an $8.8
billion writedown in November related to the purchase of
Autonomy Corp. after Hewlett-Packard  discovered  “serious
accounting improprieties.” The revelation followed an August
announcement that the  Palo Alto , California-based company would
take a charge of $9.2 billion, largely tied to its purchase of
Electronic Data Systems Corp.  “The company recorded $18 billion in write-downs during
fiscal 2012, amounting to approximately 54 percent of the
company’s market value,” ISS said. “These unusually high
write-downs, in particular the Autonomy write-down, stem from
ill-advised acquisitions, strategic failures, and poor
deployment of shareholders’ capital.”  Lane and his colleagues on the board should have exercised
stronger oversight before the $10.3 billion Autonomy purchase,
ISS and  Glass Lewis  said. Rebukes by the proxy advisers follow a
push last month by CtW Investment Group, part of the labor
organization Change to Win, for Hewlett-Packard to remove Lane,
Hammergren and Thompson from the board and to drop Ernst & Young
LLP as its auditor, though the group later rescinded its call
for Lane to step down.  ‘Failed Acquisitions’  Glass Lewis said “the mishaps of the past several years,”
including executive changes and failed acquisitions, “have
continued to weigh on the company’s progress.”  Meg Whitman , Hewlett-Packard’s  fourth  chief executive
officer in three years, is attempting to revive growth and win
back investor confidence after six quarters of declining  sales 
and profit and management missteps. The last board shakeup was
in 2011, when four directors were ousted to quell criticism over
the way it handled the departure of former CEO  Mark Hurd .  “HP’s challenges with multiple CEO turnovers over the last
three years, the back-and-forth in the decision to spin-off or
sell its PC business, and announcement of the goodwill
impairment charges related to the EDS and Autonomy transactions
likely exacerbated the decline in the company’s stock price,”
ISS said.  Independent Auditor  Glass Lewis also urged shareholders to remove Ernst & Young
as Hewlett-Packard’s independent auditor, while ISS supported
retention of the accounting firm.  Lane, 66, joined as nonexecutive chairman in 2010 with the
appointment of former CEO  Leo Apotheker , and became executive
chairman the following year when Whitman was hired as CEO
following the ouster of her predecessor. ISS and Glass Lewis
both urged shareholders to vote against executive compensation
that they said didn’t hold top leaders accountable for poorly
executed acquisitions.  Hammergren, chairman of the board’s finance committee, has
been a director since 2005 and is also chief executive officer
at  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  Thompson, a director since 2006, heads the
 audit committee . Andreessen, co-founder of venture-capital firm
Andreessen Horowitz, joined the board in 2009. Gupta, on the
board since 2009, became lead independent director in 2011.  “The board fully supports the election of each of the
director nominees named in the proxy statement,” Howard Clabo,
a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, said in a statement.  Hewlett-Packard  shares  have declined 19 percent in the past
year, compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The stock rose 2 percent to $20.37 at yesterday’s
close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  