-- Palm Climbing as Economies Recover, Aging Trees Cut: Dompok
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-03-06T08:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/palm-climbing-as-economies-recover-aging-trees-cut-dompok-says.html
Palm oil  will probably advance as
the global economy recovers and the government provides
incentives for farmers to cut down old trees, said Malaysian
Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok.  “I’m bullish on prices,” he said in an interview in  Kuala
Lumpur  yesterday. “The economies are largely improving.”  Malaysia, the second-largest producer, has announced plans
to encourage growers to remove 25-year-old trees that  yield  less
oil on 300,000 hectares and replant them. Trees on 100,000
hectares may be cut and replaced this year, lowering output by
400,000 metric tons and helping cap  inventories , he said. It
takes at least three to four years for trees to reach maturity.
The country has 5 million hectares of palm plantations .  Palm, which dropped 23 percent last year, is trading in a
 bear market  after supplies of the world’s most consumed oil
expanded to the biggest ever. Prices may plunge more than 17
percent later this year from their level now on increased
harvests,  Dorab Mistry , a Godrej International Ltd. director,
said today. Dompok is counting on an economic recovery to boost
rates.  China  will see growth speed up to 8.3 percent in the June
quarter, the fastest since 2011, a Bloomberg survey shows.  “When there’s strong demand from  India , China and
 Pakistan , then we’ll see prices going up,” said Dompok.  India, the world’s largest palm oil buyer, will increase
imports by 12 percent to 8.5 million tons in the year that
started in November, Dinesh Shahra, managing director of the
Mumbai-based  Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd. (RSI) , said in an interview
this week. Ruchi is the largest buyer and refiner in India.  Land Capacity  Malaysia ’s plan to increase the use of palm in biodiesel
through the middle of next year may absorb about 1 million tons
of inventories, Dompok said. The country has reached the limit
of the amount of land it can use for palm cultivation, and while
supply may expand through higher productivity, output probably
won’t increase much above the level today, he said.  Production will total 18.9 million tons in 2013, matching
the biggest crop ever in 2011, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board
says. Reserves rose to a record 2.63 million tons in December,
stood at 2.58 million tons in January and probably dropped to
2.44 million tons in February, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Output in Malaysia will be 19.5 million tons to 19.7
million tons this year and it will exceed 30 million tons in
 Indonesia , the top supplier, Mistry estimates. His outlook
presented at the Palm and Lauric Oils Conference in Kuala Lumpur
today raises the prospect of prices dropping for three straight
years, the worst run since 1996.  Felda Global  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , the world’s third-
largest plantation operator, already replanted 15,000 hectares
of aging trees last year and will “aggressively pursue
replanting,” Chief Executive Officer Sabri Ahmad said at the
palm oil conference today.  Malaysia doesn’t plan to change its export tax policy or
introduce a period of duty-free shipments to clear stockpiles
because the experience in January and February shows that fails
to push up prices, said Dompok. There was no tax on shipments in
the first two months as the price fell below the threshold that
triggered it. The duty rose to 4.5 percent this month.  Futures were little changed at 2,399 ringgit ($773) a ton
in Kuala Lumpur today. Prices have declined 1.6 percent this
year as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of eight agricultural
commodities fell 1.4 percent and the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities advanced 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  