-- Palm Oil Growers Need New Uses Amid Glut, De Lavigne Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-03-05T07:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/palm-oil-growers-need-new-uses-amid-world-glut-de-lavigne-says.html
Palm oil  producers including
Indonesia and  Malaysia  may need to find new uses for the world’s
most-consumed edible oil to absorb the biggest-ever supplies and
reverse a slump in prices, according to  Frost & Sullivan .  “Malaysia and Indonesia may need to find new applications
from palm oil in order to take up the slack caused by increased
CPO supply,” Chris de Lavigne, global vice president of
consulting, told a conference in Kuala Lumpur today, according
to a copy of his remarks, using initials for crude palm oil.  Palm, used in foods and biofuels, is mired in a  bear market 
after global supplies and reserves expanded to the biggest ever.
The oil may trade at a so-called heavy discount to soy oil, an
alternative commodity, as  Indonesia  and Malaysia harvest bumper
crops, de Lavigne told the Palm and Lauric Oils Conference &
Exhibition. Prices dropped 23 percent last year.  The oversupply from increased plantings in Indonesia “will
take time to alleviate,” de Lavigne said, according to the
prepared remarks. “We could possibly see another mini slump in
prices in 2013.”  Palm oil traded at 2,400 ringgit ($774) on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange at the midday break, after dropping 26
percent over the past year. The discount to soy oil was at
$332.87 a ton, from $109.67 a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite the huge spread versus soy, palm was struggling
to generate more demand,” Harald Sauthoff, global vice
president for procurement of natural oils at BASF Personal Care
& Nutrition GmbH, said at the conference. “The recent spread
suggests that all possible substitution has been executed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  