-- Pandora Gains Access to $14 Billion Radio Ad-Sales Market
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-05T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/pandora-gains-access-to-14-billion-radio-ad-sales-market.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the music-
streaming service, will compete directly with  radio stations  for
the first time on the industry’s biggest advertising services,
gaining better access to the $14 billion annual ad-sales market.  By May, advertisers will be able to compare Pandora’s
audience ratings alongside those of radio stations through
services that account for 80 percent of local ad sales, Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Kennedy  said in an interview.  The change eliminates a hurdle for ad buyers and Pandora,
which is opening sales offices in the 25 biggest U.S. media
markets, Kennedy said. Buyers previously had to manually
research Pandora ratings. While early adopters made the effort,
the change simplifies the process and will expose Pandora to a
larger group of marketers, he said.  “Pandora will now be there side by side, apples to apples,
in the same systems used every day to purchase radio
advertising,” Kennedy said. “We get terrific visibility on
these systems.”  Strata Marketing Inc. began including Pandora ratings on
its network in January, Kennedy said. Mediaocean is in testing
and plans to add Pandora ratings by the end of April. Chicago-
based Strata, with about 1,000 ad agencies, and New York-based
Mediaocean have nearly equal market share, he said.  Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , fell 2.4 percent to
$12 yesterday in  New York . The  stock  has climbed 31 percent this
year.  Investors will get their first peek at how ad sales fared
on Strata on March 7, when Pandora reports results for the
quarter ended Jan. 31. Excluding some items, analysts  forecast  a
loss of 6 cents a share, the average of 20 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, on revenue of $122.6 million.  Pandora drew 65.6 million listeners and commanded an 8
percent share of the U.S. radio audience in January.  The company’s costs to stream music are rising faster than
its ad sales. Music expenses jumped 81 percent in nine months
ended Oct. 31, while ad sales gained 59 percent. Starting this
month, the company capped mobile listening at 40 hours a month
to contain costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  