-- Par Pleads Guilty in Off-Label Case, Will Pay $45 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-03-05T19:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/par-pleads-guilty-in-off-label-case-will-pay-45-million.html
Par Pharmaceutical Cos., the
generic-drug maker, pleaded guilty to marketing its AIDS drug
Megace ES illegally and agreed to pay $45 million to resolve
criminal and civil investigations.  In entering the plea today in federal court in Newark,  New
Jersey , Chief Executive Officer Paul Campanelli admitted Par
sold Megace ES for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. While the FDA approved the drug for treatment of
anorexia and unexplained weight loss in AIDS patients, Par
actively promoted it for so-called off-label uses, he said.  Par admitted promoting Megace ES for older patients without
AIDS, and its sales staff falsely said the drug was more
effective than other products. Par will pay $22.5 million in the
criminal case and the same amount to settle civil claims that it
falsely billed Medicare and Medicaid. The FDA imposes a long
approval process for new drugs or new uses of medicines.  “Par admitted it chose to ignore that process in pursuit
of more sales and greater profits,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman
said at a news conference in  Newark . “The conduct was wrong and
went on for a long period of time. People didn’t say, ‘Wait,
let’s stop.’”  Drugmakers have paid billions of dollars in fines and
penalties for off-label marketing in the past decade. U.S. law
allows doctors to prescribe drugs for any reason, while
companies can only market them for approved uses.  TPG Capital  Par, which was acquired last year by TPG Capital for
$1.9 billion, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of
misbranding Megace ES in violation of the Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act.  “To maximize sales, Par promoted the use of Megace ES for
the treatment of non-AIDS-related geriatric wasting,” according
to a charging document known as a criminal information.
“Members of the Par sales force knew that they were calling on
very few nursing homes that actually had AIDS patients.”  Par signed a five-year corporate integrity agreement with
the Office of Inspector General of the  Department of Health  and
Human Services. It requires “enhanced accountability, increased
transparency, and wide-ranging monitoring activities” by both
internal and external reviewers, according to Fishman.  Par also settled three lawsuits filed by whistle-blowers
under the  False Claims Act . The law allows citizens to sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery. Two of the
whistle-blowers will get $4.4 million.  ‘Off-Label Insanity’  Their attorney, Timothy McInnis, said in a statement that
Par’s marketing of Megace ES to hospice physicians represented
“the ultimate in off-label insanity.”  “Patients are admitted to hospices when their conditions
are terminal, where medical staff helps them die in peace and
dignity,” McInnis said. “Par, instead, saw them as an
opportunity for easy money.”  A predecessor to Par’s drug, Megace OS, was sold by
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. from 1993 until 2001, prosecutors said.
In 2001, the FDA approved five generic versions of that drug.
Par relied on the Megace OS safety and effectiveness data in
obtaining FDA approval for Megace ES for AIDS patients.  Par requested an FDA meeting to discuss seeking approval
for non-AIDS geriatric patients, and it never formally applied
or conducted drug trials among that group, Fishman said. Par
then targeted geriatric patients without AIDS for treatment of
anorexia and unexplained sudden  weight loss , Campanelli said.  Patient Data  Par falsely claimed that Megace ES was more effective than
Megace OS, Campanelli said. The company also obtained
confidential patient data protected by a 1996 federal law so
that it could identify people who could be switched to Megace
ES, he said.  Par carried out the marketing strategy by “asking
prescribers to convert all of their geriatric patients from
Megace OS to Megace ES, while knowing that many of those
patients did not have AIDS,” Campanelli admitted.  One whistle-blower, Christine Thompson, was a regional
business manager who was “repeatedly rebuffed” in voicing
concerns internally about the off-label marketing scheme,
according to her attorneys, Brian Kenney and Tavy Deming.  Par ignored patient safety because “there was little
profit to be made by marketing the drug lawfully, due to
advancements in HIV and AIDS treatments which drastically
reduced the on-label patient population,” according to a
statement by the lawyers.  Free Speech  Par sued the U.S. government in 2011, claiming the FDA
violates drugmakers’ rights under the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment, which guarantees free speech, by making it a crime
for manufacturers to discuss unapproved uses of approved drugs.
As part of the settlement, Par dropped that case, Fishman said.  “What the First Amendment does not protect is saying these
things that are not true,” Fishman said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Par Pharmaceutical Cos., U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark). The civil
cases, all filed in U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey,
are U.S. ex rel. McKeen and Combs v. Par Pharmaceutical; U.S. ex
rel. Elliott & Lundstrom v. Bristol-Myers Squibb, Par
Pharmaceutical; and U.S. ex rel. Thompson v. Par Pharmaceutical.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  