-- Par Pharmaceutical to Appear in Court, Official Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-03-05T14:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/par-pharmaceutical-to-appear-in-u-s-court-today-official-says.html
Par Pharmaceutical Inc., the
generic-drug maker under criminal and civil investigation since
2008 over the marketing of its AIDS drug Megace ES, is scheduled
to appear in federal court in  New Jersey , a court official said.  Par will appear today in  Newark  before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Madeline C. Arleo, according to courtroom deputy Marquis
Whitney. In a filing yesterday, Par’s lawyers said the company
is “close to finalizing” a “global resolution of several
pending investigations and litigations.”  U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman will hold a news conference
today at noon to announce “criminal and civil actions against a
New Jersey company,” according to his spokesman, Matthew
Reilly. Par, based in  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey, agreed in July
to be acquired by TPG Capital for $1.9 billion.  Reilly declined to confirm that the conference involves
Par. A voice-mail message to Par spokesman Stephen Mock wasn’t
immediately returned.  Par sued the U.S. government in 2011, claiming the  Food and
Drug Administration  violates First Amendment rights by making it
a crime for manufacturers to discuss unapproved uses of approved
drugs through “off-label promotion.” Doctors can prescribe
drugs for any use, while companies can only promote them for
FDA-approved uses. Companies have paid billions of dollars in
fines and penalties for off-label marketing in the past decade.  “The ongoing threat of prosecution for alleged ‘off-label
promotion’ based on Par’s truthful and non-misleading speech to
healthcare professionals concerning the FDA-approved use of
Par’s FDA-approved prescription drug currently chills Par’s
speech,” Par claimed in federal court in  Washington .  ‘Global Resolution’  A filing by Par and the government last May asked to delay
that lawsuit while the parties sought a “global resolution” of
all investigations. Par sought such an accord in December 2010,
according to the joint motion, and met “numerous times” with
the government before suing in October 2011.  “In 2008, the government opened a parallel civil and
criminal investigation of Par relating to the drug  product 
Megace ES to determine, among other things, whether Par
committed any violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act” or violated the U.S. False Claims Act, according to the
motion.  Those signing the motion included lawyers for the FDA, the
 Justice Department ’s Consumer Protection Branch and the  U.S.
Department of Health  and Human Services.  In a filing in March 2012, Par sought the pretrial exchange
of information, known as discovery, on various matters,
including questioning FDA Associate Director Rachel Sherman.  ‘Artfully Hedged’  Par sought to depose her about her “vague and artfully
hedged” written declaration that “FDA does not consider Par’s
on-label speech, ‘by itself,’ to be a crime, but only if there
is no unspecified ‘additional evidence’ that an off-label use is
intended,” according to the filing.  “These statements, which cannot be found in any FDA
regulation or other official agency issuance, raise more
questions than they answer,” according the filing.  Par claimed that “the First Amendment prohibits the
government from irrationally criminalizing speech about a lawful
and medically beneficial activity that the government
subsidizes” through the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  The government had taken an “erroneous factual position
that Medicare and Medicaid do not reimburse for off-label uses
of Megace ES” except to treat “wasting” related to “certain,
specific cancers,” according to the filing.  Prosecutor Meetings  In meetings in 2010, prosecutors in New Jersey asked Par
about the promotion of Megace ES in oncology and long-term care
settings, focusing on “how Par could legally promote” the
drugs for AIDS “in those settings without first verifying the
number of AIDS patients there,” Par’s lawyers wrote.  The filing also cited a June 2011 meeting in which a
“senior DOJ official also indicated that promotion consisting
of on-label speech that takes place in a setting where off-label
use occurs is not protected by the First Amendment and, if Par
believed otherwise, the issue would need to be litigated.”  The case is Par Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S., 11-cv-01820,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  