-- Pentagon Operations Would Get $10 Billion Under Proposal
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-03-05T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/pentagon-operations-would-get-10-billion-under-proposal.html
House Republicans  sought to ease the
Pentagon’s pain from across-the-board spending cuts, proposing
legislation that would shift $10 billion to train troops,
maintain weapons and pay for operations.  The stopgap measure proposed yesterday to prevent a
threatened government shutdown after March 27 would fund
government programs at last year’s level minus the automatic
cuts that took effect on March 1. Exceptions would be made to
reorder funds for the Defense Department and free up money for
the  Veterans Affairs  Department. Military pay is already exempt.  “This legislation will avoid a government shutdown on
March 27th, prioritize DoD and veterans programs, and allow the
Pentagon some leeway to do its best with the funding it has,”
U.S. Representative Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican who leads
the House Appropriations Committee, said in a statement.  While Republicans who control the House plan to pass the
legislative package this week, Democrats said they will push for
similar concessions to help domestic programs. That risks making
the measure another casualty in the partisan fighting over
budget-cutting. The process called sequestration imposes $85
billion in reductions on domestic and defense programs in the
seven months remaining in the current fiscal year.  Representative  Nita Lowey  of  New York , the top
Appropriations Committee Democrat, said she was disappointed
that Rogers’s proposal “would lock most of the federal
government into outdated plans and spending levels.”  Senate Prospects  Senate Democratic leaders were still deciding whether to
accept the House bill without changes and turn to the
appropriations process for fiscal 2014, which begins in October,
or add provisions for domestic programs, an option favored by
Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat who leads the
Senate Appropriations Committee.  Under the Republican proposal, the Pentagon would get $10
billion more for “operations and maintenance” than it
otherwise would have under sequestration. The 7.8 percent cut
required for that category would be taken from the $173.5
billion in a House-Senate compromise plan for this fiscal year
that never became law, rather than from the $163.1 billion
appropriated in fiscal 2012.  Service Contracts  The operations and maintenance accounts -- typically used
to pay for services from contractors such as  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  or Dyncorp International Inc. -- will be among the
first to be affected under sequestration, according to  Gordon Adams , who teaches foreign policy at American University in
 Washington  and was an associate budget director under President
 Bill Clinton .  The added money for operations and maintenance would be
freed up partly by reclaiming unused funds from prior years,
“excess” spare parts and “unjustified Army growth funding,”
according to a summary provided by Rogers.  The House Republican proposal also would restore to the
Pentagon the ability to transfer as much as $4 billion between
accounts for purposes such as “unforeseen military
requirements,” with advance notification to Congress. Such
reprogramming authority isn’t provided under sequestration.  Pentagon officials have said such leeway won’t help much.  “We’re so far into the fiscal year, five months into it,
that if -- even if we were given wide flexibility, we still
would have to go after almost everything that’s unobligated,”
Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale told  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg
Television’s March 3 “Capitol Gains” show. “So I don’t think
that it would materially change the problem.”  The Republican measure would provide a combined $72 billion
in discretionary funding for military construction and Veterans
Affairs, according to Rogers. He said cutbacks in military
construction would offset increases for veterans programs. The
proposal also would add $2 billion for embassy security in
response to the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi,  Libya , where four Americans were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  