-- Texas Protesters Urge Perry to Seek Medicaid Expansion for Poor
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-06T05:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/perry-faulted-in-texas-rally-seeking-medicaid-expansion-for-poor.html
Hundreds of protesters gathered at
the Texas Capitol demanding Governor  Rick Perry  join other
Republican governors expanding Medicaid for the poor under the
U.S. health-care overhaul.  Enlarging the joint state-federal program would allow
uninsured Texans to be treated by primary-care doctors instead
of relying on emergency rooms, said Roland Goertz, a Waco
physician, at the rally yesterday in Austin.  “Working families deserve better than what they get now,”
he told the crowd.  Republican governors in eight states, including  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  and  Rick Scott  of  Florida , say they
support expanding Medicaid. Perry has objected, and Republicans
in the state House of Representatives voted in a private meeting
on March 4 to side with the governor.  The U.S. Supreme Court said in June that the federal
government couldn’t force states to broaden Medicaid under
President  Barack Obama ’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act. That decision let states decide.  Perry wants the Obama administration to let Texas design a
Medicaid system with less federal control, meeting specific
needs of the second-most-populous state, spokeswoman Lucy Nashed
said by e-mail.  “Adding more Texans and dumping more taxpayer dollars into
a broken and unsustainable system is irresponsible and bad
public policy,” Nashed said.  Medicaid Costs  Until 2017, the U.S. government will pay the entire cost of
covering people newly eligible for the program. Thereafter,
states don’t have to pay more than 10 percent. The  Congressional
Budget Office  estimates the expansion will cost the federal
government about $638 billion through 2023, and states about $63
billion.  The U.S. won’t be able to afford expanding Medicaid in the
long run, which will force states to pay a bigger share, said
state Representative Brandon Creighton, chairman of the House
Republican caucus.  Texas  lawmakers question the federal government’s promises
given its mounting debt, Creighton said. The state’s share of
Medicaid costs is projected to rise from $14 billion in the
fiscal year ending in 2015 to $80 billion in 2040, he said.  Texas should find its own approach to providing health
care, he said.  Uninsured Residents  “We’re formulating our own analysis that isn’t tied to
political trends or moves by other governors across the
country,” Creighton said.  Texas had more than 6 million uninsured residents in 2011,
or 24 percent, ranking first among states, according to a
January report by former Deputy Comptroller Billy Hamilton
prepared for Texas Impact, an Austin-based interfaith group.  Expanding Medicaid over the next decade would cost Texas
$15.6 billion while the federal government would pay $100
billion, according to Hamilton’s report.  Arturo Cortez, 67, a retired construction worker from
McAllen, traveled to Austin to tell lawmakers he wants benefits
made more widely available. He and his wife, Blanca, lost some
Medicaid benefits and had to change doctors after their income
increased last year, he said.  “They told us we were making too much money now,” Cortez
said. “It just doesn’t seem right.”  Federal Medicaid administrators permit some states to alter
policies and agreed to let  Arizona  and other states withdraw
from the program if financial promises aren’t kept, said Maura
Calsyn, associate director of health policy at the Center for
American Progress, a Washington research group that promotes
“progressive ideas and action.”  “Acting like there is no flexibility is a bit of a cop-
out,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  