-- Autonomy Executives Said to Hire Lawyers Weingarten, Keker
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-05T22:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/pggm-appointed-lead-plaintiff-in-lawsuits-over-hp-writedown-1-.html
Mike Lynch, former chief executive
officer at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s Autonomy unit, hired criminal
defense lawyer  Reid Weingarten , while Sushovan Hussain, who was
Autonomy’s finance chief, hired attorney John Keker, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Hewlett-Packard said in December that the U.S. Justice
Department had opened an investigation into the company’s
allegations that British software maker Autonomy misrepresented
its performance before being bought last year. The largest
personal computer maker booked an $8.8 billion writedown related
to Autonomy in November after concluding that some revenue had
been recorded prematurely or improperly.  Weingarten’s past clients include ex-WorldCom Inc. Chairman
Bernard Ebbers and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein. Keker, who is helping McGraw-Hill
Cos. and its  Standard & Poor’s  unit fight U.S. fraud claims,
also represented Black Panther Party leader Eldridge Cleaver and
banned cyclist  Lance Armstrong , as well as vindicated investment
banker  Frank Quattrone , Enron Corp. executive Andrew Fastow and
class-action lawyer William Lerach.  Lynch said in December that he will cooperate with any
investigation and rejected allegations of wrongdoing.  Weingarten, a partner in the Washington office of Steptoe &
Johnson LLP, and Keker, a founding partner of Keker & Van Nest
LLP in San Francisco, didn’t immediately return phone messages
seeking comment. The person asked not to be named because the
matter isn’t public. The hiring of the lawyers was reported
earlier by the U.K.’s  Daily Mail .  Pension Administrator  Separately, PGGM Vermogensbeheer BV, a Dutch pension
administrator, was appointed lead plaintiff in investor lawsuits
against Hewlett-Packard over the Automony writedown.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in  San Francisco 
consolidated securities class action, or group, lawsuits against
the computer maker in an order yesterday. PGGM, with $35.1
million in losses from the drop in HP’s stock after the
writedown was disclosed, has the largest financial interest in
the litigation, Breyer ruled.  Hewlett-Packard agreed to buy Autonomy for $10.3 billion in
2011. More than $5 billion of the writedown was the result of
accounting practices at Autonomy, Hewlett-Packard said. About
$200 million of Autonomy’s revenue had been recorded prematurely
or improperly, the company’s general counsel said.  Shares of  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard fell
12 percent on the announcement, dropping to the lowest since
October 2002. At least a dozen investor lawsuits were filed
against the company, its managers and Autonomy managers alleging
shareholders were misled about problems with the acquisition.  Class Action  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP was named lead
counsel in the securities class-action lawsuit. PGGM may propose
an alternate law firm to lead the case, Breyer said in his
ruling.  Law firms that lead group lawsuits manage and control the
single, consolidated case. A new, consolidated complaint will be
filed within 60 days, Ramzi Abadou, an attorney for PGGM at
Keller Topaz Meltzer & Check LLP, said in a phone interview. He
declined to comment further.  Individual investor Stanley Morrical was appointed lead
plaintiff in the lawsuits against Hewlett-Packard filed by
investors on behalf of the company. Burlingame, California-based
Cotchett Pitre & McCarthy LLP was named lead counsel for the so-
called shareholder derivative lawsuits, Breyer said.  Three lawsuits filed on behalf of participants of Hewlett-
Packard’s employee stock-ownership plan were also consolidated.
Breyer named New York-based Zamansky & Associates as interim
lead counsel of the cases.  The securities class action case is In Re HP Securities
Litigation, 12-cv-5980; the derivative case is Riccardi v.
Lynch, 12-cv-06003 and the employee case is In Re HP ERISA,
12-06199, all in U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  