-- Philips to Market Navigator for Structural Heart Disease Repairs
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/philips-to-market-navigator-for-structural-heart-disease-repairs.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  is
selling a new tool to help surgeons navigate the heart as the
Dutch manufacturer seeks to boost its position in the market for
image-guided therapy.  Philips said today it has won clearance from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration for its Echonavigator, a device that
gives a combined view of X-ray and 3D ultrasound images of the
heart, letting surgeons perform minimally invasive structural
heart disease repairs. Following earlier European certification,
Amsterdam-based Philips will now introduce the system globally,
it said in a statement.  While health-care equipment budgets are under pressure in
the U.S. and Europe, hospitals are willing to invest in
techniques that make surgical procedures less complex and reduce
the time patients spend in the hospital, Louise Verheij, vice
president of marketing at Philips Healthcare, said by phone.  “What we’re seeing is hospitals shifting from open heart
surgery to minimally invasive procedures,” she said. “It’s
cheaper because they can perform an operation without having to
cut people open, and it will take less time to recover.”  During procedures like repairing a hole in a heart wall,
ultrasound imaging provides insights into the heart’s soft-
tissue anatomy, while X-ray has strengths in visualizing the
catheters and heart implants. The market for these procedures is
relatively small at the moment, and is growing at around 40
percent annually, Verheij said.  Philips competes in the global medical imaging market with
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE)  The Dutch company is No. 2
in ultrasound, the biggest segment of the market, and the leader
in interventional X-ray. Siemens, based in Munich, has spent
billions of euros to expand its medical diagnostics business in
recent years.  Philips’ health-care unit generated 10 billion euros ($13
billion) in revenue last year, with imaging systems accounting
for 38 percent of sales. The company spent 803 million euros on
research and development in the division, on a total budget of
1.8 billion euros for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  