-- Philippine Inflation Quickens to Five-Month High on Food Prices
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-03-05T01:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/philippine-inflation-quickens-to-five-month-high-on-food-prices.html
Philippine inflation accelerated to
the fastest in five months in February on higher food prices,
limiting the central bank’s scope to cut interest rates further
and discourage capital inflows.  Consumer prices  rose 3.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, after a 3 percent advance reported in January, the
 National Statistics Office  said in Manila today. The median in a
Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists was 3.3 percent.  The central bank held  borrowing costs  at 3.5 percent in
January while cutting rates on special deposit accounts to help
curb capital inflows that boosted the peso and drove stocks to a
record last week. Consumer prices will be within target this
year and the monetary authority can harness a number of policy
options to address flows while ensuring a stable currency,
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said on March 3.  The inflation rate in 2013 will probably be higher than
last year, Eugenia Victorino, a Singapore-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the
report. Still, price gains “will remain in the lower half of
the 3 percent-to-5 percent target band of the central bank. We
stand by our expectation for Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to keep
benchmark  interest rates  on hold throughout the year.”  The Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to 40.74 against the
 U.S. dollar  as of 9:05 a.m. in Manila. It is the biggest gainer
in the past 12 months among 11 widely traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The economy grew 6.8 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, among the fastest expansions in  Asia . The BSP’s next
policy meeting is scheduled for March 14.  The  core inflation  rate was 3.8 percent in February,
today’s release showed. Food and non-alcoholic beverage costs
rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 2.3
percent gain in January. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco climbed
29 percent on higher taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  