-- Pictet Buys Surgut as Dividends Appeal: Russia Overnight
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-03-06T13:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/pictet-buys-surgut-as-dividends-appeal-russia-overnight.html
Pictet Asset Management SA, which
manages about $5 billion of high-dividend equities, is boosting
Russian stock holdings on speculation companies will increase
payouts to burnish their appeal to foreign investors.  “One of the ways for Russian companies to show higher
corporate governance is to raise the dividend payout ratio,”
Stephen Burrows, a senior investment manager at Geneva-based
Pictet Asset, a unit of Switzerland’s largest privately owned
bank, said in an interview in Santiago March 4. “ Asia  has had a
relatively high payout ratio relative to other parts of the
world and that is what is now changing.”  Pictet Asset is shifting out of Asian equities and into
Russian stocks such as oil producer OAO Surgutneftegas, Burrows
said. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of 14 Russian
companies traded in the U.S. has an average dividend yield of
4.1 percent, while the benchmark 50-stock Micex Index’s yield
was 3.8 percent March 4, the highest level since March 2009. The
 MSCI Emerging Market Asia Index (MXMS)  yields 2.3 percent, down from a
six-month high of 2.8 percent in June.  Russian stocks trade at 5.6 times estimated earnings, the
cheapest of 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg and about
half the valuation for  Brazilian equities . The country, ranked
the most corrupt among Group of 20 nations in Transparency
International’s 2012 corruption perceptions index, approved
 regulations  in November requiring state companies to pay no less
than 25 percent of net income as dividends as  Russia  seeks to
lure more foreign capital and bolster its reputation.  Dividend Fund  Burrows helps manage Pictet Asset’s  Emerging Markets High
Dividend (PEMHDPU)  fund, which he said includes companies with an average
dividend yield of 5.2 percent. The fund has returned 16 percent
since it was established in June. Burrows also manages the
 Pictet Global Selection Fund (PGSFHYE) , which has gained 9.6 percent in
2013 to beat 97 percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has an average dividend
yield of 2.7 percent and rose 0.7 percent to 1057.45 by 5:07
p.m. in Moscow.  The Bloomberg index of Russian U.S.-traded stocks jumped 2
percent to 101.16 yesterday, gaining for the first time in four
days as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export earner, rebounded
from a 2013 low. Futures expiring in March on Moscow’s RTS Index
added 0.8 percent today to 153,480. The Micex rose 0.8 percent
and is up 1.4 percent in the year.  Goldman’s Help  As part of its bid to make Moscow an international
financial center and revitalize Russia’s image among global
investors, the government hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last
month. The Moscow Exchange, Russia’s main stock and fixed-income
bourse, is transitioning to two-day settlement of transactions
and opened up local government bond trading Feb. 7 to Euroclear
Bank SA, owner of the world’s largest debt settlement system.
The exchange’s current immediate settlement procedures put it at
odds with the U.S.,  Germany  and  Brazil .  Surgutneftegas’ preferred shares traded in Moscow offer a
12-month gross dividend yield of 9.5 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Goldman Sachs and UBS AG said in January that
the  Surgut (SGTPY) , Russia-based company has about $30 billion in cash,
raising the prospect that it has “room to increase the payout
ratio,” said Burrows, who was in Chile for an investor
conference organized by Santiago-based brokerage Larrain Vial
SA.  American depositary receipts of Surgut, Russia’s fourth-
biggest oil producer by output, advanced 2.5 percent to $7.28
yesterday in  New York , the biggest gain since Jan. 30. The
company’s preferred stock increased 1.4 percent to 22.72 rubles,
or 74 U.S. cents, in Moscow today. One ADR equals 10 preferred
shares.  Gazprom Yield  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 1.3 percent to $28.84 in New
York, posting the steepest advance since Feb. 13. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock
futures , fell 5.4 percent to 20.32 today.  State-controlled OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company by
market value and the world’s No. 1 natural gas producer, has a
12-month gross dividend yield of 6.6 percent, compared with 3.6
percent for PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil and gas
producer, and 5.9 percent for Total SA, Europe’s third-largest
oil company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pictet Asset also recently bought stock of Hong Kong-based
retailer  Bosideng International Holdings Ltd. (3998)  and  Valid Solucoes
SA (VLID3) , a Rio de Janeiro-based company that prints bank checks,
credit cards and identification documents, Burrows said.
Bosideng gained 4.6 percent last year, while Valid soared 109
percent.  The fund dropped  Shin Corp (INTUCH) , a telecommunications company
based in Bangkok that gained 0.7 percent last quarter. Shin’s 5
percent 12-month dividend yield has fallen from 9.1 percent in
January.  Polyus Jumps  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL) , Russia’s largest producer
of the metal, jumped 3.8 percent to $3.32 in New York yesterday,
the steepest gain since Jan. 24. Barclays Plc rated the
company’s London-listed stock the equivalent of buy in first
time coverage. Polyus fell 0.7 percent in  London  today, after
jumping 3.2 percent yesterday.  Russian billionaires Zelimkhan Mutsoev and Gavriil Yushvaev
bought Brooklyn Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s 37.8 percent
stake in Polyus for $3.62 billion after winning approval from
U.K. regulators, Prokhorov’s Onexim Group said in a Feb. 22
statement.  Ruble futures show the currency strengthening 0.1 percent
to 30.73 per dollar. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend,
climbed for a second day, adding 0.1 percent to $108.59 a
barrel, after ending a six-day slide yesterday.  Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, rallied 1.9 percent to HK$4.29 in  Hong Kong , the first
advance this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  