-- Egyptian Police Clash With Protesters Before Rallies
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-03-05T15:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/police-protesters-clash-in-egypt-before-opposition-protests.html
Egyptian police clashed with
protesters in Port Said for a third day, as renewed protests
were planned in Cairo and other cities today.  Police fired tear gas and protesters hurled firebombs
around the security headquarters in the Suez Canal city. Members
of the armed forces were attempting to form a “human wall” to
protect the building, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
said. Ambulances ferried away an unspecified number of people
suffering from suffocation, the state-run Ahram Gate reported.  Rallies have been called by the opposition Egyptian Popular
Current for today. The turmoil is marring  Egypt ’s transition to
democracy after the 2011 uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , and is
battering the economy.  “There is a state of anger at the rule of the Muslim
Brotherhood and at the deterioration of the economic
situation,” said Emad Gad, deputy director of Al-Ahram Center
for Political and Strategic Studies, and a former lawmaker.
“Using the security apparatus to respond to the demands of
people will lead to an escalation. The response must be
political and economic.”  Opponents of President Mohamed Mursi accuse him of
advancing the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood, which
nominated him for office, while failing to end police abuses and
other grievances that fueled the 2011 revolt. Mursi’s supporters
say the demonstrations are hampering economic recovery and
stabilization efforts.  ‘Confused Handling’  The main opposition bloc, the National Salvation Front,
said today in a statement it “warns against the continuation of
wasting the blood of Egyptians in Port Said” and other cities
“amid the arrogance and the confused handling of the regime.”  The bloc reiterated its decision to boycott legislative
polls scheduled to start in April, saying “it will not deceive
the Egyptian people or take part in a fake democratic process.”  The latest wave of unrest in Port Said began on March 3
when the families of prisoners held in connection with soccer
violence heard their relatives were being transferred to another
location, MENA said. At least five people, including some police
officers, were killed.  Trouble flared in Port Said in January after 21 people were
sentenced to death for their roles in the nation’s worst
sporting violence in 2012. Dozens of people were killed when
fans from the Port Said-based Al Masry club rushed their stands
as police forces stood by.  Tensions have been increasing as a March 9 verdict hearing
in the case approaches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  