-- Pound’s World-Worst Drop Seen Growing in Pimco Math
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-03-05T10:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/pound-s-world-worst-drop-seen-growing-in-pimco-math-currencies.html
Even after the biggest drop of any
major currency in the first two months of the year, the pound is
still overvalued as both Pacific Investment Management Co. and
hedge fund FX Concepts LLC bet it will fall further.  Sterling tumbled 6.7 percent versus the dollar through
February, touching the weakest level in almost three years, yet
remains 2.3 percent overvalued, based on an Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development measure of purchasing power
parity. Options traders have raised bets to the most in almost
two years that it will depreciate against the euro, and
strategists are cutting their forecasts at the fastest pace
after the yen.  The slide reflects growing speculation the Bank of England
will boost stimulus while also debasing the currency as the U.K.
risks an unprecedented triple-dip recession. Current Governor
Mervyn King, who gives way to Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney in July, has said a weaker pound would help rebalance the
economy.  “You ain’t seen nothing yet,” said Neil Williams, chief
economist in  London  at Hermes Fund Managers Ltd., which oversees
about $42 billion. “If the world believes there will be
significantly more stimulus coming, which I expect, the pound is
likely to be under further pressure.”  Sterling Tumbles  The U.K. currency slid to $1.4986 on March 1, the lowest
level since July 2010, and down from this year’s high of $1.6381
on Jan. 2. It rose 0.3 percent to $1.5166 at 10:31 a.m. London
time today. That’s still a 6.7 percent drop from the start of
the year, the third-worst performance among 32 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the yen and the rand.  The pound fell to 88.15 pence per euro on Feb. 25, the
weakest level since October 2011, before trading at 85.99 pence
per euro today. It has depreciated versus the 17-nation currency
for seven straight months.  Today’s advance came after data showed U.K. service
industries expanded at the fastest pace in five months in
February. A report last week showed U.K. manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank that month, while an index of construction
output released yesterday fell to the lowest in more than three
years. Britain’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the
last quarter of 2012, according to data published on Feb. 27.  “It is hard to envisage a scenario where we would want to
be long sterling in the next six to 12 months,” Thomas Kressin,
head of European foreign-exchange at Pimco in Munich, said in a
telephone interview on Feb. 25. A long position is a bet an
asset will rise in value. “There will be more tolerance for a
weaker pound as a way to support growth.”  Purchase Estimates  Pimco, which holds a smaller percentage of pounds than the
amount in the benchmark it uses to measure performance, expects
the Bank of England will resume asset purchases after already
buying 375 billion pounds of debt, according to Kressin.  Sterling dropped 5.1 percent in 2013, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-
nation currencies, the biggest decline after the yen’s 5.3
percent slide. The dollar gained 2.5 percent.  King and two of his Monetary Policy Committee colleagues
voted to expand so-called  quantitative easing  at the central
bank’s Feb. 7 meeting, though they were outvoted by the six
other members, according to minutes released Feb. 20.  The Bank of England will keep its asset-purchase target
unchanged at 375 billion pounds when it announces its next
decision on March 7, according to 28 of 39  economists  surveyed
by Bloomberg. Nine forecast an increase of 25 billion pounds,
with the remaining two predicting expansion of 50 billion pounds
and 75 billion pounds.  Fiscal Constraint  Moody’s Investors Service cut Britain’s credit rating to
Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22, citing continuing weakness in the
economy. The nation’s bonds rallied even with the downgrade.  “The downgrade is likely to reinforce the emphasis on
economic stimulus through monetary easing because of the fiscal
constraint the U.K. is facing,” Kressin said. “Despite the
decline, sterling is not actually cheap or undervalued if you
take into account its economic fundamentals. Competitiveness
that comes from a weaker currency is offset by high inflation
and rising unit labor costs.”  The OECD’s purchasing power parity metrics show that
sterling was 9.6 percent overvalued at the end of 2012, and 7.2
percent too strong a year ago.  The three-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate for the euro
against the pound showed a 0.42 percentage point premium for
euro calls over puts on Feb. 25, the most since May 2011,
signaling the pound may weaken further. As recently as Jan. 17,
they were indicating sterling would gain. Calls give an investor
the right to buy a currency, while puts grant the opposite.  Haven Attributes  The pound’s slide against the euro was tempered last week
as inconclusive elections in  Italy  reignited speculation the
region’s debt crisis will worsen, sending traders to assets in
nations considered havens.  The U.K. currency strengthened more than 20 percent versus
the euro from October 2009, when financial turmoil erupted in
 Greece , to July 2012, when European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi said policy makers would do “whatever it takes” to
safeguard the monetary union.  “The development in  Europe  in recent days favors a return
of demand for the pound,” said Robert Rennie, the chief
currency strategist at Sydney-based  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the
top forecaster in a Bloomberg News survey last quarter.  Westpac estimates the U.K. currency will strengthen to 84
pence per euro by the end of June and has advised customers to
sell the euro against the pound, he said.  Net Shorts  Hedge funds and other large speculators last month
abandoned bets the pound would strengthen, according to data
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in
sterling compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -
- was 36,130 on Feb. 26, the most in almost a year, compared
with net longs of 1,174 as recently as Feb. 5.  Even though the pound has declined by about 20 percent on a
trade-weighted basis since King become Bank of England governor
in July 2003, International Monetary Fund data show the U.K. had
a current-account deficit of 1.7 percent of GDP last year.
 Germany  had a surplus of 5.2 percent.  “Sterling has dropped a lot but the trade balance hasn’t
improved,” John Taylor, founder and chief executive officer at
FX Concepts in New York, said in a Feb. 28 telephone interview.
“Nothing has improved in the U.K. Its quantitative easing is
relatively larger than the U.S.’s given the size of the U.K.
economy, but it is not working.”  Forecasts Lowered  Bets that the pound will decline are among the company’s
largest so-called short positions, Taylor said.  “If you look at the comparison of historical moves of the
pound, this is nothing yet,” Taylor said. “There is more room
to go down.”  Analysts have lowered their year-end forecasts for sterling
against the euro by 4.8 percent this year to 83 pence, according
to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest reduction after the decrease in projections for the
yen versus the dollar and the 17-nation shared currency.  While the Bank of England’s King denies targeting sterling,
he and his colleagues have highlighted the benefits of a drop in
the pound. King’s appointed successor Carney has meanwhile said
central banks aren’t “maxed out.”  Taylor at FX Concepts said the pound may fall as low as
$1.25 in the “longer term” if a weakening economy spurs the
central bank to resume stimulus.  “The Bank of England is saying they want sterling to go
down,” Taylor said. “Hey, give me a ticket and I’ll take it,
thank you. It’s a free flight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  