-- Prudential Said to Buy San Francisco Tower for $100 Million
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-03-05T03:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/prudential-said-to-buy-san-francisco-tower-for-100-million.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, bought a San Francisco office
tower amid increased investor demand for commercial real estate
in the city, according to two people familiar with the deal.  The insurer’s real estate investment management unit,
Prudential Real Estate Investors, is the buyer, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the deal. The 100 Spear St.
high-rise in San Francisco’s South of Market district was
purchased for $100 million and gives the buyer 203,000 square
feet of space that is more than 91 percent leased, seller
 Clarion Partners LLC  said yesterday in a statement.  San Francisco is the top-ranked U.S. office market for
revenue per square foot through 2017, and grew last year by an
estimated 11 percent, Green Street Advisors said in an October
report. The city’s economy has been fueled by technology firms
such as Salesforce.com Inc. and Twitter Inc., and offers
“superior” returns along with West Los Angeles and  Boston ,
according to the  Newport Beach , California-based research firm.  “We have a very hands-on, pro-active management approach
with respect to all of our portfolio properties,” Mark Weld,
managing director for New York-based Clarion, said in the
statement. “San Francisco in particular is a dynamic
marketplace where we have recently aggressively executed on
opportunities on both the buy and the sell side and expect to
continue to do so.”  Bob DeFillippo, spokesman for  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential, didn’t immediately respond to phone messages after
regular business hours.  The 100 Spear St. property has a renovated lobby, remodeled
floors and upgraded elevators, Clarion said.  Office rents in San Francisco soared 27 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier to an average $48.83 a square
foot, according to broker CBRE Group Inc. Citywide office costs
including rent, taxes and service charges jumped 36 percent last
year, the biggest gain of any global market, CBRE said in a
separate report. Building sales climbed 93 percent to $6.37
billion in 2012, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  