-- Rage, Smelly Socks and Stolen Wine in China’s Skies
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-05T19:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/rage-smelly-socks-and-stolen-wine-in-china-s-skies.html
February 2013 might have been the
worst month ever to be an employee of an airline flying in or
out of China. Blame, however, can’t be laid at the feet (or
landing gears) of the airlines that seek to exploit one of the
 world’s fastest growing  air-travel markets. This state of
affairs must be pinned on an ornery cast of Chinese passengers.  The lowlights are noteworthy:  -- Feb. 6, Kunming Changshui International Airport: In a
 video  that has gone viral internationally, Yan Linkun,  a mining
executive and county-level Communist Party official , smashes two
boarding gate computers and attempts to send the frame of a sign
through the glass door standing between him and the second
flight that he and his family have missed.  --  Feb. 14 , Beijing Capital International Airport: Six
business-class passengers traveling together refuse to fasten
their seat belts or turn off their phones prior to takeoff, then
become abusive toward the flight attendants and captain, forcing
a return to the gate and a substantial flight delay.  -- Feb. 20, Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport: Flight
delays on a Melbourne-bound flight on  China  Southern result in
two Chinese passengers beating an employee to the ground. Photos
of the  crumpled attendant  circulate on Sina Weibo, China’s
leading microblogging platform.  -- Feb. 22,  Air France Flight 132 , somewhere between Paris
and Wuhan: Two men, reportedly drunk, swipe between seven and 16
bottles of wine (accounts vary) from a drink cart. When
confronted, they become so belligerent that the pilot has to
intervene. They still  manage to threaten  the life of a passenger
whom they judge as particularly nosy.  That list is just the start. A query for “air passengers”
and “February” on Chinese search engines reveals other reported
incidents, including disruptive drunken passengers and at least
one more passenger  trying to break down  the doors between the
boarding gate and the plane (and succeeding in this case). Then
there’s the story that has been widely circulated in China of
somebody (parents?) allowing a child  to defecate in the aisle of
a  packed passenger jet.  Of course, unruly, rude, demeaning and even dangerous
behavior isn’t the sole provenance of Chinese passengers.
Foreign airline passengers  behaved badly  in February, too -- but
not nearly in the numbers reported for their Chinese
counterparts.  What has made the Chinese skies so unfriendly? The weeklong
Chinese New Year holiday that ended Feb. 15 is one cause. For
many Chinese, this is the only time of year they are able to
travel; not surprisingly, packed planes, overloaded air traffic
control systems, frequent delays and very short tempers result.
Moreover, those planes are often packed with first-time fliers
who bring high expectations of airline service -- especially as
compared with the low-level of service they might have
experienced in China’s much more popular but less expensive
railway system.  Such misbehavior didn’t begin this Chinese New Year.
 According to the Wuxi Daily , a government-owned newspaper, bomb
threats have become a common passenger response to delays, with
45 bomb hoaxes in the past nine months alone (the paper implied
-- but didn’t specify -- that those hoaxes were related to
delays). Notoriously, about 20 disgruntled and delayed
passengers at Shanghai Pudong International Airport stormed a
runway  in April 2012  and held up at least one other flight.  Most public discussion of these incidents tends to focus on
alleged flaws in the Chinese character. This sort of social
navel-gazing might strike some foreigners -- especially
security-focused Americans -- as short-sighted. But in China,
where maintaining the national “face” is a policy priority
shared by rulers and ruled, it’s a real concern.  Take, for example, Wen Fei, the woman who was threatened
for her nosy behavior while trying to dissuade the wine thieves
on the flight from Paris to Wuhan. Despite the fact that -- by
her own account -- they  told her  that she should stay out their
business and keep her mouth shut if she hoped to leave Wuhan
alive, she didn’t focus her microblogging attention on the
safety risks at hand. In a subsequent  tweet  to Sina Weibo, she
posted what she said was a photo of one of the wine thieves and
commented: “When Chinese people go abroad, what’s lost is not
money but character. All kinds of bad behavior reflect poorly on
the image of the Chinese.”  News reporters are similarly focused on how all these
incidents make the Chinese look. On Feb. 27, the state-run Wuxi
Daily  interviewed an airline purser , Zhou Hua, with experience
on international routes. The question at the heart of the story
was specific: How do Chinese passengers compare with passengers
of other nationalities? Zhou, speaking both for himself and his
colleagues, noted: “We are neither unpatriotic nor biased
against our compatriots, but we prefer to serve foreigners.”
Why? Among the reasons he enumerated were that foreigners throw
away their trash, wear their seatbelts, flush the toilets and
bring their own slippers (rather than wandering around in their
stinky socks --  a complaint often leveled  against Chinese air
passengers by other Chinese air passengers).  Typically, national-level state media in China push back
against suggestions that foreign social mores are superior to
Chinese ones. But in this rare case, even national-level
editorial writers are willing to accept the notion that Chinese
air passenger behavior may hint at deeper problems. On March 1,
Yu Jincui, a reporter with the hypernationalist, Communist
Party-owned Global Times newspaper,  wrote of the Air France wine
thieves  and other misdeeds by Chinese:  “The causes for such small-mindedness are complicated. It’s
a matter of low-quality character and morality due to inadequate
education.  “Besides, decades of poverty imprinted an instinct among
Chinese to snatch and grab when they have the chance.  “With the rapid development of China’s economy, the living
conditions of Chinese have improved a lot. But the character of
the Chinese has failed to advance with the times.”  Is this fair? Should every Chinese -- including hundreds of
millions who can’t afford to fly -- be held responsible for the
misbehavior of often well-heeled air passengers? The answer,  for
at least a few microbloggers , is a decided no. For them, the
fact that so many of the air rage miscreants fly business class
or internationally suggests that  these issues result from people
who don’t fear the consequences . In effect, money and power
corrupt, and on airplanes they set off entitled, temperamental
behavior.  On Feb. 27, Mangy Youth, the handle for a microblogger in
Hangzhou, offered a cynical expression of this sentiment. In his
 tweet , he references the cheap “green trains” that were once
China’s most popular means of long-distance travel:  “When I took the green trains I thought the people were
very dirty, so I switched to bullet trains. But I found there
were a bunch of dirty men on bullet trains, so I turned to the
high-speed rails. There I found people with money but lacking
character, so I changed to planes. But on the planes I found the
people weren’t human at all. In this way I found that the people
on the green trains weren’t dirty.”  It’s an apologetic, egalitarian sentiment, suggesting that
-- all things considered -- it’s better to ride the rails with
the lower classes, and all the unpleasantness such rides might
entail, than to fly high with the sweet smelling but corrupt
elites. Still, Mangy Youth won’t be downgrading to green trains
any time soon, and neither will the almost human passengers with
whom he now loathes to fly. For better, and often for worse,
they’re all prisoners of the unfriendly skies.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 