-- Transocean Worker Misinterpreted Well Test, Witness Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/transocean-worker-misinterpreted-well-test-witness-says.html
A  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  supervisor on the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig that blew up in the  Gulf of Mexico  in
2010 testified that a worker misinterpreted a key test before
the incident.  Randy Ezell, a Transocean drilling supervisor on the rig,
said in federal court in New Orleans that he wasn’t informed
about problems with the negative pressure test before the
explosion by his assistant,  Jason Anderson , who died in the
blast.  “All I can tell you is Jason was misinterpreting what he
was seeing,” Ezell said. He spoke to Anderson shortly before
the blast. “He said it was a good test,” Ezell testified.  The missed test was a key cause of the explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon, the U.S. and plaintiffs suing
 BP Plc (BP/) , Transocean and other defendants contend. Ezell is the
first live witness at the trial over liability for the incident
who was on the rig at the time the well blew.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP, owner of the well, Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of the Deepwater Horizon,
and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement
services.  Reckless Indifference  The nonjury trial over liability for the disaster began
last week. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will determine
responsibility and whether one or more of the companies acted
with willful or wanton misconduct or reckless indifference --the
legal requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company is liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in
Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages
to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion settlement the
company reached with most private party plaintiffs last year.
For Transocean and Halliburton, findings of gross negligence
would mean the companies can be held liable for punitive damages
for all plaintiffs.  BP also faces a  jury trial  next year in federal court in
Houston over claims by investors that the company hid the true
size of the spill to limit the effect on its stock price. U.S.
District Judge Keith P. Ellison, who is overseeing the
shareholder suit, set an Aug. 25, 2014, trial date in a one-page
order yesterday.  Investors Sue  The investors, led by  Ohio  and  New York  pension plans, sued
BP and certain officers in 2010, alleging violations of U.S.
securities law. The investors also claim the company publicly
claimed a commitment to and implementation of expanded safety
measures while internally cutting budgets and rejecting
employees’ safety warnings.  Ellison has limited the lawsuit to claims brought by
investors who bought BP’s American depositary receipts, which
trade on the New York Stock Exchange. BP has denied fraud or any
lack of attention to safety in court filings.  In the trial in New Orleans, lawyers for the government and
spill victims contend BP was over budget and behind schedule on
the Macondo deep-water drilling project off the  Louisiana  coast,
prompting the company to cut corners and ignore safety tests
showing the well was unstable.  Defective Cement  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation, and leaving the crew untrained for crisis
situations.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean workers’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton officials concealed flaws with cement work done on
the drilling project. Transocean and Halliburton countersued,
pointing the finger back at BP on liability issues.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 federal charges in November,
including 12 felonies, and admitted it misinterpreted the
critical pressure test just before the explosion. The U.K.
company agreed to pay $4 billion in fines and penalties, plus
$525 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
claim that the company underestimated the size of the spill.  Transocean pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor  Clean Water Act 
violation and agreed to pay $1.4 billion, including $400 million
in criminal penalties.  Misinterpreted Results  The U.S. and plaintiffs claim BP and Transocean
misinterpreted the results of a negative-pressure test, a check
for an increase in the pressure or flow of oil or gas up the
well, deeming it a success when it wasn’t.  After two unsuccessful tests, BP began monitoring negative
testing on an additional pipe, called a kill line. The test
showed pressure on the drill pipe and zero pressure on the kill
line, an anomaly that indicated the well wasn’t secure, the U.S.
said in court papers.  “I think there was definitely a misinterpretation” of the
negative pressure test, Ezell testified yesterday.  Plaintiffs’ attorney Paul Sterbcow asked Ezell if the
Transocean crew missed danger signs in the hours before the
blast.  “I’m sure there were,” he replied. “I don’t really like
to think about it very much.”  ‘Was Disoriented’  Ezell, who had worked on the Deepwater Horizon for nine
years, was off duty the night of April 20, 2010, when he heard a
loud noise. “It was like a 747 on the rig floor,” Ezell said.
This was followed by the explosion, he said.  The blast “blew me against the wall,” covering him with
debris, he testified. “I was disoriented. The place I lived for
nine years didn’t look” anything like it did before, Ezell
said.  Ezell helped evacuate injured co-workers from the burning
rig. “I stayed because it was the right thing to do,” he said.  Nine Transocean workers, including Anderson, were among the
11 killed in the explosion. The other two worked for a
subsidiary of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)   “We were a family. We were a team,” Ezell, 57, said of
his Transocean Deepwater Horizon rig crew. Anderson “was one of
the best of the best. He was one of the rocks of the Horizon.”  The Deepwater Horizon crew conducted a weekly blow-out
drill and a weekly well control drill among the safety programs
pursued before the explosion, Ezell said.  ‘Very Effective’  “In my opinion they were very effective,” he testified.
“We did have seven years without a lost-time incident.”  Transocean lawyer Rachel Clingman asked Ezell if he
considered the Macondo the “well from hell.”  “I never viewed it as that,” Ezell said. All deep-water
wells are “very difficult,” he said.  Ronnie Sepulvado , a BP manager who was assigned to the
Macondo project, testified yesterday that a rotary table on the
floor of the Deepwater Horizon was broken for about three years.
A rotary table is a section of the drill floor that provides
power to turn the drill bit.  The crew would “work around it,” Sepulvado testified. The
broken table was a safety concern which he raised “with just
about everybody on the rig,” he said.  Sepulvado, who had worked on the Deepwater Horizon for
eight years, was a well site manager on the rig until four days
before the blast, when he left because his well-control
certificate was about to expire.  No Waiver  “Did you try to get a waiver or something like that?”
plaintiff’s attorney Conrad “Duke” Williams asked him
yesterday.  “BP wouldn’t give” a waiver, Sepulvado answered.  BP lawyer Carrie Karis asked Sepulvado if he considered the
Deepwater Horizon to be a safe rig.  “Very safe,” Sepulvado said.  The case is In re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  