-- Ronaldo Knocks 10-Man Manchester United Out of Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-06T00:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/real-madrid-beats-manchester-utd-to-advance-in-champions-league.html
Real  Madrid  beat 10-man Manchester
United 2-1 to advance to the Champions League soccer
quarterfinals as Cristiano Ronaldo’s goal knocked out his former
team after Nani was shown a red card.  Ronaldo’s 69th-minute strike gave Madrid a 3-2 victory over
two matches after Luka Modric had tied last night’s game in
Manchester following Nani’s 56th-minute sending off for a high
tackle on Alvaro Arbeloa. The home team had gone ahead on Sergio Ramos’s own goal early in the second half.  “We’re extremely disappointed,” United assistant coach
Mike Phelan said as he stood in for manager Alex Ferguson in the
post-game news conference. “Everybody was sat in the dressing
room there wondering what had happened and why it happened. It’s
a very distraught dressing room and a very distraught manager.
That’s why I’m sat here now.”  Madrid, seeking a record-extending 10th European Cup title,
will be joined in the final eight of the continent’s top club
competition by Borussia Dortmund, which beat Shakhtar Donetsk 3-
0 to complete a 5-2 victory. The quarterfinal draw is scheduled
for March 15.  Two more spots will be filled tonight when Juventus takes a
3-0 lead into its home match against Celtic and Valencia tries
to overturn a 2-1 deficit at Paris Saint-Germain.  Following a 1-1 draw in Spain last month, Manchester United
went ahead in the two-match series in the 48th minute as Nani’s
cross from the left hit Danny Welbeck before Ramos deflected it
past goalkeeper Diego Lopez.  Game Changer  The complexion of the game changed eight minutes later when
referee Cuneyt Cakir of Turkey red-carded Nani for his challenge
on Arbeloa as both contested the ball. The call drew the ire of
Ferguson, who immediately charged to complain to the fourth
official on the touchline.  “That amazing decision changed things totally,” Phelan
said. “It is a disappointing one and it spoiled the game.”  Attacking midfielder Modric came on as a 59th-minute
substitute for Arbeloa and tied the score seven minutes later by
firing in a shot off the right post.  Ronaldo, playing his first game at Old Trafford since
moving from United to Spain in 2009, then slid at the far post
to knock in a cross from Gonzalo Higuain for his competition-
leading eighth goal this season. The Portuguese forward also
scored in the round-of-16 opener in Madrid.  “It was emotional in both games, especially tonight, it
was unbelievable,” Ronaldo said in an interview with Sky Sports.
“I helped my team and feel a little happy inside because Madrid
goes through. But on the other hand I feel sad because it’s
Manchester United.”  ‘Very Harsh’  United players surrounded Cakir after the final whistle
with defender Rio Ferdinand sarcastically applauding the referee,
while Ferguson elected to skip his press conference.  “I don’t think the manager is in any fit state to talk to
the referee about the decision,” Phelan said. “It speaks
volumes that I’m sitting here. We all saw and witnessed a
decision that seemed very harsh at that time in the game.”  Real’s victory, which follows back-to-back wins over
archrival Barcelona in the Copa del Rey and Spanish league last
week, sent the team into the Champions League quarterfinals for
the third straight season.  “We’re in good shape and we want to carry on like that
because we want to win this competition,” Ronaldo added.  It was Real’s fourth victory in five European Cup matchups
between the teams, with the winner going on to capture the
trophy three times. United, which leads  England ’s Premier League
by 12 points, had reached the final in three of the past five
seasons.  Dortmund Advances  Dortmund, the 1997 winner, advanced to the quarterfinals
for the first time in 15 years as Felipe Santana, Mario Goetze
and Jakub Blaszczykowski scored in the rout of Shakhtar.  Santana headed in Marco Reus’s corner kick in the 31st
minute and Goetze made it 2-0 six minutes later. Blaszczykowski
then closed the scoring in the 59th minute.  The two-time defending German champion remains unbeaten in
this year’s competition, with five wins in eight matches in the
group stage and round of 16.  “We hope it is our season,” Dortmund defender Neven
Subotic said on UEFA’s website. “We have showed against a big
team and in a tough group that we can come out on top. We want
to prolong this Champions League experience as long as we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 