-- U.S. Tells G-7 to Avoid Currency Intervention Except Rare Cases
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-05T16:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/treasury-s-brainard-urges-nations-to-avoid-targeting-currencies.html
The U.S. Treasury Department’s top
international official urged Group of Seven economies to avoid
targeting  exchange rates  and let markets set currency levels,
calling for full and timely data on the scale of nations’
interventions.  “The G-7 pledged that exchange rates should float freely,
except in rare circumstances where excess volatility or
disorderly movements might warrant cooperation,” Lael Brainard,
the undersecretary for international affairs, said at a
conference in  Washington  today. “In addition, the G-7 members
committed to avoid targeting exchange rates and to orient
domestic monetary and fiscal policy toward meeting domestic
objectives, using only domestic instruments.”  Global finance chiefs at a Group of 20 meeting in Moscow
last month signaled  Japan  has scope to keep stimulating its
stagnant economy as long as policy makers cease publicly
advocating a sliding yen. Japanese officials in Moscow denied
driving down their currency, arguing that its weakness was a
byproduct of their effort to revive their economy, which would
benefit trading partners.  The G-7 must adhere to its pledges “both in word and in
action,” Brainard said in prepared remarks.  Yen’s Decline  The yen has dropped about 16 percent against the dollar in
the past six months, making it the biggest decliner among the
Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The top gainers
over that period have been the Swedish krona, New Zealand’s
dollar and the euro.  For global demand to strengthen, the G-20 nations must
“follow through on their recent new commitment not to target
exchange rates for competitive purposes,” Brainard told the
National Association for Business Economics conference.  “Fulfilling the commitment to shift toward greater
flexibility will require significantly greater transparency,
with the timely and full publication of data on the scale of
intervention in the market, including more rapid disclosure of
activity in the forward market,” she said.  Central banks from New Zealand to  Norway  have indicated a
readiness to intervene or cut interest rates to weaken their
currencies if necessary, as the U.S. and Japan buy domestic
assets to help revive their economies -- moves that have held
back the dollar and yen.  QE Defense  In the speech, Brainard defended so-called quantitative
easing policies as consistent with “a broad global recovery in
output, jobs and trade.”  “With global growth weak, it is vitally important that the
growth strategies in the world’s largest economies be mutually
compatible,” she said.  Brainard also said China will need to make more progress on
structural reform and “reinvigorate the move to market
determination of the exchange rate and interest rates.”  With new leadership forming, “ China  will need to do more
than continue meeting rising expectations inside China, and at
the same time bring China’s conduct in the global trade and
financial system more into alignment with international
expectations,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  