-- Treasuries Fall Second Day as Services Industries Expand
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-05T22:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/treasuries-are-world-s-best-performers-thanks-to-surging-dollar.html
Treasuries declined for a second day
as a report showed U.S. services industries expanded at the
fastest pace in a year, damping demand for the safety of U.S.
government securities.  Benchmark 10-year yields rose as risk appetite climbed
after  China  vowed to maintain its growth target and euro-area
manufacturing and services shrank less than forecast. The yields
touched a five-week low yesterday. The Dow Jones  Industrial
Average (INDU)  rose to a record high today. Data on March 8 will show
U.S. employers added 160,000 jobs last month after an increase
of 157,000 in January, a Bloomberg News survey forecast.  Yields rose “in reaction to the data,” said Justin Lederer, an  interest-rate  strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal
Reserve . “With these low rates, with any extra cash in the
system investors are looking for risky assets.”  Ten-year  yields  increased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.9 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. They reached 1.91
percent, the first time in three days above their 50-day moving
average of 1.9 percent, after touching 1.83 percent yesterday,
the lowest level since Jan. 24. The price of the 2 percent note
due in February 2023 fell 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 29/32.  Thirty-year yields added two basis points to 3.11 percent.  Trading  volume  rose to $206 billion, from yesterday’s $183
billion, the lowest level this year, according to ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt . Average
daily Treasuries volume for the past year was $247 billion.  Lower Volatility  Treasury volatility as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index fell to 53.9 basis points yesterday,
the lowest level since Jan. 23. The gauge, which tracks the
outlook for swings in U.S. government debt rates, has averaged
66.6 basis points over the past year.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.  non-
manufacturing  businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 56 in February from the prior month’s 55.2, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 55. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  The data followed an ISM report on March 1 that showed U.S.
manufacturing grew last month at the fastest since June 2011.  The Fed purchased $3.34 billion of Treasuries today due
from May 2020 to February 2023. It will buy as much as $5.5
billion of Treasuries in two more operations this week,
according to a  schedule  on the  New York  Fed’s website. The
acquisitions are part of its purchases of $85 billion a month of
Treasury and mortgage debt under the quantitative easing
strategy to support the economy.  ‘Overbought’ Market  Treasuries climbed last week as haven demand grew amid
European turmoil after elections in  Italy  failed to produce a
clear winner, spurring bets the region’s debt crisis will
worsen. The 10-year yield slid 12 basis points, the biggest drop
since the five days ended Aug. 31.  “The market has been pretty overbought,” said Tom Tucci,
managing director and head of Treasury trading in New York at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit.
“It’s no surprise you’ll see some kind of take-back in here. I
don’t think anyone will take any major risk until the payroll
number on Friday.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.56 percentage points, up one basis point from
yesterday, versus an average of 2.2 percentage points over the
past decade.  ‘Much Higher’  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed, erasing losses
from the financial crisis after a four-year rally fueled by the
fastest profit growth since the 1990s and monetary stimulus from
the central bank.  “What’s driving both stocks and bonds is the fact that the
Fed has manipulated the market, and as long as they’re doing QE,
bonds can’t really fall that far and stocks can just go much
higher,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate
Advisors, a brokerage for institutional investors in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Policy makers’ signals that they’re not about to close the
door on stimulus may limit increases in Treasury yields.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a speech yesterday
the central bank should continue its monthly bond buying while
tracking the costs of the program. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week defended the Fed’s bond purchases and low interest rate,
saying the benefits of reducing borrowing costs and fueling
growth outweigh any potential costs.  The Fed has kept its  benchmark target  for overnight lending
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008.  Significant Increase  The Treasury 10-year yield may rise “significantly” above
Societe Generale SA’s 2.75 percent year-end forecast if the
economy shows marked improvement “and the Fed signals an end to
extreme policy accommodation,” researchers Patrick Legland,
 Stephen Gallagher  and  Aneta Markowska  wrote in a note to
clients. The firm is a primary dealer.  The median forecast of 68 economists in a Bloomberg survey
is for the 10-year yield to rise to 2.25 percent by year-end.  Treasuries declined earlier as London-based Markit
Economics said a composite gauge of euro-area services and
manufacturing output fell to 47.9 in February, above an initial
estimate of 47.3, from 48.6 in January.  China maintained its economic-growth target at 7.5 percent
for 2013. The  budget deficit  will rise by 50 percent as spending
increases to “maintain support for economic growth,” Premier
 Wen Jiabao  reported to the National People’s Congress in
Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  