-- ResCap Wins More Time to File Exclusive Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-05T19:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/rescap-will-get-more-time-to-file-exit-plan-judge-says.html
Residential Capital LLC won more
time to file an exclusive plan to reorganize while the bankrupt
mortgage company remains in mediation with creditors, who say
talks have stalled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today
extended the company’s exclusive right to file a reorganization
plan to April 30. The order came after ResCap settled a dispute
with noteholders by dropping a provision that would have given a
committee of unsecured creditors a “veto role” over any plan
the company may file by that date.  Glenn approved ResCap’s request to hire a new chief
restructuring officer, Lewis Kruger, and said he deserves time
to try to put together a plan. The company requested 60 days
during which no creditor is allowed to propose one.  “It may be at the end of 60 days, all bets are off,”
Glenn said. ResCap “would have a hard time convincing me to
extend exclusivity again.”  Glenn extended until May 31 negotiations with creditors and
ResCap’s parent,  Ally Financial  Inc. The talks are designed
partly to decide how much Ally must to pay to avoid a lawsuit
over what it did before ResCap filed bankruptcy.  While it retains the exclusive right to reorganize itself,
ResCap doesn’t expect to file a restructuring plan that the
creditor committee opposes, company attorney Lorenzo Marinuzzi
said in court today.  Ally Settlement  Ally, based in  Detroit , had proposed paying creditors
$750 million to settle all claims. The creditor committee
opposed that settlement, saying it was too low.  ResCap’s board supported the settlement until last month,
when the company agreed to hire Kruger and promised not to file
a reorganization plan in the next few months without support
from the creditor committee.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy last year, partly to help it
resolve lawsuits brought by investors that purchased mortgage
bonds backed by $226 billion worth of home loans. The lawsuits
claimed the bonds lost value because many of the loans were bad.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  