-- Retail Gasoline Falls First Time in 2013 as Plant Work Nears End
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/retail-gasoline-falls-first-time-in-2013-as-plant-work-nears-end.html
Retail gasoline prices in the U.S.
declined for the first time this year as seasonal refinery
maintenance nears an end and fuel producers prepare to restore
supplies in the market.  Regular gasoline in the U.S. fell for the first time in 11
weeks, declining 2.5 cents, or 0.7 percent, from a week earlier
to $3.759 a gallon yesterday, according to data compiled by the
Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  Retail gasoline prices are at the  highest ever  for this
time of year as planned refinery repairs exacerbated a decline
from last year in supplies on the U.S. East Coast. This week’s
drop ends the longest streak of price increases at the pumps
since September, driven up by the plant maintenance and a switch
to more expensive summer-grade fuel production.  “We’ve reached the peak in retail gasoline,” Dave Hackett, president of oil consultant Stillwater Associates, said
by telephone from  Irvine ,  California , yesterday. “Barring
something odd happening with crude  oil prices , I think we’ve got
a month’s worth of relief ahead of us.”  West  Texas  Intermediate crude for April delivery slid 56
cents, or 0.6 percent, to $90.12 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange yesterday, the lowest settlement price since
Dec. 24. Prices fell to $89.33 in intraday trading.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S. climbed 0.3 percent to 377.5
million barrels in the seven days ended Feb. 22, the EIA said
Feb. 27. They probably added another 788,000 barrels, or 0.2
percent, last week, according to a median of 10 analyst
estimates before the agency’s next report tomorrow.  Maintenance Ends  Gasoline supplies fell 0.8 percent in the week ended Feb.
22 to 228.5 million barrels, the EIA data showed. Output of the
motor-fuel rose 3.1 percent in the same period to 9.21 million
barrels a day, the agency said.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Sweeny refinery in Texas finished a planned
maintenance turnaround and was restarting units late last month.
Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Port Arthur plant in Texas, the largest
U.S. refinery, is expected to return equipment to service before
the end of March after scheduled work.  Philadelphia Energy Solutions is nearing the end of its own
40-day turnaround on a crude unit at the Girard Point section of
the East Coast’s largest  refinery .  Gasoline futures for April delivery declined 3.03 cents to
settle at $3.0983 a gallon on the Nymex yesterday as refiners
wrapped up maintenance. April’s premium over the May contract
narrowed to 3 cents from 4 cents a gallon on March 1, indicating
supplies may increase as plants boost production after seasonal
maintenance.  West Coast Rises  Retail gasoline prices fell yesterday in the U.S. East
Coast, the Midwest and the  Gulf Coast . They continued to rise in
the Rocky Mountain region and the West Coast.  Prices dropped the most on the Gulf Coast, declining 4.8
cents to $3.576 a gallon, and climbed the most on the West
Coast, rising 1.6 cents to $4.069 a gallon, the EIA said.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is performing maintenance on the fluid
catalytic cracker at its El Segundo plant, California’s largest
refinery.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery near  Los Angeles 
was scheduled to shut several units early this month for about
30 days of repairs, a person with knowledge of the schedule said
Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  