-- Roche Chairman Humer Says He’ll Retire in 2014
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-03-05T17:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/roche-chairman-humer-says-he-ll-retire-in-2014.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  Chairman Franz Humer said he won’t stand for re-election next year, ending more
than a decade of leadership of the world’s biggest maker of
cancer medicines.  A successor to Humer, 66, will be nominated in the fall and
will also be a non-executive chairman, maintaining the company’s
split between that office and that of the chief executive
officer, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  His departure means  Europe ’s two biggest drugmakers will
replace influential chairmen in the course of a year after
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  Chairman  Daniel Vasella  stepped down last month.
Humer is credited as an architect of Roche’s strategy of yoking
its diagnostics and drugs units together to create medicines
targeted at individual patients.  “That is the basis for our success today and in the future
as well,” Andre Hoffmann, a spokesman for the Roche family
shareholders’ voting pool, said today at the Basel, Switzerland-
based company’s annual shareholder meeting.  Humer told shareholders it was important for him to set his
own departure date. Roche CEO Severin Schwan was voted onto the
company’s supervisory board today.  New Ideas  “New leaders bring new ideas,” Humer said. “Roche is in
excellent shape and well positioned to meet future challenges.
This is a good time to hand over to a successor. I am looking
forward to the next 12 months, and I intend to perform my duties
as chairman with enthusiasm and drive.”  Humer was CEO when Roche  bought  a 30 percent stake in U.S.
biotechnology company Genentech Inc. in 1999 and helped oversee
the full takeover of the company as chairman in 2009. The deals
netted Roche its top-selling cancer medicines Rituxan and
Herceptin. The latter, a breast cancer drug, was the company’s
first “personalized” tumor treatment, with a diagnostic test
to show which women it is likely to help.  Roche spokesman  Alexander Klauser  declined to comment on
the qualities the company is looking for in Humer’s successor.  Humer, a former executive at Schering-Plough Corp. and
Glaxo Holdings Plc, joined Roche in 1995, according to the
company’s website. He became CEO in 1998, and added the title of
chairman in 2001. Schwan succeeded him as chief executive in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Basel at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  