-- Romania’s Dollar Bond Yields Fall to Lowest in Two Weeks
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-03-05T12:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/romania-s-dollar-bond-yields-fall-to-lowest-in-two-weeks.html
Romania ’s dollar bond yields slid to
the lowest level in two weeks as the nation enters major
emerging-market debt indexes in March and amid speculation
central banks around the world will continue with measures to
support economic recovery.  JPMorgan included three Romanian local bonds in its GBI-EM
gauge on March 1, the U.S. bank said in an e-mail today. Eleven
of the nation’s leu-denominated fixed-income securities are
eligible for addition to a Barclays Plc measure, according to e-
mailed comments from Societe Generale SA.  “Romania is on an upswing,” analysts at Societe Generale,
led by London-based Benoit Anne, wrote in a research note. “We
are positive on the leu and the bond market, given Romania’s
inclusion into major bond indexes.”  The yield on 10-year bonds declined for a second day, down
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.45 percent,
the lowest level since Feb. 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on 2019 euro-denominated bonds fell four basis
points to 4.038 percent.  Romania’s leu traded little changed at 4.3633 per euro by
1:45 p.m. in Bucharest. It has gained 1.8 percent this year, the
second-best performance among currencies in eastern  Europe  and
 Africa .  European stocks rose to a 4 1/2-year high on bets of
continuing stimulus from central banks around the world.
European finance chiefs may next month commit to giving Ireland
and  Portugal  more time to repay bailout loans, Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said yesterday. U.S.
index futures and Asian shares also climbed.  Commodities rallied as  China  vowed to maintain its growth
target at 7.5 percent for this year and plans a 10 percent jump
in fiscal spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  