-- Rona CEO Weighs 2013 Asset Sales to Revive Profit Growth
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-05T16:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/rona-ceo-weighs-2013-asset-sales-to-revive-profit-growth.html
Rona Inc. (RON)  will decide this year
whether to sell big-box stores outside  Quebec  as Canada’s
largest home-improvement retailer revamps after rejecting a
takeover bid from Lowe’s Cos.  The chain is trying to boost profit 15 percent by cutting
jobs and shrinking or selling underperforming units. Its review
of “non-core” businesses, whose C$1.2 billion ($1.17 billion)
in sales make up 25 percent of annual revenue, will be in
“quarters rather than years,” acting Chief Executive Officer
Dominique Boies said in a phone interview from Rona’s
Boucherville, Quebec, headquarters.  Investors who forced out Boies’ predecessor last year are
betting the strategy will succeed. Rona now commands a  premium 
to Lowe’s, compared with a 10 percent discount Sept. 17, when
the U.S. company withdrew its bid of C$14.50 a share. It also
trades at a higher price-earnings ratio than the benchmark
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  “We feel good about what’s happening,” said  Michael Sabia , CEO of Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Rona’s
largest investor. “It’s a tough sector, particularly in the
current economic climate. All the more reason why you’ve got to
double down, work hard and fast and get things done. Rona is in
a turnaround situation. That demands moving quickly and getting
the puck in the net.”  Boies, among the candidates for the CEO position, took the
job on an interim basis in November after Caisse de Depot and
another major stockholder, Invesco Canada, pushed out longtime
chief Robert Dutton and engineered a board overhaul amid
dissatisfaction with five years of declining profitability.  Trailing Estimates  The  margin on Ebitda , or earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, dropped to 4.1 percent last year,
capping six straight years of declines. Rona’s market value fell
47 percent in the same period to $1.27 billion.  The retailer missed analysts’  earnings estimates  in nine of
the past 12 quarters, and some investors remain skeptical about
the turnaround plan.  The stock fell 0.4 percent to C$11.43 at 11:30 a.m. today
in Toronto, taking its decline since the plan was disclosed Feb.
21 to 5.2 percent. As of yesterday, Rona traded at premiums of
73 percent to Lowe’s and 67 percent to  Home Depot (HD)  as well more
than double the price-earnings ratio of the S&P/TSX index.  Rona has to do “a rewiring of the organization, of the
administrative functions, and we have to use this flexibility to
reinvest in our value proposition to consumers and to dealers,”
Boies said. “That’s what we are doing today. We probably lost
focus over the years.”  ‘Non-Core’ Units  Rona’s “transformational strategy” calls for cutting 200
administrative jobs and boosting Ebitda about 15 percent over
two years. In addition to the big-box store network outside
Quebec, Rona will consider divesting its commercial and
professional division, which sells construction materials to
contractors, Boies said. Scotiabank is advising the retailer, he
said.  Increased earnings and freed-up capital from the “non-
core” units would be reinvested in businesses such as hardware
distribution and so-called proximity stores, Rona said.
Proximity stores cover about 35,000 square feet on average,
while big box stores can be five times as large, Rona said.  The company’s big-box stores in Ontario and Western  Canada 
have annual revenue of about C$750 million, while sales in the
commercial and professional division amount to about C$450
million, Boies said.  Deal Valuation  The latter business may fetch as much as C$160 million,
Irene Nattel, an RBC Capital Markets analyst, said in a Feb. 18
note. Nattel, who has a sector perform rating on Rona, based the
figure on typical Ebitda multiples paid for companies in the
Canadian home improvement industry.  “Asset sales are pretty likely, definitely on the
commercial and professional side,” Derek Dley, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity, said by telephone from  Vancouver . “That’s
not a very material portion of their business. It was an
extension of their product offering a few years ago that they
looked to go after, but clearly it hasn’t returned what they
were hoping for.”  Rona may rise to as much as C$13 a share if the company
makes “incremental” asset sales such as the commercial and
professional unit, James Durran, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
Toronto, said in a Feb. 22 note to customers.  U.S. Competitors  Evaluating those businesses, along with improving
merchandising, pricing and in-store service, is part of Rona’s
effort to fend off rivals such as Home Depot and Lowe’s. The
Mooresville, North Carolina-based company has said it wants to
supplant Rona as Canada’s largest home-improvement retailer.  The country’s $40 billion market offers “significant
opportunity for growth,” Lowe’s CEO Bob Niblock told investors
Dec. 5.  Lowe’s, which operates 34 Canadian stores may eventually
have more than 100, Niblock said without specifying a timeframe.  Home Depot operates 180 outlets in the country, up from 165
in 2007, said Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based
retailer.  That competitive pressure is one reason why Rona must
“simplify” its business, Boies said. The company wants to
improve merchandising, pricing and in-store service, while
cutting the number of products it offers to focus on top-selling
models, he said.  Limited Patience  Should asset sales occur, Boies said Rona has no plans to
use the proceeds to buy back about C$117 million of outstanding
debt. The company would probably return some cash to
shareholders instead, he said.  The key for Rona will be to show results quickly, said Luc Fournier, a  fund manager  at Quebec City-based based Industrial
Alliance Insurance Financial Services Inc. Fournier said his
firm doesn’t own Rona stock because of “unfavorable
fundamentals” in the home-renovation industry.  “They don’t have much time,” Fournier said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think people will be patient for three
years. One more underperforming quarter and investors will be
asking questions. 2015 is a long way away.”  A shrinking home-building market further complicates Rona’s
plans. Housing starts are forecast to drop 11 percent this year
while sales of existing homes also decline, Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp. said Feb. 22. The pace of new  home construction 
fell to the slowest since 2009 in January, the federal housing
agency reported Feb. 8.  Renovation Spending  A “challenging macro environment for renovation spending”
is the first reason I.A. Michael Investment Counsel Ltd. sold
its entire 3 percent stake in Rona last month, President  Irwin Michael  said in a Feb. 15  note  to investors.  He also cited an expected C$25 million in restructuring
costs and political obstacles to a takeover that would benefit
investors.  Government and opposition politicians in Quebec joined
together last year in a rare show of unity to slam the proposed
sale of Rona to Lowe’s, citing the retailer’s “strategic”
importance to the provincial economy. Lowe’s withdrew its
unsolicited offer for Rona, which had refused to negotiate a
friendly deal, in September, when Dutton was still at the helm.  The company will probably announce the name of his
successor this month, said Boies, who was hired in August 2011
and previously worked with  Royal Bank of Canada  and the Caisse.
He said he wants to be CEO on a permanent basis to carry out the
strategy he helped create.  “I believe in this plan,” Boies said. “I put all my
energy and my values into it, and I want to be here for the
execution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  