-- Russia Opens Case Into Browder’s Hermitage Buying Gazprom Stock
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-03-05T14:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/russia-opens-case-into-browder-s-hermitage-buying-gazprom-stock.html
Russia opened a criminal case into
purchases of  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  stock by Hermitage Capital Management
Ltd. as prosecutors prepare for the trial of the fund’s founder
and his dead legal adviser on tax-fraud charges.  Hermitage head  William Browder  is accused of illegally
buying about 131.6 million Gazprom shares for about 2.1 billion
rubles ($70 million) at a time when foreign ownership of the
world’s biggest natural-gas producer was restricted, Mikhail
Alexandrov, head of the Interior ministry’s investigative
directorate for organized crime and corruption, said today on
state television.  “Buying Gazprom  shares  through derivative structures was
entirely legal,” Browder said by phone today, adding that
neither he nor Hermitage has been notified of the case.  The accusations follow separate  tax evasion  charges brought
against Browder, a British citizen whose London-based fund was
once the largest foreign portfolio investor in Russia. Browder,
who has been barred from entering Russia since 2005 as a
security threat to the state, is being tried in absentia on the
same accusations made against Sergei Magnitsky, a Hermitage tax
and legal adviser who died in a Moscow prison in 2009.
Magnitsky’s family has said the posthumous trial is
“politically motivated.”  Browder attempted to use share ownership to exert influence
on the company, Alexandrov said. He estimated the damage to the
government at no less than 3 billion rubles.  Buying and trading shares of Gazprom by foreigners was
 restricted  before the state raised its ownership in the gas
producer to more than 50 percent in 2005.  Russia  had banned
foreigners from holding more than 20 percent of the stock and
restricted them to American depositary receipts.  ‘Ring Fence’  The restrictions, the so-called ring fence, were put in
place in late 1990s when the company was undervalued, creating
two markets for trading the company stock -- ordinary shares on
the Russian market and ADRs limited to 4.4 percent of the
nominal capital. Gazprom’s ADRs traded at about double the price
of the local shares in 2004.  Hermitage’s purchases of Gazprom shares relate to the
period from 2001 to 2004, Alexandrov said. After criminal
charges are brought against Browder, Russia may issue an
international arrest warrant for him, he said. Russia will
cooperate with the U.K., U.S. and European Union authorities in
the investigation, he said.  Hermitage’s investment in Gazprom shares had the acceptance
of Russian authorities and the company at the time, according to
Browder.  Hermitage ‘Blessed’  “Our ownership in Gazprom shares was blessed by the
federal securities commission in 2004, and by Gazprom itself on
a continuous basis,” Browder said.  Alexandrov said Browder also attempted to influence Gazprom
by putting forward his candidacy for the board and pushing for
changes in the company’s dividend and information policies and
the order of deals approval by the board.  In a separate case, the Prosecutor General’s Office said in
November that Browder and Magnitsky are accused of evading taxes
of 522 million rubles. Browder has denied any wrongdoing by
either of them.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , who as president between
2008 and 2012 made the fight against corruption a priority,
defended Magnitsky’s prosecution for tax evasion.  Magnitsky was “not a truth-seeker,” Medvedev said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television on Jan. 23 in Davos,
 Switzerland . “He was a corporate lawyer or accountant, and
defended the interests of the people who hired him,” he said.  Visa, Assets  The  U.S. Congress  in December imposed a visa ban and asset
freeze on Russian officials allegedly linked to the death of 37-
year-old Magnitsky and other human-rights abuses. Lawmakers in
Moscow responded by barring U.S. adoptions of Russian children.
President  Vladimir Putin  signed the ban into law on Dec. 28.  “To come out and call what I did illegal directly after
the Magnitsky act was passed is clearly a political move,”
Browder said today. “The Russian  Interior Ministry  is running
roughshod over the law. They are retroactively declaring
something illegal that has been legal for 15 years, purely for
political purposes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  