-- Russia Stocks Climb for First Time in Four Days as Crude Gains
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-05T16:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/russia-stocks-climb-for-first-time-in-four-days-as-crude-gains.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  shares advanced for the
first time in four days as crude oil advanced and better than
expected data in the euro region lifted appetite for equities in
the world’s biggest energy exporter.  The 50-stock Micex Index climbed 1.4 percent to 1,484.22 at
the close in Moscow, with 41 stocks up, seven down and two
unchanged. OAO Severstal, billionaire  Alexey Mordashov ’s
steelmaker, climbed for the first time in six days after saying
it sees signs of recovery this year.  Brent oil added 0.8 percent to $110.88 a barrel in  London .
Crude and natural gas exports contribute about 50 percent of
Russia’s government revenue. Euro-area factory and services
output shrank less than initially estimated, with an index based
on a survey of purchasing managers in the euro-area dropping to
47.9 in February from 48.6 in January, according to Markit
Economics. That beat a Feb. 21 estimate of 47.3. Euro-area
retail sales in the fourth quarter declined 1.3 percent from a
year earlier, while analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected
a 2.9 percent slump.  “External factors, primarily business activity numbers
from the euro-zone, influenced the trading in  Russia ,” Anton Startsev, chief analyst at Olma Investment Firm, said in an e-
mailed note.  Severstal Rallies  Severstal  added  1.6 percent to 335.90 rubles after saying
it expects improvement in steel, iron ore and coking cole
prices. Global steel market growth may be 2 percent to 3
percent, Mordashov said on a conference call today. The company
posted a net loss of $150 million in the fourth quarter as
prices declined.  “While Severstal’s numbers are set to look weaker versus
peers in the fourth quarter, we continue to view the stock as a
better option for longer term exposure to the sector due to its
healthy balance sheet, balanced integration and discipline in
dividend payments,” VTB Capital analyst Igor Lebedinets said in
an e-mailed note.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 1.5 percent to $28.90
snapping three days of declines. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the stock futures,  dropped  9.3
percent to 21.47.  The Micex  trades  at about 5.6 times estimated earnings
after gaining 0.8 percent this year. That compares with a
multiple of  10.5 times  for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
which is down 0.3 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  