-- Russia’s February Inflation Accelerates to 18-Month High
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-05T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/russia-s-february-inflation-accelerates-to-18-month-high.html
Russian consumer prices rose in
February at the fastest pace in 18 months, adding to arguments
for the central bank to leave  interest rates  unchanged longer.  Inflation accelerated to 7.3 percent from a year earlier
after 7.1 percent in January, in line with the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists, the Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed statement. Prices
rose 0.6 percent from the previous month, matching the median
estimate in a second poll of 17 analysts.  Policy makers are contending with price growth breaching
their 5 percent to 6 percent target range for a sixth month as
economic growth stutters at less than half of the 5 percent pace
that Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  seeks for  Russia . President
 Vladimir Putin  said Jan. 31 borrowing costs “substantially”
higher than inflation were a source of concern, weeks before the
central bank kept rates unchanged for a fifth month.  “We have the effects of a bad crop, with food prices
starting to rise earlier,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist
at Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp., said by phone before
data release. “Also there were high inflationary expectations
in February.”  The ruble weakened 1.8 percent last month against the
dollar, its worst performance since May. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S.
Treasuries fell three basis points to 186, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  indexes. The difference compares with 176 for debt
of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 173 for  Brazil .  Alcohol, Tobacco  Inflation is surging after the government raised costs for
items including alcohol and transport. Price growth may remain
above the bank’s target range in the first half and output
remains near full capacity, the central bank said Feb. 12 in a
statement accompanying its rate decision.  Food costs advanced 8.7 percent in February from a year
earlier and alcohol prices rose 17.6 percent, according to the
statistics service.  Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose third and final
term ends in June, said Feb. 15 that he “hopes” inflation will
start to slow in the coming months and with slower price growth
rate cuts are “possible.”  The central bank is forecast to cut rates 25 basis points
in the third quarter, according to the median estimate of 17
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Traders are betting on 18 basis
points of reductions in September compared with little change by
June, forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg show.  Ulyukayev, Kudrin  Putin must name a candidate to replace Ignatiev, 65, three
months before his term ends in June. Bank Rossii First Deputy
Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev, former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin 
and VTB24 President Mikhail Zadornov were among those being
considered for the post, three officials with knowledge of the
discussions said in January.  A majority of Russians ranked fast price growth alongside
problems in housing and utilities as their main concern,
according to a poll published Jan. 31 by the state-run All-
Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion .  February’s  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, slowed to 0.4 percent in the month from 0.5
percent in January, less than the 0.5 percent median forecast of
10 economists.  “Rate cuts are necessary in the current situation,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America Merill
Lynch in Moscow, said by telephone yesterday. “ Core inflation 
shows that inflationary pressure is low. We expect that with
inflation slowing down in April or May, the central bank may
start to cut rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  