-- RWE to Cut Clean-Energy Spending by Half From 2014 to Curb Debt
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-05T15:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/rwe-to-cut-clean-energy-spending-by-half-from-2014-to-curb-debt.html
RWE AG (RWE)  will cut renewable-energy
investment by half from next year as Germany’s second-largest
utility seeks to reduce debt and counter falling earnings.  RWE will spend about 500 million euros ($652 million) a
year on its Innogy renewables unit in 2014 and 2015, down from 1
billion euros this year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Terium
said today. The action is part of a company-wide effort to
reduce debt, he said at RWE’s headquarters in Essen, Germany.  “For financial reasons, we need to ease back on the pace
of expansion of renewables,” Terium said. The company will seek
to sell its smaller biomass power stations, he said.  RWE’s decision to cut investment runs counter to plans by
 Germany , its biggest market, to replace nuclear generation with
growth in renewables such as solar, wind and biomass to at least
35 percent of total power generation by the end of the decade.
The share is about 23 percent now. The German government’s plans
include adding 25 gigawatts of offshore  wind turbines  by 2030.  While RWE will “stick with” offshore wind, it will slow
the pace of projects it develops to “one park at a time,” as
the utility seeks to reduce investment risks, Terium said.  The start-up of RWE’s 1-billion euro Nordsee Ost farm in
the German  North Sea  will be postponed to the middle or end of
2014, from 2012, because of delays in hooking its turbines to
the mainland  power grid , the utility said in January.  “Based on the current business environment, U.K. wind
farms are ahead of German ones,” Terium said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  