-- RWE Will Sell Oil, Gas Production Unit to Cut Capital Spending
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-05T17:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/rwe-full-year-profit-misses-estimates-as-power-sales-decline.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, will sell its Dea oil and gas unit to cut  capital
spending  after scrapping a target for asset disposals.  The divestment will “take considerable pressure off future
capital expenditure and therefore make an essential contribution
to improving RWE’s financial headroom,” the company said today
in a statement. The unit, which runs RWE’s exploration and
production business, is valued at about 4.5 billion euros ($5.9
billion) by Frankfurt-based B. Metzler Seel Sohn & Co. KGaA.  The sale of Dea, which pumps oil and gas in the U.K.,
Germany,  Norway  and  Egypt , will enable RWE to bolster cash at a
time when profit margins are being squeezed by slowing energy
demand in  Europe  and the phaseout of nuclear power at home. RWE,
joining larger competitor EON SE in cutting costs, has abandoned
a previous target for disposals after prices fell short.  “We do not want to divest at just any price,” Chief
Executive Officer Peter Terium said today at a press conference.
While RWE “gives up existing profitability” by selling Dea,
expanding the unit is “extremely capital-intensive,” he said.  The utility has completed 2.1 billion euros of its disposal
program, originally targeted to reach 7 billion euros by the end
of this year, Terium said. He declined to give a new target or
schedule, saying only that RWE will concentrate this year on
selling its Net4Gas unit, the operator of the Czech gas grid.
“If we manage to do more, so much the better,” he said.  Oil, Gas  The company’s oil and gas production was 30.8 million
barrels of oil equivalent in 2012, or 84,300 barrels a day.
Production is targeted at more than 40 million barrels in 2014,
or more than 100,000 barrels a day, according to the Essen-based
utility’s annual report published today.  RWE rose 1.1 percent to close at 29 euros in  Frankfurt 
trading today, the highest in more than six weeks.  “RWE needs money” and the sale of Dea enables the company
to reduce its debt while giving up “relatively little” profit,
Sven Diermeier, an analyst at Independent Research GmbH, said by
phone from Frankfurt.  RWE intends to cut the ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to below 3 in the
“medium term” from 3.5. Starting in 2015, it will no longer
spend more on investments and dividends than it gets in  cash
flow  from operations, Terium said. Capital spending may fall as
low as 3 billion euros by then, from 5.54 billion euros in 2012.  Profit Slips  RWE also reported a 0.8 percent decline in 2012  earnings .
Recurrent net income dropped to 2.46 billion euros, missing the
2.51 billion-euro average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Recurrent net, which is adjusted for exceptional
items, is used to calculate the company’s dividend, which it
kept unchanged at 2 euros a share.  Net income fell 28 percent to 1.31 billion euros, while
sales advanced 2.9 percent to 53.2 billion euros. RWE forecast
2013 operating results of 5.9 billion euros and recurrent net of
2.4 billion euros, with Ebitda reaching about 9 billion euros.  It “will hardly be possible to maintain that result”
after 2013, Terium said. “In the longer term, earnings capacity
in conventional electricity generation will be markedly below
what we have seen in recent years.”  Germany is gradually shutting down nuclear plants after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered an end to atomic power
generation by 2022. The country is seeking to fill the
production gap by adding renewable-energy projects and efficient
fossil-fuel-fired stations.  In January, EON reported a 72 percent jump in 2012 adjusted
net income to 4.3 billion euros after exceeding a target for
asset sales and renegotiating gas contracts. It forecast
earnings on that basis of 2.2 billion to 2.6 billion euros this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  