-- Saudi Next Generation Has U.S. Imprint as King Picks Leaders
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-06T08:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/saudi-next-generation-has-u-s-imprint-as-king-grooms-successors.html
As he opens  Saudi Arabia ’s top
government jobs to a new generation of princes,  King Abdullah 
may also be rebooting the kingdom’s ties with the west.  Abdullah, who turns 89 this year, has picked younger royals
with international and security experience, often involving the
U.S. Bandar bin Sultan, named head of intelligence last year,
was ambassador in  Washington  for more than two decades. Mohammed bin Nayef, the recently appointed interior minister, worked with
the Americans on measures to fight al-Qaeda, while Khaled bin Bandar, the new Riyadh governor, is a graduate of the British
Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst.  On issues from  Iran’s nuclear program  to Syria’s civil war,
the revamped Saudi government’s approach may overlap with
western priorities. That would strengthen ties between the
world’s biggest oil exporter and the U.S., its main arms
supplier. The decades-old alliance has showed signs of wavering,
first after Saudis were involved in the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks,
and then as differences arose over the Arab uprisings in 2011.  “Abdullah is saying with these appointments that a shift
in thinking is important for the direction of the country,”
said Crispin Hawes, head of the  Middle East  program at the New
York-based Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk. “The
king sees the U.S. strategic relationship as a cornerstone of
Saudi foreign policy for the next decade. Saudi Arabia also
needs to feel secure to address some of the fundamental issues
at home.”  Avoiding Unrest  Since the Arab revolts, King Abdullah has been seeking to
ease domestic problems such as unemployment which had the
potential to stoke similar unrest. About a quarter of Saudis
aged between 20 and 30 are out of work. The kingdom is investing
$500 billion to build industrial cities in the desert and new
airports and universities, as it seeks to create jobs and
diversify the economy away from  oil .  Government spending  has helped push the  main index  for the
Middle East’s largest stock exchange up 2.9 percent in the first
two months of this year, while the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
benchmark fell 0.8 percent. As political threats recede, Saudi
Arabia’s  five-year credit default swaps  are trading at about 67
basis points, near a five-year low. They reached more than twice
that level in February 2011 when uprisings were spreading across
the Arab world.  Saudi and U.S. responses to that wave of unrest diverged.
Saudi Arabia stood by Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak , a longtime ally
against the Muslim Brotherhood’s influence in the region, right
up until he was pushed out by protesters. The Saudis also sent
troops to Bahrain in support of a crackdown on Shiite-led
protests by the Al Khalifa rulers. The U.S. eventually abandoned
its support for Mubarak and backed a transition, while it called
for dialogue in Bahrain.  ‘Getting Closer’  Any tensions that emerged in that period are easing, said
 Paul Sullivan , an economics professor specializing in Middle
East security at  Georgetown University  in Washington.  In Riyadh on March 4, Secretary of State  John Kerry  and his
counterpart Prince Saud al-Faisal stressed shared interests,
including helping the Syrian opposition overthrow Bashar al- Assad and preventing Iran from getting nuclear weapons. The U.S.
is tightening sanctions on Iran’s oil industry.  “As the results of the Arab Spring get more questionable,
and as energy markets get more complex, U.S.-Saudi relations
seem to be getting closer,” Sullivan said.  The U.S. has narrowed Saudi Arabia’s lead in production to
1.9 million barrels a day this year, the smallest since 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
is “committed” to exports to the U.S., Chief Executive Officer
Khalid Al-Falih said yesterday at a conference in Houston.  ‘Bandar Bush’  Among the new appointees, Bandar has been nicknamed
“Bandar Bush” for his close connection to the family of two
U.S. presidents. Mohammed Bin Nayef, the new interior minister
who was injured in a failed suicide bomb attack in 2009, has won
American plaudits for his work to counter threats from al-Qaeda.  Prince Mohamed “has proven himself to be very successful
in fighting al-Qaeda and terrorists,” said Khalid al-Dakhil, a
politics professor at King Saud University in Riyadh. “That is
the core interest of the regime here. It happens that it goes
along very well with the Americans.”  Saudi Arabia signed a $29.4 billion accord to buy  Boeing
Co. (BA)  F-15 fighters in the last week of 2011. More than half of
that year’s $66.3 billion in U.S. arms sales agreements were
with the Saudis, according to a Congressional Research Service
 report  last year. The Pentagon said in November that Saudi
Arabia is planning to buy 20 military transport planes from
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , valued at about $6.7 billion.  USS Quincy  Saudi Arabia’s alignment with the U.S., whose support for
 Israel  and military operations in the Middle East are unpopular
among Muslims, is often cited by Islamist opponents of the Saudi
monarchy.  Militants attacked an oil installation and stormed a
housing complex in the city of al-Khobar in 2004, killing 22
foreign workers. Two years later, a group linked to al-Qaeda
tried to penetrate the southern gate of Abqaiq, the world’s
largest oil facility, with twin car bombs. The  New York  Times
reported last month that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency
operates a drone base out of Saudi Arabia.  The U.S. alliance was cemented when King Abdul-Aziz Al Saud
met President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  aboard the USS Quincy in
1945. The next generation of Saudi leaders may oversee a shift
in its nature as U.S. strategic attention shifts toward  Asia ,
said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.  Attitudes Changing  “You could argue that Saudi Arabia is going to take a more
pro-active role in the region as the U.S. footprint starts to
decline,” he said.  Abdullah, who underwent back surgery in November, is only
the sixth king since Saudi Arabia was founded in 1932. The ruler
must by law be a son or grandson of Abdul-Aziz. The heir
apparent is Crown Prince Salman, the king’s half-brother, born
in 1935.  Next in line is Prince Muqrin, another half-brother born in
1945, who was named as second deputy premier last month. Muqrin
trained as an air force officer in the U.S. and U.K. before
serving as a provincial governor and intelligence chief. Prince
Mohamed, who as interior minister is the most senior of the
founding king’s grandchildren, was born in 1959.  A decade ago, the pro-American reputation of these younger
royals might have hurt them in the eyes of the Saudi public,
said  Mustafa Alani , an analyst at the Geneva-based Gulf Research
Center. Attitudes toward the U.S. under President  Barack Obama 
are more favorable, he said.  “The people like Bandar, like Mohammed, like Muqrin, who
have connections to the U.S., I don’t think people look at it
negatively,” Alani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  