-- Saudi Aramco Committed to Oil Exports to U.S., Al-Falih Says
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-03-05T17:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/saudi-aramco-committed-to-oil-exports-to-u-s-al-falih-says.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest oil exporter, is “committed” to exports to the U.S.
market,  Khalid Al-Falih, the company’s chief executive officer,
said today at the IHS CERAWeek conference in Houston.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, will supply crude to
the U.S. market because many of the refineries on the  Gulf Coast 
are set up to process the kingdom’s sour crudes, Al-Falih said
in the speech.  The U.S. cut crude imports by 21 percent last year as
domestic output surged, according to the Energy Information
Administration. The state-owned Saudi company has the world’s
largest proven reserves. The kingdom exported an average of
920,000 barrels a day to the U.S. in the four weeks ended Feb.
22, 38 percent less than the same period a year earlier, EIA
data show.  “We’re committed to the U.S. market,” Al-Falih said.
“The outlook from our customers is that they will continue to
require our crude for a long time to come.”  The U.S. has narrowed  Saudi Arabia ’s lead in production
this year to 1.9 million barrels a day, the slimmest margin
since December 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The kingdom’s  output  declined to 9 million barrels a day in
February, the lowest since May 2011, according to a Bloomberg
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts showed  The U.S.  pumped  7.096 million barrels a day in the week
ended Feb. 22, according to the EIA, a division of the Energy
Department. America added 1.134 million barrels a day last year
as improvements in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, drove gains in oilfields such as the Eagle Ford in
Texas and the Bakken in  North Dakota .  WTI Discount  The growth of U.S. output has widened the discount of West
Texas Intermediate oil, the country’s benchmark, to London-
traded Brent, which sets prices for more than half the world’s
crude. WTI has declined 1.3 percent so far this year to $90.63 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Brent is little
changed this year at $110.89 on ICE Futures  Europe , a premium of
$20.26 a barrel.  Growing North American oil production has helped the world
oil markets withstand the impact of U.S. and European sanctions
against  Iran . The Islamic republic’s output averaged 2.63
million barrels a day in February, a loss of almost 1 million
barrels since the start of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Exaggerated concerns about scarcity and security of oil
supplies have been dispelled,” Al-Falih said. “It is now more
certain that our industry will continue to play the major role
in fueling the transport, power and chemical sectors for many
decades to come.”  Motiva Refinery  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Port Arthur,  Texas , refinery, the
largest in the U.S. by capacity at 600,000 barrels a day, was
expected to run primarily Saudi Arabian crude after a $10
billion expansion last year.  A new 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit, the centerpiece of
the project, caught fire a week after the company celebrated the
opening, forcing a shutdown for several months. The restart was
delayed when another fire broke out in December. The plant has
not reached full expanded rates. Motiva is a joint venture of
units of Saudi Aramco and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “Investment with our partners Shell and Motiva is
satisfactory and we’re working to improve it.” Al-Falih said.
“Our commitment to this market is unwavering”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  