-- HSBC Sells U.S. Consumer, Homeowner Debt for $3.2 Billion
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-06T01:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/hsbc-to-sell-u-s-consumer-homeowner-loans-for-3-2-billion.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank by assets, agreed to sell a portfolio of U.S. consumer
loans for $3.2 billion in cash as it scales back its operations
in the country.  The sale to a subprime lender backed by  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG)  and a mortgage investor managed by the private-equity
firm is slated to be completed in the second quarter, London-
based  HSBC (5)  said in a statement yesterday. Springleaf Finance
Inc. will also buy HSBC’s loan-servicing facility in  Kentucky ,
with completion expected in the fourth quarter, the bank said.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  has closed or
sold 47 businesses since he took the top job in 2011 as he
focuses on markets where the bank is most profitable. The U.K.
lender is cutting back in the U.S. after its 2003 purchase of
Household International Inc. required it to set aside more than
$65 billion for souring loans in the country.  “These agreements accelerate the run-off of the legacy
consumer mortgage and lending business and are a continuation of
HSBC’s strategy to reposition its U.S. operations,” HSBC
Finance Corp. CEO Patrick Burke said in the statement.  HSBC rose 0.2 percent to HK$84 as of 9:32 a.m. in Hong Kong
trading. The stock has climbed 3.3 percent this year, outpacing
the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 0.3 percent gain.  ‘Good Deal’  The book value of the assets being sold was about $3.4
billion at the end of 2012, HSBC said.  “They are taking a loss on this, but it’s not a very big
one,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at Olivetree Securities
Ltd. in  London . “It’s a good deal because it frees up capital
that would otherwise be tied up backing loans.”  HSBC boosted its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, to 12.3 percent at the end of 2012, from
10.1 percent a year earlier, it said on March 4.  The lender, which last year agreed to pay $1.92 billion to
settle U.S. probes of money laundering, completed the sale of
its U.S. credit-card unit to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  for a
premium of $2.5 billion in May. It agreed in August 2011 to sell
its upstate New York branch network to  First Niagara Financial
Group Inc. (FNFG)  for about $1 billion.  Gulliver said on March 4 that the lender would make an
announcement on $3.7 billion of U.S. non-real estate consumer
loans within weeks. The bank reported full-year pretax profit in
North America surged more than 20-fold to $2.3 billion from $100
million, helped by a 51 percent drop in loan impairments.  ‘Critical Mass’  Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT) , a real estate investment trust
run by Fortress, agreed to buy as much as 50 percent of the HSBC
portfolio, while Springleaf will acquire as much as 50 percent
and will service the loans, the companies said in a statement.
The portfolio consists of more than 400,000 homeowner and
personal unsecured loans, Newcastle said.  “It is very clear they see market opportunity in the
residential-mortgage space and they’re aggressively growing to
take advantage of it,” Jasper Burch, a New York-based analyst
with Macquarie Group Ltd., said of Newcastle. “The company is
at a critical mass where a spinoff makes sense.”  Newcastle plans to spin off a new residential-focused
mortgage REIT called New Residential in the coming months. It
began adding residential mortgage investments to its portfolio
in September 2011 and has invested more than $1 billion since
then, according to a company presentation in February.  The real estate investment trust, which is based in New
York, has been partnering with  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings
Inc. (NSM) , the servicer and lender that was taken public by Fortress
last March, on investments in mortgage-servicing rights.
Chairman  Wesley Edens  said on Feb. 28 that it was interested in
the non-performing loan market, which has a “robust pipeline.”  “It seems like this could be the year where a lot of that
does break loose,” Edens said. “You have the agencies that own
many hundreds of billions of dollars in non-performing loans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  