-- Scorpio Wins as U.S. Crude Curbs Spur Shale Refineries: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-03-05T11:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/scorpio-wins-as-u-s-crude-curbs-spur-shale-refineries-freight.html
Record production of so-called
ultra-light oil from U.S. shale deposits will spur demand for
tankers hauling refined fuels because of three-decades-old laws
banning most crude exports.  Earnings for Medium Range tankers carrying 315,000 barrels
of gasoline and diesel will climb 11 percent to $14,375 a day in
2013, according to the average of six analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Monaco-based  Scorpio Tankers Inc. (STNG)  will advance 22
percent in 12 months in  New York  trading and Tsakos Energy
Navigation Ltd. in  Athens  will gain 47 percent, the averages of
12 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Production of condensate from shale will reach almost 1
million barrels a day this year, 66 percent more than in 2010
and about 14 percent of total domestic oil output, according to
RBN Energy LLC, an energy consultant in Houston. Exports of most
crude grades are banned under 1970s laws and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) 
and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  are building refineries to
process shale into products that can be shipped.  “This is going to give a fillip to demand,” said Simon Newman, head of tanker research in  London  at ICAP Shipping
International Ltd. “Extra supply like this is bullish for the
product-tanker market.”  The U.S. will export the most refined oil on a net basis
since at least 1983 this year, the  Department of Energy 
estimates. Scorpio operates 32 product tankers while  Tsakos (TNP)  has
26 among its fleet of 48 vessels. Their steel storage tanks are
coated to allow for easier cleaning between cargoes to avoid
contamination, according to Fearnley Consultants A/S, an Oslo-
based shipping researcher.  Scorpio Strengthens  Shares of Scorpio jumped 30 percent in the past year,
compared with a 28 percent slump in the 11-member  Russell 2000
Shipping Index. (RGUSPSSH)  The stock will reach $10.29 in 12 months, from
$8.42 now, the average of eight analysts’ estimates show. The
company will report  net income  of $14.4 million this year and
$42.6 million in 2014, according to the forecasts.  Tsakos, the largest publicly traded Greek owner, will reach
$5.35 in 12 months, from $3.64 now, the average of four
forecasts shows. The company will narrow its loss to $1.5
million this year, from $35.2 million in 2012, according to the
median of three estimates. Tsakos also owns crude-oil carriers
and a vessel hauling liquefied natural gas, its website shows.  Houston Channel  Kinder Morgan  is building a 50,000 barrel-a-day plant on
the  Houston Ship Channel  that is scheduled to open in the first
quarter of next year. It then plans to add the same capacity
again. Valero has said it will build an extra 90,000 barrels of
daily capacity by 2015. Every additional 100,000 barrels of
processing increases global demand for product tankers by 0.4
percent, assuming the refined fuels are sent to  Asia , according
to RS Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment bank.  Net U.S. exports of refined fuel will rise about 7 percent
to 1.07 million barrels a day this year, the Energy Department
estimated Feb. 12. The additional cargoes of refined condensate
would add $500 a day to rates for Medium Range tankers and
$1,000 for bigger Long-Range vessels, Platou estimated in a Feb.
28 report. The larger tankers will make $15,500 a day this year,
according to estimates from five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “This development of ultra-light shale oil, refined for
U.S. exports, is a huge positive,” Scorpio President Robert Bugbee said in an e-mail Feb. 28.  U.S. refining and exports are “a very important game-
changing development going forward,” Tsakos Chief Executive
Officer Nikolas Tsakos said by phone yesterday.  Crude Exports  The U.S. has had laws since the 1920s curbing crude exports
and almost all overseas sales are prohibited by the laws from
the 1970s. The new plants are being built because existing ones
in the  Gulf of Mexico , home to more than 40 percent of the
nation’s processing capacity, were mostly developed to handle
heavier crude grades, according to ICAP Shipping.  The additional cargoes could be curbed because the 17-
nation euro region will keep contracting through at least the
third quarter, according to 23 economist forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Europe  accounted for 15 percent of global consumption
of refined fuels in 2011,  BP Plc (BP/)  estimates.  Owners are still coping with a fleet that expanded faster
than cargoes in seven of the past eight years, according to
 Clarkson (CKN)  Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. The combined
capacity of the vessels gained 74 percent since 2004, while
seaborne trade in fuels rose 36 percent.  Price Discounts  Refineries that can process ultra-light U.S. oil are
getting deeper price discounts for the feedstock. U.S.
condensate sold for a record average of $26.47 a barrel less
than Brent crude oil in the fourth quarter, compared with an
average of $6.70 in the same quarter of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The U.S. is a low-cost refined products producer as our
refineries benefit from low input costs,” said David Beard, an
analyst at Iberia Capital Partners LLC in  New Orleans , who has
covered the maritime industry for about 15 years. “Product
tanker-centric companies benefit.”  Rates may keep advancing because the pace of new vessel
construction is slowing. The global fleet of product tankers
will expand 2.3 percent in 2013 as trade gains 4.2 percent,
Clarkson estimates.  Excess vessel supply is hurting other shipping markets. The
ClarkSea Index, an industry-wide measure of earnings, plunged to
the lowest monthly average in February since at least 1994,
according to Clarkson.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of the cost of hauling coal
and iron ore, slumped 60 percent last year and the Baltic Dirty
Tanker Index, reflecting rates for ships carrying crude oil,
lost 18 percent.  Hydrocarbon Imports  Combined U.S. exports of refined fuels derived from all
crude grades reached a record 2.6 million barrels a day last
year, according to Energy Department data. The nation imported
12 percent less crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries last year, compared with 2010. Its petroleum
deficit, or the difference between the cost of its hydrocarbon
imports and exports, fell to $18.7 billion, the lowest since
2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The exporting of shale refined into product cargoes will
get around the restrictions of crude exports,” said Jonathan Chappell, a New York-based analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
“This glut of shale spurring more refined cargoes is going to
be a positive development for Medium Range tankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  