-- Shell Plans Added U.S. LNG Transport Amid Record Diesel
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-03-05T19:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/shell-plans-added-u-s-lng-transport-amid-record-diesel.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the largest
European oil company, plans to double the amount of liquefied
natural gas available for trucks and marine vessels in North
America after retail diesel prices reached a record.  Shell will build units in Ontario and Louisiana capable of
producing about 500,000 tons a year, said James Burns, general
manager of the company’s LNG for transport unit in the Americas.
That’s the equivalent of about 12,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to a Bloomberg calculation.  “Natural gas in North America is abundant, and because
it’s abundant it’s affordable,” Burns said in an interview
yesterday in Bloomberg’s Houston office. “We see a future where
customers are very comfortable with LNG, where they have no
concerns about security of supply.”  Drilling techniques including the combination of hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling helped the U.S. vie with
Russia as the world’s largest natural gas producer. North
American prices reached a 10-year low in April as supply
outstripped demand. LNG is fuel that’s cooled to -160 degrees
Fahrenheit (-106 Celsius), reducing its volume and converting it
to a liquid state.  The retail  price  of diesel, which helps power the trucks
and ships Shell wants to run on LNG, reached an average of $4.11
a gallon in February, an all-time high for that month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Industry  “We’re witnessing the creation of a new industry,” Mike
Gallagher, senior adviser to  Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT) , said
today at the IHS CERAWeek conference in Houston. “Natural gas
is establishing itself as the primary alternative to diesel in
heavy trucks and buses.” Vancouver-based Westport builds
natural-gas-powered engines.  Burns declined to specify the cost of Shell’s investment.
The Hague-based  company  plans to charge customers fuel prices at
an average discount of about 30 percent to diesel. Fleet
operators may be able to recoup the added cost of LNG-based
trucks within three years, Burns said.  The LNG facilities are expected to be completed in three
years. Shell sees increasing LNG-for-transport projects to
produce more than 5 million tons a year in the next decade,
Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  