-- SMBC Consumer Finance to Double Chinese Offices in Three Years
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-03-05T00:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/smbc-consumer-finance-to-double-chinese-offices-in-three-years.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) ’s consumer loan unit plans to open as many as four  China 
offices in the next two to three years, more than doubling the
number to tap demand in the world’s second-largest economy.  “We want to focus our capital on China, where we already
have a presence,” SMBC Consumer Finance Co. President Ken Kubo
said in an interview on Feb. 26, without elaborating on the
location of the new offices. The company already has units in
Shenyang and Shenzhen and is about to start a third in Tianjin.  The consumer lender, created after  Sumitomo Mitsui  made
Promise Co. a wholly owned subsidiary last year, is expanding in
faster-growing markets abroad as deflation deters borrowing at
home. The company and rivals  Acom Co. (8572)  and  Aiful Corp. (8515)  are
emerging from a slump exacerbated by a regulatory crackdown that
forced them to cut loan rates and refund overcharged interest.  SMBC Consumer Finance’s subsidiaries in Shenyang and
Shenzhen have a combined 13 branches in the cities. Kubo expects
the number of Chinese outlets to increase to 70 after he sets up
the additional offices.  “I have a picture in my mind that we expand business
throughout the nation as early as possible,” Kubo said in
Tokyo. The consumer lender, which entered China in 2010, also
owns units in  Hong Kong  and Bangkok, according to its  website .  Lending outstanding in China, Hong Kong and  Thailand 
totaled 22 billion yen ($235 million) as of Dec. 31, about 3
percent of SMBC Consumer Finance’s 744 billion yen of loans.  Chinese Consumers  China’s economic expansion and growing income of its 1.3
billion people have stoked  consumer spending  and increased the
popularity of borrowing through specialized lending firms that
can offer small loans faster than banks. China has about $6.6
trillion in household savings, more than the combined gross
domestic product of Germany and Brazil, and the government has
pledged to increase consumption’s contribution to growth.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s Chief Executive Officer  Koichi Miyata 
said in December that consumer finance is one of the strengths
of the Tokyo-based bank, Japan’s second largest by market value.  Net income at SMBC Consumer Finance totaled 49 billion yen
in the nine months ended Dec. 31, company figures show. That
compares with a net loss of 182.2 billion yen a year earlier
when the company still operated as Promise.  Kubo said an increase in wages would be the key to
encourage Japanese to borrow and revive the consumer-loan
industry at home.  Wages in Japan fell 1.7 percent in December from a year
earlier, the biggest decline in three years, data from the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare show. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe took office in December pledging to kick-start the
economy and price increases with monetary and fiscal stimulus.  “Abe’s policies have yet to have a positive impact on the
non-banking industry,” said Kubo. “Retail businesses like us
would be the last to benefit from Abenomics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  