-- Southeastern Requests Dell Shareholder List to Talk LBO
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-05T22:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/southeastern-requests-dell-shareholder-list-to-talk-lbo.html
Southeastern Asset Management Inc.,
the investor opposing a proposed $24.4 billion leveraged buyout
of Dell Inc., requested the  names  and addresses of other
shareholders to discuss the deal.  Southeastern, the largest outside shareholder of Dell with
an 8.4 percent stake, submitted the demand notice on behalf of
its $7.7 billion  Longleaf Partners Fund (LLPFX) , according to a filing
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
filing included a March 5 letter to the computer maker’s board
that reiterates Southeastern’s objections to the deal.  Southeastern is leading opposition to the buyout by founder
 Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC, saying the offer of
$13.65 a share announced Feb. 5 undervalues the company. T. Rowe
Price Group Inc., the Baltimore-based mutual-fund company and
second-largest outside investor in Dell, and Richard Pzena,
founder of  money manager   Pzena Investment Management Inc. (PZN) , also
said they oppose the deal.  “The board of directors characterizes the proposed
transaction as a transfer of ‘the risk of the business to the
buyout group,’” O. Mason Hawkins and Staley Cates, the top
officers at  Memphis , Tennessee-based Southeastern, said in the
March 5 letter. “We believe it is more appropriately
characterized as a transfer of ‘the opportunity of the business
to the buyout group,’” they said in the letter.  All Options  “The company will review the request by Southeastern Asset
Management for Dell stockholder lists and other shareholder-
related information and respond in a timely fashion,”  David Frink , a spokesman for the Round Rock, Texas, computer maker,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Southeastern’s principals have vowed to use all options at
their disposal to block the buyout, including a potential proxy
fight or litigation. Southeastern estimated in a filing last
month that Dell is worth about $24 a share.  Dell rose 0.5 percent to close at $14.07 in  New York 
trading. That’s 3.1 percent more than the offer price from Dell
and Silver Lake, a  Menlo Park , California-based private-equity
firm.  Hawkins and Cates also said in their letter that Dell has
long refused to distribute its  cash  held overseas to
shareholders, citing the taxes it would incur in repatriating
the money. The investors said they were “surprised” to see
this position change after  Silver Lake  and management announced
that the overseas cash would be brought home to finance the
buyout.  Help Needed  Teaming up with other investors could help Southeastern
coordinate a vote against the deal. The amount of Dell shares
Hawkins and Cates can vote is lower than the number of shares
they hold.  Southeastern’s 8.4 percent stake includes options on 25
million shares that the fund acquired for $8.52 each. To
purchase the stock and gain the related voting rights,
Southeastern would have to pay an additional $7 a share,
bringing its total cost to $15.52 a share. That would be more
than Dell has offered to pay in the buyout.  In addition, Southeastern doesn’t control the  voting rights 
for another 16.9 million Dell shares held on behalf of clients.
When these shares and the options are deducted from
Southeastern’s holdings, the money manager has the right to vote
about 6 percent of Dell’s stock.  Employee Names  In the demand for Dell’s shareholders list, Southeastern
requested the names and addresses of employees who hold stock
through various compensation and share-ownership plans.
Southeastern also demanded information on share ownership that
comes into Dell’s transfer agent, proxy solicitor, or any
information that can be reasonably obtained from brokers, banks
and clearing agencies. Southeastern also said it wanted a weekly
update on any changes to the information provided.  “The purpose of this demand,” Southeastern said in the
notice, is to communicate with other  Dell (DELL)  investors on “matters
reasonably relating to the stockholder’s interests,” including
the proposed buyout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  