-- Spain Reform Delays Add to Bank Cleanup Hurdles, EU Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-03-05T15:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/spain-financial-industry-overhaul-faces-hurdles-eu-says.html
Spain  is backsliding on economic
reforms, fueling risks for its banking system in the midst of an
overhaul that faces “significant challenges,” the European
Commission said.  “Progress in delivering of some key product and services
market reforms has been slow,” the Brussels-based commission
said today in its second review of Spain’s bank rescue program.
“Persistent efforts are needed to compound the progress
achieved to date” on the banking system and “to overcome the
still significant challenges.”  Officials from the commission and the  European Central Bank 
visited Madrid from Jan. 28 to Feb. 1., and the  International
Monetary Fund  participated in the review. The cleanup of the
banking industry is on track so far, the report said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is hesitating over EU demands
to remove privileges from party operatives, union members and
professional advisers in an attempt to contain the fallout from
a series of corruption scandals rocking his party. Rajoy’s
failure to rein in power companies, who’ve benefited from 29
billion euros ($38 billion) of government guaranteed debt in the
electricity system, is jeopardizing the prospect for economic
recovery, the commission said.  “The ‘electricity tariff deficit’ implies a considerable
contingent liability for the budget as well as non-negligible
macroeconomic risks,” the report said.  Meeting Commitments  The commission sought to play up the positive side of the
review as the euro area struggles to regain investor confidence,
restore growth and prevent the financial crisis from deepening
again.  “The commitments of the memorandum are being met despite
the ambitious deadlines and thus the repair and reform of the
Spanish financial sector is well under way now,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters yesterday. He said Spain’s efforts are “an essential
step toward normalizing lending conditions for Spanish
households and businesses.”  While Rajoy has scope to eliminate reduced sales tax rates
on some goods and increase fuel taxes, he has made little
progress on fixing Spain’s two-tier labor market, the report
said. Under Spanish labor law, companies incur costs for firing
mostly older, unionized workers on permanent contracts. That
means young people bear the brunt of the economic crisis, with
56 percent of those under 25 unemployed.  Opaque Budget  Budget rules approved last year lack transparency, and the
government is dragging its feet over a pledge to set up an
independent fiscal council. It has yet to cut losses generated
by the country’s pension system, according to the report.  The Spanish government won’t take any further austerity
measures this year even as it has “taken note” of the
commission’s suggestions, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
reporters in Brussels today. “In 2014 and 2015, we will take
the appropriate measures depending on the path for  deficit
reduction  and the macroeconomic scenario.”  Spain will present its new stability program in the coming
weeks, de Guindos said. The steps of the country’s deficit
reduction have yet to be defined and Rehn has signaled the
program may be eased, he said.  Feasible Path  De Guindos said Spain has to consider the impact that
budget cuts will have on growth. “The path must be feasible and
credible,” he said.  Spain requested European aid for its banks last year as
concern mounted that losses at former savings banks, including
the  Bankia (BKIA)  group, would contaminate public finances. Under the
program, the country took about 41 billion euros to recapitalize
lenders and fund a “bad bank” known as Sareb to absorb the
soured property assets of nationalized firms.  Banks must ensure they have enough capital to withstand
losses and adopt “prudent” dividend policies to generate
additional capital internally, the report said. The impact of
early repayments of ECB’s three-year loans on Spanish lenders’
profitability and liquidity conditions will merit further
analysis. There is also a potential risk on mortgage portfolios,
as any increase in  interest rates  would put more pressure on
households’ debt burdens.  Bad Bank  While “there is at present no reason to foresee” more
program disbursements, efforts are still needed, including a
“robust and credible” business plan for the Sareb, said the
document, which contains information through Feb. 15.  “It’s important that Sareb is able to offer its clients
funding conditions that are in line with market conditions, so
that it can compete on equal footing” with the country’s banks,
the report said. Domestic lenders have already adopted
“aggressive commercial practices” to sell real estate
properties rapidly in anticipation of future competition with
Sareb, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  