-- Speaker Says Iraqi Army Must Be Neutral as 57 Troops Die
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-03-05T13:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/speaker-says-iraqi-army-must-be-neutral-as-57-troops-die.html
The Iraqi army should remain neutral
and resist taking sides in the Syrian civil war, said the
country’s parliamentary Speaker, after at least 57 Iraqi and
Syrian troops were killed in an insurgent attack.  Usama Al-Nujaifi, a Sunni who’s previously called for the
resignation of Shiite Muslim Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki,
told reporters in Baghdad today that involvement in the Syrian
conflict may aggravate divisions within  Iraq .  “There are reports saying that the Iraqi army has
interfered to back the Syrian army against the Free Syrian
Army,” Nujaifi said. Iraq will investigate, he said.  The speaker’s comments came after fighting yesterday near
the Syrian border in Iraq’s Anbar province in which about 48
Syrian and nine Iraqi troops were reported killed, according to
Iraq’s Defense Ministry website. The Syrians had been treated in
Iraq for wounds received in fighting two days before and were
being escorted home by Iraqi forces, the ministry said.  Syria ’s two-year-long civil war has evolved along largely
sectarian lines, with many in the Sunni majority supporting the
rebels and much of the Shiite Muslim, Christian and Alawite
minorities backing President Bashar al-Assad. Maliki said last
month that Assad will remain in power for years. His government
last year denied supplying  fuel oil  to its neighbor.  Assad ‘Support’  “This attack, which is most likely by al-Qaeda
sympathizers in the Syrian rebel movement, aims to spread the
rebellion to Iraq because of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s
support for Assad,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military analysis in
Dubai.  The Iraqi army should confine itself to defending the
country’s borders, Nujaifi said, because the population isn’t
united on events in Syria.  Anti-government protests in the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-largest producer have
spread across eight provinces as the Sunni and Kurdish
communities demand greater power sharing a decade after the
U.S.-led invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein . Authorities in
Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurdish north have halted oil exports
through the central government-controlled pipeline amid rows
over energy contracts and disputed land.  Nujaifi called on Feb. 13 for Maliki’s resignation,
describing him as the only person standing in way of
reconciliation. Maliki yesterday urged lawmakers to replace
Nujaifi, saying he has made sectarian statements.  Resignation Threat  Finance Minister Rafih al-Issawi, one of the most senior
Sunnis in the Maliki government, resigned March 1 saying
protesters’ demands have not been met. Other members of the
Sunni-dominated al-Iraqiya coalition may resign in the coming
days, Nujaifi said today.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics that include Canada’s oil sands.
 Total SA (FP) , BP,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other international
companies are among  oil companies  working there.  Syrian rebels have seized large parts of the northeastern
city of Raqqah from Assad’s forces, and it may become the first
city to fall to the opposition, a rights group said.  Fighters with the al-Nusra Front and other rebel factions
captured the governor of Raqqah province, Hassan Jalili, and the
local head of the Ba’ath Party branch, Suleiman al-Suleiman,
during the fighting, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
said on its Facebook page. The U.K.-based group posted a video
that it said showed pro-government forces captured during the
fighting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in  Baghdad  at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  