-- Splunk Big Data Means Priciest Deal Since 2008: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-03-06T22:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/splunk-big-data-means-priciest-deal-since-2008-real-m-a.html
The boom in big data means a
takeover of  Splunk Inc. (SPLK)  could command the software industry’s
highest price tag in five years.  Splunk, a maker of software that helps businesses sift
through information generated by everything from websites and
corporate networks to electronic tags for tracking inventory,
has more than  doubled  since its debut as a publicly traded stock
in April. The San Francisco-based company boasts a higher
enterprise value relative to sales than 94 percent of similarly
sized infrastructure software providers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The $3.7 billion company would give an acquirer a leading
position in the big data market, which IDC Corp. projects will
almost triple in revenue to about $24 billion by 2016. While
Splunk’s rich valuation limits the number of possible suitors,
Susquehanna International Group LLP says  EMC Corp. (EMC)  or  VMware
Inc. (VMW)  may be willing to pay up for it. Splunk also would be a
good fit for  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , according to
CLSA. Without assuming a premium, an acquisition of Splunk
already would be the priciest software deal since 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Price may be an obstacle, but strategically it’s very
attractive,” Derrick Wood, a San Francisco-based analyst at
Susquehanna, said in a telephone interview. “What they’re doing
specifically, there are really no other vendors doing it of
size.”  Deciphering Data  Splunk, the first of the so-called big data companies to go
public, helps businesses monitor and analyze large sets of
digital information from a variety of sources to improve service
and reduce costs and security risks.  The company’s more than 5,000 customers span a variety of
industries and include Comcast Corp., Monster Worldwide Inc.,
the U.S. Coast Guard and Moody’s Corp., as well as the states of
Vermont and  Nevada . In the fourth quarter, one of its customers,
a technology company, placed a $20 million order, Splunk’s
largest transaction yet. Its competitors range from small start-
up firms to units of broader vendors such as Adobe Systems Inc.,
Google Inc. and IBM.  Splunk lacks “a direct competitor and they are out in the
market displacing a lot of incumbents,” said Edward Maguire, a
New York-based analyst at CLSA. “Splunk has technology that
addresses a problem space in analytics. Most of the analytic and
business intelligence apps we have so far deal with data that’s
structured. But what you also have is this burgeoning area
around what they call big data, or unstructured data.”  Growing Market  Software represented $1.9 billion of the revenue generated
by the big data market last year, according to IDC. Splunk’s
sales in the 12 months that ended in January equal about 10
percent of that. IDC estimates the entire big data market, which
also includes hardware and services, will have almost $24
billion of revenue in 2016, versus $8.1 billion in 2012.  “Big data -- data will be the basis of competitive
advantage for every company, every industry for the next
decade,” Virginia Rometty, chief executive officer of IBM, said
at the company’s annual shareholder meeting last month. “It’s
going to drive IT. It’s going to drive our future, our industry.
It’s going to drive business and society.”  Analysts project the increasing need for Splunk’s products
will make it one of the fastest-growing infrastructure software
companies, with  sales  climbing by an average 31 percent in each
of the next two years, more than four times the industry’s
median growth rate, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Unique Platform  Splunk’s growth prospects and unique offerings may attract
EMC, VMware and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , said Susquehanna’s Wood.
Such a deal would be transformational for any of those companies
and help them compete with traditional enterprise software
companies like IBM, he said.  “It’s kind of a next-generation architecture,” Wood said.
“Different competitors may do a slice of what Splunk does, but
the fact that its platform goes across all sorts of different
systems makes it pretty unique.”  Dave Farmer, a spokesman for Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based
EMC, and San Jose, California-based Cisco’s Karen Tillman said
the companies don’t comment on acquisition speculation. Joan Stone of VMware in Palo Alto,  California , said she can’t comment
on the company’s plans for takeovers.  IBM Fit  Splunk would even be a “strategic fit” for IBM, the
largest technology-services provider, because of its interest in
big data, according to CLSA’s Maguire. IBM said last month that
its goal is to reach $20 billion in annual sales from analyzing
business data by 2015, double the amount that category generated
in 2010.  James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
declined to comment on whether it’s considering an acquisition
of Splunk.  Still, a deal for Splunk won’t be cheap and that could
deter suitors, Maguire said.  “It’s expensive by any metric,” he said in a phone
interview. The stock “feels like it’s priced in not only
execution perfection but maybe even a little bit of an
acquisition premium as well as a scarcity premium.”  With the shares up 121 percent  since  the initial public
offering last year, Splunk’s  equity and net debt  is valued at
about 17 times its trailing 12 months of revenue, topping 94
percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even before adding a takeover premium, an acquirer would be
paying the steepest multiple for a software deal larger than $1
billion since 2008, the data show. That was the year Sun
Microsystems Inc. bought MySQL AB for 39 times revenue.  Pure Play  Topeka Capital Markets Inc.’s Brian White estimates a bid
for Splunk would need to be as much as $50 a share in order to
get a deal done. That’s 33 percent higher than yesterday’s
closing price of $37.56.  Today, Splunk shares gained 0.8 percent to $37.84.  “Given Splunk’s disruptive software platform, the company
represents one of the few pure plays on the trend toward big
data and could benefit leading IT vendors,” White wrote in a
Jan. 16 note to clients.  Some technology providers in the past have been deemed so
attractive that acquirers were willing to pay steep prices for
them. VMware last year paid $1.26 billion in cash and equity for
closely held Nicira Inc., which at the time of the deal had only
recently shipped its first production-ready systems and had only
about $10 million in sales, according to Wood.  “That was an astronomical multiple,” Wood said. “So if
they think it’s something that’s that transformative and such an
important technology for the future, they’re willing to pay
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  