-- Standard Chartered Cuts Bonuses, Boosts Dividend After Fine
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-03-05T17:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/standard-chartered-2012-profit-increases-even-after-u-s-fine.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s
second-largest lender by market value, cut bonuses by 7 percent
and boosted its dividend after it was fined $667 million for
U.S. sanctions violations. The shares rose.  The bank will pay a final dividend of 56.77 cents a share,
bringing the total for the year to 84 cents, 11 percent more
than in 2011, the London-based lender said in a statement today.
Pretax profit rose to $6.88 billion from $6.78 billion in 2011,
beating the $6.84 billion estimate of 23  analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg and marking the firm’s 10th consecutive year of record
results. Revenue advanced 8 percent to $19.1 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands, 51, is trying to
attain revenue growth of at least 10 percent while keeping
expenses under control as the bank hires and adds branches in
China and Africa. The bank, which gets most of its profit from
Asia, last year reached a settlement with U.S. regulators over
allegations the bank violated sanctions with  Iran .  The “amount paid in bonuses is less than the amount paid
to our shareholders by way of a dividend, less than corporate
taxation and well under half of the retained earnings,” Sands
said in today’s statement. “We have started the year with very
good momentum and an exceptionally strong balance sheet.”  Bank Accused  In August, the lender was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head
of the  New York  Department of Financial Services, of helping
Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of federal laws,
keeping false records and handling lucrative wire transfers for
Iranian clients.  Standard Chartered’s shares have rebounded about 50 percent
since tumbling to a low of 1,228.5 pence on Aug. 7.
The bank rose 3.2 percent to 1,837.5 pence in London, valuing it
at about 44 billion pounds ($67 billion). The stock is up 17
percent this year, making it the second-best performer among
Britain’s five biggest lenders, trailing Barclays Plc.  Sands told reporters on a call today that the firm reduced
the bonus pool to $1.43 billion from $1.54 billion. Bonuses for
Sands and Finance Director Richard Meddings fell 10 percent to
$3.15 million and $2.16 million respectively. Forty-seven of the
bank’s employees were awarded a bonus of 1 million pounds or
more, said Sands.  The bank may add as many as 2,000 employees in 2013, said
Meddings.  Corporate Banking  Standard Chartered, whose origins date to 19th century
British colonial rule in  Africa  and  India , earns more than
three-quarters of its profit from corporate banking. Operating
profit at the division, led by Michael Rees, declined 1.5
percent to $5.14 billion after the fine. Revenue at the division
increased 8.6 percent to $11.78 billion. Profit from consumer
banking, run by Steve Bertamini, climbed 7.8 percent last year
to $1.78 billion, the lender said today.  “Consumer was a little bit better than we expected and
wholesale a little bit worse,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking
analyst at Shore Capital Ltd. who recommends buying Standard
Chartered shares. “The outlook statement looks pretty
confident. They talk about very good momentum into the new year
and how they’re taking market share.”  Operating costs for the bank rose to $10.9 billion from
$9.9 billion.  In India, operating profit for wholesale banking fell 18
percent to $581 million as the country’s economic growth slowed
to 5.2 percent from 7.9 percent, the rupee fell against the
dollar and impairments rose.  Asian Earnings  Standard Chartered said Hong Kong, mainland  China  and
 Taiwan  contributed about $4.9 billion in revenue, or about a
quarter of the bank’s total. In  Korea , the bank’s consumer unit
returned to an operating profit after losing money a year
earlier, earning $164 million on that basis after cutting
expenses by 22 percent.  Net interest income grew 8 percent, making Standard
Chartered the only U.K. bank to post an increase in that source
of revenue, according to Ian Gordon, an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP) 
in London who rates the bank buy.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  yesterday said full-year profit declined
after it paid a record penalty for compliance failures and said
costs rose for a third year, missing its target. Pretax profit
for 2012 dropped 5.6 percent to $20.65 billion.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc , Britain’s two biggest government-owned banks, posted net
losses for the year last week as they set aside a combined 2.9
billion pounds related to wrongly sold loan insurance and
interest-rate-hedging products in the U.K. Barclays Plc posted
its first loss in two decades last month and set aside an
additional 1 billion pounds to compensate clients.  While the bank has clawed back bonuses from employees for
wrongdoing before, it didn’t recall any payments from staff in
relation to its fine for breaking U.S. sanctions last year,
Chairman John Peace said at a press conference today.  The lender had “not found any wilful acts by individuals”
and the infractions were “mistakes,” Peace said.  Separately, he said the bank had no immediate plans to move
from the U.K., in part because “people see us as a British
bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  