-- Standard Chartered Posts Full-Year Profit Increase
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-03-05T09:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/standard-chartered-posts-full-year-profit-increase-correct-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s
second-largest lender by market value, posted its 10th
consecutive year of record profit as increased corporate-banking
revenue mitigated a $667 million settlement for sanction
failures.  Pretax profit rose to $6.88 billion from $6.78 billion a
year earlier, beating the $6.84 billion estimate of 23 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. Revenue rose to $19.1 billion from $17.64
billion, the London-based lender said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands , 51, is trying to
attain revenue growth of at least 10 percent, while keeping
expenses under control as it hires and adds branches in China
and Africa. The bank, which gets most of its profit from Asia,
last year settled with U.S. regulators after they alleged it
violated U.S. sanctions with Iran.  “We have started the year with very good momentum and an
exceptionally strong balance sheet,” Sands said in the
statement. “We remain confident and committed to consistent
financial delivery.”  The lender, which made its final settlements with U.S.
regulators in December, was in August accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the New York Department of Financial Services,
of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of
federal laws, keeping false records and handling lucrative wire
transfers for Iranian clients.  Standard Chartered  has gained 13 percent this year, valuing
the bank at about 43 billion pounds ($65 billion) at yesterday’s
close in London. That compares with 10 percent increase for the
six-member  FTSE 350 Banks Index. (F3BANKS)   -- Editors: Jon Menon, Edward Evans  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  