-- Syrian Rebels Say They Seized Large Parts of Northeastern City
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-05T08:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/syrian-rebels-say-they-seized-large-parts-of-northeastern-city.html
Syrian rebels have seized large
parts of Raqqah in the northeast from President Bashar al- Assad’s forces, and it may become the first city to fall
entirely to the opposition, a rights group said.  Fighters with the al-Nusra Front and other rebel factions
captured the governor of Raqqah province, Hassan Jalili, and the
local head of the Ba’ath Party branch, Suleiman al-Suleiman,
during the fighting, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights 
said on its Facebook page. The U.K.-based group posted a video
that it said showed pro-government forces seized during the
fighting.  Al-Nusra, an Islamist group, is classified as a terrorist
organization by the U.S., which has warned that weapons supplied
to the Syrian opposition may end up in the hands of jihadists.  The two-year conflict, which has left more than 70,000
people dead, is also showing signs of spilling across the border
into  Iraq .  Al Arabiya reported today that Iraqi tanks shelled the
Yarobiya border crossing. Syrian rebels attacked a convoy in the
Iraqi province of Anbar, killing 48 Syrian and nine Iraqi
soldiers, Iraq’s defense ministry said yesterday. The Syrian
forces were being transported to the Al Walid border crossing
after their border position at Yarobiya was overrun by rebels,
Iraqi news agency al-Mada Press said.  “This attack, which is most likely by al-Qaeda
sympathizers in the Syrian rebel movement, aims to spread the
rebellion into Iraq because of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s
support for Assad,” said Theodore Karasik, director of research
at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military analysis in
Dubai.  Maliki said he expects Assad to remain in power for years,
London-based Asharq al-Awsat reported last month. Saudi Foreign
Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said yesterday that Assad has
lost all authority in  Syria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  