-- U.K. Services Growth Accelerates as Demand Strengthens: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-05T11:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-k-services-unexpectedly-strengthen-as-confidence-increases.html
U.K. services  unexpectedly
accelerated last month as demand strengthened, indicating the
economy may stave off a recession this quarter.  A gauge of activity increased to 51.8 from 51.5 in January,
Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today in  London . The pound rose after the survey. A
separate report showed that euro-area services shrank less than
initially estimated last month.  Bank of England  policy makers begin their monthly meeting
tomorrow after they split on the need to expand quantitative
easing in February. While a slump in a manufacturing gauge last
week raised concerns the economy may succumb to a triple-dip
recession, Markit said its indexes now point to 0.1 percent
expansion this quarter.  “This release is not strong enough to take the prospect of
more QE on Thursday off the table, but it certainly muddies the
waters somewhat,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London and a former BOE official. “Overall, there
remain arguments for doing more.”  Economists had forecast that the U.K. index would drop to
51, according to the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. The pound
extended its gain against the dollar after the report and was
trading at $1.5148 as of 10:52 a.m. in London, up 0.2 percent
from yesterday.  U.S. Expansion  U.S. services probably maintained expansion last month,
economists said before a report today. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s February non-manufacturing index, which covers
almost 90 percent of the economy, was 55 compared with 55.2 the
prior month, according to the median estimate in a survey.  In the U.K., optimism among services companies rose in
February even as input-price inflation accelerated to a 14-month
high,  Markit said . New business increased at the sharpest pace
for nine months, while employment also rose.  “This modest underlying improvement suggests we might be
heading in the right direction at last,” CIPS Chief Executive
Officer  David Noble  said in the statement. “Whether this
trajectory can be maintained, however, is another question
entirely, given other sectors have not performed as well.”  Markit’s gauge of U.K.  factory activity  plunged to 47.9 in
February from a revised 50.5 in January, it said on March 1. A
construction measure also declined. The U.K.  economy  contracted
0.3 in the fourth quarter.  Markit Chief Economist  Chris Williamson  said first-quarter
growth could be stronger than currently forecast because some of
the manufacturing and construction weakness was due to weather
disruption, and a “brighter picture may emerge in March.”  BOE Decision  Still, with Britain’s recovery unable to gain momentum, BOE
policy makers are setting aside inflation concerns and
discussing new measures to help the economy.  The MPC will leave its target for  bond purchases  at 375
billion pounds ($568 billion) on Thursday, according to the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Eleven banks
are predicting an expansion of stimulus, including Citigroup
Inc., ING Bank NV and BNP Paribas.  While today’s report weighs against the expansion of
stimulus this week, Markit’s weighted average of its surveys
suggest it’s still “touch and go whether the overall economy
will manage to grow at all this quarter,” said  Vicky Redwood ,
an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London and a former
central bank official.  “A triple-dip recession is certainly still very
possible,” she said. ‘Unless the economic data show a marked
improvement, we will probably see a resumption of QE before
long.’’  Euro-Area Economy  In the euro region, a  services gauge  fell less than
initially estimated in February. The index declined to 47.9 from
48.6 in January. That compares with an initial estimate of of
47.3 on Feb. 21. A composite gauge of euro-area services and
manufacturing output fell to 47.9 from 48.6.  China ’s services industries expanded at the slowest pace
since September as a gauge of new orders declined. The non-
manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 54.5 from 56.2
in January, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics
said. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
declined to 52.1 from 54.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today that the nation lacks
a sustainable growth model and faces mounting “social
problems.” Speaking in his final report to the National
People’s Congress in Beijing as he ends a decade in power, Wen
set an economic growth target of 7.5 percent for this year, the
same as in 2012, and an inflation goal of 3.5 percent.  Elsewhere today, the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a half-century low and
reiterated it has room to cut further if needed to boost demand.  “With inflation likely to be consistent with the target,
and with growth likely to be a little below trend over the
coming year, an accommodative stance of monetary policy is
appropriate,” Governor Glenn Steven said in a statement. “The
inflation outlook, as assessed at present, would afford scope to
ease policy further, should that be necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  