-- U.K. to Oppose EU Plans for Bank-Financed Support Funds
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-05T16:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-k-to-oppose-eu-plans-for-bank-financed-support-funds.html
The U.K. will oppose European Union
plans to force all nations to set up permanent, bank-financed
funds that would be used to cover costs at failing lenders.  “We want to register again the U.K. concern about the ex-
ante resolution fund, which certainly in the British context
wouldn’t make a great deal of sense,” U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne told ministers at a meeting today in
Brussels. “We already have very high, in fact the highest, bank
taxes in  Europe  with our bank levy.”  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief,
presented plans last year to take taxpayers off the hook for
bailing out banks. The proposals include empowering regulators
to impose losses on senior bank creditors, and setting up
national funds to stabilize and cover restructuring costs at
failing lenders.  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said that the law
should explicitly state that governments can nationalize a bank
if that represents the best long-term deal for the taxpayer.  “It has been said many times that this is probably the
most efficient way of dealing with a banking crisis,” Borg
said. “It should be in the core of the banking resolution
directive that it’s possible,” he said, adding that governments
are “making painfully little progress” on this point in the
draft law.  Separately, Barnier urged at today’s meeting that
governments speed up deliberations on a draft law, known as
Mifid, to overhaul the EU’s financial markets rulebook.  “The delay with Mifid is invoked by some, especially in
the U.S., as a justification of a unilateral approach,” Barnier
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  