-- U.K. February Retail Sales Rise Most Since 2009, BRC Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-03-05T07:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-k-february-retail-sales-rise-most-since-2009-brc-says.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose at the
fastest pace in more than three years in February as demand for
clothes and home furnishings increased, the British Retail
Consortium said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
increased 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the London-based
trade group said in an e-mailed report today. Excluding
distortions caused by the timing of the Easter holidays, that’s
the biggest increase since December 2009.  The report follows a survey by GfK last week that showed
U.K.  consumer confidence  held steady in February as optimism
about personal finances rose to the highest in almost two years.
While the Bank of England has forecast a “slow but sustained”
recovery for the economy, consumer-spending growth may be
restrained by rising energy bills and accelerating inflation.  “There are certainly highly welcome signs here of gradual
improvement and customers feeling a bit more positive,” said
BRC Director-General Helen Dickinson. “But it’s too soon to
assume this represents the permanent turnaround we need.”  Retail-sales growth in January was partly held back by snow
across most of the country. In February, “relatively dry, if
cold, weather” helped to lift clothing sales, the BRC said. The
retail group also said there was a decline in frozen burger
sales after tests found horse DNA in some meat products.  BOE Meeting  With the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee
preparing for its monthly meeting this week, further information
on the strength of the economy will be published at 9:30 a.m.
today when Markit Economics releases its index of services
activity for February.  Economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  forecast that the
gauge will fall to 51 from 51.5, indicating cooling growth. A
separate Markit index last week showed manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank in February, reviving concerns the economy
could contract again this quarter.  The BRC report showed that in the quarter through February,
same-store retail sales rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier.
Food sales gained 1 percent, with demand for non-food increasing
1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  