-- U.K. Natural Gas Stores May Empty in Two Weeks: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-03-05T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-k-natural-gas-stores-may-empty-in-two-weeks-chart-of-the-day.html
U.K. stores of natural gas, pushed
to record lows by a dearth of tanker imports, will be exhausted
in about two weeks unless temperatures rise, reducing demand for
the heating fuel.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows inventories at Rough, the U.K.’s
largest gas-storage facility, are at the lowest level on record
for the time of year. There were 6,490 gigawatt-hours of gas in
storage yesterday, which will be depleted in 15 days if the
average rate of withdrawal over the past two weeks continues,
according to  National Grid Plc (NG/)  data.  U.K. gas prices, a benchmark for Europe’s 800 billion-euro
($1 trillion) market, are susceptible to sudden moves after
imports of liquefied natural gas slumped by 53 percent in the
five months through February from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Gas for same-day delivery jumped 64
percent to a seven-year high of 115 pence a therm yesterday as
unplanned maintenance cut supplies from  Norway .  “We’ll probably run out of storage in just over two weeks
if stocks continue to be drawn down at this rate,” Craig Lowrey, a consultant at The Utilities Exchange Ltd., said
yesterday by telephone from Ipswich,  England . “With very little
LNG coming to the U.K. there are fewer alternative sources of
gas and that increases the risks if we do get to that point.”  Higher prices raise costs for utilities, such as  Centrica
Plc (CNA)  and Electricite de France SA, which tend to hold rates
stable for consumers in the short term. Centrica raised bills an
average 6 percent in October, while EDF increased them by about
11 percent.  The average temperature in  London  during the last month was 
3.4 degrees Celsius (38 Fahrenheit) down from 5.3 degrees a year 
earlier and 7.1 degrees in 2011, CustomWeather Inc. data on 
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  