-- U.K. Businesses Urged to Help Manage Water, Woods, Farm Waste
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-05T12:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-k-businesses-urged-to-help-manage-water-woods-farm-waste.html
The U.K. should better manage its
woodlands and water cycle and do more to convert farm waste into
gas to feed the grid and power turbines, a panel of business
leaders said.  The measures are among five areas highlighted in a report
today by the  Ecosystems Markets Task Force , which was set up by
the government to tap opportunities to profit by using resources
better. Property developers who conserve wildlife should be
rewarded with streamlined planning rules, and product labels
should include the environmental costs of goods, the panel said.  The government wants to enlist businesses to help protect
the country’s natural assets. At a United Nations conference in
 Rio de Janeiro  in June, more than 50 nations and 86 companies,
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Unilever NV (UNA) , declared support
for natural capital accounting, a measure of wealth that
includes assets such as soils, watersheds and fisheries.  “If we get businesses to stop and think about how their
business model is really dependent on natural systems, that
would be a big step forward,”  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire, who chaired the  task force , said in a
briefing in  London .  As natural resources are depleted, governments are more
likely to impose costly regulations on business, he said. “If
you don’t think about changing your business model, it will
probably get changed for you.”  The panel included executives from Unilever,  United
Utilities Group Plc (UU/)  and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover
unit.  Water Management  The group recommended better management of all areas of the
water cycle, including farm run-off, treatment works, and flood
defenses. Cheshire said promoting permeable paving could reduce
the risk of flash floods, while giving incentives to farmers to
cut agricultural pollution could lower treatment costs.  It also said Britain should spur local wood-fuel markets
that could generate 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) for the
economy by 2020, supporting 15,300 jobs.  Developing anaerobic digestion in farms to break down
agricultural slurry and manure into fuel gas could cut methane
emissions, supply heat and electricity totaling 4.5 percent of
Britain’s renewable energy requirements, and the resulting
“digestate” could be used instead of fertilizer, according to
the report.  The panel recommended the development of products that are
fully recyclable, citing a plan by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to recycle
plastic bottles into seats for Rio’s new Maracana stadium.  The government will respond to the recommendations formally
in summer, Environment Secretary Owen Paterson said in an e-
mailed statement. The U.K. on June 20 said all public companies
must report their greenhouse gas emissions by April.  “We need to find something that goes beyond just the
greenhouse gas accounting,” Cheshire said. “The whole idea of
natural capital is much tougher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  