-- U.K. Labour Backs Tax Breaks for Longer-Term Investors
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-k-labour-backs-tax-breaks-for-longer-term-investors.html
The U.K. opposition  Labour Party 
published a report calling for tax breaks for investors who hold
stocks for at least one year, arguing that short-term investment
damages the economy.  Labour last year asked George Cox, who sits on the board of
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , to suggest ways to encourage investors to take a
longer view. The government published its own report on the
subject in July by the economist John Kay.  Cox’s ideas,  published in London today , propose tapering
the tax on  capital gains  from shares over a decade, changing tax
rules to remove the advantages for debt finance, and stopping
shareholders who buy shares after a takeover is announced from
voting on a bid. It backed Kay’s proposal to abolish the
requirement for quarterly reporting by companies.  “Economic growth needs to become an objective, with
strategies to achieve it, not a forecast on which all other
decisions are dependent,” Cox said in an e-mailed statement.
“Only by overcoming short-termism will we grow the U.K. economy
and ensure the U.K. can pay its way.”  On pay, Cox suggested at least 30 percent of executive
directors’ remuneration should be deferred and based on five-
year results. He said as much as half of non-executive director
pay could be in shares, delayed for five years or until the
individual has left a company’s board.  Ed Balls , Labour’s Treasury spokesman, and Chuka Umunna,
the party’s business spokesman, both welcomed the proposals.  Kay, a visiting professor at the  London School  of
Economics, said in his report that investors should act as
“stewards” of a small number of selected stocks over a long
period, encouraging them to take a deeper interest in the
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  