-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Decline; MGIC Investment Swaps Drop
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-03-05T22:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-to-lowest-level-in-more-than-five-months.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to the lowest level in more than five months as
 service industries  grew at the fastest pace in a year.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.5
basis points to a mid-price of 83.1 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since
Sept. 14, when the measure reached 83.  Signs that the economy is strengthening may help to ease
investor concern that companies’ ability to repay debt will be
constrained. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.
non-manufacturing businesses, which account for almost 90
percent of the economy, increased to 56 in February from 55.2 in
January, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. That’s
higher than a projection of 55 from economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion.  “Spreads are tightening on the back of a stronger pace of
recovery and outlook with better macro indicators like the ISM
today,” Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager for an
investment-grade debt fund at ING Investment Management, said in
a telephone interview. Corporate earnings are also expected to
show a strong pick up, he said.  Corporate Profits  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose to its highest level
ever, erasing losses from the financial crisis after a four-year
rally fueled by the fastest profit growth since the 1990s and
monetary stimulus from the  Federal Reserve .  Profits (INDU)  of companies in the Dow are projected by analysts
to increase 9.2 percent this year. Profit from companies in the
 S&P 500  will exceed $120 a share by next year, twice the  level 
in 2008, according to Wall Street estimates. That’s the biggest
increase since the 142 percent gain amid the rally in technology
stocks from 1993 to 1999.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 4.6 basis points to 417.2 basis points, the
lowest in almost two years, Bloomberg prices show.  MGIC Swaps  The cost to protect  MGIC Investment Corp.’s (MTG)  debt from
default dropped to the lowest since May 2011 after the insurer
said it is selling common stock and notes and may use funds to
bolster its unprofitable unit backing home loans.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
dropped 164.2 basis points to 457 basis points as of 5:07 p.m.
in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt fell 7.9 basis points to 496.8 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  