-- U.S. February ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-03-05T15:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/u-s-february-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.  February 2013 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business  NMI at 56%  Business Activity Index at 56.9%
New Orders Index at 58.2%
Employment Index at 57.2%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
February for the 38th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 56 percent in
February, 0.8 percentage point higher than the 55.2 percent
registered in January. This indicates continued growth at a
slightly faster rate in the non-manufacturing sector. This
month’s reading also reflects the highest NMI since February
2012, when the index registered 56.1 percent. The Non-
Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 56.9 percent,
which is 0.5 percentage point higher than the 56.4 percent
reported in January, reflecting growth for the 43rd consecutive
month. The New Orders Index increased by 3.8 percentage points
to 58.2 percent, and the Employment Index decreased 0.3
percentage point to 57.2 percent, indicating growth in
employment for the seventh consecutive month. The Prices Index
increased 3.7 percentage points to 61.7 percent, indicating
prices increased at a faster rate in February when compared to
January. According to the NMI, 13 non-manufacturing industries
reported growth in February. The majority of respondents’
comments reflect a growing optimism about the trend of the
economy and overall business conditions.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE
The 13 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in February
-- listed in order -- are: Management of Companies & Support
Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Public Administration;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Transportation & Warehousing;
 Wholesale Trade ; Educational Services; Construction; Finance &
Insurance; Other Services; Retail Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Utilities. The five
industries reporting contraction in February are: Mining; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Information; Accommodation & Food
Services; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING ...
■“Our business is beginning to turn up slightly.” (Health Care &
Social Assistance)
■“Business seems to be improving; RFQ volume and orders also
up.” (Management of Companies & Support Services)
■“Continuing to see slight uptrend in activity, primarily
related to 1st quarter initiatives started.” (Finance &
Insurance)
■“Construction market showing some positive signs.” (Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing)
■“The economy continues to slowly pick up, perhaps at an even
faster pace than had been previously projected. New housing
permits and business licenses are at a multiyear high, although
still lower than pre-recession.” (Public Administration)
■“February bouncing back to forecast levels, which was 11
percent over 2012.” (Wholesale Trade)
■“Business is picking up; more projects to bid and things are
improving.” (Construction)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price
Airfares (2); Aluminum Products; Beef (3); Chicken Products (2);
Corrugated (2); #1 Diesel Fuel (2); #2 Diesel Fuel (2); Fuel
(2); Gasoline (2); #2 Heating Fuel; Lumber -- Pine, Plywood and
Treated (4); Paper; Pharmacy Products (3); Pipe, Valves and
Fittings (2); Plastic Products; Safety Products (2); Urea 46-0-
0; and Wire Products.  Commodities Down in Price
Cheese (2); Copier Equipment; and Copy Paper.  Commodities in Short Supply
Glass Containers; and Pharmacy Products (2).  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  --------------------------------------------------------------  FEBRUARY 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  --------------------------------------------------------------  NMI
In February, the NMI registered 56 percent, indicating continued
growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 38th consecutive
month. This month’s reading also reflects the highest NMI since
February 2012, when the index registered 56.1 percent. A reading
above 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector economy
is generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector is generally contracting.  NMI HISTORY
Month    NMI    Month NMI
Feb 2013 56.0 Aug 2012 54.3
Jan 2013 55.2 Jul 2012 52.9
Dec 2012 55.7 Jun 2012 52.7
Nov 2012 54.8 May 2012 54.1
Oct 2012 54.8 Apr 2012 53.7
Sep 2012 55.2 Mar 2012 55.0
Average for 12 months - 54.5
High - 56.0
Low - 52.7  Business Activity
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in February
registered 56.9 percent, 0.5 percentage point higher than the
56.4 percent registered in January. Eleven industries reported
increased business activity, and six industries reported
decreased activity for the month of February. Comments from
respondents include: “Increased  consumer spending ” and “Growth
in the marketplace.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in February
-- listed in order -- are: Management of Companies & Support
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Transportation & Warehousing; Public Administration;
Utilities; Other Services; Construction; Wholesale Trade;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Finance &
Insurance. The industries reporting decreased business activity
in February -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Mining; Information; Educational Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; and Retail Trade.  New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in February for
the 43rd consecutive month. The index registered 58.2 percent,
an increase of 3.8 percentage points from the 54.4 percent
reported in January. Comments from respondents include: “Growing
popularity of our products and services” and “2013 capital
budgets approved.”  The 14 industries reporting growth of new orders in February --
listed in order -- are: Management of Companies & Support
Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance; Educational Services;
Public Administration; Utilities; Retail Trade; Other Services;
Construction; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Accommodation
& Food Services. The three industries reporting contraction of
new orders in February are: Mining; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; and Information.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
February for the seventh consecutive month. ISM’s Non-
Manufacturing Employment Index registered 57.2 percent, which
reflects a decrease of 0.3 percentage point when compared to the
57.5 percent registered in January. Eleven industries reported
increased employment, five industries reported decreased
employment, and two industries reported unchanged employment
compared to January. Comments from respondents include:
“Positions are still being filled, but slowly” and “Staff added
to accommodate demand.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in February -
- listed in order -- are: Other Services; Public Administration;
Finance & Insurance; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Wholesale Trade; Transportation & Warehousing; Educational
Services; Retail Trade; Construction; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Information. The industries reporting a
reduction in employment in February are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Mining; Utilities; Accommodation & Food Services;
and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 51.5 percent in
February, indicating that supplier deliveries were slower in
February for the second consecutive month. A reading above 50
percent indicates slower deliveries, while a reading below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The eight industries reporting slower deliveries in February --
listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Utilities; Construction; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Wholesale Trade; and Public Administration. The six industries
reporting faster supplier deliveries in February -- listed in
order -- are: Mining; Other Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Information;
and Finance & Insurance.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew significantly in
February. The index registered 54 percent, which is 7 percentage
points higher than the 47 percent reported in January. Of the
total respondents in February, 27 percent indicated they do not
have inventories or do not measure them. Comments from
respondents include: “New product launch” and “Preparation for
Chinese New Year.”  The 10 industries reporting an increase in inventories in
February -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Wholesale Trade; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Construction; Transportation &
Warehousing; Health Care & Social Assistance; Retail Trade; and
Accommodation & Food Services. The five industries reporting
decreases in inventories in February are: Educational Services;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Information; and Finance & Insurance.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased in February for the 41st
consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for
February registered 61.7 percent, 3.7 percentage points higher
than the 58 percent reported in January. In February, the
percentage of respondents reporting higher prices is 31 percent,
the percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 63
percent, and 6 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Fifteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid during the month of February, in the following
order: Mining; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade; Construction;
Educational Services; Public Administration; Utilities; Other
Services; Management of Companies & Support Services; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Accommodation & Food Services;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Transportation & Warehousing; and Finance &
Insurance. The three industries reporting a decrease in prices
paid during February are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Information; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in
February. The index registered 54.5 percent, which is 5.5
percentage points higher than the 49 percent reported in
January. Of the total respondents in February, 40 percent
indicated they do not measure backlog of orders.  The nine industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
February -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Utilities;
Construction; Information; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Public Administration; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Wholesale Trade. The four industries reporting
lower backlog of orders in February are: Other Services; Mining;
Retail Trade; and Finance & Insurance.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew substantially in February for
the second consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for
February registered 60.5 percent, which is 5 percentage points
higher than the 55.5 percent reported in January. Of the total
respondents in January, 68 percent indicated they either do not
perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work outside
of the United States.  The nine industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in February -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Construction; Public Administration;
Information; Transportation & Warehousing; Accommodation & Food
Services; Other Services; Wholesale Trade; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. The only industry reporting a
decrease in export orders in February is Retail Trade.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in February for the
second consecutive month. This month’s reading at 52.5 percent
is 1.5 percentage points higher than the 51 percent reported in
January. Fifty-eight percent of respondents reported that they
do not use, or do not track the use of, imported materials.  The five industries reporting an increase in imports for the
month of February are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Information; Accommodation & Food Services; Retail Trade; and
Wholesale Trade. The two industries reporting a decrease in
imports for the month of February are: Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Management of Companies & Support Services.
Eleven industries reported no change in imports for the month of
February compared to January.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in February
registered 62.5 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points lower
than the 64 percent reported in January. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In February, 27 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 2 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 71 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 10 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in February -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Mining; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Wholesale Trade; Other Services;
Finance & Insurance; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Public Administration; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The only industry reporting that their inventories
are too low in February is Construction. Six industries
indicated no change in inventory sentiment for the month of
February compared to January.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to enhance the value and performance of
procurement and supply chain management practitioners and their
organizations worldwide.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
March 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Wednesday, April 3, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  