-- Ugandan Central Bank Holds Key Rate as Inflation Eases
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-03-05T12:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ugandan-central-bank-holds-key-rate-as-inflation-eases.html
Uganda’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third month as inflation
in the East African nation eased.  The Bank of Uganda kept the rate at 12 percent, Deputy
Governor Louis Kasekende told reporters today in Kampala, the
capital. That was in line with the  forecasts  of all three
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose at the slowest pace in 26 months in
February, giving policy makers room to keep borrowing costs
unchanged, said Stephen Kaboyo, managing director of Kampala-
based research company Alpha Partners.  “The decision seems to be underpinned by the rationale
that the current central  bank rate  is consistent with keeping
inflation near the target of 5 percent,” Kaboyo said.  The central bank is also being cautious before a winner is
announced in elections in  Kenya  that took place yesterday, said
Robert Katabaire, an economist at Kampala-based brokerage Dyer &
Blair Uganda Ltd. Violence after the last vote five years ago
disrupted trade between the neighboring countries.  “The central bank is watchful of the Kenyan situation and
wouldn’t want to hurry into cutting the rate,” Katabaire said.
“Petroleum prices have slightly risen because of speculation
over Kenya’s elections.”  The Bank of Uganda cut the rate nine times last year, after
almost doubling it in 2011 to curb prices and prop up the
shilling. The currency has gained more than 1 percent against
the dollar this year, while  inflation  slowed to 3.4 percent last
month from 4.9 percent in January.  Core inflation  eased to 5.5
percent from 5.6 percent in January, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at   fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 