-- Ukraine Parliament Blocked as Parties Seek Lawmaker’s Mandate
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-03-05T11:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/ukraine-parliament-blocked-as-parties-seek-lawmaker-s-mandate.html
Ukrainian opposition parties blocked
Parliament as a group backing President  Viktor Yanukovych  seeks
to strip an ally of jailed opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  of
his mandate.  Tymoshenko’s party, world boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR party and the Svoboda party surrounded the
speaker’s rostrum today in the capital, Kiev, keeping the
session from getting underway.  “This is putting pressure on the opposition,” Klitschko
said. “None of the lawmakers are being allowed to do his or her
job as anyone can be stripped of their mandate any time.”  The European Union has postponed an association and free-
trade agreement with Ukraine indefinitely after former Prime
Minister Yulia Tymoshenko was jailed in 2011 in a case the 27-
member bloc deems an example of selective justice. It’s given
the eastern European nation three months to carry out changes to
its justice and electoral systems to seal the pact.  House Speaker Volodymyr Rybak asked Ukraine’s High
Administrative Court on Feb. 28 to strip Serihy Vlasenko of his
mandate because he was working both as a lawyer and a lawmaker.
The Kiev-based court will consider the case today. Vlasenko
denies the allegation saying he stopped practicing law in 2008.  Vlasenko said he helped Tymoshenko, who has been accused by
prosecutors of being involved in the murder of a politician in
1996, as a defense counsel. Tymoshenko, who denies the charges,
is already serving seven years in prison for abuse of power for
signing a 10-year natural gas accord with  Russia  when she was
premier.  EU Commissioners  Catherine Ashton  and Stefan Fule are
paying “particular attention to the situation related to the
case of Serhiy Vlasenko” and “call on Ukrainian authorities to
address this situation so as to avoid creating any perception of
misuse of the judiciary for political purposes,” the two said
in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  