-- Tullett Prebon Joins With Standard Chartered to Attack Bonus Cap
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-03-05T15:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/tullett-prebon-joins-with-standard-chartered-to-attack-bonus-cap.html
Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s second-largest bank, criticized
European Union plans to cap bonuses at twice bankers’ base
salary, saying they risk damaging their global competitiveness.  “It won’t do anything positive in terms of controlling
remuneration, but I think it will cause damage to individual
companies and I genuinely think it will cause business to leave
London,” Tullett Chief Executive Officer  Terry Smith  said by
telephone from London today. “It will just shift the balance
from variable remuneration into fixed remuneration, which from
the standpoint of anyone operating a business has to be a
negative.”  EU plans to limit compensation and require a shareholder
vote to approve any bonuses that top base salary are being
opposed by the British government and financial firms who say
the proposals will limit their ability to reduce costs when
revenue shrinks. The plan still needs formal endorsement by
governments and lawmakers.  “It’s wholly misconceived,” said Smith as the interdealer
broker he runs posted a loss for 2012. “It takes away one of
the planks of their safeguard against a downturn in revenues.”  Banks have already increased base salaries as a proportion
of total compensation after European regulators, including those
in  France  and the U.K., restricted when and in what form bankers
can be paid after the financial crisis of 2008.  “We’re concerned about it,” Standard Chartered CEO  Peter Sands  told reporters on a call today as the bank reported full-
year  earnings . “We’re a global bank with 97 percent of staff
outside the EU, and we’re concerned about our ability to be
competitive in retaining talent and attracting talent.”  The City, as London’s main financial district is known, is
the world’s top  financial center , according to consulting firm
Z/YenGroup Ltd., and is the European securities operations hub
of firms including Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and Credit Suisse
Group AG. About half of European investment-banking activity is
conducted through London and the U.K.’s financial firms
generated almost 12 percent of the country’s tax revenue from
2011 to 2012, according to TheCityUK, a bank lobbying group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  