-- Unforgettable New Herzog Play; Irwin’s ‘Old Hats’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-03-05T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/unforgettable-new-herzog-play-irwin-s-old-hats-review.html
A red velvet curtain rises on two
tramps struggling against the vacuum force of a raging storm
projected on the giant screen behind them.  Battling cosmic forces beyond them is one of the things
that make Bill Irwin’s collaborations with David Shiner so much
more than mere clowning around. That’s not meant to take
anything away from the clowning itself, which is the
irresistible core of “ Old Hats ,” their new off-Broadway show.  As demonstrated by the duo’s sophisticated interplay with
Wendall K. Harrington’s dizzying projections, the technology has
improved since their “Fool Moon” first cracked up Broadway 20
years ago. And singer Nellie McKay, whose poniard lyrics are
sheathed in velvet melodies, is a brilliant addition. As is Tina
Landau’s unifying direction.  But “Old Hats” remains the mostly silent testament of two
vaudevillians to the curative power of slapstick over the winter
blues. It’s sheer pleasure.  In one sketch, a top hat comes to life, rolling across
shoulder blades and flipping ever-higher in the air before
landing snugly atop the head. Or not, as sometimes is the case.  Pill Blues  At a commuter train station, two men trade the pills that
alleviate their gray-flannel ills (“Fool Moon” came before
Viagra, here given its due). In yet another skit, Irwin appears
in drag (with great pegs, I might add) as the jealous assistant
to Shiner’s lascivious magician. Flowers bloom from
handkerchiefs and a fetching audience member will be sawn in
half.  The final playlet brings more audience members to the stage
to “make” a cowboy movie under Shiner’s tutelage. It’s goofy,
and it’s sublime.  Through April 14 at the Pershing Square Signature Center,
480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-7529;
 http://www.signaturetheatre.org .
Rating: ****  Herzog’s ‘Belleville’  Amy Herzog’s “ Belleville ,” at the  New York  Theatre
Workshop is also a little old fashioned: It has the outline of a
classic thriller and the suspense of a watch stem wound to
unnerving tension.  Underlying the tale, however, is the keenness of
observation about how relationships unravel that give Herzog’s
plays -- most recently, “4000 Miles” and “The Great God Pan”
-- a kind of documentary power.  “Belleville” is otherwise unlike her other plays, and yet
its bleak portrait of young people missing connections is more
disturbing than any of the foul-mouthed brats in current shows
(“Really, Really” and “Clive”) on similar themes.  Zack (Greg Keller) and Abby (Maria Dizzia) are an American
couple in their 20s living in the working-class Paris district
of the title. He’s a research doctor working on pediatric AIDS.
She teaches yoga.  Their comfortable, sky-lit apartment (nicely rendered by
Julia C. Lee and exquisitely lit by Ben Stanton) is a cut above
student housing, though not by much.  Abby arrives home early on a day her class is canceled for
want of customers, only to stumble upon Zack watching violent
porn on his laptop. What he’s doing home besides getting off is
the loose thread that, once tugged, unravels their relationship
beyond repair.  Younger Couple  Herzog contrasts Zack and Abby with Amina and Alioune
(Pascale Armand and Phillip James Brannon), the French-African
couple who manage the building and, though younger than the
Americans, are all business and already have started a family.  Under Anne Kauffman’s gradually terrifying push-me, pull-
you direction, Zack and Abby’s spiral is at once infuriating and
heartbreaking. Keller and Dizzia have an easy intimacy that
turns sinister as the lies they’ve constructed in place of an
actual life come into ever-sharper focus.  The final scene, in which Amina and Alioune clean out the
apartment, may strike some as superfluous. But as Abby and Zack
are easily erased from the premises, as if from the world, I
found it devastating.  Through March 31 at New York Theatre Workshop, 79 E. 4th
St., East Village. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.nytw.org .
Rating: *****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon ’s New York Scene and
 Zinta Lundborg ’s interview with Jonas Kaufmann.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 