-- US Airways Gets U.S. Request for More Data on AMR Merger
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-05T01:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/us-airways-gets-u-s-request-for-more-data-on-amr-merger.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said the U.S.
Justice Department extended an antitrust review of its proposed
merger with  American Airlines  parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , asking the
companies for more information.  The airlines said they will continue cooperating with the
antitrust division as it conducts its review of the proposed
merger. The deal is still expected to close in the third quarter
of 2013, the companies said in a statement, as American Airlines
emerges from bankruptcy.  The request for more information is standard procedure
under U.S. antitrust law if the agency reviewing the acquisition
needs more time to study its possible impact on the market.  “Given the size and importance of this transaction, it was
a foregone conclusion that the  Justice Department  would issue a
second request,” said Alison Smith, a partner with  McDermott
Will & Emery  in Houston, who previously worked as an antitrust
lawyer at the department.  The combination of the two companies would create the
world’s largest airline based on passenger traffic, displacing
United Continental Holdings Inc.  American, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, and Tempe, Arizona-
based US Airways announced their merger agreement on Feb. 14.  Flight Slots  Smith said that judging from previous mergers approved in
the past five years, the deal is likely to be cleared after
requiring the companies to give up some flight slots.  Such divestitures might include gates at Ronald Reagan
Washington National Airport, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The combined US Airways-American would account for 67
percent of departures from Reagan.  “There’s very little overlap between the two route
networks,” US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said
in an interview that aired today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” with  Adam Johnson . “We feel very good about it
being approved, but we need to do that work and are happy to do
it.”  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
confirmed the transaction is under review and declined to
comment on the second request.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  