-- Vattenfall Says French Plan for EDF, GDF Dams May Contradict Law
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-05T08:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/vattenfall-says-french-plan-for-edf-gdf-dams-may-contradict-law.html
A French proposal to allow  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA and Electricite de France SA to extend their concessions to
run hydropower plants by 25 years may contradict national laws
on allotting contracts for public services, Vattenfall AB said.  The proposal by senators led by the ruling Socialist Party
runs counter to European calls for France to open up hydropower
permits and would reduce state royalties, according to Frederic de Maneville, president of the French operations of Vattenfall,
one of the companies planning to bid for hydropower concessions.  “Our patience is wearing thin,” de Maneville said in an
interview. “The proposed law appears to go against existing
laws on concessions. It would cost the state and local
governments 3.6 billion euros ($4.7 billion) in royalties.”  Socialist Roland Courteau led 50 senators in proposing a
law to extend contracts to 99 years in return for new spending.
Vattenfall,  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and EON AG are among those that planned to
bid for 10 concessions in competitive tenders announced by the
prior government under President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Bidding was to
start in 2013 for 5,300 megawatts, or a fifth of hydro capacity.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  says the utility
would fight to hold its concessions.  Gerard Mestrallet , CEO for
GDF Suez, has said the company would seek to retain its current
contracts and acquire as much as 2,000 megawatts from bidding.  Environment Minister Delphine Batho, who has said she is
studying alternatives to competitive bidding, charged lawmaker
Marie-Noelle Battistel with writing a report on concessions.  Report Delayed  A discussion in parliament on the report scheduled for Feb.
19 was later postponed. A ministry official and Karine Lepretre,
a spokeswoman for EON, declined to comment on the proposals.  The government should give alternative suppliers access to
hydro generation, antitrust regulator Autorite de la Concurrence
said in a report last year. Attempts to open the market may fail
should competitors begin to abandon the country, it said.  Vattenfall isn’t yet considering that, de Maneville said.  France  “must enable access to hydroelectricity,” Anne
Houtman, head of the European Commission’s representation in the
country, said at a Paris gas and power conference in September.
The nation has about 25,000 megawatts of hydropower projects,
its second-biggest electricity source after nuclear energy.  “France has promised the European Commission more than
once to open the hydroelectric concessions,” de Maneville said.  Vattenfall, based in Solna,  Sweden , has planned to bid with
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , Rhodia SA and Societe Nationale des Chemins de
Fer Francais, the national railway. The Nordic region’s biggest
utility has been among the most vocal in pushing for French
market opening. Germany’s EON proposed bidding with Hydrocop
Concessions, a power distributor in eight French regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  