-- Venezuela Bonds Rally as Chavez’s Health Worsens: Caracas Mover
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-03-05T16:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/venezuelan-bonds-rally-as-chavez-s-health-worsens-caracas-mover.html
Venezuelan bonds rallied, sending
yields to a three-week low, after an aide said President Hugo Chavez’s health is deteriorating, fueling speculation that
elections for a new government will be called.  The yield on the South American country’s $4 billion of
2027 bonds fell 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to
8.77 percent at 11:41 a.m. in Caracas, the lowest since Feb. 11.
The price increased 1.03 cents to 103.91 cents on the dollar.  Chavez’s health is in a “very delicate” state as he
struggles with chemotherapy treatment for cancer and a
“severe” respiratory infection, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said yesterday in a national address. The self-declared
socialist has seized more than 1,000 companies or their assets
and imposed price caps and currency controls in almost a decade-
and-a-half of steering  Venezuela ’s economy.  “It’s been clear for some time that Chavez is quite ill,
and his tenure as president is probably coming to an end,”
Marco Santamaria, who helps oversee $24 billion in emerging-
market debt at AllianceBernstein Holding LP, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “The question we’ve been struggling
with is how soon that tenure ends and what the transition looks
like. Clarity on the timing of that transition provides some
space for bonds to rally.”  Under Venezuela’s constitution, an election must be held
within 30 days if Chavez dies or steps down. His hand-picked
successor, Vice President Nicolas Maduro, has been running
affairs in his absence.  Cancer Surgery  Chavez hasn’t been seen in public since traveling to Cuba
for cancer-related surgery Dec. 10 aside from photos released
last month. Messages were posted to his Twitter account upon his
return to Caracas on Feb. 18. He has undergone four cancer-
related surgeries in  Havana  since June 2011.  Since taking office in 1999, the former paratrooper has
turned the state crude-oil producer Petroleos de Venezuela SA
into a political tool to promote his policies abroad and fund
social programs at home.  Yields on PDVSA’s $6.15 billion of 8.5 percent bonds due
2017 declined 22 basis points to 8.50 percent. The cost of
protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment for five years
with credit-default swaps fell 21 basis points to 628 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  