-- Venezuela Bonds Decline After Chavez Dies; Default Swaps Climb
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-03-06T18:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/venezuela-credit-default-swaps-increase-after-hugo-chavez-dies.html
Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds
fell for a second day after President  Hugo Chavez  died and his
deputy stepped in to run the country,  South America ’s biggest
oil exporter. The cost of protecting its debt against non-
payment rose.  The yield on the $4 billion of notes maturing in 2027 rose
to the highest since Jan. 22 after Vice President  Nicolas Maduro 
announced on state television that Chavez died at a military
hospital in Caracas and urged Venezuelans to refrain from
violence. Maduro will be interim president, Foreign Minister
Elias Jaua said yesterday, pending an election.  Chavez, a self-declared socialist, transformed Venezuela by
channeling record oil revenue to the poor, nationalizing
corporations and vilifying foes as U.S. imperialist puppets, a
left-wing political ideology also known as Chavismo. He died at
the age of 58. Under  Venezuela ’s constitution, an election must
be held within 30 days.  “The market may be worried about the political tension
going into the election and how the new Chavismo will shape up
without its historical leader,” said Emanuele Del Monte, who
helps manage $2.7 billion of bonds at Fideuram Asset Management
in Dublin, including Venezuela debt. “Bond investors have been
positive in anticipation of this event. This is an important
moment for the country and could represent a major opportunity
for change.”  The yield on 9.25 percent bonds due in September 2027
climbed 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 9.20
percent as of 1:36 p.m in New York, after rising nine basis
points yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five-
year credit-default  swaps  rose 35 basis points to 676 basis
points today.  Global Debt  “The market will now focus on the election,”  David Rolley , who as vice president of the global fixed-income group
at Loomis Sayles & Co. co-manages $36 billion, said in an
interview yesterday. “We don’t know if there’ll be policy
continuity. While this is a dramatic moment, it was not
necessarily a surprising moment.”  The South American country has $36 billion of dollar bonds
outstanding with maturities of up to 2038, and 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) of debt due in 2015, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Venezuela’s notes rallied  28 percent  in the past year, more
than the 11 percent average return for emerging-market sovereign
bonds tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index, as
the deterioration of Chavez’s health fueled speculation that a
new government may unwind policies that pushed up inflation and
repelled foreign investors.  PDVSA Notes  The yield on Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s securities due in
2022 climbed 25 basis points to a one-month high of 10.30
percent. They were the most-actively traded securities by volume
today, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Chavez traveled to Cuba in December to undergo his fourth
cancer operation, two months after winning re-election. It was
the last time he would be seen in public. Half of the citizens
would vote for Maduro in a new election, the Correo Del Orinoco
newspaper reported on Feb. 18, citing a Hiterlaces poll.  “Market expectations are already braced for a transition
scenario without undue expectations that the opposition can come
to power in the near term,” Ben Ramsey, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York , wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“Volatility around upcoming events, though possible, should be
limited.”  Cancer Accusations  In an hour-long televised speech yesterday, Maduro called
for an investigation into a theory that Chavez’s enemies
infected him with cancer, after the government expelled two U.S.
officials over the alleged plot.  “From the latest Maduro speech, it doesn’t bode well” for
the market, Fideuram’s Del Monte said. “Although we are
witnessing the end of an era that has been problematic in the
eyes of most investors, the political landscape is far from
clear.”  Maduro will take over as interim president until elections
are organized within 30 days, Minister Jaua said last night.
Chavez tapped Maduro in his final public speech on Dec. 8 to
represent his government in that vote.  “It is not clear at this stage if the government will
strictly follow all of the steps detailed in the country’s
constitution,” Barclays Plc analysts Alejandro Grisanti and
Alejandro Arreaza wrote in a report. “As events unfold we will
expect a big increase in volatility in the market in the next
few days.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  