-- Venezuela Expels U.S. Officials as Chavez Struggles
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-05T21:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/venezuela-expels-u-s-officials-as-chavez-s-health-worsens-1-.html
(Corrects name of U.S. official in second paragraph.)  Venezuela expelled two U.S.
officials accused of plotting against President  Hugo Chavez ’s
government while the cancer-stricken leader nears his third
month out of public view.  U.S. military attache David Delmonaco met Venezuelan
military officials in a bid to destabilize the country and has
24 hours to leave, Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said in
televised remarks today. Foreign Minister Elias Jaua said
afterward that a second U.S. official was declared persona non
grata and that more expulsions will follow.  In an hour-long speech, Maduro also called for an
investigation into a theory that Chavez’s enemies infected him
with cancer and said he had evidence that opposition groups are
sabotaging the nation’s power grid.  Today’s announcements come amid increasing speculation that
Chavez is losing his battle with cancer and may not be able to
continue as president, said David Smilde, a senior fellow at the
Washington Office on  Latin America  who specializes in Venezuela.  “This is consistent with what we’ve seen from Maduro in
recent months,” Smilde said in a phone interview. “It’s a card
that Chavez played and now Maduro is playing it too. Anytime you
hear those kinds of accusations and conspiracy theories, you
think it’s an attempt to divert attention.”  Officials at the U.S. Embassy in Caracas didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment by  Bloomberg News .  ‘Severe’ Infection  Today’s comments show how Maduro could end up being more
radical than Chavez as he attempts to prove his revolutionary
credentials to Venezuelans, said Risa Grais-Targow, a political
analyst at the Eurasia Group.  “They are clearly concerned with maintaining control and
winning the new elections,” Grais-Targow said in a phone
interview. “By blaming an outside aggressor, they gain room to
take a tougher stance at home.”  Chavez’s breathing problems have worsened after he
developed a second “severe” respiratory infection and
 Venezuela  faces it’s most difficult hours since Chavez underwent
surgery in  Havana  Dec. 11, Maduro said.  The government will give another health update on Chavez
later today, Maduro said.  Four Surgeries  Chavez’s lung infection is the latest setback for the
former paratrooper, who has undergone four cancer-related
surgeries in Cuba since June 2011. Aside from photos released
last month and messages posted to Chavez’s Twitter account on
his return to Venezuela on Feb. 18, the president has not been
seen in public since traveling to Havana for surgery Dec. 10.  Maduro called for a scientific investigation of Chavez’s
cancer, saying he had no doubt Venezuela’s “historic enemies
looked for a weak spot to damage Chavez’s health.”  The accusation echoes a theory espoused by Chavez in
December 2011 when he hinted that the U.S. may be behind a
“very strange” bout of cancer affecting several leaders
aligned with him in  South America .  On that occasion, Chavez called for a regional summit of
leaders afflicted with cancer including Brazilian President
 Dilma Rousseff , her predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva, and
 Paraguay ’s Fernando Lugo.  Conspiracies  Maduro, who has been running the country in Chavez’s
absence, also said the government has uncovered plots to
sabotage the nation’s electricity grid after Venezuela suffered
several power cuts last week.  Just before flying to Cuba for his fourth surgery in
December, Chavez called on Venezuelans to unite behind Maduro as
his successor if he couldn’t fulfill his term.  Under Venezuela’s constitution, if Chavez dies or steps
down, an election must be held within 30 days. Chavez last year
proclaimed himself to be healthy and ran a successful re-
election campaign 14 years after first winning the presidency.  “We are praying with our souls for the health and life of
our comandante president in these hours that are the most
difficult we’ve experienced since the Dec. 11 operation,”
Maduro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  