-- Virgin Painting Returned to Heirs of Jewish Art Dealer
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-03-05T14:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/virgin-painting-returned-to-heirs-of-nazi-victim-dealer.html
A museum in Stuttgart today handed
over an early Renaissance painting to the heirs of Max Stern, a
Jewish art dealer persecuted by the Nazis and forced to flee
 Germany  75 years ago.  The oil painting of the virgin and child is attributed to
the Flemish artist, the Master of Flemalle (1375-1444), and was
bequeathed to the  Staatsgalerie Stuttgart  in 1948. The museum
and the  Holocaust Claims Processing Office  in New York
identified it as one of several works sold in 1938 to secure an
exit permit for Stern’s mother Selma, according to a statement
by Concordia University in Montreal, which is one of his heirs.  Stern’s estate is managed by three universities: Concordia
and McGill in  Montreal  and the  Hebrew University  of  Jerusalem .
The painting is only the 10th of about 400 missing works to be
restituted, and the first by a German museum. The handover took
place at a ceremony at the Canadian Embassy in Berlin.  “The most immediate challenge lies in encouraging a number
of other museums currently in possession of Stern paintings to
follow the lead of the Staatsgalerie,” Alan Shepard, the
president of Concordia, said in the statement sent by e-mail.  Julius Stern founded his Dusseldorf gallery 100 years ago
and it passed to his son Max Stern in 1934, a year after the
Nazis seized power. Stern was informed in 1935 that as a Jew, he
could no longer practice his profession. He was forced to sell
the contents of his gallery at an auction in 1937.  London, Montreal  Stern fled to  London  in 1938, later making his way to
 Canada . He settled in  Montreal  in 1941.  He became one of the most important art dealers in Canadian
history and died in 1987 without children, leaving the bulk of
his estate to the universities. In 2002, the colleges began a
campaign to recover the lost art, creating the  Max Stern Art
Restitution Project , administered by  Concordia .  Concordia has insured the painting for $1 million, said
Clarence Epstein, who heads the restitution project.  He said the heirs’ primary aim will be to confirm the
attribution of the painting. The collector who donated it to the
Staatsgalerie believed it was by the Master of Flemalle, an
artist about whom little is known. Many art historians say he is
the same person as Robert Campin, who employed the artist Rogier
van der Weyden in his workshop.  “It will stay in  Europe  for a while,” Epstein said of the
painting. “It needs some scholarly attention and some technical
analysis.”  Anonymous Master  Theresia Bauer, the minister responsible for science,
research and art in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, said the
painting may be by an anonymous Westphalian master.  “We have a historic responsibility to research and
restitute cultural goods expropriated by the Nazis,” Bauer said
in a statement sent by e-mail.  Other paintings the Max Stern Art Restitution Project has
recovered include “The Masters of the Goldsmith Guild in
Amsterdam in 1701,” by Juriaen Pool II, which was returned by a
German casino in 2011, and a painting by Jan Brueghel the
Younger, restituted by a museum in the Netherlands.  Muse highlights include New York theater by  Jeremy Gerard 
and interviews by  Zinta Lundborg .  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 