-- Virgin Media to Embrace Online Rivals After Liberty Takeover
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-06T17:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/virgin-media-to-embrace-online-rivals-after-takeover-by-liberty.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K. cable-TV
provider being bought by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , plans to make Web
services such as Netflix a more integral part of its offering
rather than fighting them, its chief executive officer said.  “Our approach is to get every content asset you possibly
can on the platform,” CEO Neil Berkett said yesterday in an
interview at the Cable Congress in  London .  Liberty Global, the cable giant controlled by billionaire
 John Malone , is buying Virgin Media for $16 billion to expand in
 Europe ’s biggest pay-TV market. Berkett is overseeing the merger
while competing against larger rival  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  as well as streaming services offered by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
and Amazon.com’s Lovefilm.  Cable operators have an advantage as their relationship
with content providers is “highly complementary,” he said.
Still, streaming services have the potential to dilute offerings
by the cable companies that don’t work with them, he said.  “We’ve got a far greater chance as an industry by
embracing over-the-top services,” Berkett said. “It’s unlikely
that you’ll see a U-turn and digression in terms of our
strategy” under Liberty Global.  TiVo Relationship  Liberty Global CEO Mike Fries said yesterday at the
conference that he expected Virgin Media to continue to use the
 TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  set-top box in the coming years, though was unsure
what would happen beyond that. Liberty Global has been
introducing the competing Horizon box in Europe, starting in the
Netherlands.  TiVo CEO Tom Rogers said in an interview today his company
has a “long time on the contract” with Virgin Media.  “It’s really expensive to make a technology change of the
sort we represent once it’s weaved into the heart of the
software,” he said at the Cable Congress today. “We will
continue to work with Virgin and look forward to working with
Liberty Global.”  About 1.3 million Virgin Media customers currently have the
TiVo box, Berkett said yesterday, and the company is continuing
to offer it.  TiVo is also in talks with a number of operators in Europe
about adding its set-top box and software, Rogers said. There is
room to grow with about 400 million subscribers in regions
including western Europe and the U.S. that will decide whether
to take on advanced TV services in future, he added.  TiVo Acquisitions  Rogers add that TiVo has $627 million in cash on its
balance sheet and expects “a bunch more coming in” from
litigation against Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility and Cisco
Systems Inc. over use of recording technology in the set-top
boxes they make. Time Warner Cable Inc. is a defendant in both
cases.  “We’re in a position where everything gets shopped to us
because of the amount of cash we have, but have nothing right
now that we’re about to buy,” Rogers said.  At Virgin Media, business customers have added to its
attractiveness, with revenue from the segment growing at about 7
percent annually and accounting for 16 percent of the company’s
sales last year, Berkett said.  Takeover Completed  Berkett plans to stay at Virgin Media until the takeover by
 Liberty Global  is complete. Liberty Global hired an executive-
search firm to find his replacement, Fries said at the London
event. The company is considering external and internal
candidates, he said.  Virgin Media  shares  rose 0.2 percent to 3,132 pence in
London trading today.  Under Berkett, Virgin Media’s share price has tripled. He
took the company to its first annual profit in 2011 by
concentrating on fast Web and basic TV customers while
stabilizing debt. Berkett, who also gave a keynote address to
Europe’s top cable executives yesterday, said he may not return
to an executive role after leaving Virgin Media.  “I haven’t thought much ahead about what I’d like to do,”
he said. “Seven and a half years at  Virgin Media  is a big chunk
out of anyone’s time and I’ve spent a big chunk of that as
CEO.”  It’s doubtful Liberty Global will add a European stock-
exchange listing in the short-to-medium term, Berkett said,
without elaborating. The cable operator said last month it may
consider one.  Germany, Spain  The takeover of Virgin Media has increased the
attractiveness of Europe’s cable assets.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has
intensified internal talks about a possible bid for  Germany ’s
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)  Grupo Corporativo ONO SA of  Spain 
is prepared to sell shares in an initial public offering when
the market for investors recovers, CEO Rosalia Portela said in
an interview at the Cable Congress.  Liberty Global’s Fries said the company’s combination with
Virgin Media has the support of  Rupert Murdoch  and his family,
whose  News Corp. (NWSA)  controls BSkyB. Fries said he has spoken with
Rupert Murdoch and his son, James, and that they are supportive
of the transaction and understand the competitive nature of
business.  A spokeswoman for News Corp. had no immediate comment.  Liberty Global isn’t planning to bid for sports rights
against BSkyB, Fries said.  “Virgin Media is a great asset, a great brand and it has a
confident management team,” the CEO said. “The U.K. market has
gotten bad rap but we think it’s a good time to be in this
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  