-- Vornado Climbs After J.C. Penney Stock Said to Be Sold
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-03-05T23:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/vornado-climbs-after-j-c-penney-stock-said-to-be-sold.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , the owner of
more than 100 million square feet of mostly office and retail
properties, rose the most in more than a year after selling part
of its money-losing investment in retailer J.C. Penney Co.  Vornado sold 10 million shares at $16.03 each, the New
York-based real estate investment trust said in a regulatory
 filing  after the close of regular trading today. The shares
represent 6.1 percent of J.C. Penney’s common stock. Vornado had
held 23.4 million shares as of the end of last year.  The real estate investment trust said last week that it had
a $224.9 million loss in the fourth quarter on its investment in
the Plano, Texas-based department-store chain. The stock sale is
“a positive, and something we’ve been advocating for,” said
 Alex Goldfarb , analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, who
 has a hold rating  on Vornado shares.  “This is a company that typically doesn’t walk away from
losses,” Goldfarb said in a telephone interview. “It’s one
thing to write down your investment on your books, it’s another
to crystallize it by actually selling. It’s certainly a
recognition on the part of management that J.C. Penney didn’t
turn out as they expected.”  Vornado rose 3.4 percent to $84.11 in  New York  trading, the
biggest increase since Dec. 20, 2011. J.C. Penney slid 11
percent to $14.96, a four-year low.  Turnaround Plans  Vornado joined  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP in acquiring large interests in J.C. Penney in
2010, with plans to turn the company around. Ackman holds 17.8
percent of the retailer’s shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while Vornado owned almost 11 percent before the
sale. J.C. Penney last week reported a 25 percent decline in
annual revenue to $13 billion, the lowest since at least 1987.  Goldfarb calculated a loss of about $30 million on the 10
million J.C. Penney shares Vornado sold.  A phone call to Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for Vornado
with public-relations firm Kekst & Co., wasn’t returned.  The J.C. Penney shares Vornado owned as of Dec. 31 included
18.6 million at an average cost of $25.76 each, the REIT said
last week in its annual report. Vornado “could be back in the
market in the near-term” to sell its remaining J.C. Penney
shares, Lorraine Hutchinson, an analyst at Bank of America
Corp., wrote in a note earlier today.  Vornado has an understanding with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which
marketed the stock, that it won’t sell any additional J.C.
Penney shares before March 11, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  