-- Washington Nuclear-Waste Site Faces $171 Million in Cuts
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-03-05T22:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/washington-nuclear-waste-site-faces-171-million-in-cuts.html
More than 4,700 workers at the
Hanford reservation in Washington state where six tanks are
leaking radioactive waste are facing furloughs or layoffs under
$171 million in U.S. budget cuts, the Energy Department said.  While the department remains committed to cleaning up the
site, which holds waste from the production of nuclear weapons,
“this decreased funding and the resulting contractor employment
actions may curtail our progress,” the department said today in
a letter to Washington Governor Jay Inslee.  “While these reductions are unfortunate and will be
damaging, the department is doing everything within its power to
protect our mission to the greatest extent possible,” the
Energy Department wrote. President  Barack Obama  signed an order
last week to cut $85 billion in spending this fiscal year as
part of a deficit-reduction plan known as sequestration.  Inslee, a Democrat who is scheduled to tour the site
tomorrow, has said Energy Secretary Steven Chu told him in a
meeting last month that six Hanford tanks holding radioactive
waste were leaking. The tanks are among 177 buried at Hanford,
about 200 miles (320 kilometers) southeast of  Seattle  along the
Columbia River.  Worker Layoffs  “The governor’s initial concern is for workers who may be
out of work because of this deadlock in Washington, D.C.,”
David Postman, Inslee’s spokesman, said today in an e-mail.
“The governor has also made it clear that budget constraints
cannot be an excuse to delay responding to these leaking
tanks.”  In all, funding for the Energy Department’s contractors in
 Washington  state may be reduced by about $182 million, cutting
the hours or jobs of as many as 4,800 employees, the department
said in the letter. Furloughs could start as soon as April 1,
the agency said.  In a separate letter to South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, a Republican, the department said the sequestration may
cut funding for the Savannah River nuclear site by $104 million,
forcing furloughs or layoffs of more than 2,100 contractors
there.  Five nuclear reactors at the site produced about 36 metric
tons of weapons-grade plutonium from 1953 to 1988. Like Hanford,
much of the waste from the production process is stored in
underground tanks, raising fears of leaks.  Potential Furloughs  The cuts at Hanford may include about $79 million at
Hanford’s Richland Operations Office, forcing the potential
furlough or layoffs of more than 1,900 contract employees, the
department said.  Another $92 million in cuts for the contractor running
Hanford’s Office of River Protection may affect more than 2,800
contractor employees, according to the letter.  Nine nuclear reactors and processing facilities produced
plutonium at Hanford from 1944 to 1987. The man-made radioactive
element was used in atomic bombs, including the device dropped
on Nagasaki,  Japan , in 1945 that helped end World War II.  Workers are cleaning up millions of gallons of toxic waste
at the complex. The effort has been stymied by delays and
technical issues, causing the projected cost to triple to $13.4
billion since 2000, the  U.S. Government Accountability Office ,
the investigative arm of Congress, said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  