-- When the Corporate Elite Supported Raising Taxes
-- B y   M a r k   S .   M i z r u c h i
-- 2013-03-05T17:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/when-the-corporate-elite-supported-raising-taxes.html
Throughout the recent debates in
 Washington  over whether taxes should be increased, one group has
consistently maintained its opposition: the leaders of American
businesses.  Large U.S. corporations haven’t always been opposed to tax
increases, however. In fact, as recently as 1989, and for
decades before, big companies routinely called for tax
increases, even on themselves, to balance the budget.  Groups such as the Committee for Economic Development, the
Business Roundtable, and even the more conservative National
Association of Manufacturers and the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce ,
called for tax increases on a number of occasions, under both
Republican and Democratic administrations.  In 1950, shortly after the U.S. entered the Korean War, the
CED, the Chamber of Commerce and the NAM all supported
increasing taxes to raise funds for the war. In March 1951, the
CED recommended a $10 billion tax increase to prevent inflation.
“Taxes are already very high,” the group said. “Now we need
still higher taxes -- higher than we have ever had before, even
at their wartime peak.”  Three years later, when President Dwight D. Eisenhower
sought an extension of the wartime excess-profits tax on
corporations, the CED supported the idea, drawing praise from
the editorial page of the  New York  Times.  Fighting Deficits  Later in the decade, the group supported an increase in
gasoline taxes to fund the interstate highway system. In 1966,
it called for a temporary increase in the income tax to counter
the deficit resulting from the Vietnam War,  noting  that it
should be of a kind that can “yield the revenue needed, that can
be quickly imposed, that will be accepted by the country, and
that can be easily withdrawn when the emergency has passed.”  The Business Roundtable, a group of Fortune 500 executives
that, after its formation in 1973, began to replace the CED as
the leading representative for big businesses, supported tax
increases for individuals even as it sought reductions in
corporate taxes. In response to the deficits that resulted from
President Ronald Reagan’s tax cuts, the Roundtable called for an
increase in income-tax rates, even though its high-earning
members would pay a disproportionate price.  As late as 1989, after George H.W. Bush was elected
president on a promise of “Read my lips, no new taxes,” Fortune
magazine printed a story with the  headline , “CEOs to Bush: Raise
Taxes Now.” Bush did in fact acquiesce to a tax increase, a
decision that many believe cost him re-election in 1992.  It was only after President George W. Bush’s tax cuts
created deficits even larger than those of the Reagan years that
big businesses suddenly refused to call for tax increases.
Despite expensive wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq , which drove the
deficit even higher, the Business Roundtable remained silent.  Perhaps the Roundtable had accepted Vice President Dick Cheney’s alleged claim that “Reagan proved deficits don’t
matter,” because rather than criticizing the Bush tax cuts, the
group actually supported making them permanent.  So why were large corporations, which had been willing to
recommend tax increases for almost half a century, suddenly
unwilling to even acknowledge the relationship between tax cuts
and the deficit?  Fragmenting Elite  The answer lies in part with the fragmentation of the
corporate elite. In the 1950s, business leaders had to cooperate
to negotiate with both a strong labor movement and a powerful
federal government. The need to work with these constituencies
created a community of pragmatic businessmen who tried to devise
policies acceptable to everyone at the table. But as the labor
movement crumbled, and government lost some of its legitimacy,
corporate elites had little incentive to build coalitions to
secure favorable policies. Instead, they began unilaterally
pursuing their own interests.  As a consequence, the corporate elites were increasingly
unable and unwilling to act collectively to address the problems
they -- and the nation -- faced. This was evident in the debate
over President Bill Clinton’s health-care plan in the early
1990s, as the large corporations that supported the plan caved
under pressure from Republicans in Congress, who were more
responsive to small companies, opposed to the plan. It was
evident during the debate over President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul, in which large companies were largely absent from
the discussion. And it remains evident in the controversy over
how best to rein in the deficit.  Today’s corporate elites have abandoned their pragmatic
interest in the collective good, and now pursue a far narrower
quest to secure benefits for their companies. Despite a few
dissenting voices, such as  Warren Buffett  and Robert Rubin,
business leaders continue to oppose tax increases, even for
those earning tens of millions yearly. Fix the Debt, a group of
business and public officials devoted to reducing the deficit,
has focused almost exclusively on spending cuts, referring
vaguely to “revenue increases” while simultaneously advocating
reduced tax rates.  The American corporate elite of the postwar period
exercised a sense of responsibility, willing to support policies
that would impose a disproportionate burden on its own members.
The elites of today, by contrast, are extremely successful in
gaining political favors for themselves, but they have shown
little willingness to address problems of business-wide -- and
societal -- concern.  ( Mark S. Mizruchi  is the Barger Family professor of
organizational studies, professor of sociology and professor of
business administration at the University of Michigan. His book,
“The Fracturing of the American Corporate Elite,” will be
published by Harvard University Press next month. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Mark S. Mizruchi at
 mizruchi@umich.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 