-- Whoever Wins Los Angeles Higher Debt Price Signaled: Muni Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-03-05T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/whoever-wins-los-angeles-higher-debt-price-signaled-muni-credit.html
Los Angeles bonds are beating the
$3.7 trillion municipal market even as leading mayoral
candidates oppose a measure to raise the  sales tax  while also
vowing to eliminate a $450 million-a-year business levy.  As residents of the second-most populous U.S. city vote
today on a successor to Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , they also
face a ballot measure to boost the sales tax to 9.5 percent from
9 percent. That would tie Los Angeles with  Chicago  for the
highest rate among the 10 largest American cities.  Less than two months ago, Los Angeles got its first credit
upgrade in more than 20 years from Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited property-tax growth. Investors such as Daniel Genter
at RNC Genter Capital Management in Los Angeles say the election
outcome won’t be enough to derail the city’s debt. Los Angeles
is benefiting from demand for California munis after tax
increases championed by Governor  Jerry Brown .  “California paper is pretty attractive and we don’t see
this election changing that right away,” said Genter, who
manages about $2 billion of munis, including Los Angeles bonds.  Mayor’s Endorsement  Villaraigosa, a 60-year-old Democrat who cannot run again
because of  term limits , has endorsed the sales-tax increase. The
higher tax would yield from $208 million to $215 million a year,
according to an  estimate  from City Administrative Officer  Miguel Santana , comparable with the deficits he projected for each of
the next three years.  Yet city Controller Wendy Greuel and Councilman Eric Garcetti, who have raised the most money in the race, have
spoken against the higher sales tax and also advocated for
scrapping the tax on business receipts. At  $450 million  a year
it’s the fourth-largest revenue source. They said at a Feb. 7
debate that phasing out the business tax would encourage
companies to move to and grow in Los Angeles, lifting property
and other taxes.  Moody’s upgraded the city of 3.8 million to Aa2 in January,
the third-highest level, citing growth in property levies, its
largest revenue source. Standard & Poor’s rates  Los Angeles  AA-,
its fourth-highest mark. Sussan Corson, a director in public
finance at S&P, said by telephone that passage of the sales-tax
measure could accelerate progress in reducing recurring budget
deficits.  Rising Demand  Investor demand for L.A. debt has risen. The difference in
the yield spread between city general obligations maturing in
September 2020 and top-rated debt was about 0.4 percentage point
last month, according to Bloomberg Valuation pricing. That gap
was down from an average of about 0.6 percentage point for most
of last year.  If voters reject the tax boost, Los Angeles would have to
reduce its 10,000-officer police force by as much as 500,
Villaraigosa said Feb. 11. At a press conference backing the tax
measure, Villaraigosa declined to respond to mayoral candidates’
claims that the city could maintain or even expand its police
force without higher taxes.  “When you’ve made the kinds of cuts we’ve made, you have
to look for new revenue,” said the mayor.  Los Angeles has already faced $1.6 billion in deficits over
the past four years. The city has reduced its workforce by 5,300
positions, or more than 14 percent, since 2007, according to
Santana’s February report.  Cost Analysis  Scrapping the business tax would equate to losing more than
40 swimming programs, firing more than 2,200 police officers or
firefighters, or neglecting to fill more than 21 million
potential potholes, according to figures compiled by Santana in
a September  presentation .  For  Marilyn Cohen , president of Envision Capital Management
Inc., the candidates’ pledges to reduce taxes without affecting
city services add to concern that the city is failing to address
its fiscal challenges. The firm has no Los Angeles debt among
its $325 million of holdings.  “They’ve dug such a hole that they’re going to have to
show me that they’re being fiscally prudent,” said Cohen, who’s
based in Los Angeles.  Cohen said none of the leading candidates has offered a
sufficient proposal to curb the city’s pension liabilities or
other employee benefit costs.  Pension Bill  Los Angeles’ pension contributions are  projected  to reach
$999 million this year, more than double the level for the year
ended June 30, 2006, according to a report by Santana. The city
has a $7.2 billion general fund. In October, the City Council
voted to raise the  retirement age  for non-safety employees to 65
from 55 and limit pension payments to 75 percent of final
salary.  In the February debate, City Councilwoman Jan Perry and
lawyer  Kevin James , the only Republican in the race, stopped
short of calling for eliminating the business tax. Perry said
the city would need to find an alternative revenue source. James
suggested a flat fee rather than a tax on business income.  In a USC Price/Los Angeles Times poll of 500 likely voters
taken Feb. 24-27, Garcetti led with 27 percent, Greuel had 25
percent, James had 15 percent and Perry 14 percent. If no
candidate receives a majority, the top two finishers advance to
a runoff May 21. The survey, with a 4.4 percentage point margin
of error, found 53 percent support the tax boost, with 41
percent opposing it and 6 percent undecided.  Candidates’ Approach  Austin Beutner, a co-founder of  New York  investment bank
Evercore Partners Inc. and former Los Angeles deputy mayor,
moderated the February debate.  In an interview March 1, he said none of the candidates has
a realistic approach to the city’s budget dilemma.  “I was singularly unsuccessful in drawing out of any of
the candidates anything other than the notion that ‘We’ll grow
the pie,’” Beutner said. “They haven’t identified where new
revenue would come from, they’ve sworn off new taxes, and
they’re not making any specific proposals regarding employee
compensation and benefits.”  Beutner said investors probably won’t punish Los Angeles
for the vagueness of its prospective leaders’ proposals or even
for the possible failure of the sales-tax increase.  That’s because most debt is issued by the city’s self-
funding airport and port authorities and its public water and
power utility, which rely on user fees rather than taxes, he
said. Also, most debt pledged against the city general fund is
short-term revenue anticipation notes rather than general
obligations, he said.  In trading yesterday, yields on tax-exempt benchmark debt
due in 30 years were little changed at about 2.98 percent, close
to the highest since September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  