-- WTI Oil Futures Climb From Lowest Level This Year
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-03-05T22:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/wti-oil-climbs-from-lowest-level-this-year.html
West Texas Intermediate oil advanced
from the lowest level this year as equities climbed on company
earnings, while the shutdown of a Brent pipeline system after a
platform leak boosted the European benchmark.  WTI futures rose 0.8 percent as the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  surged to a record amid the fastest profit growth since
the 1990s. Brent gained 1.4 percent as a pipeline system was
closed for a fourth day after an oil leak was discovered March 2
on the Cormorant Alpha platform. After the close of floor
trading, the  American Petroleum Institute  reported that U.S.
 crude supplies  rose more than 5 million barrels and the death of
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  was announced.  “The only surprise is that the rebound in WTI isn’t
stronger, given how much we came off and the sharper move in
other asset classes,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.
“At least with Brent there’s some physical tightness due to the
shutdown in the  North Sea .”  WTI oil for April delivery rose 70 cents to settle at
$90.82 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume
of all futures traded was 15 percent below the 100-day average
as of 3:03 p.m. The contract dropped to $90.12 yesterday, the
lowest settlement since Dec. 24.  API Report  Oil was little changed after the API reported inventories
increased 5.6 million barrels last week to 379 million. The
April contract rose 55 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $90.67 a barrel
at 4:31 p.m. in electronic trading.  Chavez’s death isn’t likely to affect the market for long,
said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.
Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  announced Chavez’s death after the
close of floor trading. U.S. crude oil imports from  Venezuela 
totaled 549,000 barrels in the week ended Feb. 22, down 44
percent from a year earlier, EIA data showed.  “U.S. production is big enough to absorb whatever losses
may come from Venezuela,” O’Grady said. “You may see some
unrest, and it will probably have some adverse effects on oil
production. For the most part it should be a short-term bullish
factor.”  Brent crude  for April settlement increased $1.52 to end the
session at $111.61 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 24 percent
above the 100-day average. The European benchmark grade was at a
$20.79 premium to WTI, widening for a fourth day.  Equities Jump  The Dow jumped for the fourth time in five days, rising as
much as 1.1 percent to 14,286.37, exceeding the 14,164.53 record
close it reached before the global financial crisis. It also
eclipsed its previous intraday high of 14,198.10 from Oct. 11,
2007. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index increased as much as 1.2
percent.  “It will be hard for the crude market to fall apart given
all the strength we’re seeing in the Dow,” said Bob Yawger,
director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
in  New York . “The crude market has been under siege recently,
falling seven of the past nine days. The trend remains bearish,
but it’s going to be hard to ignore the historic Dow move.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
increased as much as 0.9 percent.  U.S. Economy  Service industries  in the U.S. grew in February at the
fastest pace in a year. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing  index  increased to 56 last month from 55.2 in
January, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists
projected the gauge would be little changed at 55, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  The service figures follow a report last week that showed
the fastest pace of  manufacturing  since June 2011, indicating
the economic expansion of the world’s biggest crude-consuming
country may be broadening.  A series of safety checks must be completed before
production can resume from the 27 North Sea oil fields that make
up the Brent system, an official of the  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co. (TAQA)  PJSC, the operator, said today by phone from
Aberdeen, Scotland. The official asked not to be identified
because of company policy.  The system normally carries 90,000 barrels a day of crude
and accounts for about 10 percent of the U.K.’s oil production.
About 10,000 barrels a day were already offline after a similar
incident at the same platform on Jan. 14.  Nigerian Disruptions  Brent may also be higher because of production disruptions
in  Nigeria . So far this year,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other
 oil companies  have declared four force majeures, a legal clause
that allows them to miss contracted deliveries due to
circumstances beyond their control. Shell announced the latest
today, on Bonny Light Crude exports, as the thefts threaten to
outpace the worst year, 2009, at the height of an insurgency.  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 788,000 barrels last
week, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s EIA report. It would be the
longest stretch of gains since May.  “When it looks more and more likely that the Dow is going
to hit 15,000, oil looks relatively less appealing as a store of
value,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “There are
factors that weigh on  oil prices , such as the continuing
inventory builds in the U.S.”  Stockpiles of gasoline  and distillate fuels, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, each fell 1 million
barrels, the survey showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 402,546
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. It totaled 451,853 contracts
yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was a record high 1.675 million contracts, up from the
previous day’s record of 1.672 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  