-- Yoox Forecasts Higher Earnings This Year After Sales Accelerate
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-05T16:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/yoox-forecasts-higher-earnings-this-year-after-sales-accelerate.html
Yoox Group (YOOX) , the operator of e-
commerce stores for brands from Armani to Zegna, said it expects
to increase earnings this year as it invests in logistics and
technology after sales accelerated in the fourth quarter.  Revenue gained about 18 percent in the last three months of
2012 compared to the third quarter. Full-year revenue rose 29
percent to 375.9 million euros ($490 million). Net income
climbed to 10.2 million euros from 10 million euros a year
earlier, the Bologna, Italy-based company said today in a
statement.  Yoox is gaining orders as value-conscious customers search
for deals online and increasingly shop for clothing and
accessories via phones and tablets. Visits to Yoox’s websites
via mobile channels in December accounted for about a quarter of
traffic, the company said. Investments for this year will focus
on service and operational efficiency, it said.  “2013 can be another successful year,” said Chief
Executive Officer  Federico Marchetti , the company’s founder. The
goal is to always provide customers “with the best shopping
experience on all channels.”  Yoox  shares  advanced 2.4 percent to 14.95 euros in Milan,
extending the gain this year to 25 percent.  The average number of unique monthly visitors to Yoox’s
websites surged 25 percent to 13 million in 2012, it said. The
number of orders increased 13 percent to 2.3 million and the
average order value gained 15 percent to 206 euros, Yoox said.  PPR Venture  Yoox, which last year set up an e-commerce venture with  PPR
SA (PP) , designs and manages online stores for more than 30 fashion
and luxury goods brands as well as selling third-party products
via the yoox.com, thecorner.com and shoescribe.com multibrand
websites.  Multibrand revenue climbed 23 percent to 262 million euros,
Yoox said. Sales from single-brand stores such as valentino.com
and zegna.com climbed 45 percent to 113.9 million euros. Growth
was strongest in  Asia  and  North America , the company’s largest
market, it said.  “It is reasonable to expect that both business lines and
all the key markets in which the group operates will contribute
to this growth in a more balanced way,” Yoox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  