-- 
Asia, Europe to ‘Stick It Out’ With Treasuries

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-07T11:21:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/asia-central-banks-set-to-stick-it-out-with-u-s-treasuries.html
Asian states are likely to retain
their U.S. Treasury holdings for now and European governments
expressed confidence in the world’s largest economy after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s sovereign credit rating to AA+.  Russia said the one-step cut “can be ignored” and France
joined the U.S. in questioning S&P’s reasoning. South Korea
affirmed its “faith” in Treasuries after an emergency meeting
of officials today in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul .  China ’s official
Xinhua news service said in a commentary that the U.S. must cure
its “addiction” to borrowing.  For all the angst, policy makers across  Asia  are lured to
Treasuries as a result of efforts to stem gains in their
currencies against the dollar, which would impair export
competitiveness. China has accumulated $1.16 trillion of the
debt and is the largest individual foreign holder.  Japan ’s
efforts to weaken the yen boost that country’s demand, and Vice
Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said today that the
government is ready to intervene again after selling the
currency on Aug. 4.  “They won’t be happy about it, but Asian central banks
will just have to hold on and stick it out,” said  Sean Callow ,
a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
“There is pressure on them to hold on to liquid assets and
there is nothing more liquid than the Treasury market. At least
Treasuries have been doing well and they aren’t holding on to
distressed assets.”  America’s Creditors  Asia accounts for about half of foreign-owned  U.S. debt ,
Treasury data  show . Speaking on Japan’s NHK television, Igarashi
said the government may intervene again if its sees speculative
trading. Last week, the government may have sold a record 4.5
trillion yen ($57 billion), according to Totan Research Co., a
Tokyo money-market brokerage.  “Our faith in  U.S. Treasuries  has not changed,” Yim Jong Yong,  South Korea ’s vice finance minister, told reporters today
after meeting with counterparts from the central bank and
financial regulators. The nation will step up monitoring of
capital flows and currency movements because of the U.S.
downgrade and  Europe ’s debt crisis, he said.  Investors in Treasuries earned 3.12 percent in the three
months ending July 31, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data.  Investors’ Haven  Treasuries have rallied in recent weeks even after S&P
warned it might lower the rating from AAA, as investors sought a
haven amid deepening concerns that the global economic rebound
may fade. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes closed at 2.56
percent Aug. 5, before the S&P announcement of the cut to AA+,
down from 3.12 percent a month ago.  Japan, the second-largest international investor in
American government debt, sees no problem with trust in the
securities, a Japanese government official said on condition of
anonymity.  In the U.K., the world’s third-largest foreign holder of
U.S. debt, Business Secretary Vince Cable said yesterday the
dollar is “the key international currency” in the short run.  “Although the American legislators made a terrible mess of
things a few weeks ago they have now got things back on track
and undertaken to manage their debt in a prudent way,” Cable
said in an interview with the  BBC .  Russia ’s Stance  Russia considers U.S. debt reliable and won’t review its
policy of investing in the country, Deputy Finance Minister
Sergei Storchak said by phone yesterday. The downgrade “can be
ignored” for long-term investment strategy, he said. Russia is
one of the 10 largest foreign holders of U.S. government debt.  Expressions of support also came from the central bank
governors of Jordan and Lebanon.  The S&P decision went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day U.S. President Barack Obama signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that had
pushed the country to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch
both said that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to
enact debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  The Treasury Department said the S&P decision was flawed by
putting discretionary spending levels at $2 trillion higher than
the Congressional Budget Office estimates, said a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified. S&P
disputed that, saying its judgment wasn’t meaningfully affected
by such spending figures.  Questions From  France   “We can ask why this agency took this decision based on
figures that are not consensual,” French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said in an interview on RTL Radio yesterday.
“There will be a debate in the U.S. about this decision. It’s
one out of three agencies. It’s only one element.”  Treasuries have benefited from a global sell-off in stocks,
with yields on three-month Treasury bills dipping into negative
territory this month. The MSCI World Index fell to the weakest
level since November.  Over the longer term, failure by the U.S. to restrain its
borrowing may spur diversification out of Treasuries. The bill
Obama signed last week was a compromise from Congress that
raised the federal borrowing limit while putting off decisions
on specific budget cuts or revenue increases.  ‘Wake-up Call’  “This is clearly a wake-up call for the U.S. and those who
think a downgrade doesn’t matter are in denial,” said Thomas Lam, Singapore-based chief economist at OSK-DMG, who accurately
forecast when the worst U.S. recession since the Great
Depression would end. “Markets will enforce their discipline if
the U.S. doesn’t repair its  credit rating .”  S&P lowered the U.S. grade citing an insufficient
commitment to reducing budget deficits and stabilizing the debt
burden. It kept the outlook for the rating at “negative,”
saying it may be cut to AA within two years if spending
reductions are lower than agreed to.  The New York-based rating company currently gives 18
sovereign entities its top ranking, including  Australia ,  Hong
Kong  and the Isle of Man, according to a July report. The U.K.
which is estimated to have debt-to-GDP this year of 80 percent,
6 percentage points higher than the U.S., also has the top
credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its net public debt is
forecast to decline either before or by 2015, S&P said in
yesterday’s statement.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo on 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo on 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  