-- 
Buffett Says Cutting U.S. Rating Was Mistake, Sees No Recession

-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-06T23:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/buffett-says-s-p-s-downgrade-mistaken-still-doesn-t-see-another-recession.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said
 Standard & Poor’s  erred when it lowered the U.S.  credit rating 
and reiterated his view that the economy will avoid its second
recession in three years.  The U.S., which was cut Aug. 5 to AA+ from AAA at S&P,
merits a “quadruple A” rating, Buffett, 80, said yesterday in
an interview with Betty Liu at Bloomberg Television. The
downgrade followed the biggest weekly selloff in U.S. stocks in
32 months, with the  S&P 500  slumping 7.2 percent to its lowest
level since November.  “Financial markets create their own dynamics, but I don’t
think we’re facing a double dip recession,” said Buffett,
chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  “Clearly what stock markets do have is
an effect on confidence, and this selloff can create a lack of
confidence.”  Stocks plunged last week amid signs the  U.S. economy  is
slowing and speculation that  Europe  will fail to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. Reports on manufacturing and consumer
spending trailed economists’ forecasts. Euro-region central bank
governors are planning emergency talks aimed at limiting the
market fallout from the first U.S. rating downgrade in history.  The U.S. cut, announced after the close of trading in New
York, was prompted by rising public debt and “greater
policymaking uncertainty,” S&P said in a statement. The U.S.
has the top credit rating at both Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings. Buffett said he doesn’t rely on the views of
ratings firms when buying and selling securities. Berkshire is
the biggest shareholder of Moody’s Corp.  Rising Earnings  Berkshire posted a $3.42 billion second-quarter profit, up
74 percent from a year earlier, the company said Aug. 5. Returns
from derivatives improved, and Buffett’s 2008 investment in
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led to an after-tax gain of about $806
million. Buffett is seeking investments and acquisitions as
Berkshire’s cash climbed to $47.9 billion at the end of June.  The S&P downgrade won’t have an impact on investment
decisions in money funds and bond funds at Western Asset
Management, said  Pasadena , California-based Chief Investment
Officer Stephen Walsh. Western Asset, the bond unit of Legg
Mason Inc., manages about $365 billion in assets and has an
“underweight” position in U.S. Treasuries.  “Our money funds are required to invest in securities with
the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, but it doesn’t
speak to a rating,” Walsh said. “Our conversations with
central banks and foreign investors show that they won’t view
Treasuries differently.”  Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said
that the downgrade will spur uncertainty in the market.  “It will fuel uncertainties about the functioning over
time of the world economy as there are no other pure AAA’s able
and willing to materially complement or replace the role of the
U.S. at the core of the global financial system,” El-Erian
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Betty Liu in  New York  at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  