-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls on Slowing Global Economy, Crude Oil Price, Equities

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/canadian-dollar-falls-on-slowing-global-economy-oil-stocks.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for the second
week as stocks were pummeled and oil, the nation’s largest
export, declined to the lowest level since February, signaling
less demand for risky assets.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell versus 12 of
its 16 most-traded counterparts this week on speculation slowing
economic growth will weigh on demand for raw materials. Growth
concern was tempered yesterday when reports showed Canadian jobs
grew for a fourth straight month in July and employment
increased in the U.S., the nation’s largest trading partner,
more than forecast. Demand for Canadian  government securities 
will be tested when the Bank of Canada auctions three-year debt
on Aug. 10.  “Concern over the health of the  U.S. economy  is probably a
very negative translation to the Canadian economy,” said
Gregory Salvaggio, senior vice president of capital markets in
 Washington  at the currency trader Tempus Consulting Inc. “On
top of that, significant slippage in commodity prices all
contribute to downward pressure on the loonie.  The Canadian currency fell 2.8 percent to 98.20 cents per
 U.S. dollar  in Toronto from 95.52 on July 29. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0183. It touched 94.07 cents on July 26, the
strongest since November 2007.  Haven Shift  Canada’s 10-year government bonds traded this week at the
biggest discount to Treasuries this year. The yield on Canada’s
benchmark 3.25 percent bond due June 2021 dropped to 2.50
percent Aug. 4, about 10 basis points higher than the
equivalent-maturity U.S. security.  Yields on two-year  government bonds  fell as much as 45
basis points this week, the most since October 2008. The bonds
closed at 1.07 percent, pushing the price of the 2 percent note
due in August 2013 up 62 cents to C$101.81.  The loonie rebounded yesterday from its biggest drop in
more than a year against its U.S. counterpart after the jobs
reports. Canada added 7,100 jobs in July, while U.S. payrolls
climbed by a more-than-forecast 117,000 workers after a 46,000
increase in June. Canada’s unemployment rate fell to 7.2 percent
from 7.4 percent in May, while the U.S. jobless rate declined to
9.1 percent from 9.2 percent.  Jobs Data  The Canadian jobs gain was less than the 15,000 median of
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists.  “It was slightly weaker than expected on the headline,”
said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova
Scotia in Toronto. “But some of the details highlight that some
of the losses were in education, which is a seasonal adjustment
factor.”  The MSCI World Index, a measure of stocks in developed
nations, tumbled 8.6 percent this week. Oil touched the lowest
since November 2010 and erased all of this year’s gains. Crude
for September delivery declined 9.5 percent to $86.58 a barrel
in electronic trading in New York after reaching $82.87. It
plummeted 5.8 percent Aug. 4.  The Canadian dollar fell Aug. 4 after the Bank of  Japan 
followed its Swiss counterpart in easing monetary policy, with
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  saying the Japanese action was
unilateral following joint yen sales by Group of Seven nations
in March.  ECB Moves  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
Aug. 4 the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will offer banks
more cash to stop the region’s Canada Dollar Drops Most in Year
on Global Economic Slowing 9 debt crisis from engulfing Italy
and  Spain  and hurting the economy.  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill Aug. 2 that raised the
nation’s debt ceiling and lowers federal spending, fueling
concern budget cuts will weigh on the U.S. economy.  The yield on the December 2011 bankers’ acceptances, a
barometer of short-term interest rate expectations, fell to 1.16
percent Aug. 4, the lowest since the contract started trading in
December 2008, as traders slashed bets the central bank would
raise rates amid slowing global growth.  “There’s blood in the streets,” said  David Love , a trader
of interest-rate derivatives at the brokerage Le Groupe Jitney
Inc. in  Montreal , via e-mail. “The contracts are pricing no
move to a small chance of an ease, but this has more to do with
panic than with rational pricing.”  The  Bank of Canada  has held the benchmark overnight rate at
1 percent since September after raising it three times last
year. Governor Mark Carney said July 20 the central bank won’t
be “mechanical” in raising rates during the recovery, because
of the risks posed by a strong currency and slow U.S. growth.
The central bank published a note that day that said interest
rates can remain below their long-run average even after the
economy recovers, if economic “headwinds” are slowing growth.  Canada’s dollar has declined 4.6 percent this year versus
the currencies of nine other developed nations in the second-
worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 6.3 percent and the
yen has lost 2.7 percent of its value.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Joe Ragazzo in  New York  at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  