-- 
Columbia Banking Picks Up Lender as Failure Count Reaches 63

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-06T01:44:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/columbia-banking-picks-up-lender-as-failure-count-reaches-63.html
Columbia Banking System Inc. (COLB) , the
$4.4 billion lender based in Tacoma,  Washington , purchased a
failed lender and officials closed another one as the tally of
U.S. failures this year rose to 63.  Columbia bought Colfax, Washington’s Bank of Whitman,
adding about $516 million of deposits, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. said today on its  website . Regulators also
closed Shorewood,  Illinois ’ Bank of Shorewood. The two failures
drained the deposit-insurance fund of $160.4 million.  “After former Bank of Whitman services are integrated to
our systems, customers will have full access to all Columbia
Bank services, including the 101-branch Columbia Bank network
throughout Washington and Oregon,” Columbia’s Chief Executive
Officer Melanie J. Dressel said in a statement.  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell about 49 percent from
the October 2007 peak through April, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Regulators have shuttered more than 380
lenders since the start of 2008, FDIC data show.  Columbia added eight of the 20 offices operated by Bank of
Whitman and bought about $314 million in assets, the FDIC said.
The remaining 12 offices will be shuttered, and the FDIC will
keep about $258 million of assets for later disposition,
Columbia said in its statement. KBW Inc. advised Columbia on the
acquisition.  Bloomington, Illinois’ Heartland Bank and Trust Co.
purchased Bank of Shorewood, acquiring three branches and $104
million in deposits, the FDIC said. The acquisition was
Heartland’s second FDIC-assisted deal of the year. The lender
bought Western Springs National Bank & Trust in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 