-- 
News Corp. Director Leading Phone-Hack Probe Has Personal Ties to Murdoch

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/dinh-s-ties-to-murdoch-under-fire-as-point-man-in-hacking-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s independent directors,
obligated to assess Rupert Murdoch and other top executives’
handling of the company’s phone-hacking scandal, are relying for
guidance on Viet Dinh, a board member with personal ties to the
Murdoch family.  Dinh, 43, is point man between the independent board
members and a panel that New York-based  News Corp. (NWS)  created to
cooperate with authorities probing phone hacking by the defunct
News of the World tabloid and to evaluate company standards.  A Washington attorney and Georgetown University Law Center
professor, Dinh has been a friend of Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch’s oldest son Lachlan since 2003 and is godfather
to Lachlan’s second child. In 1992, a decade before they met,
the South China Morning Post, then owned by Murdoch, helped Dinh
free his sister from a  Hong Kong  refugee camp.  “Usually it’s required that an investigation like this is
undertaken by a committee of independent directors,” said Jay Lorsch, a Harvard Business School professor who has served on
the boards of four publicly traded companies. “It’s very hard
to be objective if you’re involved in any way -- financially or
emotionally -- with the family of the chief executive you are
supposed to be supervising.”  Dinh will update directors on the scandal at a board
meeting tomorrow in  Los Angeles , two people familiar with the
situation said. The “management and standards” committee,
established by News Corp. last month, reports to board member
and Executive Vice President Joel Klein, a former assistant U.S.
attorney general and New York City schools chief, who then
reports to Dinh, the company said in a July 18 statement.  Elisabeth Murdoch   The independent directors, who hold nine of the 16 seats,
have held frequent phone meetings in recent weeks to discuss the
company’s handling of the phone-hacking scandal.  The controversy led to the resignations of two executives,
the shutdown of the 168-year-old newspaper and the termination
of News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.8 billion) bid to buy the
61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t
already own. At least 11 people have been arrested.  On Aug. 5, Dinh said Elisabeth Murdoch won’t seek election
to the board this year. She was expected to join after News
Corp. bought her Shine Group TV production company. Murdoch
raised the issue with the independent directors some weeks ago,
Dinh said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. They agreed that
the previously planned nomination should be delayed.  She would have become the fourth Murdoch on the board,
along with her father and brothers Lachlan and James.  Investor Concerns  The same day, investors holding 1.31 million voting and
nonvoting News Corp. shares asked to meet with the company’s
lead independent director on ways to restore investor
confidence.  “As long-term shareholders, we are concerned about the
future of News Corp.,” Wespath Investment Management, writing
for a group of institutional investors, said in a letter to
Roderick Eddington. “An examination of News Corp.’s corporate
governance reveals several areas of concern, including dual
chairman/CEO role, a high number of inside or affiliated
directors, and a dual share class structure.”  Dinh, a former assistant attorney general credited with
writing portions of the USA Patriot Act, joined News Corp.’s
board in 2004. He and  Lachlan Murdoch , 39, met in June 2003 at
the Aspen Institute conference on journalism and homeland
security, according to a person familiar with the situation. The
two became close, with Lachlan introducing Dinh to Rupert, a
person with knowledge of the friendship said.  Freeing His Sister  A decade before that meeting, News Corp.’s  South China
Morning Post  helped Dinh free his sister from a refugee camp for
Vietnamese boat people in Hong Kong. She was the last of nine
family members to leave the country, and in 1992 had been held
for three years.  Dinh wrote a 1992 New York Times op-ed article about his
sister. It was followed by an NBC TV story and then a series of
articles by the South China Morning Post. At the time, Dinh
wasn’t aware News Corp. owned the Post, one of the people said.  Dinh declined to comment for this story, as did Lachlan
Murdoch, who is an investor in Australian media companies and
has been a News Corp. board member since 1996. Teri Everett, a
News Corp. spokeswoman, had no comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Venture capitalist Tom Perkins, another News Corp.
director, was among those who suggested Dinh serve as point man
for the board’s role in the investigation, according to one
person familiar with the situation. Perkins had sought Dinh’s
advice after resigning from Hewlett-Packard Co.’s board in 2006
to protest that company’s probe of media leaks.  Murdoch Stake  The elder Murdoch, 80, controls News Corp. through an
almost 40 percent stake in the Class B voting shares, according
to company filings and data compiled by Bloomberg. Those shares
represent a 12 percent economic interest in the company, when
non-voting stock is counted as well.  Dinh has experience navigating contentious board issues,
said Michael Carvin, a former  Justice Department  official in the
Reagan Administration who worked with Dinh in a challenge to the
U.S. auditing-oversight board created under the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act .  “He has the integrity and the smarts to know that if he
trims the sails, he’s not doing his job and not doing News Corp.
any favors,” said Carvin, a partner at  Jones Day  in  Washington .  Bradford Berenson, who worked with Dinh on the Patriot Act,
recalls a “vivid” memory of being huddled with him and other
administration officials in the DaimlerChrysler offices in
Washington hours after the September 2001 terrorist attacks.  Fled Vietnam  Dinh appeared unshaken by the horror, Berenson said.  “It seemed somewhat incongruous given the circumstances,”
said Berenson, now a partner at Sidley Austin in Washington.
“Everyone else was more or less somber, serious, quiet, all
business. It’s just him. Almost like a crisis is a species of
adventure.”  In 1978, as a 10-year-old Vietnamese boy, Dinh, his mother
and five siblings fled the Communists in a fishing boat, landing
first in  Malaysia  and later reaching  Oregon , according to
testimony Dinh gave at his Senate confirmation hearing.  In Oregon, he and his family picked strawberries as migrant
farm workers. When Mount St. Helens erupted, destroying the
crops, they moved to Fullerton,  California , where Dinh worked in
a sewing factory after school. His father wouldn’t reach the
U.S. until 1983, his sister almost a decade later.  In high school, Dinh excelled academically and joined the
speech and debate team, perfecting his English. He was accepted
to  Harvard University  and  Harvard Law School , and moved to
Washington in 1993 to clerk for D.C. Circuit Court Judge
Laurence Silberman. The following year he clerked for Supreme
Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor.  Go-To Firm  Dinh’s law firm,  Bancroft Pllc , founded after he left the
Justice Department in 2003, advises corporate boards, board
members and executives with “high-stakes” problems, according
to its website.  The practice is considered the go-to firm for
conservatives, and Dinh has developed a large political and
legal network. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan , for
example, was the best man at Dinh’s wedding.  “He can pick up the phone and be on a first-name basis
with anybody who is anybody in the legal world,” said  Benjamin Brafman , a New York defense lawyer who has worked with Dinh.  In his only public comment about the phone-hacking scandal
at News Corp., Dinh said in a July 20 company press release that
the independent directors were “shocked and outraged by
allegations concerning the News of the World.”  He also expressed his support for  Rupert Murdoch .  “We are united in support of the senior management team to
address these issues,” Dinh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carol Hymowitz at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net  