-- 
Dollar Climbs Versus Most Peers as Risk Appetite Ebbs on Economic Outlook

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/dollar-climbs-versus-counterparts-amid-bets-economy-stalling.html
The dollar rallied versus 15 of its
16 most-traded counterparts as concern the world’s largest
economy is stalling and Europe’s debt crisis is worsening damped
demand for higher-risk assets.  Standard & Poor's  cut the 
nation's AAA rating to AA+ after markets closed yesterday.   The Swiss franc climbed to records versus the dollar and
euro this week as European leaders sought to stem the spread of
sovereign fiscal trouble. The greenback pared gains yesterday
after data showed U.S. employers added more jobs than projected
in July. The  Federal Reserve , which meets Aug. 9, still is
forecast to keep interest rates unchanged until mid-2012.  “We may have reached a peak of panic this week, and next
week we could see a bit of a recovery going forward, assuming
data doesn’t deteriorate,” said Boris Schlossberg, research
director at the online currency trader GFT Forex in  New York .
The U.S. jobs report “is going to provide a little bit of a
foundation for consolidation,” he said.  The dollar strengthened versus the euro for the first week
in three, gaining 0.8 percent to $1.4282 in New York, from
$1.4398 on July 29. It rose for the first time in five weeks
against the yen, appreciating 2.1 percent to 78.40, the biggest
jump since April 1. The yen fell 1.3 percent versus Europe’s 17-
nation currency to 111.97 yen.  The Swiss currency gained 2.4 percent to 76.74 centimes per
dollar and touched a record 75.79 centimes. It rose 1.8 percent
to 1.0954 francs per euro and reached 1.0711.  Jobless Rate Drops  The greenback slid versus the euro yesterday to the lowest
level since July 18, $1.4055, as the Labor Department’s payrolls
report damped investor demand for refuge. U.S. employers added
117,000 jobs after a 46,000 increase in June that was more than
originally estimated, the data showed. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 85,000. The jobless
rate dropped to 9.1 percent, from 9.2 percent.  “Until this thing gets a full head of steam up, the market
will still be cautious of the world economy, but this does give
some glimmer of hope and some relief,” said  Brian Taylor , chief
currency trader at Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. in Buffalo,
New York. The “9.1 percent unemployment is not a good rate. We
still have a long way to go,” he said.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent pace from
April through June, less than forecast, after almost stalling in
the first quarter as consumers retrenched, government data
showed on July 29.  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill Aug. 2 that raised the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and calls for $2.4 trillion in
spending reductions over the next 10 years amid concern the cuts
will weigh on the economy.  After markets closed S&P cut the U.S. from AAA, citing the
failure by lawmakers to cut spending enough to reduce record
deficits. “The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal
consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently
agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics,” S&P 
said in a statement.      Aussie Tumbles  Australia ’s dollar dropped versus all of its most-traded
counterparts as risk appetite faded and the nation’s central
bank lowered its forecast for growth. The Aussie fell 5.2
percent, the most since May 2010, to $1.0443. It weakened 3
percent to 81.87 yen.  U.S. equities trimmed losses yesterday as Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  vowed the nation will accelerate
financial reforms as investors flee Italian bonds. The move came
amid speculation the  European Central Bank  will buy Italy’s
government debt to help stave off the debt crisis.  “The pressure and desire for risk-proof assets was
lessened by” speculation the ECB would buy Italian and Spanish
government bonds, said  Joseph Trevisani , chief market analyst at
FX Solutions Inc. in Saddle River,  New Jersey .  Record Yields  A divided ECB restarted a bond-buying program Aug. 4 after
a four-month hiatus. It refused to extend the purchases to Italy
and  Spain , the two countries at the center of  Europe ’s current
turmoil, sending yields on 10-year Italian debt to a euro-area
record and keeping Spanish yields at almost a record.  While yesterday’s employment data may provide a boost to
U.S. markets, Fed policy makers will likely need more proof the
economy is strengthening before they alter their views on
interest rates, said Jens Nordvig, a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The Fed won’t raise its benchmark  interest rate  until the
third quarter of 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of 47
economists and analysts. Fed fund futures on the CME Group Inc.
index indicate traders are pushing back expectations until 2013.
The rate has been zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ““We need to have a lot of data before they get into
tightening mode,” Nordvig said in a telephone interview. “Our
call has been 2013 for a long time, and we haven’t moved that
too much.”  ‘Gauntlet’ From SNB  The franc touched a record versus the dollar yesterday even
after Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand told Neue
Zuercher Zeitung policy makers won’t exclude any measures to
curb the currency’s advance. The bank on Aug. 3 lowered its
target for the three-month London interbank offered to weaken
the currency and protect  Switzerland ’s economy.  “Hildebrand has thrown down the gauntlet,” said Yra Harris, chief trader and analyst at Praxis Trading in  Chicago .
“Markets are going to push at him until he shows that they have
a real plan for weakening the currency.”  The yen dropped by the most since October 2008 against the
dollar on Aug. 4 after the Bank of  Japan  unexpectedly sold the
currency to stem gains that threaten the nation’s economic
recovery. It fell as much as 4.1 percent to 80.24 per dollar. It
gained 0.6 percent yesterday to 78.40.  The dollar is the worst performer this year among 10
developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, falling 6.3 percent. The biggest
winner is the franc, up 17 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  