-- 
Pimco’s El-Erian Says U.S. Downgrade Casts Doubt on Other AAA Countries

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-06T19:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/el-erian-says-s-p-s-downgrade-of-u-s-casts-doubt-on-other-aaa-countries.html
Standard & Poor’s reduction of the
U.S. credit rating may make it harder for other top-rated
countries to keep their AAA ranking, according to Mohamed A. El- Erian of Pacific Investment Management Co.  The downgrade by S&P “may well raise questions about other
members of the dwindling AAA club,” El-Erian, 52, the  Newport
Beach , California-based chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer at Pimco, the world’s largest manager of bond
funds, wrote in an e-mail today. S&P gives 18 sovereign entities
its top ranking, including  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the  Isle of
Man , according to a July report.  S&P lowered the U.S. one level to AA+ while keeping the
outlook at “negative” as it becomes less confident Congress
will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. The rating
may be cut to AA within two years if spending reductions are
smaller than the ones agreed to,  interest rates  rise or “new
fiscal pressures” result in higher general government debt, the
New York-based firm said yesterday.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that pushed
the Treasury to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch also said
that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakens.  The U.K., which is estimated to have debt to GDP this year
of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the U.S., also
has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its net
public debt is forecast to decline either before or by 2015, S&P
said in the statement yesterday.  New Zealand   New Zealand is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  “Investors should be cautiously positioned as the global
economy and markets face major uncertainties,” El-Erian wrote.
“The downgrade will be a further headwind to growth and job
creation in the U.S.”  About $1.87 trillion has been erased from the value of U.S.
equities since July 22, including the 4.8 percent plunge by the
 S&P 500  on Aug. 4 that was the biggest drop since February 2009.
U.S. stocks fell the most in 32 months this week, erasing the
S&P 500’s 2011 advance, as investors fled equities amid signs
that the economy is stalling. Treasuries rose this week, pushing
the two-year note yield to a record low.  ‘Unthinkable’  “The once-unthinkable loss of the AAA rating will
constitute a further hit to already fragile business and
consumer confidence,” El-Erian wrote.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell in July to the weakest since March 2009.
Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29. Still, American employers
added more jobs than forecast in July and the  unemployment rate 
fell for the first time in four months, the Labor Department
said yesterday.  El-Erian also said that Americans will face “higher credit
costs” over time. JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated that a
downgrade would raise the nation’s borrowing costs by $100
billion a year. A U.S. credit-rating cut would likely increase
Treasury yields by 60 basis points to 70 basis points over the
“medium term,” JPMorgan’s Terry Belton said on a July 26
conference call hosted by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association.  Rally Snuffed  The S&P 500 climbed as much as 1.5 percent in the first
five minutes of trading yesterday before turning lower as
speculation swirled through the market that S&P was preparing to
strip the U.S. of its AAA rating. The index closed 0.1 percent
lower at 1,199.38.  Pimco’s $245.5 billion Total Return Fund, managed by  Bill
Gross , has returned 4.15 percent this year, beating 40 percent
of its peers, according to Bloomberg data. Gross boosted his
Total Return Fund’s investment in U.S. government securities to
8 percent of assets in June from 5 percent in May, according to
Pimco’s website last month. Bonds in developed markets outside
the U.S. rose to 13 percent of holdings from 10 percent. Cash
and equivalents dropped to 29 percent from 35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  