-- 
England Defeats Wales 23-19 in Rugby World Cup Warm-Up Match

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-06T16:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/england-defeats-wales-23-19-in-rugby-world-cup-warm-up-match.html
England  held off Wales 23-19 in an
international rugby Test match as Jonny Wilkinson kicked 13
points and Manu Tuilagi touched down in his national team debut.  James Haskell also scored a try for England, which led 20-7
in the second half at Twickenham Stadium in London. The game was
both teams’ first warm-up match for the  Rugby World Cup , which
begins next month in  New Zealand .  “It was a good run out for the boys,” England’s  Tom Croft 
said in an interview with Sky Sports. “We’ve been working hard
for six weeks and I think it showed today.”  George North touched down twice and Shane Williams once for
Wales, with Rhys Priestland kicking two conversions.  “We kept right on going to the end and I’m proud of
that,” Williams told  Sky Sports . “It’s the first game, you’re
always a little bit rusty. England were the same, but to be fair,
they deserved it in the end.”  Wilkinson opened the scoring with a penalty goal in the
sixth minute. North scored Wales’s first try along the right
touchline in the 17th minute, finishing off a series of passes
from the left, with Priestland converting to make it 7-3.  England went back in front eight minutes later after
Haskell touched down off a five-meter scrum and Wilkinson
converted. Wilkinson then booted a drop goal two minutes before
halftime to extend the lead to 13-7.  Tuilagi scored his first England try three minutes into the
second half when he took a pass from Wilkinson and burst through
Welsh defense. Wilkinson added the conversion to push the
advantage to 20-7.  Comeback  Williams started the  Wales  comeback when he touched down n
the right corner in the 56th minute, though Priestland put the
conversion wide. Wilkinson then kicked another drop goal to
increase the England lead to 23-12.  Wales pulled within 23-19 as North scored his second try
and Priestland converted with four minutes left, but England was
able to control the ball until time expired.  Both teams had players come off in the second half. Wales
fullback Morgan Stoddart left after injuring his leg, while
England captain Lewis Moody, returning to the team after missing
last winter’s Six Nations with a knee injury, limped off with
the help of training staff.  “He’s got a bit of a strain,” England manager  Martin Johnson  said of Moody. “You don’t know about these things for
another 24 hours. Injuries are part of the game.”  The teams continue their World Cup preparations with a
rematch Aug. 13 at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff.  “These games are massive,” Williams said. “The boys are
fighting for their positions. These games are almost as
important as the World Cup at times.”  Joe Ansbro’s 76th-minute try gave Scotland a 10-6 win over
Ireland in another World Cup warm-up at Murrayfield in Edinburgh.  Ruaridh Jackson converted Ansbro’s try and Chris Paterson
added a penalty goal for Scotland.  Jonathan Sexton  kicked two
penalties for the Ireland points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 