-- 
Euro-Area Central Bank Chiefs Race to Curb Italy, Spain Contagion in Call

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 
2011-08-07T19:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/euro-region-central-banks-will-conference-tomorrow-on-debt-u-s-downgrade.html
European Central Bank officials held
emergency talks today as governments pressured them to buy
Spanish and Italian bonds to stem the worsening debt crisis.  The central bank chiefs met by conference call, said a
euro-area central bank official who declined to be identified
because the talks are confidential. A spokesman for the ECB
declined to comment. Officials from the Group of 20 held a call
earlier today and G-7 finance chiefs, including U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , are set to confer later today.  The flurry of talks comes as the first U.S. credit-rating
cut in history by  Standard & Poor’s  threatens to further derail
efforts to stop the debt crisis from engulfing the euro area’s
third and fourth-largest economies.  “Europe is in an incredibly dangerous situation,”  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at ABN Amro in Amsterdam,
said in an interview by telephone yesterday. “The risk is that
the U.S. downgrade is just going to unsettle everyone even more.
It’s a unique situation in that we are essentially in the heart
of a European sovereign debt crisis, which has reached its
meltdown phase.”  A week that European leaders intended to spend on vacation
ended with S&P cutting the U.S. credit rating by one level from
AAA, hours after an unscheduled appearance from Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who pledged further austerity and to
balance  Italy ’s budget in 2013. He suggested an emergency G-7
meeting may convene to tackle a crisis that has cast doubt on
the sustainability of his nation’s 1.8 trillion-euro ($2.6
trillion) debt load.  Merkel, Sarkozy  In a joint statement issued while ECB policy makers were in
talks, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  called for their parliaments to approve by the end
of September the July 21 agreement on strengthening the euro
area’s bailout fund. They also praised steps by Spain and Italy
to strengthen their public finances.  The planned G-7 call is expected to focus on how to calm
markets roiled by the European crisis and U.S. downgrade. The
finance chiefs may release a statement after the call, Kyodo
News Service reported.  European stocks posted their biggest weekly loss since
November 2008, becoming the first major region to enter a market
correction. The Stoxx 600  Europe  Index tumbled 9.9 percent to
238.88, the gauge’s lowest level in 13 months.  Political Pressure  Italian and Spanish bond yields rose relative to benchmark
German bunds for a second week. Ten-year borrowing rates for
both nations reached the most since before the euro was
introduced in 1999. The U.S. rating cut may prompt further flows
of funds into German  government bonds , ABN Amro’s Kounis said.  As bond markets reopen tomorrow, investors may look for
clues on whether the ECB will expand purchases after it resumed
its emergency debt-buying program on Aug. 4 following an 18-week
hiatus. It acquired Irish and Portuguese securities and has so
far avoided the Spanish and Italian bond markets.  The ECB’s reluctance to buy Italian bonds is discouraging
demand for the country’s debt, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
said last week.  “The ECB must do its duty and help stability on debt
markets,” Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  told EFE in an
interview. The  finance ministry  confirmed the comment.  Such a move would take place against the backdrop of the
nation managing the world’s most-important reserve currency no
longer being the highest-rated sovereign.  ‘Unique Case’  “In past events, when we’ve seen a triple-A downgrade the
impact on bond markets has not been extremely large,” ABN’s
Kounis said. “But this is a unique case with the world’s major
reserve currency.”  S&P lowered the U.S. one level to AA+ while keeping the
outlook at “negative.” The rating may be cut to AA within two
years if spending reductions are lower than agreed,  interest
rates  rise or “new fiscal pressures” result in higher general
government debt, the New York-based firm said.  “It’s not easy to assess the impact of the U.S. downgrade,
but it’s clear that it comes at the wrong time,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-region economist at UniCredit Global in Milan.
“It’s easy to understand that the market won’t like it.”  Paul Donovan , deputy head of global economics at UBS AG,
said that the downgrade’s impact may still be limited because
the standoff in Congress on raising the U.S. debt ceiling had
braced officials for such an event.  “The downgrade is unlikely to have a significant impact on
bond yields,” Donovan said. “It is one of three  credit rating
agencies , and the world’s central banks have been prepared for
this with the debt ceiling debate.”  AAA Ratings  Investors seeking a haven amid concerns the global economic
rebound is fading have bought Treasuries in recent weeks, even
after S&P warned it may lower the U.S. rating. Yields on
benchmark 10-year notes closed at 2.56 percent Aug. 5, before
S&P announced the downgrade, down from 3.12 percent a month ago.  The S&P decision went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA ratings for
the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed a bill
that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the country to
the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch both said that downgrades
were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt-reduction measures
and the economy weakens.  S&P currently gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking.
The U.K., with a debt estimated at 80 percent of GDP this year,
6 percentage points higher than the U.S., also has the top
credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its net public debt is
forecast to decline either before or by 2015, S&P said in a
statement.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has an AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.
 Belgium  has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  The rating cut puts the U.S. in an expanding club of
Western nations from  Greece  to  Spain  whose deteriorating credit
quality has provoked downgrades in the past year. Italy also
faces such a threat, according to a statement from S&P in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  