-- 
Russia to ‘Ignore’ U.S. Credit Downgrade as U.K., France Voice Confidence

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-06T13:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/european-nations-rally-to-voice-backing-for-u-s-after-s-p-cut.html
French, British and Russian officials
expressed confidence in the U.S. after the world’s largest
economy had its debt downgraded.  “France has total confidence in the solidity of the
American economy and in its fundamentals,” Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said in a statement to Agence France-Presse.
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable said the dollar is “the key
international currency” in the short run. Russia said it won’t
review its U.S. investment policy.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating for the first time, reducing it by one level to AA+ with
a negative outlook, indicating a potential further downgrade.
The credit evaluator criticized the nation’s political process
and lawmakers for failing to slash spending enough to narrow a
record  budget deficit .  The U.K. is the third-largest international investor in
 U.S. government debt  after  China  and Japan, according to
Bloomberg data. Europe’s leaders joined Asian investors, who are
likely to retain their Treasuries holdings for now, with options
limited by the region’s foreign-exchange rate policies.  Japan 
sees no problem with trust the securities, a government official
said on condition of anonymity.  The current U.S. grade is two steps higher than the AA-
level shared by Japan, which S&P has warned may see a downgrade,
and China. S&P gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking,
including  Germany , France,  Canada , the Netherlands,  Australia ,
and Hong Kong, according to a July report.  Russian Reaction  Russia considers  U.S. debt  reliable and won’t review its
policy of investing in the country, Deputy Finance Minister
Sergei Storchak said by phone today, adding that the credit-
rating downgrade “can be ignored.” Russia had $478 billion of
currency reserves in July, the world’s fourth largest, and was
one of the 10 largest foreign holders of U.S government debt.  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin this week said
Americans “are living beyond their means and transferring part
of the problems onto the world economy.”  The central bank of  Saudi Arabia , one of the oil exporting
nations that together are the fourth-biggest holders of U.S
government debt, didn’t respond to questions faxed by Bloomberg.
Spokespeople from the German  finance ministry  and Norges Bank
Investment Management also declined to comment.  France  joined the U.S. government in questioning S&P’s
reasoning. The U.S. Treasury Department said S&P estimated
discretionary spending levels at $2 trillion higher than the
 Congressional Budget Office , said a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified. S&P says its judgment
wasn’t meaningfully affected by such spending figures.  ‘Not Consensual’  “We can ask why this agency took this decision based on
figures that are not consensual,” Baroin said in an interview
on RTL Radio. “There will be a debate in the U.S. about this
decision. It’s one out of three agencies. It’s only one
element.”  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have maintained
their top grades for the U.S. Both Baroin and Cable said the
U.S. government is getting a grip on its debt.  “Although the American legislators made a terrible mess of
things a few weeks ago they have now got things back on track
and undertaken to manage their debt in a prudent way,” Cable
said.  Baroin said G-7 finance ministers are in permanent contact
to discuss the financial situation. He didn’t answer questions
about Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s call last night
for a meeting of G-7 finance ministers.  Merkel, Sarkozy  Berlusconi, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French
President Nicolas Sarkozy, and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero spoke by phone yesterday about the European
debt crisis, and Merkel and Sarkozy also spoke with U.S.
President  Barack Obama .  World stock markets have lost more than $4.4 trillion since
July 26 as speculation mounts that the global economy faces a
new recession that would deepen  Europe ’s debt woes. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index fell 9.9 percent this week, and the MSCI World
Index slumped 8.5 percent. For both, it was the worst week since
November 2008.  While yields on Italian and Spanish debt fell yesterday,
they have surged since the July 21 European Union summit aimed
at heading off debt contagion. Italian 10-year bond yields are
up 76 basis points since the summit, while Spanish yields are up
33 basis points.  U.S. Treasuries rallied even after the S&P warned it may
lower its rating, as investors sought a haven amid deepening
concerns that the global economic rebound may fade. Yields on
benchmark 10-year notes closed at 2.56 percent yesterday, before
the S&P announcement of the cut to AA+, down from 3.12 percent a
month ago.  Nigeria , Poland  Nigeria, also part of the oil-producing group, is
“conscious” of economic developments in the U.S. and Europe
that may have “significant” implications for the West African
country’s budget if they affect  oil prices , the central bank’s
deputy governor said. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said on
TVN24 television he “hopes” there won’t be a “radical
impact” on his country’s economy, adding that there’s no need
to panic.  In  Asia , South Korean officials added S&P’s cut to the
agenda of an emergency meeting on global financial turmoil
tomorrow,  Hong Kong ’s central bank said it would monitor any
fallout and China’s official Xinhua News Agency said in a
commentary that the U.S. must cure its “addiction” to
borrowing.  “Because the U.S. market remains the most liquid and
deepest and as Europe still faces uncertainty, the U.S. market
is not likely going to experience a huge sell-off, even with the
one-notch downgrade,” Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mailed statement. He added that the
downgrade still leaves Treasuries within “allowable”
investments for the central bank.  Tetangco added that “many still see the U.S. Treasury
market as a safe heaven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  