-- 
Fed Says U.S. Bank Capital Won’t Be Affected by S&P Action

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-06T04:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/fed-says-u-s-bank-capital-won-t-be-affected-by-s-p-action.html
Standard & Poor’s  decision to cut the
U.S. credit rating won’t affect the capital positions of the
nation’s banks, regulators said yesterday.  Banks, which hold Treasuries as a form of capital, won’t
need to build larger cushions to protect against possible losses
from soured loans, a group of banking regulators, including the
Fed and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said in a statement
in Washington.  “For risk-based capital purposes, the risk weights for
 Treasury securities  and other securities issued or guaranteed by
the U.S. government, government agencies and government-
sponsored enterprises will not change,” the regulators said.  One of the missions of the Fed is to ensure the safety and
soundness of the U.S. banking system. During the 2008 financial
crisis, the Fed required the biggest banks to undergo “stress
tests” and ordered some of them, including Citigroup Inc. and
Bank of America Corp., to enlarge their capital buffers.  Emergency Fed lending to banks and the central bank’s
purchases and sales of  government securities , carried out to
influence borrowing costs in the economy, also won’t be affected,
a central bank official said.  The Fed provides emergency loans secured by collateral
through the so-called discount window when other sources of
funding aren’t available.  Lending through the discount window surged to a high of
$110 billion a day during the height of the financial crisis in
the fall of 2008 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. At the time, banks turned to the Fed as a lender
of last resort because their sources of credit were frozen. Fed
lending through the discount window was down to $10 million for
the week ending Aug. 3.  Interest Rates   The Fed official also said that S&P’s decision would have
no implications on its ability to influence interest rates
through open-market operations. The Fed in June completed a $600
billon Treasury bond-purchase program aimed at bolstering the
economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the
central bank could buy more Treasury securities if the economy
appeared in danger of stalling.  Bond purchases and other steps for the Fed to stimulate the
economy are likely to be discussed at the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting,
said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Point Loma Nazarene
University in  San Diego  and a board member of the National
Association for Business Economics.  “The credit downgrade will have little impact on the Fed’s
deliberations,” she said. “They will be more driven by jobs
and the recent weakening in the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  