-- 
Gilts Gain as Growth, Euro-Area Debt Concern Spurs Haven Demand

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-06T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/gilts-gain-as-growth-euro-area-debt-concern-spurs-haven-demand.html
U.K. government bonds rose for a
second week as investors sought the safest assets amid concern
global economic growth is slowing and the euro area’s sovereign-
debt crisis is deepening.  The gains pushed the yields on two-year and 10-year gilts
down to records. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said Aug. 4 that policy makers will offer banks as much
cash as they need for six months and extended existing liquidity
measures. The pound rose for the second week versus the euro
even as a report showed a U.K. manufacturing index fell to the
lowest level in two years, while the  Confederation of British
Industry  cut its economic growth forecast.  “Gilts are benefitting from the turmoil surrounding the
euro-area debt crisis,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit in
London. “There’s a scramble for safe havens and concerns over
slower growth in the U.K. and elsewhere. On a relative basis,
gilts look better than ever, which underlines the importance of
trying to get your fiscal house in order.”  The 10-year gilt yield fell 17 basis points in the week to
2.69 percent as of 5:00 p.m. yesterday, after reaching a record
low 2.59 percent. Two-year gilt yields fell eight basis points
to 0.55 percent after dropping as low as 0.51 percent.  The pound strengthened 1 percent against the euro to 86.73
pence. It reached 86.43 pence on Aug. 5, its strongest level
since May 27. Sterling weakened for the first week in four
versus the dollar, dropping 0.3 percent to $1.6375. The British
currency reached $1.6476 on Aug. 1, the most since June 1.  Factory Output  A gauge of factory output fell to 49.1, the lowest level
since June 2009, from 51.4 the previous month, a report by
 Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  showed on Aug. 1. A reading of less than 50 indicates
contraction. The U.K. economy will expand 1.3 percent this year,
compared with an estimate of 1.7 percent in May, the CBI said
Aug. 1 in a quarterly forecast.  Sterling has fallen 7.2 percent in the past 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies, after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.K. currency weakened on
concern the economic recovery was faltering amid the biggest
budget squeeze since World War II as Prime Minister  David
Cameron  cuts spending to reduce the deficit.  BOE Rates  Bank of England  policy makers left the benchmark rate
unchanged at 0.5 percent on Aug. 4, in line with the forecast of
all 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Policy makers also kept
their bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing, on
hold at 200 billion pounds ($328 billion).  “As expected, this is business as usual and a non-event
for the market,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “Inflation has
still been too high for speculation of further QE this month. I
expect this to change by the end of the year on the expectation
that inflation will slow.”  Gilt yields may stay near their lows next week, according
to Merrill Lynch’s Wraith. The Bank of England is scheduled to
publish its quarterly inflation report on Aug. 10.  “The tone of the report may suggest the chance of more
monetary easing in due course, which should be supportive for
gilts,” Wraith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  