-- 
India Can Weather ‘Negative Sentiments,’ Mukherjee Says; Futures Decline

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-08T01:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/india-s-economy-can-withstand-global-negative-sentiments-mukherjee-says.html
India  will be able to sustain its
economic growth and the nation’s financial markets can weather
“negative sentiments” spreading across the world, Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said.  “Our growth story is intact and the fundamentals are
strong,” Mukherjee told businessmen at an event in New Delhi on
Aug. 6. “Our markets have the capacity to withstand the
negative sentiments affecting the external world.”  Indian stocks and the rupee may extend losses today after
 Standard & Poor’s  last week cut the U.S.’s AAA rating for the
first time, analysts at Edelweiss Securities Ltd. and the
National Institute of Public Finance and Policy said. Mukherjee
said India’s challenge is to tame inflation, contrasting with
overseas investor concerns about a global recession. S&P CNX
Nifty Index futures sank as much as 2.9 percent in  Singapore .  “Markets will likely fall after the downgrade,” N.R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at the National Institute, a New
Delhi-based economic research group, said yesterday. “India’s
growth prospects are strong, but the concern is the risk of a
downturn in the developed world.”  Mukherjee said there was “some recovery” in Indian
markets last Friday, which is a “testimony to our capacity for
resilience.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
2.2 percent on Aug. 5 to 17,305.87, the lowest since June 11,
2010. SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for August delivery
declined 1.6 percent to 5,139 at 9:21 a.m. in Singapore. The
futures are derived from the 50 stocks on the underlying Nifty
Index, which fell 2.3 percent to 5,211.25 on Aug. 5.  Rupee, Bonds  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 44.74 per dollar on Aug.
5. It fell to 44.85 earlier, the weakest level since June 29.
The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 slid 9 basis
points, or 0.9 percentage point, to 8.31 percent.  “Markets will trade choppy, nervous and volatile on
account of the downgrade,” said Vikas Khemani, president of
Edelweiss Securities Ltd., a unit of the country’s largest
listed brokerage. “It’s a global macro development that can
curb liquidity and heighten  risk aversion  across the world.”  Still, for India, an increase in investment rates
“reminiscent of the high-growth East Asian economies” and the
young working-age population in the country, where over half the
people are in their twenties, are factors that will spur growth,
Mukherjee said.  “While the momentum in consumption has been sustained as
the economy has recovered from the slowdown in 2008-09, the
recovery in private investment growth has been held back,”
Mukherjee said. “It is a matter of concern and we must together
do what is required to improve business sentiments to restore
the investment growth seen in the years before the global
crisis.”  Company Investment  Corporate investment in the second half of the fiscal year
ended March 31 dropped 43 percent compared with the first six
months of the year, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a report
on July 25.  The central bank last month maintained its growth forecast
of 8 percent for the current fiscal year ending March 31. The
economy expanded 8.5 percent the previous year.  Mukherjee Aug. 6 said India may be able to repeat last
year’s growth performance.  By contrast, U.S. gross domestic product data last month
showed a 1.3 percent growth pace in the second quarter, after a
near stall in the first three months of 2011.  S&P Aug. 5 lowered the U.S. rating by one level to AA+,
saying policy makers have shown insufficient commitment to
reduce the budget deficit. The U.S. Treasury Department said
there is “no justifiable rationale” for the move, adding the
rating company made a $2 trillion mistake in its calculations.  Moody’s, Fitch  The S&P decision went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill ending a debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the
country to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch both said that
downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakens.  S&P currently gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking,
including  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the  Isle of Man , according to
a July report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt-to-GDP
this year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the
U.S., also has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S.,
its net public debt is forecast to decline either before or by
2015, according to S&P.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  Europe’s Stance  Meanwhile, policy makers among developed European and Asian
nations are taking steps to prop up growth.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet Aug. 4
left rates unchanged and signaled the ECB has resumed bond
purchases and will offer banks more cash to stop the region’s
debt crisis from engulfing Italy and  Spain .  Japan  last week followed  Switzerland  in seeking to stem
appreciating exchange rates that threatened to damage export
competitiveness, selling the yen and pledging to inject funds
into the economy.  Switzerland Aug. 3 unexpectedly cut borrowing costs and
vowed to boost the supply of the franc in money markets to curb
a surge in the “massively overvalued” currency.  “There is a crisis,” Mukherjee said. “I am not
unnecessarily worried. There is no need to press the panic
button.”  ‘Irreversible’ Changes  He said the changes India started in 1991 to open the
economy to foreign investors and cut bureaucracy are
“irreversible” and reiterated the finance ministry’s plan to
narrow its  budget deficit  to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product in the year through March.  A panel of Indian ministers Aug. 5 approved freeing urea
prices from government control, said a minister, who declined to
be identified before the decision is made public, signaling
government efforts to trim subsidies.  Mukherjee said Aug. 6 India’s “major challenge in the
short term is inflation, which has implications of sustaining
our growth momentum.”  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
9.44 percent in June. India’s central bank has raised its
repurchase rate 11 times since the start of 2010 and last
increased it by 50 basis points on July 26 to 8 percent.  India may not need to raise borrowing costs further if
growth in the U.S. slows and helps lower global commodity
prices, R. Gopalan, secretary of economic affairs at India’s
finance ministry, said in Chennai on Aug. 6.  “If what has happened in the U.S. pulls down the growth
and reduces the prices of commodities in the international
market and that comes into our economy as lower  price levels ,
perhaps we may not need a hike,” Gopalan told reporters. “It
is too early to make any estimation about it.”  He said India’s central bank will meet in six weeks to
“analyze the situation and accordingly take a view.”  India’s next monetary policy announcement is scheduled for
Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  