-- 
Italian, Spanish Bond Spreads Over Bunds Widen as Deficit Crisis Deepens

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-06T10:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/italian-spanish-spreads-over-bunds-widen-as-crisis-deepens.html
Italian and Spanish bond yields rose
relative to benchmark German bunds for a second week as concern
escalated that slowing global growth will make it more difficult
for  Europe ’s most indebted nations to finance their obligations.  Ten-year borrowing rates for both nations reached the most
since before the euro was introduced in 1999 amid speculation
measures by European officials to stem the debt crisis haven’t
gone far enough. German bond yields reached 10-month lows as
European stocks dropped each day this week after the U.S.
Commerce Department revised down its first-quarter gross
domestic product data on July 29. French and Belgian yield
spreads to bunds also reached euro-era records.  “If you have a European crisis and a U.S. that isn’t
growing, then you’ve got real problems,” said  Charles Diebel ,
head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
 London . “The problem is there’s no circuit-breaker” for
sliding Spanish and Italian bonds, he said.  Italy  plans to accelerate its austerity and balance the
budget ahead of schedule, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said
yesterday.  Umberto Bossi , leader of the nation’s co-ruling
Northern League party, said the  European Central Bank  will start
buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8, as part of an exchange for the
new economic measures, Ansa newswire reported.  Italy Yields  The yield on 10-year Italian securities rose to 6.08
percent at 5:06 p.m. in London yesterday, from 5.87 percent a
week earlier. The rate touched 6.40 percent yesterday, the most
since 1997. The difference in yield with bunds reached a high of
416 basis points.  The Spanish yield spread reached a high of 418 basis
points, before the 10-year yield fell back to 6.05 percent, less
than the 6.08 percent rate on July 29. The yield on the bund
dropped to 2.35 percent from 2.54 percent.  European leaders are striving to convince financial markets
they have the tools to resolve the debt crisis and higher-
deficit nations can tame their deficits, after yields continued
to rise following last month’s second bailout agreement for
 Greece . Irish and Portuguese notes rallied yesterday as the ECB
revived its bond-buying program and pledged to make more
liquidity available to ease financial-market tension.  Greece and Italy are among euro area nations planning to
sell bills next week. No bond sales are scheduled.  German bonds handed investors a 4.6 percent return this
year, compared with 6.3 percent for Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 5.1
percent, the indexes show. Spanish bonds lost 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  