-- 
U.S. District Court Must Decide Lehman Claims, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-06T16:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/jpmorgan-says-lehman-s-8-6-billion-suit-must-be-heard-in-district-court.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , sued for
$8.6 billion by bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , said the
defunct firm’s common-law claims against it must be decided by a
U.S. district court judge rather than a bankruptcy judge.  In a court filing yesterday in  Manhattan , the New York-
based bank said the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the Anna Nicole
Smith case limited the power of bankruptcy judges to rule on
such claims.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, has been fighting
Lehman’s suit in bankruptcy court, fending off demands for the
return of $8.6 billion in collateral, plus “tens of billions”
in damages for allegedly accelerating the former investment
bank’s demise. After the ruling in the Smith case, a district
judge must determine damage claims brought under New York state
law, JPMorgan said in the filing.  “Those claims, through which plaintiffs seek to augment
the estate by recovering damages for JPMorgan’s alleged
misconduct in precipitating LBHI’s bankruptcy filing, are
legally indistinguishable from the state-law tortuous
interference counterclaim in Stern,” the bank said, referring
to the  Supreme Court  case known as Stern v. Marshall.  Recent rulings by higher courts have left bankruptcy cases
in disarray. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out demands by
the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm for billions of dollars
in damages from London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The Supreme
Court’s June decision limited bankruptcy courts’ ability to rule
on state-law claims as well as ending any chance for heirs of
Smith, a former Playboy model, to collect a $449 million
judgment against the estate of J. Howard Marshall, the Texas
billionaire to whom she had been married.  Collateral Demand  According to JPMorgan, Lehman’s demand for return of the
collateral can’t be decided by a bankruptcy judge either. Those
claims were made to pad out bankrupt Lehman’s estate, and “fall
outside the claims-allowance process” that is the business of a
 bankruptcy court , it said.  Lehman disagreed about the impact of Stern v. Marshall.  “The Stern court left untouched the bankruptcy courts’
authority to enter final judgments on common-law claims” that
stem from the bankruptcy, it said in a filing.  Lehman claimed in the lawsuit filed last year that JPMorgan
demanded loan guarantees that fatally weakened the firm.
JPMorgan, which lent about $70 billion to Lehman’s brokerage
around the time of the September 2008 bankruptcy, responded by
suing Lehman, alleging it defrauded its lender into making the
loan.  The Lehman suit is: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 