-- 
Kan Vows to Push for Nuclear-Free Japanese Society at Hiroshima Ceremony

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-08-06T00:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/kan-vows-to-push-for-nuclear-free-japanese-society-at-hiroshima-ceremony.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  vowed in
Hiroshima to cut nuclear-power use, speaking at the atomic-
bombed city’s first commemorative ceremony since meltdowns in
Fukushima reactors led to widespread radioactive contamination.  “The human race shouldn’t forget the horror that fell on
Hiroshima 66 years ago, and it should never be repeated,” Kan
said today at the  Peace Memorial . “I will take sweeping
measures to secure safety, reduce reliance on atomic power, and
seek a society that doesn’t depend on nuclear energy.”  Kan attended the event in an environment of rising public
mistrust of nuclear power following the Fukushima disaster, the
world’s worst in 25 years. More than 70 percent of respondents
in a  Kyodo News  survey published July 25 said they support
phasing out atomic energy. The “safety myth” of nuclear power
should be reconsidered, Kan said in the speech broadcast on NHK
Television.  About 160,000 people were forced to evacuate near Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi plant after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami cut power to cooling systems, leading to
meltdowns. Radioactive contamination has led to restrictions on
shipments of fish and farm products and the government last week
widened a ban on shipping beef to encompass 13 percent of the
nation’s cattle.  Hiroshima Mayor  Speaking before Kan, Hiroshima Mayor  Kazumi Matsui  urged
Japan to take concrete steps toward changing its  energy policy 
to focus on renewable sources of electricity “as quickly as
possible.”  The atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima by the U.S. aircraft
Enola Gay on Aug. 6, 1945 killed an estimated 140,000 people in
the western Japanese city that year. A bomb dropped three days
later on Nagasaki, in southwestern Japan, killed more than
70,000 people initially, according to city records.  Kan reiterated a pledge made last year to honor the
Japanese constitution and adhere strictly to three principles of
not possessing, producing or allowing nuclear weapons into the
country.  Last year Kan also said in a post-ceremony press conference
that given the reality of nuclear proliferation that nuclear
deterrence continued to be necessary for  Japan , Kyodo News
reported at the time.  Japan doesn’t possess nuclear weapons and relies on the U.S.
to provide for its defense against possible nuclear attack.  Kan’s pledge last week to cut the country’s reliance on
nuclear energy envisions a gradual shift to alternate sources to
avoid shortages and higher prices. Japan will move away from
atomic power in three stages, the first being the next three
years, then by 2020 and 2050, he said.  Japan could meet only 90 percent of electricity demand next
summer without its 54 nuclear reactors and costs could rise by
about 20 percent, or 3 trillion yen ($38 billion) annually,
National Strategy Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said July 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  