-- 
New Zealand Defeats Australia 30-14 in Rugby to Move to Top of Tri-Nation

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-06T13:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/new-zealand-defeats-australia-30-14-in-auckland-to-move-atop-tri-nations.html
New Zealand  beat Australia 30-14 in
its final home match before hosting the Rugby  World Cup  to move
atop the Tri-Nations standings and retain the Bledisloe Cup.  Ma’a Nonu, Keven Mealamu and Sitiveni Sivivatu scored
tries and  Dan Carter  kicked 15 points for the top-ranked All
Blacks last night at Auckland’s Eden Park, the venue for the
World Cup final on Oct. 23. Australia’s points came from
converted tries by Digby Ioane and  Rocky Elsom .  “It’s a big year with what’s coming,” All Blacks captain
Richie McCaw said at the presentation ceremony. “We wanted to
make sure we put a performance together for the last time in New
Zealand until the big thing starts.”  The win lifted the All Blacks to nine points from two games
in the annual southern hemisphere championship as they seek an
11th Tri-Nations title in 16 editions. They also took an
unbeatable 1-0 lead in the two-match Bledisloe Cup series
against  Australia , which last held the trophy in 2002.  New Zealand and Australia had opened the tournament by
beating a second-string  South Africa  team. The three rivals are
using the matches to fine-tune combinations before the World Cup
starts Sept. 9.  “There was some good learning in there for us should we
get to play here again later this year,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a televised interview after Australia fell to its
12th straight loss at Eden Park.  South Africa will host the next two games, with Australia
facing New Zealand in the final match on Aug. 27 in Brisbane.  Defensive Platform  The All Blacks led 17-0 at the break last night even after
having 40 percent of the possession and being hemmed in their
own half for more than two-thirds of the opening 40 minutes. The
home team’s defense set the platform for the victory, New
Zealand coach  Graham Henry  said.  “We dominated the game physically,” Henry told Fox Sports.
“Our defense was very good. We took our chances.”  Fly-half Carter kicked a penalty for the first points and
then converted Nonu’s try from five meters inside the right-hand
touchline to make it 10-0 in the 10th minute.  Hooker Mealamu stretched out from close range to touch down
near the posts in the 27th minute and Carter’s second conversion
made it 17-0.  James O’Connor  then missed two penalties for the
Wallabies before the break.  O’Connor pushed his third penalty attempt wide of the
goalposts at the start of the second half before Carter made it
20-0 with a 48th-minute drop goal.  Try From Restart  Winger Ioane then put the visitors on the scoreboard with a
try by finishing off a break down the short side. Fly-half Quade
Cooper added the conversion, though the All Blacks hit straight
back from the restart as center  Conrad Smith  burst down the
touchline before slipping the ball inside for winger Sivivatu to
finish off.  Carter converted and then added a 69th-minute penalty to
take the lead out to 30-7 and maintain his 100 percent
goalkicking record in the game.  Wallabies captain Elsom added his team’s second try with
four minutes remaining and playmaker Cooper, who had been well
shackled by the All Blacks’ defense, added the extra points to
complete the scoring.  “You can’t really win the game when you’re going
backwards,” Cooper told Fox Sports. “It’s pretty tough for us
but we’ve got to work at it. We’ve just got to get our heads
right. We can still win the Tri-Nations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  