-- 
Payrolls Rose More Than Forecast in July as Unemployment Fell

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/payrolls-rose-more-than-forecast-in-july-as-unemployment-fell.html
American employers added more jobs
than forecast in July and the  unemployment rate  fell for the
first time in four months, easing concern the world’s largest
economy was sliding into a recession.  Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase in
June that was larger than earlier estimated, the Labor
Department said yesterday in Washington. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 85,000. The jobless
rate dropped to 9.1 percent as discouraged workers left the
 labor force . Average hourly earnings climbed 0.4 percent.  The economy needs to generate faster job growth to spur
consumer spending, which makes up 70 percent of the economy and
rose last quarter at the slowest pace in two years. At the same
time, the report may relieve pressure on Federal Reserve policy
makers to take immediate steps to sustain the recovery when they
meet next week.  “It probably removes the possibility of the Fed taking any
outright action at next week’s meeting,” said  David Greenlaw ,
chief financial economist at Morgan Stanley in  New York . “The
labor market is not where it needs to be, but from the
standpoint of shifting the trend we had the last couple months,
this report was important.”  Stocks ended the day mixed, with the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  up 0.5 percent at 11,444.61 and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index down less than 0.1 percent at 1,199.38. The Dow swung
in a 416-range, one day after a 4.3 percent plunge that capped
an 11 percent decline from its April 29 peak for the year.  Extending Benefits  President  Barack Obama , three days after signing a measure
to cut at least $2.1 trillion from federal budget deficits over
a decade, used the jobs report to renew his call for an
extension of  unemployment benefits  and a temporary payroll tax
reduction.  “There’s no contradiction between us taking some steps to
put people to work right now and getting our long-term fiscal
house in order,” Obama said yesterday at the Washington Navy
Yard, where he was promoting a proposal to give tax credits to
companies that hire unemployed military veterans. “The more we
grow, the easier it will be to reduce our deficits.”  The jobless rate declined as 193,000 people left the labor
force and the number of unemployed dropped by 156,000. The share
of the eligible population holding a job declined to 58.1
percent, the lowest since July 1983.  “More and more individuals are giving up the job search,”
said Patrick O’Keefe, a former deputy assistant secretary of
labor and current director of economic research at J.H. Cohn LLP
in Roseland,  New Jersey .  Companies Hiring  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, climbed
154,000 last month after an 80,000 gain.  Some companies are firing workers to keep costs down as the
economy slows and uncertainty builds over the European default
risk and U.S. regulatory and tax costs.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment maker,
plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-
time global workforce, to help trim $1 billion in annual costs
and step up profit growth.  Government payrolls decreased by 37,000 in July, the ninth
straight drop. Employment at state governments fell 23,000 last
month, almost entirely due to a partial shutdown of the
Minnesota government.  Payroll increases of around 125,000 a month are needed to
keep the unemployment rate steady, while about 200,000 a month
would bring it down a percentage point over a year, according to
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
Stamford,  Connecticut .  Bernanke’s View  In his semi-annual testimony to Congress last month, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the “economy still needs a good
deal of support.”  “Wages are very stagnant and that’s affecting  consumer
spending  and  consumer confidence ,” Bernanke said on July 13.
“There is also ongoing uncertainty about the durability of the
recovery.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets for one day on Aug.
9. At their last meeting in June, Fed officials decided to keep
the central bank’s balance sheet at a record to spur the slowing
economy after completing $600 billion of bond purchases.  The economy grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent pace
in the second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in
the first three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Consumer spending grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the
second quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession.  Auto Workers  Factory payrolls jumped by 24,000 in July after an 11,000
gain in the previous month. Half the increase was in the  auto
industry , which had fewer seasonal layoffs than typical for
July, the Labor Department said.  Employment at service-providers increased 75,000 in July,
the most in three months. Construction employment rose by 8,000
workers, the biggest gain since February.  Average hourly earnings climbed 10 cents to $23.13, the
report showed.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- decreased to 16.1 percent
from 16.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  