-- 
Washington Mutual Investigation by U.S. Concludes Without Criminal Charges

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/probe-of-washington-mutual-s-failure-ends-without-charges-filed-u-s-says.html
Washington  Mutual Bank’s failure, the
biggest in U.S. history, won’t result in criminal charges
against its former executives, U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan in
Seattle said.  A federal investigation of the bank’s collapse included
hundreds of interviews and a review of millions of documents
concerning its operations, Durkan and the  Justice Department 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The evidence does not meet the exacting standards for
criminal charges in connection with the bank’s failure,”
according to the statement.  The bank, the operating unit of Washington Mutual Inc., was
seized by regulators on Sept. 25, 2008, and sold to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. The bank had more than 2,200
branches and $188 billion in deposits. The following day, the
parent company filed for bankruptcy.  Former U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Sullivan in Seattle, citing
“intense public interest” in the bank’s failure, said in
October 2008 that his office had created a task force working
with investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Internal Revenue Service  to investigate its
collapse.  Andrew C. Irgens, a lawyer representing Washington Mutual
Inc. in its bankruptcy case, didn’t immediately return a call and
e-mail seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  FDIC Lawsuit  Federal prosecutors continue to cooperate with the FDIC in
a lawsuit against three former Washington Mutual executives,
according to yesterday’s statement.  In that case, the FDIC accuses former  Washington Mutual
Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief Executive Officer Kerry Killinger, former Chief
Operating Officer Stephen Rotella and David Schneider, the
bank’s former home-loans president, of taking extreme risks with
the bank unit’s home-loans portfolio, causing billions of
dollars in losses.  The FDIC accuses the executives of disregarding the bank’s
long-term safety and fixating on rewarding themselves. The men
received more than $95 million in compensation from January 2005
to September 2008, according to the suit.  In its bankruptcy case in Wilmington, Delaware, WaMu is
seeking approval for a reorganization plan that would pay
creditors more than $7 billion. Shareholders have asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath to reject the reorganization plan
for a second time because they would get nothing.  The FDIC case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington ( Seattle ). The bankruptcy
case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  