-- 
Treasury Questions Credibility of S&P Action

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-08-06T23:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/treasury-questions-credibility-of-s-p-action.html
The  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of
the U.S. credit rating was unjustified and calls into doubt the
credibility of the firm’s decision, a U.S. Treasury official
said.  S&P made a $2 trillion “mistake” and then changed the
rationale for its decision, raising “fundamental questions
about the credibility and integrity of S&P’s ratings action,”
John Bellows, acting assistant secretary for economic policy,
wrote in a  Treasury blog post  today.  The dispute stems from how S&P used figures from the
 Congressional Budget Office . The discrepancy didn’t change the
downgrade decision, S&P said, because Treasury’s $2 trillion
figure was derived by calculating government debt over a 10-year
period while S&P’s ratings are determined using a three- to
five-year time horizon.  S&P reduced the U.S. rating one grade to AA+ while keeping
the outlook at “negative,” saying it was less confident
Congress would end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle spending on
entitlements. The rating may be cut to AA within two years if
spending isn’t reduced as much as planned,  interest rates  rise
or “new fiscal pressures” result in increased general
government debt, the New York-based firm said yesterday.  ‘Flawed Judgment’  After the Treasury pointed out the “error -- a basic math
error of significant consequence -- S&P still chose to proceed
with their flawed judgment by simply changing their principal
rationale for their credit-rating decision from an economic one
to a political one,” Bellows wrote.  “Independent of this error, there is no justifiable
rationale for downgrading the debt of the  United States ,” he
said. “There are millions of investors around the globe that
trade Treasury securities. They assess our creditworthiness
every minute of every day, and their collective judgment is that
the U.S. has the means and political will to make good on its
obligations.”  The S&P decision went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that pushed
the country to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch both said
that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakens.  ‘Positive Step’  Steven Hess , a senior credit officer at Moody’s in New
York, said at the time that while the compromise between Obama
and members of Congress was “a positive step” toward reducing
the deficit, “we do think more needs to be done.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in April that
the U.S. “absolutely” would retain its AAA rating. He was less
certain after the months-long debate in Congress over raising
the debt ceiling, telling ABC television on Aug. 1 that “it’s
hard to tell” if the U.S. would be downgraded.  “I think this is a good result but a terrible process,”
Geithner said. “And again, again, as the world watched Congress
step up to the edge of the abyss, it made them really wonder
whether this place can work.”  The Treasury was presented with the S&P analysis before 2
p.m.  New York  time yesterday. Shortly thereafter, Treasury
officials spotted the error, a person familiar with the matter
said yesterday.  Downgrade Released  The two sides discussed the matter over the next several
hours before S&P went ahead and released its downgrade around
8:15 p.m. Just before 9 p.m., a Treasury spokesman said S&P had
made a $2 trillion error.  S&P replied a few minutes after midnight with an e-mailed
statement from spokesman David Wargin saying the rating was not
affected by the “change of assumptions.”  The error occurred because S&P took CBO numbers and applied
them to the wrong starting point, or baseline, Bellows said in
his blog.  “The impact of this mistake was to dramatically overstate
projected deficits -- by $2 trillion over 10 years,” he said.  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign rating
committee, told CNN television yesterday that S&P accepted the
Treasury’s view on the baseline “and our figures that we have
published reflect that.”  ‘Important Thing’  “The important thing to say in this is that the amounts
that we’re talking about, say up to about 2015, you’re talking
about 1.5 percent of GDP of difference in your debt,” Chambers
said. “It doesn’t make a material difference” because it
doesn’t change the fact that the U.S. debt-to-gross domestic
product ratio will probably continue to rise in the next decade,
he said.  On a conference call today with reporters, Chambers and
 David Beers , managing director of sovereign credit ratings at
S&P, said that in their analysis, the “extremely difficult”
political discussions in  Washington  over how to reduce the more
than $1 trillion  budget deficit  carried more weight in their
decision than the nation’s outstanding debt.  In the statement sent after midnight, S&P said it was
clarifying “assumptions” involved in its decision.  “The primary focus remained on the current level of debt,
the trajectory of debt as a share of the economy, and the lack
of apparent willingness of elected officials as a group to deal
with the U.S. medium term fiscal outlook,” the S&P statement
said. “None of these key factors was meaningfully affected by
the assumption revisions to the assumed growth of discretionary
outlays and thus had no impact on the rating decision.”  18 Sovereign Entities  S&P currently gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking,
including  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the  Isle of Man , according to
a July report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt-to-GDP
this year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the
U.S., also has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S.,
its net public debt is forecast to decline either before or by
2015, S&P said in yesterday’s statement.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  