-- 
Record Discount to Tel Aviv Created by Rout: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-08-06T21:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/record-discount-to-tel-aviv-created-by-rout-israel-overnight.html
The tumble in global stocks last week
sent Israeli-shares traded in New York to the biggest discount
on record relative to their  Tel Aviv  prices, signaling the
equities may fall in Israel.  The aggregate difference in prices for the biggest shares
traded in New York and Tel Aviv grew to $11.71 last week, the
widest gap in at least eight months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its biggest
weekly loss since 2008 and European stocks sank 18 percent from
this year’s high on Feb. 17 on concern the economy is weakening
and debt crises worsening.  Declines in New York-traded shares of  EZchip Semiconductor
Ltd. (EZCH) , the Israeli maker of network processors that counts Cisco
Systems Inc. as a customer, left the stock $2.90 cheaper than in
Tel Aviv. The retreat of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, in New York
increased the discount to the Tel Aviv shares to 93 cents.  “The U.S. market has just tanked and that will have an
impact in Israel,” said Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. “The arbitrage is so bleak that
it’s not going to tighten that quickly.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies that trade in the U.S. lost 11 percent last week to
87.61, the lowest level since July 2009. The measure is down 16
percent this year.  Shekel Weakens  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index slipped 6.3 percent last
week to close at 1,154.96 on Aug. 4. The Tel Aviv measure has
lost 13 percent this year, or 12 percent in dollar terms.  The shekel weakened 0.6 percent on Aug. 5 to 3.5196 per
 U.S. dollar  by 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the weakest level since
May 18. The currency has increased 5.7 percent versus the dollar
over the past six months, the best performer among 10 emerging
markets in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  EZchip, based in Yokneam, Israel, fell 7.1 percent in past
two days of U.S. trading to $31.50. The Tel Aviv shares were at
121 shekels, or the equivalent of $34.40.  Teva posted the biggest weekly drop since October 2008,
losing 13 percent to $40.72, on concern the Petach Tikva-based
company’s multiple sclerosis treatment won’t receive approval
from American regulators. The Israeli shares fell 6.7 percent
last week to 146.50 shekels, or the equivalent of $41.65.  After the declines in New York “clearly there will be an
overflow,” said Chaim Fromowitz, the head of the private
banking division at New York-based Bank Leumi USA, a unit of
 Israel ’s largest lender by assets. “There’s no question that
the global market is going to have an impact on the Israeli
market as well.”  Exports Fall  Israeli exports make up about 40 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product, according to the  Central Bureau of
Statistics . Sales of goods excluding diamonds, ships and
aircraft fell 2.4 percent in the second quarter, compared with
the first, according to the central bank.  “Many of the companies that are dual listed are impacted
by the  U.S. economy  and the prospects of a second recession,”
Fromowitz said.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has 57 companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also home to
the largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  The nation’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  ‘Entry Point’  “If no good news come out over the weekend from Europe
it’s going to continue and that’s a great entry point to get
into Israel,” said Jamia Jasper, the president of AmerIsrael
Capital Management, LLC. “The market isn’t trading on
fundamentals but on emotion.”  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , the maker of digital surveillance and
monitoring systems, posted the biggest loss among the largest
Israeli stocks that trade in the U.S. this week, dropping 15
percent to $30.49. The Tel Aviv shares closed at 112.90 shekels
last week, or the equivalent of $32.10. The $1.61 discount to
the Israeli shares was the biggest since May 2009.  China’s Tianjin Metro and Russian rail terminals bought the
company’s security systems, while the Bank of Ireland purchased
its product to fight fraud in the three months through June,
Nice said last month.  Elbit Systems  “Nice is going to be in demand no matter what the economy
does,” Jasper said. “Corporations need to record their calls
and need to invest in compliance and security. That is always
going to be in demand.”  Jasper also recommends buying shares of  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) 
Israel’s biggest non-government defense company lost 7.7 percent
this week in New York to $43.26. The Tel Aviv shares closed at
156.50 shekels last week, or the equivalent of $44.49.  “Elbit makes drones, which is a cheaper, more efficient
method of warfare,” she said. “As countries such as the U.S.
cut their defense budgets and pull out of countries like
 Afghanistan , drones will take their place.”  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , Israel’s biggest maker of high-
speed networking equipment, rose 1.8 percent on Aug. 5 to
$13.03, the biggest gainer on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index.  The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based company said that it
withdrew its proposed secondary offering following the declines
in the markets, according to a PRNewswire statement Aug. 4 after
the end of trading.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Airport City, Israel-
based producer of homemade soda machines, advanced 3.2 percent
to $70.31. CNBC “Mad Money” host  Jim Cramer  recommended buying
the company’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  