-- 
Reinhart Says Restructuring Debt Would Spur Recovery in U.S.

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/reinhart-says-restructuring-debt-would-spur-recovery-in-u-s-.html
Restructuring the debts of Americans,
including debt forgiveness for low-income households, would be
one of the most effective ways to speed up economic growth, said
 Carmen Reinhart , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  “Until we deal head-on with the fact that some of those
debts are not ever going to be repaid, we will continue to have
this shadow” over growth, Reinhart said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  The U.S. recovery faltered in the first half of 2011, with
gross domestic product rising at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter and 0.4 percent in the first three months.
Reinhart co-wrote a book entitled “This Time is Different:
Eight Centuries of Financial Folly” with Harvard University
professor  Kenneth Rogoff  focusing on the “deep and lasting
effect” of financial crises on output, employment, and asset
prices.  U.S.  home prices  will probably continue to decline, she
said. Recent data indicate that the pipeline of foreclosures in
the market is still weighing on the housing recovery.  Home values dropped by the most in 18 months for the year
ended in May. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities decreased 4.5 percent, the group reported last week.
Sales of new homes in the U.S. also declined in June for the
second straight month.  Housing Busts  In a study of housing busts during banking crises, Reinhart
and Rogoff found that the average decline in home prices was
35.5 percent from peak to trough.  “Notably, the duration of housing price declines has been
quite long lived, averaging roughly six years,” the authors
said. The S&P/Case-Shiller index is down 32 percent from a July
2006 peak.  “We are still seeing every indication that the housing
market has yet to fully recover,” Reinhart said. “And I think
that that will continue still for the immediate period ahead.”  Another way to spur growth “that is kind of ugly” would
be to compel faster “writedowns of bad loans in the financial
industry,” Reinhart said.  Non-financial corporate balance sheets are in good
condition, she said. “Our problems are in households and the
financial industry and importantly linked to real estate.”  Reinhart, a 55-year-old economist, called accommodative
monetary policy “very appropriate.”  Near Zero  The  Federal Reserve  has held  interest rates  at or near zero
since December 2008, and expanded its balance sheet through bond
purchases to $2.87 trillion. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  plans to
convene the  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 9.  “When we have the kind of combination of sub-par growth,
stubbornly high unemployment, and a big debt overhang, you need
low interest rates,” Reinhart said. The extension of a “stable
and low interest rate environment is appropriate.”  A Labor Department report yesterday showed that employers
added 117,000 workers to payrolls in July, more than forecast by
economists, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 9.1 percent from
9.2 percent as people left the workforce.  Reinhart said Congress should leave “no stone unturned”
in repairing the balance between taxes and spending.  Republicans need to accept that “average tax rates have to
be higher, and Democrats have to accept that raising marginal
rates may not be the way,” Reinhart said. “But I think the tax
issue has to be put on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  