-- 
Storm Emily May Become Cyclone Within 48 Hours, Center Says

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-08-06T18:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/tropical-storm-emily-has-70-chance-of-re-forming-in-48-hours.html
Tropical Storm Emily , weakened after
passing over mountains in the  Dominican Republic  on Aug. 4, has
a 80 percent chance of re-forming into a tropical cyclone within
the next 48 hours, the U.S.  National Hurricane Center  said.  The remnants of the storm could be forming a tropical
depression as it approaches Grand Bahama Island and the Abacos,
the Miami-based center said in an  advisory  posted on its website
at 2 p.m. New York time. A U.S. Air Force Reserve plane was sent
to determine whether a depression has formed.  Environmental conditions aren’t favorable for the system to
gain significant strength, though it may bring squalls and heavy
rainfall to parts of the northwestern Bahamas today as it moves
north over the island chain and into the open Atlantic tomorrow,
the agency said. The earlier advisory at 8 a.m. had forecast a
70 percent chance of the system re-forming into a cyclone.  Forecasters said earlier that the mountains in  Haiti  and
the Dominican Republic, some of which rise to 10,000 feet, could
tear Emily’s structure apart and break the storm up before it
could re-enter the Atlantic and threaten the Bahamas and
possibly  Florida .  Emily formed on Aug. 1 in the  Caribbean Sea  about 50 miles
(80 kilometers) southwest of the island of  Dominica . The storm
was the fifth named system of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.  A weather system becomes a tropical storm and receives a
name when its maximum sustained winds reach 39 mph, according to
the hurricane center. It becomes a hurricane when its winds
reach 74 mph.  Separately, Eugene, which was downgraded from a hurricane
in the eastern Pacific, is no longer considered a tropical
cyclone and will gradually weaken over the next two days, the
center said. The storm was 1,205 miles (1,938 kilometers) west
of the southern tip of  Baja California  as of 8 a.m. local time
this morning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  