-- 
Treasury Takes Exception to S&P’s Math, Saying Downgrade Doesn’t Add Up

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-08-07T08:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/s-p-downgrade-may-cloud-obama-re-election-bid-even-as-it-damages-congress.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said
there is “no justifiable rationale” for  Standard & Poor’s  move
to downgrade the nation’s credit rating as global finance
ministry officials prepared responses to the historic
announcement.  Standard & Poor’s officials stood by their decision
announced Aug. 5 and laid blame on a political system that
failed to adequately address deficit reduction in the compromise
law that President Barack Obama signed Aug. 2 to avert a U.S.
default on its debt.  The Treasury Department issued a statement saying S&P had
acknowledged an “error” in its calculations and that the
rating company made a $2 trillion mistake.  Euro-region central bank governors will hold emergency
talks today aimed at limiting the market fallout from the U.S.
downgrade and stopping Spain and  Italy  from becoming the next
victims of the sovereign-debt crisis. The central bank heads
will hold a conference call at 6 p.m. Paris time, said a central
bank official, who declined to be identified because the talks
are confidential.  Investors seeking a haven amid concerns the global economic
rebound is fading have bought Treasuries in recent weeks, even
after S&P warned it may lower the U.S. rating. Yields on
benchmark 10-year notes closed at 2.56 percent Aug. 5, before
S&P announced its decision, down from 3.12 percent a month ago.  Reassuring Investors  The Obama administration worked yesterday to reassure
investors around the world that  Treasury securities  remain a
safe place to invest and sought to limit any negative effects on
the economy, in part by criticizing S&P, according to an
administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  Meanwhile, some lawmakers said yesterday the S&P downgrade
announcement may put pressure on Congress to come up with more
significant  deficit reduction  in the coming months. Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican and a member of the so-called
Gang of Six that has been working since early this year on a
bipartisan deficit-reduction plan, said the S&P downgrade was
“probably long overdue.”  “For decades, political careerism has trumped
statesmanship in Washington,” Coburn said in a statement
yesterday. “Both parties have done what is safe, not what is
right. The dysfunction in Washington is the belief that we can
live beyond our means forever. We can’t.”  Partisan Gamesmanship  Senate Majority Whip Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat,
said the downgrade underscores the need for a “comprehensive
solution to the problem” that includes more federal revenue.  The downgrade “is also a political one,” he said in an e-
mail yesterday. “Partisan gamesmanship has left global markets,
rating agencies and the American people searching for
stability.”  Former Senator Alan Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who
served as co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal
commission, said he hopes the S&P downgrade will cause lawmakers
to take deficit deliberations more seriously.  “It ought to push them more toward reality and the reality
is if you spend a buck and borrow 41 cents, you have to be very
stupid,” Simpson said in a phone interview yesterday.  Obama was spending the weekend at the Camp David
presidential retreat in the Maryland mountains. There were no
plans for him to make a statement reacting to the S&P downgrade,
according to an administration official, who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly.  Methodology Objection  The president will urge Congress in coming weeks to set
aside “our political and ideological differences” and work for
deficit reduction and economic recovery, White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
The four-paragraph statement didn’t mention the S&P downgrade.  A person familiar with the discussions between the
Treasury Department and S&P said Treasury officials objected to
the methodology the agency used in issuing the downgrade. The
person said the differing verdicts from the agencies may limit
the effects of the S&P move. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings Aug. 2, the day Obama
signed the bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse.  The deal includes $917 billion in spending cuts over the
next decade and calls for a joint committee, comprised of six
Republican lawmakers and six Democrats, to find as much as $1.5
trillion more by Nov. 23. If the panel is unable to agree on a
plan or if its recommendations are rejected by Congress before
year’s end, there would be automatic $1.2 trillion in across-
the-board reductions starting in January 2013.  Asian Retention  Asian investors are likely to retain their Treasury holdings
for now, with alternatives limited by the region’s foreign-
exchange rate policies.  Japan , the second-largest international
investor in U.S. government debt, sees no problem with trust in
the securities, a Japanese government official said on the
condition of anonymity yesterday.  New York-based S&P lowered the AAA credit rating for the
U.S. by one level, to AA+, in response to the deal Obama and
lawmakers reached to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  The company’s statement on the downgrade said it’s
“pessimistic about the capacity of Congress and the
administration to be able to leverage their agreement this week
into a broader fiscal consolidation plan that stabilizes the
government’s debt dynamics anytime soon.”  ‘Wake-Up Call’  Donald Marron , director of the  Tax Policy Center , a
nonpartisan research group in  Washington , said the downgrade is
“another wake-up call” for Obama and lawmakers to address
deficit issues, though he said “it’s not obvious to me that we
have compromise bursting out all over the next six months.”  Alice Rivlin, former President Bill Clinton’s budget
director who served on a fiscal commission Obama set up last
year, said “the downgrade provides no new information.”  “One possible positive” of S&P’s move could be that it
prods the committee “into coming up with a big deficit-
reduction package -- bigger than the $1.2 trillion called for in
the ‘trigger’,” said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of U.S. fixed-
income strategy at  Barclays Capital  in  New York .  S&P noted in its report that the failure to act on
increasing government revenue also was a consideration in its
decision. The rating company said it no longer assumes that the
2001 and 2003 tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush 
would expire by the end of 2012 “because the majority of
Republicans in Congress continue to resist any measure that
would raise revenues.”  Tax Revenue  Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the top Republican on the
tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, in a statement yesterday
said raising taxes in a weak economy “would be an extremely
wrong-headed approach.”  S&P currently gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking.
The U.K., with a debt estimated at 80 percent of GDP this year,
or 6 percentage points higher than the U.S., has the top credit
grade. In contrast with the U.S., its net public debt is
forecast to decline either before or by 2015, S&P has said.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has an AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.
 Belgium  has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  The rating cut puts the U.S. in an expanding club of
Western nations from  Greece  to  Spain  whose deteriorating credit
quality has provoked downgrades in the past year. Italy also
faces such a threat, according to a statement from S&P in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 Ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 