-- 
S&P’s Analysis Was Flawed by $2 Trillion Error, Treasury Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   V i n n y   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-08-06T04:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/s-p-s-analysis-was-flawed-by-2-trillion-error-treasury-says.html
The  Standard & Poor’s  decision to
downgrade the U.S. credit rating was flawed by a $2 trillion
error, according to a Treasury Department spokesman.  S&P lowered the nation’s AAA credit rating one level to AA+
yesterday, after warning on July 14 that it would reduce the
ranking in the absence of a “credible” plan to lower deficits
even if the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit were lifted. The
outlook was kept as “negative.”  The ratings company said that the deficit-cutting plan
signed by President  Barack Obama  this week after months of
wrangling with Congress falls short of what “would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics.”  The Treasury disagreed with S&P’s assessment and judged the
analysis was carried out hastily, said a person familiar with
the matter who declined to be identified because the discussions
were private.  The ratings firm erred in estimating discretionary spending
levels at $2 trillion higher than what the Congressional Budget
Office estimates, the person said.  After being alerted to that, S&P lowered its calculations
by $2 trillion and then relied largely on judgments about the
U.S. politics to support the downgrade, the person said. The
Treasury was presented with the S&P analysis shortly before 2
p.m. yesterday.  In response, S&P concluded that using the Treasury’s
approach to the CBO’s figures didn’t materially change its
assessment of the U.S. financial condition, according to a
person familiar with the talks between S&P and the Treasury.
David Wargin, an S&P spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Fiscal Pressures’  S&P said in its statement that it may lower the long-term
rating to AA within the next two years if spending reductions
are lower than agreed to,  interest rates  rise or “new fiscal
pressures” result in higher general government debt.  The wrangling over raising the nation’s debt ceiling
indicates that “further near term progress containing the
growth in public spending, especially on entitlements, or on
reaching an agreement on raising revenues is less likely than we
previously assumed and will remain a contentious and fitful
process,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  