-- 
Somali Government Says al-Shabaab Withdraws

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-08-06T11:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/somali-government-says-al-shabaab-withdraws-from-mogadishu-after-fighting.html
Somali insurgents linked to al-Qaeda
withdrew from the capital, Mogadishu, where about 100,000 people
have arrived in the past two months seeking food, water and
shelter amid a famine in parts of the war-torn country.  “Mogadishu is under the control of government troops,”
Prime Minister Abdiweli Mohamed Ali told reporters today in the
city. “The government will continue to eradicate al-Shabaab
until we have cleared out all Somali regions.”  Al-Shabaab militants pulled out of the city earlier today
following “heavy” clashes with Somali government forces,
government spokesman Abdirahman Omar Osman said in a phone
interview. The rebel group confirmed the withdrawal, though it
vowed to retake areas held by the Western-backed administration.  President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s government, backed
by African Union peacekeepers, has been fighting to regain
control of Mogadishu from al-Shabaab for the past four years.
The insurgent group, accused by the U.S. of having links to al-
Qaeda, controls most of southern and central parts of Somalia.  The  United Nations  last month declared a famine in five
areas of southern Somalia amid a drought in the Horn of  Africa 
that the organization says is the worst in 60 years. Al-Shabaab
has banned humanitarian agencies including the  World Food
Programme  from working in the country, forcing residents
affected by the drought to seek shelter in Mogadishu and in
refugee camps in neighboring countries.  Ramadan Raids  Last week, African Union peacekeepers captured three
“strategic” locations in Mogadishu to protect aid workers
providing assistance to people in the country. The raids came
before the start on Aug. 1 of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month
during which al-Shabaab has started offensives every year since
2007.  Sheikh Sharif congratulated his forces for bravery for
“facing and eliminating the peace haters” and said the
government would no longer tolerate those who injure civilians
or damage their property.  “This is the time to harvest the long-awaited fruits of
peace,” he told reporters in the capital.  Al-Shabaab’s withdrawal is a “tactical” move and the
militia plans to regain control of other areas held by Somalia’s
government “in the coming hours,” Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage, a
spokesman for the militia, said in comments aired on  Holy Quran
Radio , a Mogadishu-based broadcaster, today.  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 