-- 
Switzerland, Germany Edging Close to Deal on Untaxed Funds

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 
2011-08-07T11:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/swiss-say-tax-talks-with-germany-to-be-concluded-shortly-.html
Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey
said a tax deal with  Germany  will be struck “shortly” as press
reports indicated the main sticking points in negotiations have
been overcome.  A treaty that will levy a 26 percent withholding tax on
future German assets in Swiss banks is set to be signed on Aug.
10,  Switzerland ’s SonntagsZeitung newspaper reported today,
citing people familiar with the talks.  “Switzerland’s banking sector has no interest in untaxed
assets,” Calmy-Rey was quoted as saying in an e-mailed
statement from Switzerland’s Federal Department of  Foreign
Affairs , issued after she met with German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle . A department spokesman, Adrian Sollberger, told
Bloomberg News he could not comment on the precise schedule for
the talks.  Progress in negotiations came after Germany backed down on
a key demand: an upfront payment by Swiss banks of 10 billion
francs ($13 billion) to cover undisclosed funds going back 10
years. While that was deemed “unacceptable” by Switzerland’s
two biggest banks,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , they have
since approved a lower figure of 2 billion francs, opening the
way to deal, the Swiss newspaper said.  In return for that concession, the 26 percent duty is
higher than anticipated, SonntagsZeitung reported.  International Pressure  Switzerland has come under international pressure to
address tax evasion and in 2009 UBS paid a $780-million dollar
fine to U.S. authorities, as well handing over names of U.S.
customers with money in Switzerland.  Swiss banks’ Germans clients, who account for the biggest
share of their foreign assets, could now face similar pressure
to declare untaxed funds. About 69 percent of the 280.6 billion
francs of offshore assets held by Germans in Switzerland was
undeclared, according to estimates by Helvea SA two years ago.
That share may have dropped to 50 percent, said  Peter Thorne , a
London-based analyst with Helvea, last month.  If Switzerland concludes a deal with Germany, a similar
treaty already under negotiation with the United Kingdom could
soon follow and British authorities are likely to receive an
upfront payment of 500 million francs ($652 million) from Swiss
banks, SonntagsZeitung said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Leigh Baldwin at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Verschuur at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net  