-- 
Syrians Rally Against Assad as Forces Attack

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-08-07T01:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/syrians-protest-u-s-tells-citizens-to-leave.html
Syrian forces shelled the city of
Hama and fired on demonstrators in other cities as the Gulf
Cooperation Council denounced the government’s “excessive use
of force” against protesters.  Tanks attacked residential areas in Hama, the country’s
fourth-largest city,  Al Arabiya  and Al Jazeera reported
yesterday, citing unidentified activists. Hama has been a center
of protests against President Bashar al-Assad. One civilian was
killed in the shelling, Al Jazeera reported, citing activists.  An attack began early today on the eastern city of Deir Al-
Zour, Al Arabiya said, citing activists. Forces shelled the city
and cut off electricity, according to the report.  Protests against Assad began in March after uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . The Gulf Cooperation
Council, a regional group whose members include  Saudi Arabia ,
Bahrain, Qatar, Oman,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates ,
yesterday condemned the Syrian government’s “excessive use of
force, which has caused many deaths and wounded among the Syrian
people.” The GCC called for “an immediate cessation to all
acts of violence,” in a statement posted on its website.  At least 300 people have been killed in Hama since July 30,
according to  Al Jazeera . Twenty-nine were killed Aug. 5 on the
first Friday of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights, said
yesterday.  Ban Calls Assad  United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon spoke
yesterday with Assad by telephone. Ban urged Assad “to stop the
use of military force against civilians immediately,” the UN
said in a statement.  The Ban statement said that Assad brought up “the large
number of lives lost among the security forces and police,” and
noted Ban condemned that too. Ban told Assad that for the
international community to have faith in the political changes
Syria has announced recently, “the use of force and mass
arrests must stop immediately,” according to the statement.  Yesterday, the assaults by Syrian forces were widespread,
targeting demonstrators in the Damascus suburb of Al-Muadamiya,
Al Arabiya reported, citing activists. Protesters were shot at
in the northern province of Idlib, where electricity was cut off,
and in the port city of Latakia, Al Jazeera reported.  Some 20,000 people demonstrated in Idlib yesterday after
Ramadan evening prayers, and other rallies took place in the
cities of Daraa, Aleppo, and Qameshli, Al Arabiya said.  Hama Occupied  The city of Hama has drawn the most force from the regime.
It was the center of an uprising almost 30 years ago against
Assad’s father, Hafez, and crushed, with a death toll of 10,000,
according to  Human Rights Watch .  The Syrian army is occupying Hama, and water and
communications to the city are cut off, Al Arabiya reported
yesterday, citing activists. Bodies could be seen in the streets,
and just 5 percent of the population remains in the city, the
report said.  The assault on Hama prompted international condemnation.
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Assad has “lost
his legitimacy to govern.”  Syrian security forces detained opposition figure Walid al-
Bunni and his two sons in Damascus yesterday, Muhannad Al-Hasani,
head of the Syrian human rights group Sawasiyah, told Al Jazeera.  Added Pressure  U.S. President  Barack Obama , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agreed two days ago
to consider additional steps to pressure the Assad regime and
support the Syrian people” beyond an Aug. 3 statement of
condemnation by the  United Nations Security Council , according
to the White House.  About 2,200 protesters have been killed in  Syria  since
March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister
Fayssal Mekdad told  India’s News X channel . Most foreign
journalists have been banned since the start of the revolt.  The U.S. State Department urged U.S. citizens in Syria Aug.
5 to “depart immediately while commercial transportation is
available” and said those who remain in the country should
limit all non-essential travel.  Diplomats must continue to report on what is happening in
Syria now that the activities of the international press are
restricted,  Robert Ford , the U.S. ambassador to Syria, who
visited Hama last month in a show of solidarity with protesters,
said in an interview with the ABC News “This Week With
Christiane Amanpour” program.  Bear Witness  “It’s important to bear witness,” Ford said, according to
an excerpt from the interview due to be broadcast today. “The
Syrian government does not tell the truth. They said there were
armed gangs in Hama. Well, the only weapon I saw was a
slingshot.”  The UN Security Council hasn’t issued the resolution
condemning violence in Syria that the U.S. and European allies
have sought. It issued a statement Aug. 3 expressing “grave
concern” at the deaths and human rights abuses.  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots, while acknowledging that the
demonstrators have some legitimate demands. He issued a decree
two days ago easing curbs on political parties and setting up a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections.  Syria will hold “free and fair” parliamentary elections
“before the end of the year,” Foreign Minister Walid Al- Muallem said yesterday according to the state-run SANA news
agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  