-- 
NATO Helicopter Shot Down in Afghanistan, Killing 30 U.S. Special Forces

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-07T20:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/u-s-special-forces-killed-in-afghanistan-helicopter-crash-1-.html
A North Atlantic Treaty Organization
CH-47 Chinook helicopter was shot down in an eastern province of
 Afghanistan , killing 30 U.S. special operations forces, seven
Afghan commandos and a civilian interpreter.  Twenty-two of the Americans killed were members of the U.S.
Navy SEAL commando force, some from the elite unit once known as
SEAL Team Six that carried out the May raid that killed al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , said two U.S.
officials today on condition of anonymity.  None of those killed were from the specific SEAL Team Six
squadron involved in the raid, they said. The SEAL team today is
formally known as the Naval Special Warfare Development Group.
The officials spoke on condition they not be identified to
discuss confidential details. One said the Pentagon will likely
release the list of the U.S. dead tomorrow.  The helicopter, belonging to NATO’s  International Security
Assistance Force , went down in the Maidan Wardak province,
according to a statement from the office of Afghan President
Hamid Karzai. The helicopter was completely destroyed, shot down
by the Taliban, Shahidullah Shahid, a spokesman for the Maidan
Wardak province, said in a phone interview.  The loss marks the most U.S. troops killed at one time
since the 2001 start of the war to oust the Taliban, who
harbored al-Qaeda before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in June the U.S. is beginning
this year to withdraw forces from the conflict and to turn over
control in some areas to the Afghan army and police.  Condolences  Afghanistan President  Hamid Karzai  called President Barack
Obama today to offer his condolences for the loss of U.S.
soldiers in the helicopter attack, the White House said in a
statement. Obama, in turn, expressed his condolences for the
Afghans who died, and the two leaders agreed to keep in touch,
the statement said.  The U.S.-led coalition has begun a renewed military push
into the mountainous terrain of eastern Afghanistan to target
Taliban forces there after the addition of 30,000 American
troops last year halted their gains in the country’s south.  “We have stepped up operations very sharply with the surge
and we are entering areas with high concentrations of Taliban,”
said  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies policy group in  Washington .
“It’s inevitable that you are with the gains going to have
incidents like this.”  Establishing the type of weapon used in the attack is
necessary to gauge whether a more sophisticated threat has
emerged in Afghanistan, Mark Pritchard, a U.K. Member of
Parliament and vice-chairman of the Conservative Parliamentary
Defence Committee, said by phone.  NATO Investigation  “Most NATO aircraft are fitted with effective defensive
suites counter-measures,” said Pritchard. “The investigation
will also need to examine what on-board and stand-off counter-
measures, if any, were deployed in support of this particular
mission.”  NATO, in an initial statement, said that the helicopter had
crashed and that recovery operations were under way.  “An investigation is underway to determine the exact cause
of the crash,” according to a statement from General John
Allen, commander of the international force in Afghanistan.  A Taliban rocket downed the helicopter after a two-hour
operation by U.S. forces, Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for
the Taliban, said in a phone interview from an undisclosed
location. Eight Taliban also died in the clash, Mujahed said.  Iran  has been training Taliban fighters in the use of
surface-to-air missiles and investigators will need to determine
whether that training has now been matched with updated
weaponry, British MP Pritchard said.  Families, Friends  Obama, in a message yesterday that extended his condolences
to the families and friends of soldiers killed, said the “work
of securing our country and standing up for the values that they
embodied” will continue.  The incident isn’t likely to change declining American
public or congressional support for the war, said Kurt Volker, a
former U.S. ambassador to NATO, which leads the 48-nation
coalition.  “The big trend line is already set -- troops withdrawals on
a schedule, linked to beefing up Afghanistan’s own security
capabilities,” said Volker, who now is managing director,
international, for BGR Group consulting firm in Washington,
formerly known as Barbour, Griffith & Rogers Inc.  “A loss of life like this is tragic, but I don’t think it
will have any new impact on Afghan debate here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net .
NI NATO
NI TERROR
NI WAR
NI AFGHAN
NI DEF
NI EXE
NI UK
NI POL
NI GOV
NI US
NI PAK
NI ARO 