-- 
U.S. Will Roll Out QE3 After S&P Rating Cut, Li Daokui Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-06T07:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/u-s-will-roll-out-qe3-after-s-p-rating-cut-li-daokui-says-1-.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve will extend
its program to purchase the nation’s debts and stabilize long-
term interest rates after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded its
credit rating, according to an adviser to China’s central bank.  The Fed will roll out quantitative easing 3, a tactic to
purchase treasuries,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank
of China, wrote in his microblog weibo.com. Institutional
investors will be forced to sell long-term  U.S. debt , which may
cause financial turbulence, he wrote.  S&P lowered the U.S. rating one level to AA+ from AAA for
the first time yesterday while keeping the outlook at
“negative,” citing the nation’s political process and
criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut spending enough to
reduce record budget deficits. The rating may be cut to AA
within two years if spending reductions are lower than agreed to,
said the New York-based rating firm.  The U.S. must address its “structural debt problems” and
ensure the safety of  China ’s dollar assets, the state-run Xinhua
News Agency said in a commentary today. China is the biggest
holder of U.S. debts.  “The days when the debt-ridden  Uncle Sam  could leisurely
squander unlimited overseas borrowing appeared to be numbered,”
Xinhua said in the commentary. S&P’s decision is “telling the
global investors the ugly truth.”  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said yesterday the
risk of a U.S. sovereign debt default is increasing, according
to an interview he gave to Polish media and posted on the
ministry’s website.  Rating Cut ‘Reasonable’  Yang said he hoped the U.S. will conduct a “responsible”
monetary policy and guarantee the security of other countries’
U.S. assets.  Credit rating agencies should have the courage to speak the
truth, Li wrote in his blog. The lowering of U.S. long-term debt
by S&P is “reasonable,” because U.S. politics may repeatedly
cause crises over the debt limit and budget, sacrificing the
country’s ability to pay its debt, Li wrote.  China’s Dagong Global  Credit Rating  Co. cut the U.S.’s
sovereign rating one level to A from A+ on Aug. 3, saying the
agreement to raise the debt ceiling will precipitate a crisis in
the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  