-- 
U.S. Two-Year Yield Hits Record Low as Slow Growth, Europe May Spur Fed

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/u-s-2-year-yield-hits-record-low-as-growth-europe-may-spur-fed.html
Treasuries rose, pushing the two-year
note yield to a record low, as signs of stalled economic growth
in the U.S. and a widening sovereign debt crisis in  Europe 
boosted demand for the perceived safety of U.S. debt. Standard 
& Poor's cut the nation's AAA rating to AA+ after markets closed
yesterday.   The yield on the 30-year bond fell 27 basis points, the
largest weekly drop since December 2008, after President  Barack Obama  signed legislation to raise the debt limit by at least
$2.1 trillion, averting a first ever U.S. financial default.
Growth concern was tempered yesterday when a report yesterday
showed the U.S added more jobs than forecast in July. Federal
Reserve policy makers meet Aug. 9 amid speculation they may
consider additional steps to bolster the U.S. economy, such as a
third debt-buying program, known as quantitative easing.  “A QE3 program is probably likely,” said James Camp,
managing director of fixed-income in  St. Petersburg , Florida at
Eagle Asset Management Inc, which manages $19.5 billion. “The
problems in the  euro zone  will continue to buoy U.S. Treasuries.
I don’t see any real headwinds to the Treasury market for the
next handful of trading sessions.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped 24 basis points, or 0.24
percentage point, to 2.56 percent on the week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent securities
maturing in May 2021 rose 2 2/32, or $20.63 per $1,000 face
amount, to 104 28/32.  Yield Record  The two-year note yield dropped seven basis points. It
touched a record 0.2527 percent on Aug. 4. The 30-year bond
yield touched 3.62 percent yesterday, the lowest since September
2010 and the 10-year note yield touched 2.33 percent yesterday,
the lease since October 2010.  After markets closed S&P cut the U.S. from AAA, citing the
failure by lawmakers to cut spending enough to reduce record
deficits. “The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal
consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently
agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics,” S&P
said in a statement.      Treasuries have returned 5.3 percent this year, while
global governments returned 3 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s data.    “People are trying to avoid risk,” said Kris Kowal, who
oversees $4 billion in assets as managing director and chief
investment officer, fixed-income at DuPont Capital Management in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Jobs Data  Treasuries dropped yesterday, trimming the weekly rally,
after the Labor Department said the U.S. added 117,000 jobs last
month. July payrolls rose after a 46,000 increase in June that
was larger than earlier estimated, the Labor Department said
yesterday in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a gain of 85,000. The jobless rate dropped to
9.1 percent as discouraged workers left the  labor force . Average
hourly earnings climbed 0.4 percent.  “The jobs report gives us a break from the double-dip-
recession fears,” Camp of Eagle Asset Management said.  Treasuries gained after a report on Aug. 1 showed The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 50.9 in
July from 55.3 the prior month, fueling speculation the pace of
the  U.S. economy  has slowed. A report July 29 indicated GDP grew
at a less than forecast 1.3 percent annual rate from April
through June after a 0.4 percent first-quarter gain that was
less than previously estimated.  “The data remains soft and the environment remains
uncertain,” said Chris Ahrens, head U.S. rates strategist in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at UBS AG, one of the 20 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “People are seeking a safe harbor in
Treasuries.”  Fed Target  The Fed next week is forecast to leave its target  interest
rate  unchanged at zero to 0.25 percent where it has been since
December 2008. Of 12 Fed staff forecasts since the beginning of
2010, seven have been downward revisions to the near-term
outlook, according to minutes of Federal Open Market Committee
meetings. This year, the outlook was raised in January and
lowered three times since.  The term premium for Treasuries, a financial model created
by Fed economists to measure the extra yield demanded for moving
out the yield curve as a proxy for where the yield on the 10-
year note should be, was at negative 0.2 percent yesterday,
almost the negative 0.28 percent it reached Aug. 4. The measure
suggests Treasuries are the most expensive since Nov. 10, 2010,
the day the Fed announced the amount of  U.S. debt  it would buy
in the next month as part of its $600 billion quantitative
easing program.  Europe Crisis  Treasuries also rose as the  European Central Bank  signaled
Aug. 4 it resumed bond purchases as it offered banks more cash
to stop the debt crisis from engulfing Italy and  Spain . The ECB
action follows the unexpected interest rate cut by  Switzerland ’s
central bank and  Japan ’s foreign exchange market intervention to
address economic distress from a weak dollar.  While yields on Italian and Spanish debt fell yesterday,
borrowing costs have surged since a July 21 European Union
summit aimed at heading off contagion from Europe’s debt crisis
to the euro zone’s third- and fourth-largest economies. Italian
10-year bond yields are up 76 basis points since the summit,
while Spanish yields are up 33 basis points.  “Given some of the contagion fears in Europe, the U.S. is
still a safe haven,” said  Andy Richman , who oversees $10
billion as a strategist in  Palm Beach ,  Florida  for SunTrust
Bank’s private wealth management division.  Rates on Treasury six-month bills due Aug. 11 were at 0.01
percent yesterday. The rate rose to 0.26 percent on July 29, the
highest since they were issued in February, on concern Congress
wouldn’t raise the debt limit by the Aug. 2 deadline.  One-month bill rates dropped to 0.005 percent, down from
0.1825 percent on July 29. Rates on three-month bills touched
negative 0.005 percent yesterday.  The U.S. will sell $72 billion in notes and bonds next
week. It will auction $32 billion of three-year notes, $24
billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on
three consecutive days beginning Aug. 9. The amounts are the
same as the grouping of auctions of these maturities sold in
May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  