-- 
U.S. Loses AAA Credit Rating as S&P Slams Debt Levels, Political Process

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-06T17:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/u-s-credit-rating-cut-by-s-p-for-first-time-on-deficit-reduction-accord.html
Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the
U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time, slamming the
nation’s political process and criticizing lawmakers for failing
to cut spending or raise revenue enough to reduce record budget
deficits.  S&P lowered the U.S. one level to AA+ while keeping the
outlook at “negative” as it becomes less confident Congress
will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. The rating
may be cut to AA within two years if spending reductions are
lower than agreed to, interest rates rise or “new fiscal
pressures” result in higher general government debt, the New
York-based firm said yesterday.  “The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal
consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently
agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics,” S&P
said in a statement late yesterday after markets closed.  Lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years, less
than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred. Even with the
specter of a downgrade, demand for Treasuries surged as
investors saw few alternatives amid concern global growth is
slowing and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading.  U.S. Response  On a conference call today with reporters, S&P analysts
David Beers and John Chambers said that in their analysis, the
“extremely difficult” political discussions in Washington over
how to reduce the more than $1 trillion  budget deficit  carried
more weight in their decision than the nation’s outstanding debt.
It said the talks weren’t “consistent” with a AAA rating.  The U.S. immediately lashed out at S&P after the downgrade,
with a Treasury Department spokesman saying the firm’s analysis
contains a $2 trillion error. The spokesman, who asked not to be
identified by name, didn’t elaborate, saying the mistake speaks
for itself.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that pushed
the Treasury to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch also said
that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakens.  No ‘Surprise’  “This move should not be much of a surprise to markets,
though the timing is at a point where market sentiment is
fragile after the drop in stocks this week,” said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , the head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Barclays
Capital in  New York . “What really matters is whether the
markets are willing to ‘downgrade’ the U.S. bond market. As this
week’s move showed, U.S. Treasuries remain the flight-to-quality
asset of choice.”  Asian investors are likely to retain their Treasuries
holdings for now, with options limited by the region’s foreign-
exchange rate policies.  Japan , the second-largest international
investor in American government debt, sees no problem with trust
in the securities, a Japanese government official said on
condition of anonymity. Russia said the one-step cut “can be
ignored.”  Debt ‘Addiction’  Policy makers from  China  to Japan to Southeast Asia are
lured to Treasuries as a result of efforts to stem gains in
their currencies against the dollar, which would impair export
competitiveness. China has accumulated $1.16 trillion in the
securities and the nation’s official Xinhua News Agency said in
a commentary that the U.S. must cure its “addiction” to
borrowing.  “They won’t be happy about it, but Asian central banks
will just have to hold on and stick it out,” said  Sean Callow ,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“There is pressure on them to hold on to liquid assets and
there is nothing more liquid than the Treasury market. At least
Treasuries have been doing well and they aren’t holding on to
distressed assets.”  S&P’s action may hurt the  U.S. economy  over time by
increasing the cost of mortgages, auto loans and other types of
lending tied to the  interest rates  paid on Treasuries. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. estimated that a downgrade would raise the nation’s
borrowing costs by $100 billion a year. The U.S. spent $414
billion on interest expense in fiscal 2010, or 2.7 percent of
gross domestic product, according to Treasury Department data.  Not ‘Enough’  “It’s a reflection of the fact that we haven’t done enough
to get our fiscal house in the order,” Anthony Valeri, market
strategist in San Diego at  LPL Financial , which oversees $340
billion, said in an interview before the cut. “Sovereign credit
quality is going to remain under pressure for years to come.”  The agreement between Republicans and Democrats raised the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce the $2.4 trillion in spending
reductions over the next 10 years.  Even with the accord, S&P said the U.S.’s debt may rise to
74 percent of gross domestic product by year-end, to 79 percent
in 2015 and 85 percent by 2021.  S&P also changed its assumption that the 2001 and 2003 tax
cuts enacted under President George W. Bush would expire by the
end of 2012 “because the majority of Republicans in Congress
continue to resist any measure that would raise revenues.”  American Policymaking  “More broadly, the downgrade reflects our view that the
effectiveness, stability, and predictability of American
policymaking and political institutions have weakened at a time
of ongoing fiscal and economic challenges to a degree more than
we envisioned when we assigned a negative outlook to the
rating,” S&P said.  S&P put the U.S. government on notice on April 18 that it
risked losing the AAA rating it had since 1941 unless lawmakers
agreed on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. It indicated last month that anything less than
$4 trillion in cuts would jeopardize the rating.  “There was still a very narrow cross section of common
ground between the parties and we don’t think that this
agreement really changes that equation,”  David Beers , a
managing director of sovereign credit ratings at S&P said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  Capital Weightings  The treatment of Treasuries and other securities backed by
the U.S. in terms of risk-based capital weightings for banks,
savings associations, credit unions and bank and savings and
loan companies won’t change, the  Federal Reserve  and bank
regulators said in a statement following the downgrade.  Obama has said a rating cut may hurt the broader economy by
increasing consumer borrowing costs tied to Treasury rates. An
increase in Treasury yields of 50 basis points would reduce U.S.
economic growth by about 0.4 percentage points, JPMorgan said in
a report, citing Fed research and data.  “The minute you start downgrading away from AAA, you take
small steps toward credit risk and that is something any country
would like to avoid,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive and co-
chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview before the announcement.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell to as low as 2.33 percent in
New York yesterday, the least since October. Yields for the nine
sovereign borrowers that have lost their AAA ratings since 1998
rose an average of two basis points in the following week,
according to JPMorgan.  Relative Yields  Treasury yields average about 0.70 percentage point less
than the rest of the world’s sovereign debt markets, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The difference has expanded
from 0.15 percentage point in January.  Investors from China to the U.K. are lending money to the
U.S. government for a decade at the lowest rates of the year.
For many of them, there are few alternatives outside the U.S.,
no matter what its credit rating.  “Yields are low in the face of a downgrade because there
is nowhere else for people to go if they don’t buy Treasuries
because they want to be in safe dollar assets,”  Carl Lantz ,
head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of
20 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed, said before
the announcement.  The committee of bond dealers and investors that advises
the U.S. Treasury  said  the dollar’s status as the world’s
reserve currency “appears to be slipping” in quarterly
feedback presented to the government on Aug. 3.  Currency Reserves  The U.S. currency’s portion of global currency reserves
dropped to 60.7 percent in the period ended March 31, from a
peak of 72.7 percent in 2001, data from the  International
Monetary Fund  in  Washington  show.  “The idea of a reserve currency is that it is built on
strength, not typically that it is ‘best among poor choices’,”
page 35 of the presentation made by one member of the Treasury
Borrowing Advisory Committee, which  includes  representatives
from firms ranging from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Pimco. “The
fact that there are not currently viable alternatives to the  U.S.
dollar  is a hollow victory and perhaps portends a deteriorating
fate.”  Members of the TBAC, as the committee is known, which met
Aug. 2 in Washington, also discussed the implications of a
downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating. “None of the
members thought that a downgrade was imminent,” according to
 minutes  of the meeting released by the Treasury.  Remaining AAAs  S&P gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking, including
Australia,  Hong Kong  and the Isle of Man, according to a July
report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt to GDP this
year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the U.S.,
also has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its
net public debt is forecast to decline either before or by 2015,
S&P said in the statement yesterday.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s. Belgium
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  A U.S. credit-rating cut would likely raise the nation’s
borrowing costs by increasing Treasury yields by 60 basis points
to 70 basis points over the “medium term,” JPMorgan’s Terry Belton said on a July 26 conference call hosted by the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  “That impact on Treasury rates is significant,” Belton,
global head of fixed-income strategy at JPMorgan, said during
the call. “That $100 billion a year is money being used for
higher interest rates and that’s money being taken away from
other goods and services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  