-- 
Twitter, Square Are Said to Bar Investors From Trading Shares on Exchanges

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-06/twitter-square-are-said-to-bar-investors-from-trading-shares-on-exchanges.html
Twitter Inc.,  Square Inc.  and
LivingSocial.com are taking steps to bar investors from selling
stock on secondary exchanges, an effort to cap the number of
shareholders, said people familiar with the companies’ plans.  Twitter asked investors in its recent funding round to
refrain from sales on exchanges, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the agreement is private. Square sent a contract to investors
that would prohibit sales, two other people said.  LivingSocial 
is considering similar restrictions, according to two people.  The startups aim to stanch the trading of stock on
 SecondMarket Inc.  and SharesPost Inc. -- open online
marketplaces that process share sales of companies such as
Facebook Inc., Zynga Inc. and Twitter. The transactions spread
private financial information and bring in new investors who may
not understand the company and the risks involved, said Hans Swildens, a managing director of Industry Ventures LLC.  “Board members and companies are getting more proactive,
putting in procedures to manage the whole process,” said
Swildens, whose  San Francisco-based firm  has been buying
secondary shares for almost 12 years. “They want to keep the
shares in the family. They don’t want it to be the Wild West.”  Matt Graves , a spokesman for Twitter in San Francisco,
declined to comment. Katie Baynes, a spokeswoman for San
Francisco-based Square, also declined to comment, as did Brendan Lewis at  Washington , D.C.-based LivingSocial.  Keeping Control  Private companies already have greater control over their
stock than public corporations. They typically have the ability
to see proposed transactions of their shares on exchanges before
they take place and buy them at the agreed-upon price, a process
called the right of first refusal. In some cases, companies hand
that right to specific investment firms, Swildens said.  Twitter, the leading microblogging service, is raising $800
million in financing and plans to use about half of that to buy
back shares from employees and early backers. The funding round
was led by Yuri Milner’s DST Global, the Russian investment
group that has purchased secondary shares of Facebook, Zynga and
Groupon Inc.  “It’s in everyone’s interest to let the company conduct an
effective and organized offering of the shares, as opposed to
having ad hoc leakage of the shares,” said Ted Hollifield, a
partner at law firm  Dorsey & Whitney LLP  in  Palo Alto ,
 California .  Twitter Fundraising  Twitter was valued at $8 billion in its latest round, and
daily-deal site LivingSocial raised money in April at a $3.5
billion valuation, according to people familiar with the deals.
Square, a mobile-payment startup, was valued at more than $1
billion in its fundraising in June, a person said. Square Chief
Executive Officer Jack Dorsey also serves as executive chairman
of Twitter, a company he co-founded.  The move to restrict share sales comes a year after Zynga
and Facebook began charging at least $2,500 for such
transactions, fees that legal experts say were geared toward
discouraging the practice. U.S. regulators also are considering
limits on secondary markets. In January, SecondMarket said it
received a request for information from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Giuseppe Zocco, a partner at Index Ventures, said his firm
is buying shares of portfolio companies from some early
investors. The firm invested in ad network  Adconion Media Group 
this year, and it used a portion of the funding to purchase
stock from angel investors, Zocco said. Handling secondary sales
internally lets the company avoid the disruption of dealing with
exchanges, he said.  ‘A Distraction’  “It makes the focus and execution sharper because you
don’t have to think about all this other stuff,” said Zocco,
who’s based in Geneva. “These other things are a distraction.”  Having too many shareholders also presents a regulatory
challenge because the SEC requires companies with 500 or more
investors to disclose financial results. Facebook, the world’s
largest social network, said earlier this year it plans to start
reporting results by April 2012, even if it hasn’t held an
initial public offering by then.  San Bruno, California-based SharesPost and New York-based
SecondMarket have taken measures to work with companies, rather
than get cut out of transactions altogether. Attorneys for top
technology startups have recently met with representatives of
SecondMarket to discuss ways to limit private share sales from
happening without a company’s involvement, said Adam Oliveri,
head of the private-company market at SecondMarket.  ‘Ad Hoc Consortium’  “We kept getting requests from companies asking, ‘What do
we put in our bylaws to make sure secondary trading doesn’t
happen before we’re ready for it?’” he said.  The “ad hoc consortium” of lawyers is working to draft
standard contractual language restricting secondary sales until
enabled by a company, said Oliveri, who would not name the
attorneys present.  Before LinkedIn Corp. held its IPO earlier this year, the
company worked with SharesPost to set up controls on the site
limiting the sale of stock only to other existing shareholders.  Prohibiting stock sales through secondary markets could
land companies in legal trouble with shareholders who want to
cash out, said Greg Brogger, president at SharesPost.  Last year, Abu Dhabi investment group Alpha Investments
sued Zynga for restricting a share sale on SecondMarket. After
former Zynga employee Andrew Trader attempted to sell $12.9
million in the company’s stock to Alpha, Zynga said it would
only allow the transaction if the firm agreed not to sell the
shares until 180 days after a Zynga IPO. In June, the attorney
for Alpha filed to dismiss the case.  “Judges don’t like it when companies tell their
shareholders that they can’t sell the shares they have bought
and paid for,” Brogger said. “The more draconian and the more
unreasonable the prohibitions are, the more these companies are
inviting lawsuits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 Alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  