-- 33 HBR Blog Posts You Should Read Before 2013
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B e l l
-- 2012-12-28T13:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/33-hbr-blog-posts-you-should-read-before-2013.html
HBR's editors have compiled a list of some of our — and your — favorite of the nearly 2000 blog posts we published in 2012.   As usual, the topics that most preoccupied our authors and readers reflected our shared anxieties: the pressures exerted on our businesses by technology and the global economy — no end to economic uncertainty, the need to make sense of vast amounts of data, the problem and opportunity of disruptive innovation; as well as perennial personal worries — finding work that matters, never getting enough done.   We hope you'll find some insights here you may have missed the first time around, and that they'll help you make 2013 a productive and innovative year for your company and yourself.   Innovation, Especially the Disruptive Kind, Seemed as Difficult as Ever Why Big Companies Can't Innovate 
Maxwell Wessel  Who Cares If Samsung Copied Apple? 
James Allworth  Which Best Practice Is Ruining Your Business? 
Freek Vermeulen  How Introverts Can Become Better Innovators 
Francesca Gino Pig Wings: Creating Demand in a New Category 
Eddie Yoon  Why We Can't See What's Right in Front of Us 
Tony McCaffrey It's Still Tough to Get Hired (and to Quit) I Won't Hire People Who Use Poor Grammar. Here's Why.    
Kyle Wiens (This was by far the most commented-upon post of the year.) Find a Job Using Disruptive Innovation 
Jeff Dyer and Hal Gregersen Looking for a Job When You're No Longer Young 
Anne Kreamer  How to (Finally) Quit Your Job 
Daniel Gulati The Robots Coming for Your Job 
Andy McAfee The U.S. Needs to Make More Jobs More Creative 
Roger Martin We Contemplated Winning and Losing Ten Reasons Winners Keep Winning, Aside from Skill 
Rosabeth Moss Kanter  When My Business Failed 
Dan Pallotta J.C. Penney: Ditch the Risky Pricing Strategy 
Rafi Mohammed  None of Us Thought We Got Enough Done The Magic of Doing One Thing at a Time 
Tony Schwartz  (The most-read post of the year.) Boring Is Productive 
Robert C. Pozen The Responsiveness Trap 
Sarah Green  Stop Email Overload 
Amy Gallo The Disciplined Pursuit of Less 
Greg McKeown We Sought Balance and Meaning in Our Work Lives Making the Choice Between Money and Meaning 
Umair Haque Be Proud of Your Accomplishments, Not Your Affiliations 
Daniel Gulati   Moving Around Without Losing Your Roots 
Gianpiero Petriglieri How to Attend a Conference as Yourself 
Peter Bregman Just How Powerful Are You? 
Nilofer Merchant And Obsessed About What We Could and Couldn't Measure Big Data's Management Revolution 
Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee  The Science of Building a Scalable Sales Team 
Mark Roberge Leadership's Full Measure 
Chris Meyer & Julia Kirby The Hard Science of Teamwork 
Alex "Sandy" Pentland The Analytics Lesson from the Obama Campaign 
an interview with Andy McAfee by Sarah Green What Does Nate Silver's '80.9% Chance of Winning' Mean, Anyway? 
Justin Fox Are Women Better Leaders than Men? 
Jack Zenger and Joseph Folkman It's More Important to Be Kind Than Clever 
Bill Taylor 
Happy New Year, from all of us at HBR.