-- Haig Wanted to Tell Argentina U.K.’s Falklands Plans
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/haig-wanted-to-tell-argentina-u-k-s-falklands-plans.html
Alexander Haig, the U.S. secretary
of state under  Ronald Reagan , had to be persuaded not to pass on
U.K. military plans to Argentina during the Falklands War, newly
released British documents show.  Haig was trying to broker a peace deal over the disputed
islands in the South Atlantic. He told Nicholas Henderson, the
British ambassador in  Washington , he would have to inform the
Argentines about U.K. plans to recapture the island of South
Georgia if he was to maintain his position of “even-
handedness,” according to files from 1982 released by the
 National Archives  in London today.  “He therefore thought that he would have to give the
Argentinian junta advance notice of our intended operation,”
Henderson wrote in a note on April 21, four days before South
Georgia was retaken. “I expressed strong objection.”  The documents also make clear the extent of U.S. support
for the British during the crisis even as Haig was attempting to
get the two sides to sign a peace deal. Ammunition and equipment
were provided on a “use or return” basis, limpet mines were
sent for sinking Argentine ships and the aircraft carrier  USS
Dwight D. Eisenhower  was earmarked by Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger to provide a “mobile runway” in the South Atlantic.  Voice of America, the U.S. foreign broadcasting service,
agreed to carry British versions of events in the Falklands
after the Argentine military junta jammed the British
Broadcasting Corp., and the U.S. sought to buy into Brazilian
transmitters to strengthen VOA’s signal to  Argentina .  ‘Presentational Problems’  “The U.S. have met in full virtually all our requests and
have been very helpful in setting up arrangements for handling
them quickly,” David Omand, an official at the Ministry of
Defense, wrote in a note. “The clandestine nature of the
assistance does pose difficult presentational problems for both
the Americans and us.”  Haig was persuaded not to warn Argentina about Britain’s
plans. “I am grateful to you for having averted what could have
been a very dangerous development,” Foreign Secretary Francis Pym wrote in a cable to Henderson. “I find it amazing that it
should have crossed the Americans’ mind that they ought to tell
the Argentinians about our impending move.”  The U.S. was concerned about its relations with other
countries in  Latin America , though the files, released by the
 National Archives  after being kept confidential for the
prescribed 30 years, show that confusion over the U.S. stance
stretched around the world.  ‘Extremely Disturbed’  A telegram from the British Embassy in Oman said the
country’s sultan was “extremely disturbed” at the U.S.’s
apparent lack of support for Britain.  “It made them wonder whether they could really rely on the
Americans in a crisis,” according to a section highlighted in
the margin by Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher . “He thought the
American government should have supported us right from the
start.”  Thatcher thanked Reagan for “his magnificent support of
the U.K.’s position,” according to notes of a meeting between
the two leaders on June 9. “Her grief was that she could not
specify in public the extent of that support.”  Israel and  France  also offered backing to the U.K. on the
condition that it was not made public. The Israelis sent a
message through Marcus Sieff, chairman of retailer Marks &
Spencer, saying Prime Minister  Menachem Begin  had ordered arms
exports to Argentina to be held up by bureaucracy, though he was
“concerned that it should not be publicly known.”  Exocet Order  Much British diplomatic and covert effort was devoted to
preventing Argentina getting new supplies of French-built Exocet
anti-ship missiles, which could be used against the British
naval  task force  in the South Atlantic. President  Francois Mitterrand  told Thatcher at a meeting in May that he wouldn’t
allow a Peruvian order of Exocets to leave his country, out of
concern they would be passed to Argentina. Fearing the damage
that would be done to France’s arms business if his pledge
became known, he requested “total confidence.”  In his memoirs, Defense Secretary John Nott hinted, without
giving details, at even greater French cooperation, writing that
British agents had identified Exocets for sale and “covertly
rendered them inoperable, based on information provided by the
French.”  After an Exocet attack on the British destroyer HMS
Sheffield on May 4, which led to its sinking six days later, a
director of Israel Aircraft Industries Ltd. phoned the British
Embassy in  Tel Aviv .  Israeli Apology  The director apologized “that one of his products should
be responsible for so much damage,” a telegram from the embassy
ran. “He was certain an IAI product was responsible but would
not respond to questions on mark or type.”  Thatcher told Reagan in a message on May 5 that she was
ready to “go along” with Haig’s proposals for a cease-fire and
an interim peace-keeping force on the islands to oversee an
Argentine withdrawal if it would avoid bloodshed. She said she
had “misgivings” about the vague language being used on the
future of the islands, which Haig insisted was the only way of
getting the Argentines to sign up.  “With so many young lives at risk -- British and Argentine
-- I feel that we must make a supreme effort to prevent a major
military clash,” Thatcher wrote in a message that also urged
Reagan to increase economic pressure on Argentina.  Argentina refused to sign up to the peace deal, and after
fierce battles that saw ships sunk on both sides and hand-to-
hand fighting on the islands, Argentine forces surrendered on
June 14. The death toll included 255 British soldiers, 649
Argentines and three women from the islands, killed accidentally
by British fire.  Tensions over the islands have heightened again this year,
with Argentina protesting the U.K.’s deployment of a modern
warship to the region and British Prime MinisterDavid Cameron
describing Argentina’s claim to the islands as “like
colonialism.” The islanders will hold a referendum next year on
their allegiance to Britain, in an effort to show Argentina
they’re happy with the status quo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  