-- AMR Union Says Lack of Accord Threatens Merger in Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-28T19:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/amr-union-says-lack-of-accord-may-threaten-merger-in-bankruptcy.html
An American Airlines merger with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  may not occur during the  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  unit’s
bankruptcy unless pilot groups from the carriers agree on
interim contract terms, American’s pilot union said.  If an accord isn’t reached “in the very near future, in
all likelihood there will be no merger before American Airlines
exits restructuring,” Keith Wilson, president of the  Allied
Pilots Association,  said in a message on the union’s website.  The agreement would set wages, working conditions and terms
to protect seniority until a joint contract for pilots at Fort
Worth, Texas-based American and their counterparts at the US
Airline Pilots Association is negotiated, he said.  The pilot groups, joined by executives from both carriers,
began negotiating the accord earlier this month. American, which
filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29, 2011, has said it prefers to
assess mergers after leaving court protection. US Airways, based
in Tempe,  Arizona , has been pushing for a tie-up since January.  “We don’t have the ability to stop the clock and make
everyone else wait while we sort through all of the issues
associated with an integrated seniority list,” Wilson told
members, saying those details must wait until after a merger
occurs.  Seniority is critical to pilots because it determines
compensation, work schedule and the type of aircraft flown.  ‘Ongoing Discussions’  “American is actively taking part in ongoing discussions
with US Airways, APA and USAPA to appropriately evaluate the
impact of pilot labor costs and operational and seniority
integration issues on a potential merger,” Mike Trevino, a
spokesman for the carrier, said in an e-mail.  Trevino said American and the company’s unsecured creditors
committee “invited the unions to join the discussions in order
to properly evaluate the labor issues that would be involved.
Our objective review of strategic alternatives aims to deliver
the most value for our financial stakeholders and the best
outcome for our people and customers.”  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways would surpass United Continental Holdings
Inc. as the world’s largest airline, based on passenger traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  