-- Apple Will Drop Galaxy S III Mini From Samsung Patent Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-12-28T20:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/apple-will-drop-galaxy-s-iii-mini-from-samsung-patent-suit-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  agreed to drop  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy S III Mini from a patent-infringement
lawsuit against the South Korea-based company, according to
court records.  Apple said it agreed to withdraw the smartphone from its
case because Samsung assured the court the phone won’t be sold
in the U.S., according to a filing today in federal court in San
Jose,  California . The filing, which follows an August verdict in
the same court in Apple’s favor on other infringement claims,
comes in a second patent case between the two companies,
scheduled for trial in 2014.  Apple will withdraw the Galaxy S III Mini “given Samsung’s
representation that it is not making, using, selling, offering
to sell or importing that product into the U.S.,” according to
the filing. Apple claims that the smartphone is available for
sale through Amazon.com, and said it will agree to drop its
claims against the Galaxy S III Mini only if Samsung’s
assurances remain true.  In the earlier case, a jury decided Aug. 24 at the end of a
trial that Samsung should pay $1.05 billion for infringing six
Apple patents. Apple awaits a decision from U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh on its request for additional damages against Samsung
for infringement after the iPhone maker lost its bid to block
U.S. sales on 26 of the Galaxy maker’s devices. Apple failed to
establish that consumer demand for Samsung products was driven
by technology it stole, Koh ruled.  At a Dec. 6 hearing, Apple asked Koh to increase the
damages awarded by the jury by $536 million, while Samsung said
the verdict should be reduced by more than $600 million. Koh
hasn’t ruled on the matter.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in their patent disputes
fought over four continents since Cupertino, California-based
Apple accused Asia’s biggest electronics maker of “slavishly
copying” its devices. The companies are competing for dominance
of a global mobile-device market estimated by Yankee Group at
$346 billion this year.  Samsung, facing an antitrust probe by European regulators,
has said it will halt efforts to block sales of Apple products
in  Europe .  Newer smartphones made by both companies, including
Samsung’s Galaxy S III and Apple’s iPhone 5, have been added to
the case set for trial in 2014.  Adam Yates, a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, declined to comment.  The case is Apple v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The earlier case is v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,
11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  