-- Argentina Restructured Bondholders Say Order Violates Rights
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-28T23:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/argentine-bondholder-trustee-seeks-dismissal-of-pay-orders-1-.html
BlackRock Inc., (BLK)  Gramercy Funds
Management LLC and other investors in Argentina’s restructured
bonds said an order requiring the country to pay defaulted debt
threatens their rights to receive payment.  The bondholders, who hold restructured bonds the country
issued in 2005 and 2010, said it is a “near certainty” that
Argentina won’t make payments on any bonds if the lower-court
order stands, according to papers filed today in the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in  Manhattan .  Argentina defaulted on sovereign debt in 2001. In November,
U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  New York  issued an
injunction requiring the country to pay $1.3 billion owed to
holders of defaulted bonds when it makes payments on the
restructured debt.  “However understandable the district court’s frustration
with the Republic, it is unlawful and unconstitutional for an
injunction to infringe the rights of innocent third-party
creditors in this way,” lawyers for the investors in
restructured debt, also called the exchange bondholders, said in
the papers.  Argentina  has said it doesn’t intend to pay holders of the
defaulted debt who opted not to accept the country’s exchange
offers of 25 to 29 cents on the dollar, according to the filing.
The country’s law also prohibits the payment of defaulted debt,
the exchange bondholders argued.  Exchange Bonds  If the injunction is not vacated, it is “certain” that
either the country will fail to pay the exchange bonds or that
the payments will be frozen, the restructured bondholders group,
which holds more than $1.5 billion in debt, said in the filing.  Earlier today,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , trustee for
restructured Argentine bonds, said in a filing to the appeals
court that Griesa’s ruling would force it to violate contracts.  The bank, which is responsible for distributing payments to
investors in the restructured bonds, asked the appeals court to
throw out requirements imposed on it under the order. Griesa
ordered  BNY Mellon  to help carry out the ruling by withholding
funds from restructured bondholders until Argentina pays the old
debt, according to the bank’s filing.  “BNY Mellon cannot help, assist or otherwise influence
Argentina’s decision to make ratable payment to the
plaintiffs,” BNY Mellon said in the motion, referring to the
holders of defaulted debt. Meanwhile, the bank is contractually
obligated to make payments to holders of restructured debt,
according to the motion.  Alternatively, the bank asked that it be excused from legal
liability arising out of complying with the ruling.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net 
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  