-- Marvell, Apple, Toledo Public Schools: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-28T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/marvell-apple-toledo-public-schools-intellectual-property.html
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  said
it will seek to overturn a $1.17 billion jury verdict for
infringing integrated-circuit patents held by  Carnegie Mellon
University .  A federal jury in Pittsburgh on Dec. 26 hit the maker of
chips for computers and mobile phones with the fourth-largest
U.S. patent verdict ever, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. All three verdicts larger than the one against
Marvell were reversed on appeal.  Marvell doesn’t use the technology at issue and “there are
strong grounds for appeal,” Marvell, based in Hamilton,
 Bermuda , said in a statement yesterday. The company will file
post-trial motions to overturn the verdict, and if necessary
appeal to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington , D.C., according to the statement.  The jury found Marvell’s infringement willful, providing a
basis for U.S. District Judge Nora Barry Fischer to increase the
award by as much as three times, according to a statement by K&L
Gates LLP, the  law firm  representing the university. Tripling
the award would make it the largest ever in a patent case.  Marvell said in yesterday’s statement it hasn’t recorded
any liability on its financial statements for the lawsuit.  “In assessing the impact of this jury verdict on its
financial statements, Marvell will review the verdict, evaluate
the post-trial motions, and evaluate the likelihood of a
successful appeal,” the company said.  Carnegie Mellon  sued over use of the two patents, issued in
2001 and 2002, that cover ways to detect data stored on a
computer’s hard-disk drive by filtering out noise or unwanted
electrical signals. The school in a March 6 complaint said at
least nine types of Marvell’s circuits use its inventions.  “We are gratified by the jury’s unanimous verdict,” Ken
Walters, a spokesman for the school in Pittsburgh, said in an e-
mailed statement. “This case deals with fundamental technology
for increasing the accuracy with which hard-disk drive circuits
read data from high-speed magnetic disks.”  Apple Gets Patent on Process Used to Make Curved Glass  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, has received a
patent on a method of making curved glass.  Patent 8,336,334, which was issued Dec. 25, covers a
process for molding glass at a high temperature in such a way
that the glass is able to bend around the mold.  According to the patent, Apple’s process is an improvement
on previous methods of glass formation that left molded glass
with flanges on the edge that had to be removed, adding cost to
the product.  Glass formed using this process can be used for glass
covers for small electronic devices such as mobile phones. It
can also be used for larger devices such as televisions or
personal computers.  Cupertino, California-based Apple applied for the patent in
March 2009, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office .  Apple General Counsel Gets $69 Million for Litigation Leadership  Managing Apple Inc.’s patent litigation brought General
Counsel Bruce Sewell $69 million in compensation for the fiscal
year that ended in September 2012, according to a regulatory
filing for the Cupertino, California-based company.  This is in contrast to Sewell’s 2011 $1.41 million
compensation, the filing revealed.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook ’s 2012 pay package totaled
$1.36 million salary and $2.8 million in incentive plan
compensation. His big payday came the previous year with $378
million, one of the biggest pay packages on record, boosted by
$376.2 million in stock awards that he’ll get over a decade.  Intel Gets Patent on Safety Feature for Hand Held Game Devices  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the  Santa Clara , California-based chip
manufacturer, received a patent on a technology that could help
prevent some accidents caused by too-vigorous players of
computer games.  Patent 8,333,661, issued Dec. 18, covers a gaming system
with a built-in alarm. According to the patent, the game console
could contain sensors that detect the bodily movement of the
user and the proximity of surrounding objects.  According to  a 2007 story  in PC Magazine, a number of
accidents have occurred in the past from too-vigorous use of the
Wii game controller made by  Nintendo Co. (7974)  They include smashed
television screens, broken blades for ceiling fans, holes
punched in walls and black eyes or bruises for onlookers when
the user accidentally loses control of the device.  Intel’s newly patented technology would cause the hand-held
device to emit an alarm when it is too close to an object.  Santa Clara, California-based Intel applied for the patent
in March 2011.
For more patent news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Downloading for Personal Use Still Permitted in the Netherlands  The Netherlands’ house of representatives rejected proposed
legislation that would ban downloading of content for personal
use, the TorrentFreak anti-copyright news website  reported .  Kees Verhoeven, a member of the house, said that while a
ban on downloading doesn’t solve the problem of unpaid
downloads, it could lead to other problems such as a restriction
of the privacy of individual users, TorrentFreak reported.  Copyright owners are presently compensated for the
downloading through a so-called “piracy tax” on blank media,
according to TorrentFreak.  That taxing system was extended in October to cover a wider
range of media-storage devices such as smart phones, USB drives,
tablets, personal computers and laptops, TorrentFreak reported.  School District Settles Publisher’s Copyright Infringement Suit  Toledo Public Schools has settled a copyright infringement
suit brought by an Ohio-based publisher.  Align Assess Achieve LLC of Worthington,  Ohio , sued the
school district in federal court in Columbus, Ohio, in January
2012. The publisher claimed the school district made electronic
copies of books and other materials aimed at helping teachers
meet the state’s curriculum standards.  According to court papers, although the district had a
limited license for the use of the content, it engaged in
“massive infringement” by hiring teachers to spend their
summer break transcribing the content and inputting it into a
computer system.  The publisher claimed that the district bought fewer than
10 copies of any of its works, “apparently for the sole purpose
of stealing and widely distributing the materials.”  Align had asked the court for a ban on further unauthorized
use of its content and money damages.  According to the case file, the dispute is settled. The
Toldeo Blade  reported  yesterday that the Board of Education
agreed to buy $38,400 worth of books, with additional damages
including the publisher’s attorney fees for a total of $59,600.  A second infringement suit, this time against the Urbana
City Schools, was settled in September, according to court
files. Terms of that settlement weren’t disclosed.  The case is Align Assess Achieve LLC v. Toledo Public
Schools, 2:12-cv-00016-ALM-MRA, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Ohio (Columbus). The other case is Align Assess
Achieve v. Urbana City Schools, 2:12-cv-00131-MHW-MRA, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 