-- Asian Stocks Rally for Sixth Week on Japan and China Bets
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-12-28T23:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/asian-stocks-rally-for-sixth-week-on-japan-and-china-bets.html
Asian  shares  rose for a sixth week,
the longest winning streak since March, as investors bet
governments in Japan and China will do more to spur growth.  Japan’s benchmark indexes capped their best annual advance
since 2005 as exporters gained while the yen fell to a more-
than-two year low against the dollar on prospects for more
stimulus.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , an automaker that gets 28 percent
of its sales in North America, advanced 18 percent in  Tokyo  this
week. Chinese consumer companies rallied, led by department
store owner Dashang Group Co. amid speculation China may
introduce measures to boost consumption. Tokyo Electric Power
Co. slid 8 percent this week after being sued by eight U.S.
sailors for  radiation exposure .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.02 percent to 129.61
this week. Japanese shares posted their biggest annual advance
since 2005, after a report that the country’s consumer prices
fell fanned speculation the central bank will respond to
government calls for more asset purchases.  “Central banks are going to keep  interest rates  low and
provide more stimulus that will keep equity markets propped up
as it has done this year,” said  Kumar Palghat , managing
director and founder of Kapstream Capital, which oversees at
least $5.2 billion.  Asia’s benchmark equities index  rose  about 19 percent from
this year’s low on June 4 as central banks from the U.S.,
Europe, Japan and China took action to spur economic growth. The
gauge traded at 14.9 times average estimated earnings compared
with 13.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  U.S. Stocks  The  S&P 500  fell 1.9 percent this week as President  Barack
Obama  met with lawmakers to try to reach a budget deal before a
January deadline. Obama said after the talks he was “modestly
optimistic” Congress can pass a bill to avert more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 4.6 percent this
week, taking its advance for the year to 23 percent, the most
since 2005. The gauge rose 20 percent since Nov. 14, when the
former government said it would hold a general election in
December and as a more pro-stimulus  Liberal Democratic Party ,
led by Shinzo Abe, took power.  The rally since November added about $276.3 billion,
equivalent to the annual gross domestic product of Malaysia, to
the value of Japan’s stocks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The country’s markets are shut four days next week
for the New Year holidays.  Mazda gained 18 percent to 174 yen. Toyota Motor Corp.,
Asia’s largest automaker, rallied 5.8 percent to 4,005 yen.  Fuji Heavy  Fuji Heavy industries Ltd. , the maker of Subaru vehicles,
climbed 5.2 percent to 1,076 yen, the highest close since July
1989, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company rose
131 percent this year and is the best-performing stock in the
 Nikkei 225 . Its advance was the biggest by a Japanese member of
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage, capped a
record 12-day winning streak on Dec. 28, rising 17 percent
through the week to 503 yen. The stock, the best performer on
the  Topix Core 30 Index (TPXC30)  this year, has more than doubled amid
expectations the new government will bolster the economy and
speculation that a stock rebound will boost earnings.  “We’ve entered a positive cycle of a weaker yen and higher
stock prices,” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc. “We’re likely to see more capital
flowing in from investors as the risk of not owning Japanese
stocks becomes stronger.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index, which tracks stocks on the
larger Chinese exchanges, added 3.7 percent this week. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 0.7 percent, headed for a 23
percent advance this year, the most since 2009.  Consumption Boost  China  consumer companies  gained after a China Securities
Journal report that regulators may introduce measures to boost
consumption in areas such as autos, household electronics and
solar. Dashang, a mainland department store operator, rallied 13
percent to 35.19  yuan  in Shanghai.  Belle International Holdings Ltd., a women’s footwear
maker, rose 3.2 percent to HK$16.88. China Unicom (Hong Kong)
Ltd., the nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company, advanced
3.1 percent to HK$12.54.  “With China’s new leadership on board there’s some
expectation in the market that they will reignite economic
growth,” said  Alex Au , managing director of Richland Capital
Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees over $200 million.
Fund flow into Hong Kong and improving sentiment has been
helping the recent gains, Au said. “Some investors are still
not convinced about the rally. After all, the global economy is
still not in really good shape.”  Final Day  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 rose 1 percent. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index gained 0.7 percent in Wellington. South Korea’s Kospi
Index added 0.8 percent.  Dec. 28 was the final trading day of the year in South
Korea,  Taiwan ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines .
Thailand’s SET Index surged 36 percent this year, the biggest
advance by any Asian benchmark gauge after Pakistan’s Karachi
100 Index.  Tokyo Electric Power slumped 8 percent to 206 yen this
week, after rallying 47 percent last week. The owner of the
power plant which had the world’s biggest nuclear disaster since
1986 is being sued by eight U.S. sailors claiming they were
exposed to radiation and the utility lied about the dangers.
“We can’t comment as we have not received the complaint
document yet,” Yusuke Kunikage, a Tepco spokesman, said by
phone Dec. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  