-- Aussie Touches 20-Month High Against Yen on BOJ Stimulus Bets
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-28T05:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/aussie-touches-20-month-high-against-yen-on-boj-stimulus-bets.html
The Australian dollar touched the
strongest level in 20 months against the yen after data showed a
decline in  Japan ’s consumer prices, adding to the case for
increased monetary easing by the nation’s central bank.  New Zealand’s dollar reached a two-week high versus the
yen, heading for the best annual performance since 2009, amid
speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will accede to Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s calls for a higher inflation target. The currencies
of both South Pacific nations were supported before reports
which may signal improvement in Chinese manufacturing, boosting
trade prospects.  “There are persistent expectations that the new
administration will continue to add to pressure on the BOJ to
ease policy, putting the yen under selling pressure,” said
Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute
Ltd. in  Tokyo . “There is a lot of momentum in Aussie-yen and it
wouldn’t surprise me if it tests higher.”  The Australian dollar touched 89.83  yen , the highest since
April 2011, before trading at 89.67 as of 4:01 p.m. in Sydney,
0.4 percent above yesterday’s close in New York. It was little
changed at $1.0379. For the year, the so-called Aussie is headed
for a 14 percent gain versus the Japanese currency and a 1.7
percent climb against the greenback.  New Zealand ’s dollar, known as the kiwi, advanced 0.3
percent to 70.88 yen, after reaching 71.14, the strongest since
Dec. 17. The currency was poised for a 19 percent gain against
the yen in 2012, and a 5.6 percent rise against the greenback.  Japanese Deflation  Japan’s  consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell 0.1
percent in November from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said today. The BOJ next meets on Jan. 21-22, when policy makers
are expected to discuss the inflation goal currently set at 1
percent.  Benchmark interest rates are as low as zero in Japan and
the U.S. compared with 3 percent in  Australia  and 2.5 percent in
New Zealand, drawing investor funds into the higher-yielding
Aussie- and kiwi-denominated assets.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 58 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower
its benchmark to 2.75 percent in February, lower than the 60
percent probability indicated yesterday.  Chinese Manufacturing  The Aussie and kiwi were also supported before
manufacturing data on Dec. 31 from  China , which is Australia’s
biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export
market.  The purchasing manager’s  index  of Chinese manufacturing by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will probably rise to
50.9 in December from 50.5 the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . A
separate, government-backed  index  of manufacturing due on Jan. 1
will show an increase to 51 from 50.6, economists estimate.  “The Chinese manufacturing data has the potential to move
the Aussie and kiwi,” said Gaitame.com’s Gervaise. “But given
the timing of the releases, the reaction may be more muted than
usual.”  Australian bond yields fell and demand for the South
Pacific nations’ currencies was limited as the deadline looms
for the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending
cuts that could send the U.S. into recession.  President  Barack Obama  plans to meet with Democratic and
Republican congressional leaders at the White House today. House
Republican leaders also announced the chamber will meet on Dec.
30 as lawmakers seek to avoid more than $600 billion of spending
cuts and tax increases set to begin in January.  ‘Positive Tones’  “Investors appear to have further reduced their risk-on
exposure over the past week,” BNP Paribas SA’s currency
strategy team led by  Steven Saywell , wrote in a research note
yesterday. That suggests there is scope for the  U.S. dollar  to
fall and commodity currencies to rally “on any positive tones
from  Washington .”  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government bond dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.32 percent.  Australia’s dollar has lost 1 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The  New Zealand dollar  gained 3.2
percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  