-- Australia Routs Sri Lanka to Seal Test Cricket Series Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-28T06:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/australia-makes-460-to-lead-sri-lanka-by-304-runs-in-second-test.html
Australia  routed  Sri Lanka  by a
record innings and 201 runs to win their Test cricket series
with a match to spare.  Australia bowled out an injury-depleted Sri Lanka for 103
midway through day three after taking a 304-run first-innings
lead. Man of the match  Mitchell Johnson  got a run out and took
two wickets after hitting 92 not out to lift Australia to 460.  “The way that we came out there and bowled was
unbelievable,” Johnson said at the presentation ceremony. “We
started off really well with the ball and just continued on.”  It was the biggest victory margin in  25 elite Tests  between
the teams and gave Australia an unbeatable 2-0 lead heading into
the series finale in Sydney starting Jan. 3.  Needing 304 to make Australia bat a second time after
scoring 156 on day one, Sri Lanka was dismissed in 24.2 overs
today.  Kumar Sangakkara  retired hurt with a hand injury when on
27, while Prasanna Jayawardene and Chanaka Welegedara were
unable to bat after getting injured earlier in the match.  Sangakkara and Welegedara will miss the remainder of Sri
Lanka’s tour, while Australia vice-captain Shane Watson is out
of the Sydney Test because of a calf injury. He was replaced in
the 13-man squad by off-spinning allrounder Glenn Maxwell.  Johnson Stranded  The home team had resumed day three at 440-8 and added 20
runs to its total as Johnson was left stranded eight runs short
of his second Test century.  The left-arm paceman then ran out Dimuth Karunaratne in the
third ball of Sri Lanka’s second innings with a diving lunge and
had  Tillakaratne Dilshan  caught by  Ed Cowan  at short leg in the
next delivery.  Jackson Bird bowled Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene
off an inside edge with the last ball of the next over to leave
the tourists reeling at 3-3. Test debutant Bird returned in the
fifth over to trap Thilan Samaraweera leg-before-wicket.  Johnson, who fractured wicketkeeper Prasanna Jayawardene’s
right thumb in Sri Lanka’s first innings, struck Sangakkara on
his left index finger, forcing him to leave the field and
putting him out of the rest of Sri Lanka’s tour along with
Welegedara, who has a torn hamstring.  “These are things we can’t control,” the Sri Lanka
skipper said at a televised news conference. “Kumar has got a
fracture so he’s definitely going to be out for the rest of the
series. We want to give Prasanna a few more days. It’s a small
fracture.”  Six Wickets  In his next over, Johnson hit Dhammika Prasad on the hand
and the batsman had an on-field discussion with medical staff
before batting on. Four balls later,  Angelo Mathews  dragged a
delivery onto his stumps to make it 74-5 and give Johnson six
wickets for the match.  Prasad was caught out when attempting to hit Australian
spinner Nathan Lyon for a third straight six before  Peter Siddle 
removed Shaminda Eranga without scoring to wrap up the victory
with the remaining two Sri Lankans unable to bat.  Mathews earlier dismissed Lyon for 1 in the third over
after the start of play was delayed 15 minutes by rain and Bird
was bowled by Eranga without scoring. Prasad took 3-106 to
finish as Sri Lanka’s best bowler, while Eranga claimed 3-109.  Australia captain Michael Clarke yesterday top scored with
106, breaking  Ricky Ponting ’s national record for Test runs in a
calendar year. Clarke said he was impressed by the ruthlessness
shown by his team in sealing the win in 2 1/2 days.  “We spoke before the start of play about how important
today was for this team,” Clarke said at the presentation.
“Considering we were on top in the game, a 300-run lead, we had
to come and bowl well and execute our plans. Our goal was to win
the Test today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  