-- Australia Mine Tax Violates States’ Rights, WA Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-28T02:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/australia-mine-tax-violates-states-rights-wa-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s tax on  iron ore  and coal company profits is illegal
because it limits state governments’ ability to finance
development, the  Western Australia  state government said.  The structure of the  Minerals Resource Rent Tax ,
implemented July 1, offsets any reduction in state taxes,
inhibiting states from offering tax breaks to companies agreeing
to finance development in remote regions, Western  Australia 
said. Its Dec. 21 filing to the High Court of Australia was made
in support of a challenge by  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  that
the regulation is unconstitutional.  “Because of the remoteness of commercially viable deposits
of iron ore in Western Australia, the development of iron ore
mining projects in these locations requires that the state work
with iron miners to facilitate construction of the
infrastructure,” the state said in the filing. “Such
infrastructure includes town sites, railways, roads, airports
and ports.”  Western Australia, the center of the nation’s iron ore-
mining activities, joins Queensland in backing Fortescue’s
lawsuit seeking to have the tax declared invalid. Gillard’s
Labour government implemented the mining tax in a bid to boost
revenue and return the  federal budget  to surplus by next year,
when an election is due. Falling revenue now makes a surplus
unlikely this fiscal year, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said Dec. 20.  The government’s agenda has drawn criticism from mining
companies, state governments aligned with the Liberal-National
opposition and billionaire  Gina Rinehart , Asia’s richest woman.  ‘Futile’ Bid  Queensland’s challenge “will try to stop the Gillard
government spreading the benefits of the mining boom to hundreds
of thousands of Queensland households and small businesses who
aren’t in the fast lane” of the nation’s economy, Swan said
July 9. At that time, he described the state’s legal bid as
“futile.”  Western Australia received A$1.81 billion ($1.9 billion) in
royalty income from the mining of iron ore in the 2009-2010
fiscal year and A$3.65 billion the following year, according to
the filing.  The amounts respectively accounted for 78 percent and 87
percent of total mineral royalty payments to the state in those
years, it said. The payments were 8 percent and 15 percent,
respectively, of the state’s general revenue in the two years,
the filing showed.  State Sovereignty  Fortescue is seeking a ruling declaring the tax invalid,
arguing that it discriminates between states, curtails their
sovereignty and restricts their ability to encourage mining, the
Perth-based company said in a court filing on June 22.  The federal resources tax is expected to reap about A$10.6
billion within three years from mining companies including
Fortescue,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group, according to
Treasury estimates released last year.  Deals struck with mining companies, including Rio Tinto,
have resulted in the construction of infrastructure in exchange
for reduced tax rates as far back as 1962, the Western
Australian government said.  “If the state chooses to reduce royalty so that the miner
will expend sums on (say) the construction of towns, railways,
roads, airports and ports, the miner will derive no savings from
the reduced royalty,” according to the filing.  A hearing before the High Court is scheduled to begin on
March 6.  The case is between Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. and The
Commonwealth of Australia. S163/2012.  High Court  of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  