-- Bangladesh Sees Factory Lure Even as Blaze Spurs Labor Gains
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-12-28T08:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/bangladesh-sees-factory-lure-even-as-blaze-spurs-labor-gains-1-.html
Bangladesh  will remain attractive to
manufacturers even after a deadly factory blaze renewed pressure
to improve labor conditions, the central bank governor said as
he signaled inflation risks will be contained in coming months.  “Given the current rock-bottom wage levels, there will be
no significant impairment in competitiveness from the
incremental cost burden for the improvements,” Atiur Rahman
said yesterday in e-mailed responses. “Global garment
manufacturers will be attracted to Bangladesh in ever greater
numbers.”  The Nov. 24 fire at a factory making clothes for retailers
such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. killed more than 100 people and
followed labor unrest earlier in the year that disrupted the
nation’s pivotal garment export industry. A legacy of political
instability and corruption are among other challenges to faster
growth, and Rahman said the government’s goal of more than 7
percent expansion this fiscal year “no longer looks feasible.”  Still, domestic demand will help gross domestic product
rise at least 6.2 percent in the 12 months through June 2013, he
said. Further fuel-price increases to curb subsidies will likely
be “modest, not requiring drastic new monetary tightening to
manage the limited inflationary impact,” Rahman added.  Inflation has held below 8 percent since August, slowing
from almost 12 percent in September last year. Bangladesh Bank
has raised its benchmark repurchase rate by a total of 325 basis
points to 7.75 percent since August 2010 to restrain prices.  ‘Remain Competitive’  “If costs increase due to improved safety standards, it
will eventually pay off,” said Ahsan H. Mansur, executive
director of the Policy Research Institute of Bangladesh in Dhaka.
“It is an investment in safety standards and human resources.
Bangladesh will remain competitive to foreign buyers.”  Discussions to finalize a potential $1.8 billion deposit in
Bangladesh Bank from Qatar’s monetary authority are due in early
2013, Rahman said. The deposit will boost the nation’s balance
of payments and help sustain a “good” credit rating, he said.  Bangladesh’s taka is up about 2.5 percent against the
dollar this year. The benchmark Dhaka Stock Exchange General
Index has declined 20 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  