-- Barnes & Noble Says Pearson Bought 5% of Nook Division
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-12-28T21:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/barnes-noble-says-pearson-bought-5-of-nook-unit.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  agreed to buy a 5
percent stake in the Nook e-reader unit of struggling bookstore
chain  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , joining Microsoft Inc. as a backer of
the business.  Barnes & Noble shares rose the most in almost three weeks
even after the New York-based company said holiday sales were
below expectations and the Nook unit won’t meet its projection
for fiscal 2013. Publisher Pearson’s investment values Nook at
$1.79 billion, about twice Barnes & Noble’s market
capitalization.  “This is a reaffirmation of the valuation that no one
believed with Microsoft in this Nook media business,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in New York,
said in an interview. “It’s mixed news today; it’s massive news
for the next five years or 10 years for Barnes & Noble.”  Barnes & Noble is getting a second large investor for the
Nook business, which includes digital and college-book
businesses, after Microsoft’s April investment valued the
division at about $1.7 billion. The bookstore chain has been
losing money as it develops and markets the Nook to take
advantage of a growing preference for digital books.  The company’s shares rose 4.3 percent to $14.97 at the
close in New York, for their biggest gain since Dec. 10. Barnes
& Noble, in which  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp. has a
minority investment, has a market capitalization of $896.7
million.  Microsoft Investment  Pearson, the London-based owner of a U.S. education
publishing business and Penguin Books, is spending $89.5 million
in cash for the Nook stake, according to a statement. After the
transaction, Barnes & Noble will own 78.2 percent of the Nook
unit and Microsoft will hold 16.8 percent. Pearson will have the
option to purchase as much as an additional 5 percent, according
to the statement.  In April, Microsoft invested $300 million in a new
subsidiary that combined Barnes & Noble’s Nook and college
businesses.  Barnes & Noble’s retail operations, struggling from a
declining demand for books, posted a drop in sales last quarter.
The company said in a regulatory filing that it will announce
full holiday sales results on Jan. 3.  The disappointing holiday outlook is part of general
weakness in holiday sales, Strasser said.  “We’re just plateauing on digital,” he said. “A lot of
people just like books.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  