-- Benitez in Line to Get Chelsea Job Permanently: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-28T05:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/benitez-in-line-to-get-chelsea-job-permanently-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Permanent Role  Rafael Benitez is in line to take over as Chelsea’s
permanent manager after being appointed on an interim basis last
month, the  Sun reported .  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has been impressed with the
team’s run of six wins in its past seven games, during which the
Blues scored 26 goals, the newspaper added.  Villa Valuation  Arsenal has been quoted a transfer fee of 16 million pounds
($25.8 million) to sign Barcelona striker David Villa, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Although Gunners manager Arsene Wenger would prefer a
short-term loan for the 31-year-old Villa, he’s willing to offer
a permanent move for the right price, the newspaper said. The
fee quoted by Barcelona is likely to be too much for Arsenal
because of Villa’s age, the Mail added.  PSG Targets Baines  Everton defender Leighton Baines is a shock target for
French club Paris Saint-Germain,  the Sun reported .  PSG has increased its interest in Baines, 28, because
manager Carlo Ancelotti is no longer certain that Chelsea’s
Ashley Cole will join on a free transfer at the end of the
season, the newspaper added.  Chelsea joined PSG and Manchester United in considering a
move for Baines, who is valued at 15 million pounds, the
 Independent reported .  Falcao’s Future  Atletico Madrid striker Radamel Falcao, a target for
Premier League rivals Chelsea and Manchester City, said he
doesn’t expect to be leaving the Spanish club in the January
transfer window, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “My expectation is that I will be staying at the club
until the end of the season,” the Mirror cited the Colombian
striker as saying.  Ba’s Cut  Newcastle United will get just 5 million pounds should a
rival club activate the 7.5 million-pound release clause in
striker Demba Ba’s contract next month, with the rest of the
money going to the player, the  Sun reported .  Ba has resisted all Newcastle’s efforts to get him to sign
a new deal that would scrap the clause, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  