-- Bovespa Extends Best Yearly Gain Since ‘09 on Stimulus for Banks
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-28T21:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-as-brazil-acts-to-boost-growth.html
The Bovespa index rose, extending
its biggest yearly rally since 2009, after policy makers cut
 reserve requirements  for Brazilian lenders to spur investment in
 Latin America ’s largest economy.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest lender by
assets, jumped to the highest level in three months.  B2W Cia.
Global do Varejo , the country’s largest online retailer,
advanced the most in two weeks. JBS SA dropped after Russia said
traces of salmonella bacteria were found in meat that the
company shipped.  The Bovespa advanced 0.9 percent to 60,952.08 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, extending this year’s jump to 7.4
percent. In dollar terms, the gauge fell 2 percent in 2012 as
the real posted a second year of losses. Fifty-six stocks
climbed on the benchmark today while 12 fell. Brazilian markets
will be closed Dec. 31.  “With this change in banks’ reserve requirements, the
government is showing that it’s seeking to boost credit so the
recovery can speed up,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist
at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Large banks that provide credit for investment in capital
goods, such as machines and equipment, can deduct as much as 20
percent of reserve requirements for their cash deposits, the
central bank said in a statement yesterday. This change applies
to banks with a minimum of 6 billion reais in total equity, and
the monetary authority said it expects the measure will create
15 billion reais in fresh credit.  Banco do Brasil jumped 2.2 percent to 25.60 reais. Banco
Santander Brasil SA gained 2.2 percent to 14.97 reais.  B2W Gains  B2W rose 3.7 percent to 17 reais, extending this year’s
rally to 89 percent, the biggest on the  Bovespa (IBOV)  after consumer
products maker Hypermarcas SA’s 96 percent gain.  JBS lost 0.7 percent to 6 reais. The company said in a
statement today it hasn’t been notified by Russia about the
salmonella case and that it follows sanitary procedures set by
Brazilian authorities.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 2.0475 per dollar. The
Brazilian currency has weakened 8.8 percent this year, the worst
performance after  Argentina ’s peso among 25 major emerging-
markets.  The Bovespa has climbed 16 percent from this year’s low in
June as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
concerns about an economic slowdown, while record low benchmark
lending rates have pushed some investors to move into stocks
from fixed income.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters, which
compares with the ratio of 11.1 for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 5.95 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.27 billion reais this year through Dec. 26,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  