-- Housing Rebound Joined by U.S. Business Activity Pickup
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-28T21:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/business-activity-in-u-s-expands-for-a-second-month.html
More Americans signed contracts to
purchase homes in November and business activity improved this
month as companies increased orders, signs the three-year-old
U.S. expansion will endure a budget stalemate.  The National Association of Realtors said its index of
 pending sales  of previously owned homes climbed 1.7 percent in
November to 106.4, the highest level since April 2010. The MNI
Chicago Report’s business  barometer  rose to a four-month high of
51.6 from November’s 50.4. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  The Chicago Report showed new orders expanded by the most
in four months, indicating demand is holding up in the face of
possible automatic tax increases and  government spending  cuts
next week. At the same time, the economy is getting a boost from
residential real estate as households take advantage of record-
low borrowing costs.  “Things are just plodding along in cruise control, waiting
to see what happens” in  Washington , said Sean Incremona, a
senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , who projected a 51.5
reading for the Chicago index. “There was underlying
improvement in new orders, which can be constructive. The
housing recovery is intact, and that’s encouraging.”  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower
for a fifth day, amid concern talks between President  Barack
Obama  and Republican lawmakers may not yield a budget deal by
the year-end deadline. The  S&P 500  dropped 1.1 percent to
1,402.43 at the close in New York.  Japanese Production  Elsewhere today, industrial output in  Japan  tumbled more
than forecast to the lowest level since the aftermath of the
record 2011 earthquake, bolstering the case for Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe to unleash large-scale stimulus. The 1.7 percent drop
in November from October exceeded all 27 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey, a government report showed in  Tokyo .  In  France , the economy expanded less than initially
reported in the third quarter, signaling a recovery that may be
too weak to help President  Francois Hollande ’s government reduce
unemployment that’s at a 15-year high. Gross domestic product
rose 0.1 percent, half the pace estimated on Nov. 15, statistics
institute Insee in Paris said.  The figures show the weaker global economy remains a
challenge for American manufacturers at the same time U.S.
companies await clarity on taxes and government spending. While
gross domestic product rose at a 3.1 percent annual rate from
July through September, the fastest this year, corporate
spending on equipment and software declined by the most since
the second quarter of 2009.  ‘Cautious’ Spending  “Our customers have continued to tell us that the economic
uncertainty in the U.S. caused them to be very cautious in
spending, hiring, and  investment decision  making,” William
Gale, chief financial officer at  Cintas Corp. (CTAS) , said on a Dec. 20
earnings call with analysts. Cincinnati-based Cintas is a
provider of uniforms, supplies and safety products.  “Unknowns concerning U.S. tax policies and the impact of
changing health care regulations have created a pause in many of
their business activities,” Gale said.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for the
MNI Chicago gauge to rise to 51. Projections by the 49
economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 49 to 53.8.  The group’s gauge of  new orders  jumped to 54 in December
from 45.3 a month earlier. Production eased, with the index
falling to 53.8 this month from 54.7.  Employment Measure  Employment may be one area in which companies held back
with the approaching so-called fiscal cliff. The MNI Chicago
Report’s  measure  of employment decreased to 45.9, the lowest
level since November 2009, from 55.2.  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group includes manufacturers and service
providers with operations in the U.S. and abroad, making the
gauge a measure of overall growth.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index , set
for release on Jan. 2, may have shown manufacturing remained
stagnant in December, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s index
unexpectedly expanded to an eight-month high. The bank said on
Dec. 20 that its  general economic index  climbed to 8.1 this
month from minus 10.7 in November. Readings greater than zero
signal expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  In contrast, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic  index , released Dec. 17, showed manufacturing in the
area covering New York, northern New Jersey and southern
 Connecticut  contracted in December for a fifth straight month.  Housing Rebound  A rebound in the housing market is helping make up for
weakness at the nation’s factories. Sales of  new homes  rose in
November to the highest level in more than two years. Purchases
climbed 4.4 percent to a 377,000 annual pace, the fastest since
April 2010, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  “Housing is building some momentum,” said  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “There is a growing perception that now is a good
time to buy. Prices are starting to tick up,  mortgage rates  are
still rock-bottom and the job market has shown some signs of
improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  