-- Canadian Solar to Buy Four Solar Projects for $37 Million
-- B y   T i n a   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-28T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/canadian-solar-completes-38-million-buy-of-ontario-projects.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , a solar-panel
maker, agreed to buy four solar-power projects from  MEMC
Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) ’s SunEdison subsidiary for C$37
million ($37.2 million).  Canadian Solar completed the purchase of two projects,
capable of generating about 24 megawatts direct current, and is
buying two other Ontario solar power plants with a capacity of
about 22.5 megawatts, according to a statement from the Guelph,
Ontario based-company today. It also has the option to buy a
fifth project at a later date.  The company may own more projects in the future, instead of
just selling panels and developing facilities, Canadian Solar
Chief Financial Officer Michael Potter said in a Dec. 10
interview. It’s developing about 260 megawatts of projects in
Ontario that it expects to sell for C$1.3 billion during the
next 18 months, he said.  “We are very pleased to announce this transaction with
SunEdison, which further demonstrates Canadian Solar’s ongoing
investment and commitment to the Ontario solar energy market,
and continues Canadian Solar’s growth of its global solar
project portfolio and higher margin total solutions business,”
Shawn Qu, chairman and chief executive officer, said in the
statement today.  The two projects purchased are expected to be fully
operational by the end of next year. They account for about $20
million of the price, according to a Canadian Solar
representative who asked not to be identified because of company
policy. The other projects may be running by late 2013 or early
2014. The transaction settles  litigation  filed last year between
the two companies.  Each of the five projects has a 20-year power purchase
contract under Ontario’s Feed-in-Tariff program, Canadian Solar
said.  Canadian Solar fell 3 percent to $3.27 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tina Davis in New York at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  