-- Chicopee, Hampden Said to Weigh Sales Amid Investor Pressure
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2012-12-28T21:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/chicopee-hampden-said-to-weigh-sales-amid-investor-pressure-1-.html
Chicopee Bancorp Inc. (CBNK)  and  Hampden (HBNK) 
Bancorp Inc., Massachusetts lenders that have competed for more
than 150 years, are weighing sales amid pressure from an
activist investor, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The firms are talking with investment banks about finding
buyers next year, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the processes are private. Dallas-based hedge fund
Clover Partners LP, which owns stakes in both, has publicly
urged them to consider sales over the past three months.  Chicopee is working with  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  to evaluate
options, said two of the people. Hampden hasn’t chosen an
adviser yet, though it has held discussions with investment bank
 KBW Inc. (KBW)  about handling a strategic review after Jan. 1, said a
third person.  Chicopee  climbed  7.3 percent to $15.40 as of 4 p.m. in New
York following Bloomberg’s report. Hampden advanced 4.1 percent
to $15.20.  Guida Sajdak, chief financial officer at Chicopee, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment. Robert Massey,
Hampden’s CFO, said the bank intends to comply with a non-
binding shareholder proposal passed in November that calls on
the board to consider a sale or other measure to boost investor
returns. He declined to elaborate.  KBW spokesman Mike Gelormino declined to comment.  Sarah Anderson , a spokeswoman for Stifel, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  Clover’s Stakes  Chicopee and Springfield-based Hampden each had less than
$650 million in assets as of Sept. 30. Chicopee had a market
value of $78 million as of yesterday, compared with $86 million
for Hampden.  Clover has about $87 million invested in more than two
dozen community banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The firm urged Hampden’s board to sell in a letter filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Oct. 17. It filed a
similar letter with the SEC to Chicopee’s board on Dec. 5.
Clover Partners Principal Johnny Guerry declined to comment.  Chicopee, which operates less than 10 branches, was founded
in 1854. Hampden, which has 10 branches, was founded in 1852.
Both are former mutual thrift holding companies, or one-time
savings banks owned by depositors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  