-- China Passes Law Requiring People Identify Selves Online
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2012-12-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/china-passes-rules-requiring-people-identify-themselves-online.html
China  passed rules yesterday
requiring people to identify themselves when signing up for
Internet and phone services, as the Communist Party tightens
control over the world’s largest population of web users.  The law, ratified by the Standing Committee of the National
People’s Congress, will enhance protection of personal
information online and “safeguard public interests,” the
official Xinhua News Agency said. China, home to 550 million web
users, censors the Internet by blocking access to websites with
pornography, gambling and content critical of Communist Party
rule.  The rules may give the party greater control over mobile
phone users, as well as microblogs and websites that have become
platforms for people to air dissent, rumor and claims of
corruption not tolerated in print media. The party’s image was
damaged after online activists exposed officials who maintained
extramarital affairs, snapped up property and luxury items and
covered up allegations of wrongdoing by family members.  “Anti-corruption campaigns online have deeply tarnished
the party and the government’s image,and social media
discussions have increased instability in certain regions,”
said Zhang Zhi’an, an adjunct professor at Sun Yat-sen
University in Guangzhou. “Enforcing real name registration will
make web users more cautious when posting comments online.”  Under the law, people must give their real names when they
sign up for Internet, fixed-phone-line or mobile-phone services.
Providers must also require people’s names when allowing them to
post information publicly, it said.  ID Cards  One of the proposals under discussion for carrying out the
new law is to require users to give their identification-card
numbers when they sign up for Internet and mobile-phone
services, according to a ministry official who declined to be
identified because the information hasn’t been released.  China began requiring microblog users to register their
real names at the start of this year, though that order didn’t
have the power of a law and social media companies such as Sina
Corp., which runs the Weibo microblogging service, haven’t
punished users who failed to comply.  “Some people are worried that the law would affect people
making criticism and suggestions or uncovering corrupt behavior
through the Web,” said  Li Fei , a member of the National
People’s Congress standing committee. “I think it is not
necessary. Citizens have the right to criticize, suggest and
appeal to relevant department according to the law.”  Exercise Rights  “Of course, citizens have to exercise their rights
according to law, and can’t violate others’ rights or the
nation’s rights as a whole,” he said.  Liu Qi, a Beijing-based spokesman at Sina, didn’t respond
to two phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment. Huang Yuntao,
Shenzhen-based spokesman at  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , owner of
another microblogging site, also didn’t respond to an e-mail.  An editorial in the state-run  People’s Daily  on Dec. 24
said online freedom must not impinge on the freedoms of others.  “There is no absolute Internet freedom,” the editorial
said. “Internet information has its own boundaries -- it must
not harm others’ freedom, be subject to moral standards, and
comply with laws and regulations.”  Anti-corruption activists have gone online to air claims
that brought down government officials. A district party
secretary was fired Nov. 23 after a sex tape of him circulated
on the Internet, Xinhua said at the time. A Communist Party
official, Yang Dacai, was fired after pictures posted online
showed him wearing 11 luxury watches at different times,
according to Xinhua.  Constitutional Court  In August,  South Korea ’s  Constitutional Court  rejected a
2007 law that required web users to register their real names on
Internet forums. The court said the regulation violated people’s
privacy and only encouraged  Internet users  to use overseas
websites to circumvent the law.  “Real name registration is an excuse to identify online
whistle-blowers,” activist Zhao Jing, also known as Michael
Anti, said in a telephone interview. “It is definitely not a
means to protect Web users’ privacy.”  China, a nation of 1.3 billion people, had 550 million
 Internet users  as the end of September, according to the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology . That’s more
than the entire population of any other country in the world
except  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  