-- China Asks IPO Advisers to Inspect Clients’ Financial Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/china-asks-ipo-advisers-to-inspect-clients-financial-reports.html
China asked initial public offering
advisers to inspect their clients’ financial statements over the
next three months as regulators step up efforts to combat fraud.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission  said  on its
website yesterday that it will randomly examine “self-
inspection” reports from investment banks and accounting firms.
The CSRC will take legal action against issuers and advisers if
misconduct such as earnings manipulation and financial
irregularities is found, according to the statement.  Several recent high-profile fraud cases involving Chinese
companies have prompted mainland and Hong Kong regulators to
toughen rules on IPO advisers. Hong Kong’s securities regulator
this month proposed making banks criminally liable for false
statements in IPO documents.  In 2011, the CSRC issued a warning letter to Ping An
Securities Co., adviser of Hunan Shengjingshanhe Bio-Technology
Co. and suspended the licenses of two Ping An employees after it
rescinded approval for Shengjingshanhe’s IPO plan due to “major
omissions” of financial information.  The number of companies awaiting approval for IPOs in  China 
swelled to more than 800 in December as regulators delayed
reviewing new applications on concern a flood of shares may
further weigh on the nation’s benchmark stock market.  The benchmark Shanghai composite index has gained 1.5
percent this year, compared with the 18 percent gain in the MSCI
China Index of mostly Hong Kong-traded shares.  IPO advisers must submit audit reports and any additional
materials for 2012 by the end of March, the CSRC said in
yesterday’s statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  