-- China Money Rate Drops First Time in Four Days as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-28T08:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/china-money-rate-drops-first-time-in-four-days-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped
for the first time in four days as the central bank pumped cash
into the banking system using reverse-repurchase agreements.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday conducted 153 billion
 yuan  ($24.5 billion) of 14-day reverse repos and 5 billion yuan
of seven-day contracts, according to a central bank statement.
The cash for the 14-day agreements was transferred yesterday to
banks and that for the seven-day will go through today, having
been held back a day to ensure they don’t mature during a three-
day holiday that starts Jan. 1, according to Wang Huane, a
senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co.  “Liquidity will remain stable as long as the central bank
keeps conducting reverse-repo operations,” said Wang, who is
based in Jinan, capital of the eastern province of Shandong.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped five basis points to 4.12 percent
as of 4:41 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It rose
70 basis points this week.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose one basis point
today to 3.35 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It was unchanged this week.  The yield on the 2.95 percent government bonds due August
2017 dropped four basis points to 3.21 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. It fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, this week.  --Judy Chen. Editors: James Regan, Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 