-- Citigroup Hires Goldman’s Capote for Post in Mexico
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-01-03T18:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/citigroup-hire-goldman-s-capote-for-top-post-in-mexico.html
(Corrects underwriter ranking, value of transactions in
ninth paragraph of story published Dec. 28.)  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank, hired Alfredo Capote from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
oversee investment-banking operations in Mexico.  Capote, who was head of investment banking for Goldman
Sachs Mexico, started Dec. 12 at Citigroup, according to an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by Rob
Julavits, a spokesman for the New York-based bank.  Citigroup is competing with bankers from Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Credit Suisse Group AG to win
underwriting fees after Mexican companies raised a record amount
in equity offerings this year. Soaring stock  valuations  have
also boosted mergers and acquisitions activity in Latin
America’s second-biggest economy, with Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
agreeing this year to pay about $20 billion for the half of
Corona-maker Grupo Modelo SAB that it didn’t already own.  Capote had been with Goldman Sachs since 2006, and he has
also worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to the memo, which was
sent to staff of Citigroup’s Mexican banking unit, Banamex. The
memo was signed by Banamex Chief Executive Officer Javier Arrigunaga and Eduardo Cruz, who is head of Latin America
investment banking.  Capote holds a master’s degree in finance from the Kellogg
School of Management at Northwestern University in Evanston,
 Illinois , according to the memo.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in New
York, declined to comment on Capote’s departure.  Managing Director  The banker was named managing director at Goldman Sachs in
2007, a year after joining the firm, according to a biography on
the  website  of the World Economic Forum. He has helped execute
transactions in industries including real estate,
telecommunications, finance and energy, the website shows.  Profit from continuing operations at Citigroup’s Latin
America securities and banking unit increased 33 percent to
$1.03 billion for the first nine months of 2012 from the same
period last year. The division includes trading operations as
well as investment banking.  Citigroup helped Mexican companies issue about $5.7 billion
in equity in 2012, putting it first among the nation’s
underwriters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also
issued 51.9 billion pesos of local currency debt for businesses,
the most in the market after BBVA, Bloomberg data show.  The benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican companies has soared
18 percent this year and touched a record on Dec. 18. Banco
Santander SA fueled this year’s issuance pickup with the
nation’s biggest ever equity share sale, while real-estate
securities accounted for three of the bourse’s 10 equity
offerings in 2012, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  