-- Connecticut Lawyer Picked, Foley, Gibson Dunn: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/connecticut-lawyer-picked-foley-gibson-dunn-business-of-law.html
Connecticut  Governor Dannel P. Malloy nominated his general counsel, Andrew J. McDonald, to the
state Supreme Court to replace Justice Lubbie Harper Jr., who
reached the mandatory retirement age.  McDonald is a former litigation partner at Pullman & Comley
LLC, where he led the firm’s appellate practice. He was also
director of legal affairs and corporation counsel for the city
of  Stamford  from 1999 to 2002, when Malloy was mayor. He was
elected state senator for the 27th district from 2003 to 2011,
serving as deputy majority leader and chairman of the judiciary
committee, Malloy’s office said in a statement.  “In each of the roles he has served, Andrew has proven to
have an exceptional ability to understand, analyze, research and
evaluate legal issues,” Malloy said in the statement. “He has
undertaken his legal work with a focus on giving back
extensively to his community and a commitment to the equal
rights of all residents. He will be an exceptional justice on
the Connecticut Supreme Court.”  If confirmed, McDonald will be the first openly gay
appellate jurist in Connecticut’s history, the governor’s office
said.  Firm News  Foley Partner Appointed U.S. Bankruptcy Judge in Wisconsin  Foley & Lardner LLP Milwaukee partner G. Michael Halfenger
was appointed to serve as U.S. Bankruptcy Judge for the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of  Wisconsin . Halfenger
will begin his 14-year term on Jan. 11, the firm said.  Halfenger is co-chair of Foley’s appellate practice and a
member of the appellate, antitrust and business litigation and
dispute resolution practices. He has handled a variety of
complex commercial matters including antitrust, patent, RICO,
Lanham Act, trade secret, unfair trade practices, civil rights
and shareholder disputes.  Foley has 21 offices in the U.S., Brussels and Asia.  Litigation  CFTC Mutual Fund Rule Appeal Sought by Chamber of Commerce  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  is seeking to appeal a judge’s
decision to uphold a rule by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission requiring mutual funds with commodities investments
to register with the agency.  The Chamber of Commerce and the Investment Company
Institute, which have been represented by Eugene Scalia, the son
of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and a partner at Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, filed a notice of appeal yesterday in
federal court in  Washington . The appeal will seek to reverse a
Dec. 12 ruling by U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell that the CFTC
acted properly and within its authority when it issued the rule.  Howell, writing in a 93-page opinion, rejected arguments by
the Chamber of Commerce and the Investment Company Institute
that the rule is unnecessary and that the commission didn’t
properly assess the costs and benefits when it approved the
regulation in February.  Under the rule, funds would have to file reports with the
CFTC about their use of leverage, exposure to risk from
counterparties and other investment trading data.  The groups argued the measure isn’t needed because mutual
funds are already overseen by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The case is Investment Company Institute v. U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, 1:12-cv-00612, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Porsche Wins Dismissal of Hedge Fund Case Over Volkswagen  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  won an appeals court ruling
dismissing a lawsuit by hedge funds that accused the German
carmaker of concealing a plan to corner the market in  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  shares.  There is an “inadequate connection” between New York and
the events at issue in the case, with only e-mails and phone
calls taking place in New York, the Appellate Division of the
state Supreme Court said in a decision yesterday.  Porsche in November asked the appeals court to reverse a
lower court’s decision rejecting its motion to dismiss the 2011
suit by 26 hedge funds including David Einhorn’s Greenlight
Capital Inc.  The funds, which bet that Volkswagen stock would fall,
claimed Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche misled investors by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to acquire
Volkswagen and by using manipulative trades to hide its stock
positions. The plaintiffs sought more than $1 billion in
damages.  “This is an important victory for Porsche. The appeals
court squarely held that these cases do not belong in a New York
state court,” said Robert Giuffra, an attorney for Porsche at
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said in a statement.  Porsche is also being sued in  Europe  over the issue.  James B. Heaton, an attorney for the plaintiffs, declined
to comment about the decision.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 650435/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Fees  Lehman’s Cash Rises as it Pays Bills Owed Professionals  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which is due to make a third
payment to creditors in March, had $5.6 billion in free cash on
Nov. 30, an increase of $1.1 billion during the month.  Lehman, which paid lawyers and managers almost $1.8 billion
for bankruptcy work, will meet additional bills of $122 million
in one-time fees this month, on top of its regular costs for
post-bankruptcy work, it said.  The December bills include incentives and amounts owed to
professionals that were previously held back, according to the
report filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. A judge last
month approved $42 million in incentive fees for Alvarez &
Marsal LLC, which continues to manage the defunct firm after
making almost $536 million during the bankruptcy.  Overseen by a new board since leaving bankruptcy in March,
Lehman paid advisers and managers $12.8 million in November for
their work during the bankruptcy. About $9.5 million went to
White & Case LLP, the law firm that advised an unofficial group
of creditors, according to the filing. Lehman’s fee for post-
bankruptcy work was $27.9 million in November, including $13.2
million for lead law firm Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and $5.2
million for A&M. Total fees since March were $126.1 million.
Including back bills for bankruptcy work and bills for the
continuing liquidation, November’s fee tally was $40.7 million.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, failed
because of too much debt and risky real estate investments,
according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  The average creditor of what was the biggest-ever U.S.
bankruptcy will get about 18 cents on the dollar for an
estimated $370 billion in allowed claims, Lehman has said.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Corporation Counsel  Apple GC Bruce Sewell Gets $69 Million Compensation  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  awarded pay increases to several senior
executives, including Bruce Sewell, the company’s general
counsel.  Sewell, who has managed Apple’s patent litigation, received
$69 million, compared with $1.41 million in 2011, according to a
 regulatory filing .  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  received compensation for
2012 valued at $4.17 million after receiving one of the biggest
payout packages on record last year.  Cook, who succeeded Apple co-founder Steve Jobs as CEO last
year, has in the past several months led an overhaul of Apple’s
entire product line, including the introduction of a new iPhone,
iPads and Mac computers. He received 2011 compensation of $378
million, one of the biggest pay packages on record, boosted by
$376.2 million in stock awards that he’ll get over a decade.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 