-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Advance as Fiscal Cliff Deadline Nears
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-28T22:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-advance-as-budget-deadline-nears.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for the fourth time in five sessions on concern
lawmakers won’t reach a budget deal to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff before the year-end deadline.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 3.6
basis points to a mid-price of 98.3 basis points at 4:47 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index
advanced 5.6 basis points this week, the most since the five
days ended Nov. 9.  President  Barack Obama  is seeking an up-or-down vote on his
proposal to extend tax cuts for annual income up to $250,000,
absent a counteroffer from congressional leaders, an official
familiar with today’s budget talks said. Lack of progress toward
a deal that would avoid more than $600 billion in spending cuts
and tax increases set to take effect next year is stoking
concern that the economy may tumble into a recession, hindering
companies’ ability to repay debt.  “What’s going on in Washington is all you hear about, all
everybody talks about,” Robert Grimm, head of high-yield
trading at Odeon Capital Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “I think they’re actually trying
to do a deal. Whatever we get, if it’s done in the short run,
it’s going to be a watered-down version of what we need.”  Business Activity  The budget deadlock offset an increase in business activity
in the U.S. in December. The MNI Chicago Report’s business
barometer advanced to a four-month high of 51.6 from November’s
50.4. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for the
gauge to rise to 51. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  Pending home sales rose 1.7 percent to 106.4 in November,
the highest reading since April 2010, after a revised 5 percent
gain in October, the National Association of Realtors reported
today in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 1 percent advance.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt widened 2
basis point to 5.16 percentage points today, led by spreads on
the bonds of utility companies, which rose 4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index gained 22.6 basis points to 510.2 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  