-- Countrywide Loan Probe Ended by House Panel With No Action Taken
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-12-28T16:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/countrywide-loan-probe-ended-by-house-panel-with-no-action-taken.html
A U.S. House panel ended a probe of
alleged preferential lending by Countrywide Financial Corp. to
lawmakers and aides without taking action, saying the “serious
matters” submitted for review fall outside its jurisdiction.  Allegations surrounding mortgage loans to House members and
staffers through Countrywide Chief Executive Officer Angelo Mozilo’s “Friends of Angelo” initiative or other so-called VIP
programs are either too old or involve people no longer employed
in the House, the Ethics Committee’s Republican chairman and
ranking Democrat said in a statement yesterday.  “While these allegations concern serious matters, almost
all of the allegations concerned actions taken outside, or well
outside, the jurisdiction of this committee,” Ethics Committee
Chairman Jo Bonner of  Alabama  and Representative Linda Sanchez
of California said in their  statement . House rules preclude
sanctions for violations that occur more than three Congresses -
- or six years -- before the current one, they said.  The investigation was sought by Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who leads the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee. Issa said in a July report that
Countrywide gave discount loans to lawmakers and Fannie Mae
executives from 1996 to 2008 as the government-sponsored
mortgage-finance company lobbied to block legislation that
would’ve diminished its sale of subprime loans.  Bonner and Sanchez said the Ethics Committee conducted its
own review of the role of Countrywide’s VIP unit, finding that
while it offered quicker, more efficient processing and some
discounts, the loans met basic underwriting standards and didn’t
offer the best deals available in the marketplace.  Best Deal  “Participation in the VIP or F.O.A. programs did not
necessarily mean that borrowers received the best financial deal
available either from Countrywide or other lenders,” they said
in the statement. “Therefore, mere inclusion in one of these
programs is not, in and of itself, a violation of any rules,
laws, or standards of conduct governing members, officers, or
employees of the House of Representatives.”  The Senate Ethics Committee completed an investigation in
2009 saying lawmakers including former Banking Committee
Chairman Christopher Dodd and Senator Kent Conrad didn’t violate
rules when they refinanced loans with Countrywide.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , which bought billions of dollars in mortgages
from Countrywide under an exclusive agreement, has been under
U.S. conservatorship since September 2008, when it was seized
along with Freddie Mac amid losses that pushed them to the brink
of bankruptcy. Countrywide had been acquired two months earlier
by  Bank of America  Corp., which has spent more than $40 billion
to clean up mortgages inherited in the deal.  Mozilo, 74, agreed to a record $67.5 million regulatory
settlement in 2010 to resolve claims that he reaped about $140
million by selling Countrywide stock while misleading investors
about the quality of the company’s loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  