-- Damon’s No-Fracking ‘Promised Land,’ Doting Midler: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/damon-s-no-fracking-promised-land-doting-midler-film.html
When the corporate, drill-happy
shills of Gus Van Sant’s “ Promised Land ” arrive in small town
 Pennsylvania , they shop for local anti-finery from a highway
store that sells guns, guitars and flannel shirts.  Van Sant’s amiable film pulls a similar trick, dumbing down
its environmental message in ready-to-wear screenplay gimmickry.  Based on a story by Dave Eggers developed by screenwriters
(and stars)  Matt Damon  and John Krasinski, “Promised Land” has
the ever-likeable Damon playing  Steve Butler , a good-hearted
operative for a natural-gas conglomerate that buys drilling
rights from put-upon farmers.  Along with just-doing-her-job sales partner Sue Thomason
(the dependable  Frances McDormand ), former farm boy Butler blows
into town in a beat-up rented truck (the better to blend),
promising big money for all.  Expecting a warm welcome (Butler’s naivete comes and goes
as the script demands), the two frackers get their first hint of
resistance when a retired, skeptical science teacher with
Googling know-how (Hal Holbrook) rallies the locals.  Roadblock No. 2 arrives with the god-awful name Dustin
Noble (Krasinski), a grass-roots activist who’s too do-good to
be true.  Fracking, Bad  In a scene transparently designed to educate audiences,
Noble demonstrates fracking’s badness to a class of awestruck
school kids.  Is he really going to toss their pet turtle into the
burning scale-model farm?  And does this school have any safety guidelines?  Krasinski and Damon’s script amps up the macho competition
with a romantic rivalry for local schoolteacher Alice (Rosemarie
DeWitt). She’s smart, appealing and might as well come equipped
with a manhood-measuring ruler.  As schematic as it is, “Promised Land,” like the Van
Sant/Damon collaboration “ Good Will Hunting ,” benefits from
the tremendous appeal of its cast.  And only one actor overplays the charm, tipping off a twist
that surprises merely in its implausibility and clunky
execution.  Mentally replay “Promised Land” in light of the
development and you’ll find all the cracks in its foundation.  “Promised Land,” from  Focus Features , is playing in  New
York  and  Los Angeles  and opens across the U.S. January 4.
Rating: ** 1/2 (Evans)  ‘Parental Guidance’  A sentimental comedy directed by Andy Fickman, “ Parental
Guidance ” features Bette Midler and  Billy Crystal  as
babysitting grandparents. Midler’s opening line -- “Oh! My
sciatica!” -- suggests the kind of humor it has in store.  They’re subbing for their daughter ( Marisa Tomei ) and son-
in-law (Tom Everett Scott), yuppie control freaks who have
turned their three children into neurotic basket cases.  Once those two are out of the way, the grandparents load
the kids with (forbidden) sugar, teach them to play kick-the-can
and put makeup on their granddaughter (not their youngest
grandson, despite a hint that he’s a budding transvestite).  The children, wary at first, blossom.  Surprisingly, it’s not entirely painful. The child actors
have some charm, and Midler and Crystal soldier cheerfully
through the pee-pee and poo-poo jokes.  There’s some pleasure in watching Crystal labor to give his
one-liners some zip, and more in seeing Midler shrug, just
shrug, and steal a scene.  Many of us have been waiting for decades -- since the
heyday of the Divine Miss M -- to see her in a role that does
justice to her comic genius. The wait continues.  “Parental Guidance,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  Portuguese ‘Tabu’  The first half of “ Tabu ,” a Portuguese art film directed
by Miguel Gomes, centers on Pilar (Teresa Madruga), a good soul
who’s concerned about her neighbor Aurora (Laura Soveral), a
bitter and luckless old woman who won’t stay out of the casino.  The second half backtracks to colonial Africa decades
earlier, relating the story of a mad passionate affair between
the young Aurora (Ana Moreira) and a Genoese roue name Gian Luca
Ventura (Carloto Cotta).  This part is narrated by the elderly Ventura (Henrique
Espirito Santo). Peculiarly, as in a silent film, the actors’
lips move soundlessly -- though the ambient sounds of animals
and water are rendered with hyperreal clarity.  The movie is shot entirely in black and white, so elegantly
that at times I found it hard to concentrate on the story (and
especially the subtitles) when all I wanted was to luxuriate in
the gorgeously textured compositions.  Is the romance plot well worn, or is it a comment on well-
worn old romance plots? The pace is stately, allowing us plenty
of time to reflect.  “Tabu,” from Adopt Films, is playing in New York. Rating:
*** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include New York  weekend  and  Jeremy Gerard 
on movies.  To contact the writers of this column:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com 
and Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 