-- Defense Contractors’ Shopping Lists on Hold Ahead of Budget Cuts
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-12-28T18:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/defense-contractors-shopping-lists-on-hold-ahead-of-budget-cuts.html
Kratos Defense & Security Solutions
Inc. (KTOS)  in July bought a company that makes drones used for
military target practice. Then the contractor put further
acquisitions on hold.  With Washington’s budget impasse threatening $500 billion
in automatic defense cuts over a decade, Kratos’s chief
executive officer said the firm didn’t know where to place its
bets. In the past year, the maker of security and surveillance
systems has also halted equipment upgrades and trimmed research
spending.  “Guys like us are going to hold a good portion of their
cards until there’s some budget clarity,” Eric DeMarco, the
company’s CEO, said in a telephone interview.  Military suppliers already have been preparing for a leaner
decade by stockpiling cash, cutting jobs and slowing spending.  The automatic cuts would come on top of $487 billion in
defense reductions planned over 10 years. The latest round is
scheduled to begin next week if Congress and the White House
don’t reach an alternate agreement to shrink the nation’s
deficit or delay the whole process of automatic cuts and tax
increases known as the fiscal cliff.  “The fiscal cliff in my mind has already been here,” said
Robert Burton, a partner at the law firm Venable LLP in
Washington. “It arrived some time ago.”  Fiscal Cliff  Companies in recent months have seen federal contracts
canceled, delayed and scaled back because of agencies’
uncertainty about future budget levels, Burton, who represents
federal contractors, said in a phone interview.  In response to the risk of tax increases and budget cuts,
satellite equipment maker  Comtech Telecommunications Corp. (CMTL)  this
month lowered its profit forecast for fiscal 2013.  “We believe that the U.S. government’s failure to resolve
the ‘fiscal cliff’ has resulted in increased uncertainty
throughout our customer base,” Fred Kornberg, chief executive
officer of the Melville, New York-based company, said in a Dec.
6 statement.  Small contractors such as Nash Locke LLC, with less than $1
million in annual revenue, are also making preparations.  Two months ago, Jeanne Peck, president of the McLean,
Virginia-based technology firm, stopped hiring consultants to
help find and evaluate contract opportunities and started doing
the work herself, she said.  Exhausted Executive  Peck is saving money in case the automatic cuts take effect
and hurt her business, which relies on contracts from the
Defense and Education departments, she said.  “I end up being exhausted,” Peck said in a phone
interview. “I end up working more and other people who would
otherwise do that work for me do suffer a bit.”  The $1 trillion in automatic cuts, known as sequestration,
would be split between domestic and national security programs.
Obama and congressional leaders planned to meet at the White
House today to discuss how to avoid those reductions and
expiring tax increases that together would total more than $600
billion in 2013.  Some of the biggest defense contractors are cutting jobs
and preparing for lower sales.  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , a McLean, Virginia-based technology and services
vendor, is eliminating 700 positions in order to “emerge as a
powerful competitor on the other side of this downturn,” John
Jumper, the company’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
during a Dec. 5 conference call with analysts.  Defense Stocks  Revenue at  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest
defense contractor, is projected to fall 2.1 percent to $45.2
billion in fiscal 2013 from this year. Analysts predict  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s revenue will decline 2.7 percent to $24.4
billion during the same period, and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s sales will
fall 1.4 percent to $24.1 billion, according to the average
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The possibility of sequestration hasn’t deterred investors
in defense stocks. Shares of the Pentagon’s top 10 contractors
have gained 1.9 percent since the Nov. 6 presidential election
through yesterday, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Shares of Kratos have fallen 11 percent during the same
period even as analysts have predicted the company’s sales will
increase. The contractor’s revenue is projected to rise 5
percent to $1.02 billion in fiscal 2013 from $971 million this
year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cybersecurity Investment  While Kratos is still investing in areas such as drones and
cybersecurity, it has reduced research and development by about
25 percent, DeMarco said.  The company has delayed buying new plant equipment,
including robots that stitch circuits onto computer chips. After
completing its July acquisition of Composite Engineering Inc.,
the target-drone maker based in  Sacramento ,  California , Kratos
plans to stop buying other defense companies until the second
half of 2013, DeMarco said.  Kratos in fiscal 2011  derived 74 percent  of its revenue
from U.S. government contracts, down from 86 percent in 2009.
The company is hedging against the downturn in defense spending
by increasing sales of security systems for civilian use,
DeMarco said.  While DeMarco said he’s optimistic about the firm’s future,
he says companies face heightened competition over a smaller
pool of federal contract revenue.  “When the pie is shrinking, the only way companies can
grow is by stealing others’ work,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in  Washington  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  