-- Democrats Lining Up Behind Markey for U.S. Senate Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/democrats-lining-up-behind-markey-for-u-s-senate-bid.html
U.S. Representative  Edward Markey  of
Massachusetts is quickly sewing up support that could position
him as the front-runner for the Democratic nomination for  U.S.
Senate  in a prospective special election.  Markey yesterday picked up the endorsements of the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, the widow of the late
Senator  Ted Kennedy  and the senator he would succeed, John Kerry, who will give up the seat upon being confirmed as U.S.
secretary of state.  The support for Markey could avoid a contentious Democratic
primary and let him focus on defeating the Republican candidate,
possibly Senator  Scott Brown , who last month lost his bid for a
full six-year term to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren .  “It’s clear that there’s a full-court press to clear the
field” among Democrats, said Mary Anne Marsh, a party
consultant with the Dewey Square Group in Boston.  Marsh said the endorsements appear to be messages to
dissuade other Democrats -- including Markey’s House colleagues,
Michael Capuano and Stephen Lynch -- from entering the race.  Capuano lost the Democratic primary in December 2009 for
the nomination to succeed Kennedy, who died in August of that
year. The winner, Attorney General  Martha Coakley , lost a
January 2010 special election to Brown.  ‘Something Sensible’  “A nasty primary fight leaves little time for wounds to
heal and campaign coffers to be rebuilt,” said Jeffrey Berry,
who teaches politics at  Tufts University  in Medford,
Massachusetts. “Instead of forming a circular firing squad,
Democrats are trying to do something sensible.”  Markey, first elected to the House in 1976, announced his
candidacy Dec. 27 for the seat that Kerry will vacate if his
fellow senators confirm his appointment by President  Barack Obama  as secretary of state.  “Massachusetts voters are facing a critical decision about
whether we continue John Kerry’s tireless fight for the middle
class or if we abdicate more power to the special interests,”
Markey said in a statement in response to the endorsements. “We
must not turn back now. That’s why I want to continue this fight
for the values and priorities that will move our state and
nation forward and carry on  John Kerry ’s legacy of leadership.”  Kerry’s Backing  Kerry supplied yesterday’s first endorsement, saying he was
“excited to learn of and support” Markey’s candidacy.  “Ed’s one of the most experienced and capable legislators
in the entire Congress and it would be an almost unprecedented
occasion for such an accomplished legislator to join the Senate
able to hit the ground running on every issue of importance to
Massachusetts,” Kerry said in his statement.  The DSCC, which raises money for Senate Democratic
candidates, echoed Kerry.  “At a time when the country needs real leadership that
looks out for the middle class, Ed Markey always remembers where
he came from and will continue the hard work needed to turn our
economy around,” Senator Michael Bennet of  Colorado , the DSCC
chairman, said in a statement.  Markey also received the backing of Kennedy’s widow,
Victoria, who called him “the right person for the job” in a
statement.  Obama nominated Kerry, the unsuccessful 2004 Democratic
presidential nominee, on Dec. 21 to succeed  Hillary Clinton  as
the top U.S. diplomat. Upon Kerry’s confirmation and his
resignation from the Senate, Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  will appoint an interim successor until a special
election takes place. State law calls for the vote to be held
between 145 to 160 days following the vacancy.  Patrick has said he prefers an interim appointee who
wouldn’t run in the special election. The governor followed that
pattern in choosing Democrat Paul G. Kirk to fill the seat
temporarily after Kennedy died.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 