-- Dollar-Funding Stress Declines, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-28T16:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/dollar-funding-stress-declines-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market indicators signaled
short-term dollar funding levels returned to lows set earlier
this month.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  fell  to 0.308 percent, matching a 16-month low
reached several times this month, according to the British
Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks
reluctance to lend, fell to 15.1 basis points, revisiting lows
of the year and the smallest since August 2011.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, fell to 20.6 basis points from 21.5 basis
points yesterday, according to the second rolling three month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, rose 0.3 basis points to 14.4 basis points. The gap is a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $7.3 billion to $1.0656 trillion in the week ended Dec. 26,
according to Federal Reserve data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 21.2 basis points below Euribor, from 24.1 basis
points below yesterday.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
was 11.9 basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.27 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.216 percent yesterday,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was little changed from
the day before.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.17 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.18 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  