-- Internet Stocks Lead Gain on Manufacturing Data: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/tech-companies-lead-longest-rally-in-two-months-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose for a fourth
week in New York, the longest stretch of advances since October,
on expectations a report due tomorrow will show manufacturing
expanded for a third month.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York climbed 0.4 percent last week.  Sina
Corp. (SINA) , owner of  China ’s Twitter-like Weibo service, completed a
three-week rally and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  jumped to a seven-month high
after policy makers said they plan to introduce measures to
boost the Internet information industry.  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP)  posted a five-day surge of 24 percent, as the government
plans to increase demand for solar energy.  China’s December Purchasing Managers’ Index, scheduled to
be released tomorrow, will probably show a climb to 51 from 50.6
in November, according to the median estimate of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Chinese Communist Party’s new
leadership, appointed last month, pledged to boost urbanization
and consumer demand as the nation plans to increase its budget
deficit to fund local governments and spur a recovery in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “Sentiment toward Chinese stocks is improving as we are
seeing some fiscal stimulus,” Tony Hann, who oversees $400
million of assets as head of emerging-market equities at
Blackfriars Asset Management Ltd., said by phone from  London  on
Dec. 28. “I’ve no doubt that if the PMI does better than
expected, it would add favor to the market. Equities should
perform well in the first quarter.”  A separate PMI index by HSBC Holdings Plc is due today.  ETF Gains  The China-US Index has climbed 7.5 percent this year. The
 iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese exchange-
traded fund in the U.S., advanced 0.8 percent last week to
$39.55 and is set for a 13 percent increase for the year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1.9 percent last week to
1,402.43.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares rallied 3.7
percent in its fourth weekly gain to 2,233.25, rising 1.5
percent this year. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
advanced 1.3 percent during the week to 11,378.24, up 15 percent
for the year.  Sina, based in  Shanghai , added 2.2 percent to $48.35 on
Dec. 28, extending its gains to a third week, the longest rising
period since February. Sohu.com, which operates China’s fifth-
most visited website and is based in Beijing, climbed 4.5
percent last week to $46.47, the highest price since May 9.  China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
will introduce policies next year to develop mobile Internet,
mobile television, smart TV and online shopping and payment, the
Shanghai Securities News reported on Dec. 27, citing minister
Miao Wei.  Solars Rally  Suntech, the biggest solar-panel maker in the world based
in Jiangsu, China, surged to a five-month high of $1.40. The
company was the biggest weekly gainer on the Bloomberg China-US
gauge.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of solar
wafers based in Xinyu of China’s Jiangxi province, soared 17
percent to $1.35 last week.  The Chinese government may start new measures to boost
household electronics, vehicles and solar energy for rural use,
China Securities Journal said in Dec. 27 report, citing
unidentified analysts.  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA)  ended the week up 11 percent in New
York to $4.79, the biggest rally since September.  The Beijing-based film producer said in a statement Dec. 28
its shareholders approved Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. to
be the auditor for its 2012 financial statements.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a private education service
provider based in Beijing, tumbled 12 percent last week to
$2.52. The slump was the most among weekly decliners on the
Bloomberg gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  