-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 8-Month High on China Policy, U.S. Talks
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-12-28T22:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/emerging-stocks-set-for-9-month-high-on-china-policy-u-s-talks.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fifth day on speculation  China  will take steps to boost domestic
consumption, while U.S. lawmakers arranged meetings to avert
budget cuts threatening growth in the world’s largest economy.  Citic Securities Co. (6030)  and Haitong Securities Co. led Chinese
brokerages higher after the country’s regulator said it will
ease bond financing for securities firms. Vanguarda Agro SA
jumped the most in 10 days to lead gains in Sao Paulo.  OMV
Petrol Ofisi AS (PTOFS) , Turkey’s biggest fuel retailer, rose the most
in three months after receiving approval to sell a unit.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.5 percent to
1,055.18 in New York, the highest close since April 3 and
extending a sixth weekly gain to 1.2 percent. China may
introduce measures to boost consumption in areas such as autos,
household electronics and solar, the China Securities Journal
said.  President  Barack Obama  met with U.S. lawmakers today and
is seeking an interim plan to avert more than $600 billion in
tax and spending changes in 2013, just three days before a year-
end deadline, according to an official familiar with the talks.  “Investors believe differences over the U.S. budget issues
will be resolved soon,” Kim Dae Young, a Seoul-based fund
manager at KB Asset Management Co., which manages about $28
billion in assets, said by phone. “Policies from China’s new
leadership are likely to match investors’ expectations.”  The developing-nations gauge has risen 15 percent this
year, beating the 12 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed countries. The  emerging-markets  gauge trades at 12.1
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index gained 0.9 percent, the first
advance in four sessions. Shares of Vanguarda, a Brazilian
exporter of soybeans, corn and other crops, jumped 5.1 percent,
the most since Dec. 18.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest lender by
assets, jumped to the highest price in three months after
Brazil’s central bank cut reserve requirements for lenders to
spur investments in Latin America’s largest economy.  Benchmark indexes in Hungary and Romania rose.  Russia ’s 50-
stock  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  fell 0.2 percent as Urals crude, Russia’s main
export blend, declined. OAO Mostotrest, a bridge and road
builder dropped 7.8 percent, snapping a four-day advance. OAO
Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline, rose 2.6 percent to the
highest price in three months.  The  Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100)  rose to a
record for a fourth day. OMV Petrol jumped 5.1 percent, the most
since Sept. 7, after the anti-trust board gave approval to sell
its 100 percent stake in Petrol Ofisi Arama Uretim Sanayi &
Ticaret AS to Tiway Oil BV.  Asian Markets  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.4
percent to $43.70, the highest price in a week. The ETF has
risen 15 percent this year. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, jumped 8.4
percent to 23.04.  The South Korean won gained 0.2 percent to the strongest
level since September 2011, completing a sixth weekly gain as
signs of a pickup in the economy attracted funds from abroad and
exporters repatriated income.  India ’s rupee climbed 0.3 percent,
while the Russian ruble dropped 0.5 percent, the first decline
in three days.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rallied 1.2 percent to the
highest since June 21, paring the worst annual performance among
major Asian markets this year. The BSE India Sensitive Index
climbed 0.6 percent to the highest level in a week. Stock
markets in South Korea,  Taiwan ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand , the
 Philippines  and  Vietnam  will be closed on New Year’s Eve.  Brokerage Bonds  China Everbright Ltd. (165)  soared 12 percent in Hong Kong, the
biggest advance since October 2011, making it the best  performer 
on the MSCI Emerging Markets index. The China State Council
approved the reorganization of the company, Shanghai Securities
News reported yesterday.  Citic Securities surged 11 percent in Hong Kong, while
Haitong Securities climbed 6.9 percent. The Chinese government
will allow brokerages to issue and trade subordinated bonds on
approved exchanges, according to a statement posted on the China
Securities Regulatory Commission’s website.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , the biggest Chinese automaker, jumped to
the highest level since July, and  BYD Co. Ltd. (1211) , the Chinese
carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., rose 4.1 percent, climbing for a seventh day.  Hyundai Motor  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest carmaker, slipped
2 percent to the lowest since Nov. 26 on concern a stronger won
may cut the value of overseas earnings.  Hyundai Mobis (012330)  Co., South
Korea’s biggest auto-parts maker, lost 1.9 percent.  “Investors’ concern about the 2013 outlook for automakers
and the strengthening won may be affecting share prices today,”
Lee Hyung Sil, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co., said by
phone.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 271, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  