-- European Stocks Fall in Last Week of 2012 on U.S. Budget
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/european-stocks-fall-in-last-week-of-2012-on-u-s-budget.html
European stocks  fell in the year’s
last full week of trading, snapping a five-week rally, as the
deadline neared for a U.S. lawmakers to agree a deal to halt
$600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  plunged 40 percent to a record low after Spain
said the lender has a negative value of 4.15 billion euros ($5.5
billion). Banco Popular Espanol SA slid 7.3 percent. Clariant
AG, a Swiss chemical company, rose 4.3 percent after selling
three units. Porsche SE rallied 7.2 percent as a U.S. appeals
court dismissed a lawsuit by hedge funds.  The  Stoxx 600 Europe Index (SXXP)  dropped 0.8 percent to 278.78
this past week. The benchmark measure has still rallied 14
percent in 2012, the biggest increase in three years, as the
European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve moved to bolster
the economy. Yesterday was the final trading day of the year for
Germany, Switzerland,  Italy ,  Denmark ,  Finland ,  Norway ,  Sweden 
and  Austria . Markets in the U.K., France and the Netherlands,
among others, are open on Dec. 31.  “While investors are still pinning their hopes on a last-
minute deal to avert the U.S. fiscal cliff, congressional
leaders are already playing the blame game, boding ill for an
agreement before Dec. 31,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said yesterday. “Markets
are only beginning to come to terms with the increasing
likelihood that U.S. congressional leaders will fail to strike a
deal in time.”  Washington Talks  President  Barack Obama  was due to meet yesterday with House
Speaker John Boehner and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell,
who are Republicans, along with Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, both Democrats. The
president had been negotiating one-on-one with Boehner.  Obama returned early from his holiday in  Hawaii  as
lawmakers disputed which party would be responsible for missing
the deadline for a debt deal, a failure that could hurt the U.S.
credit rating and cause an economic recession.  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined more than forecast
in December as the budget debate soured Americans’ outlook for
the economy. The Conference Board’s  sentiment index  fell to 65.1
from a revised 71.5 reading the prior month, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 16 of western
Europe’s 18 markets this week.  France ’s CAC 40 dropped 1.1
percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index declined 0.3 percent.
Germany’s DAX also slipped 0.3 percent, paring this year’s rally
to 29 percent.  Annual Advance  The year’s gains in the Stoxx 600 have been led by
automakers and insurance companies, with gauges of stocks in
both  industries  surging more than 30 percent. Sky Deutschland
AG, the German pay-TV provider half-owned by Rupert Murdoch’s
News Corp., has been the best-performing company in the index in
2012, soaring 194 percent.  Bankia tumbled 40 percent for the biggest drop on the Stoxx
600 this week. Spain said the lender has a negative value of
4.15 billion euros in an exercise to determine how much of the
rescued lender remains in shareholders’ hands. The stock will be
excluded from the benchmark IBEX 35 as of Jan. 2.  Bankia group, including its parent, Banco Financiero y de
Ahorros, is set to receive 18 billion euros of European funds,
making it the largest recipient of the country’s bank bailout.  Banco Popular Espanol, Spain’s sixth-biggest bank, declined
7.3 percent.  D’Ieteren Drops  D’Ieteren SA (DIE)  sank 19 percent, the biggest slide in 10
years. The owner of the world’s largest vehicle-glass repair
company said on Dec. 21 that its 2012 profit decline will be
deeper than earlier projections and forecast an earnings drop of
at least 10 percent next year.  Clariant (CLN)  rose 4.3 percent after selling units for 502
million Swiss francs ($550 million). The specialty-chemicals
maker said it will get about 460 million francs in cash for
selling the textile chemicals, paper specialties and emulsions
businesses to SK Capital Partners, a U.S. buyout company.  Porsche advanced 7.2 percent. The maker of the 911 sports
car won an appeals court ruling in  New York  state dismissing a
lawsuit by hedge funds that accused the German carmaker of
concealing a plan to corner the market in Volkswagen AG shares.  Atari SA retreated 6.4 percent after the video-game maker
said it sees a “significant” fiscal-year loss. Atari also
forecast a second-half operating loss exceeding its deficit in
the first half and said it’s looking at all additional means of
raising or preserving cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  