-- European Stocks Fall as U.S. Budget Negotiations Continue
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-28T16:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/european-stock-futures-rise-as-u-s-budget-talks-resume.html
European stocks fell to the lowest
level in three weeks amid concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to
reach a budget agreement by the year-end deadline to avoid
automatic tax increases and spending cuts in 2013.  Vinci SA (DG)  dropped 2.3 percent after agreeing to buy airport
operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA. Bankia SA slumped 27
percent as the stock will be excluded from Spain’s IBEX 35 Index
from Jan. 2.  Atari SA (ATA)  tumbled 7.4 percent after forecasting a
loss for the current fiscal year. Porsche SE rallied to a 23-
month high after a U.S. appeals court dismissed a law suit
against the company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.7 percent to 278.78 at
the close of trading. With one trading day to go before the end
of 2012, the gauge has  advanced 14 percent this year  as the
European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve expanded asset
purchases.  “Time is running out for the long-awaited solution in
fiscal-cliff negotiations,” said Kai Fachinger, who helps
oversee about $700 million as portfolio manager at SAM
Sustainable Asset Management AG in Zurich. “As the positions of
the two parties are just too far off, it’s likely to happen in
the very last second. In a worst-case scenario, the negotiations
will continue into early 2013 and stock markets will open very
volatile into the new year.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 shares
was 36 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Today was the final trading day of the
year for  Germany , Switzerland,  Italy ,  Denmark ,  Finland ,  Norway ,
 Sweden  and  Austria .  Stocks briefly pared losses as U.S. President  Barack Obama 
was said to plan to offer a scaled-back budget package at a
meeting with lawmakers today, according to an unidentified
Democratic aide.  Deadline Nearing  Obama summoned Republican and Democratic leaders to a White
House meeting three days before a year-end deadline to avoid the
so-called fiscal cliff of $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases.  Obama, who had been negotiating one-on-one with House
Speaker John Boehner, will meet today with Republicans Boehner
and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, both
Democrats. The meeting will be held at 3 p.m. Washington time.  The president returned early from his holiday in  Hawaii 
yesterday as lawmakers disputed which party would be responsible
for missing the deadline for a debt deal, a failure that could
hurt the U.S. credit rating and cause a recession.  Separately, the House will hold an unusual Sunday session
on the evening of Dec. 30.  National benchmark indexes declined in all of the 18
western  European (SXXP)  markets except in Iceland. France’s CAC 40
slumped 1.5 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 0.5 percent.
Germany’s DAX slipped 0.6 percent.  Vinci, Bankia  Vinci dropped 2.3 percent, the most in three months, to
35.70 euros after Europe’s biggest builder agreed to buy
Portugal’s state-owned airport operator ANA for 3.08 billion
euros. Vinci’s offer was the highest out of the four binding
bids that the government received for ANA.  Bankia slumped 27 percent to 40.4 euro cents, the biggest
decline and the lowest price since it sold shares to the public
in July 2011. The stock will be excluded from the Spanish
benchmark IBEX 35 from Jan. 2.  Bankia (BKIA)  shares tumbled the most in
a month yesterday after Spain said the lender had a negative
value of 4.15 billion euros ($5.5 billion).  KBC Groep NV, Belgium’s biggest bank and insurer by market
value, fell 1.8 percent to 25.75 euros after it agreed to sell
its stake in Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. to the Republic of
Slovenia, while missing a European Union deadline for other
disposals.  Bank Shares  A gauge of European lenders contributed  the most  to the
Stoxx 600’s drop, with  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
declining 1.5 percent to 6.01 euros and 2.5 percent to 42.34
euros, respectively.  Atari retreated 7.4 percent to 88 euro cents, the biggest
drop since Oct. 29, after the video-game maker said it sees a
“significant” fiscal-year loss. Atari also forecast that its
second-half operating loss will exceed its loss in the first
half and said that it is looking at all additional means of
raising or preserving cash.  Porsche (PAH3)  jumped 6.3 percent to 61.70 euros, the highest
price since Jan. 18, 2011, after a U.S. appeals court dismissed
a lawsuit by hedge funds that accused the German carmaker of
concealing a plan to corner the market in Volkswagen AG shares.
The plaintiffs had sought more than $1 billion in damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  