-- Exchange Regulation Needs Review, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-28T18:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/exchange-regulation-needs-review-credit-suisse-says.html
The botched initial offering of
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  is the catalyst that should lead to U.S. exchanges
being stripped of self-regulatory powers and their related
benefits, a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  executive said.  Nasdaq  Stock Market’s claim of immunity from liability for
$500 million in brokerage losses stemming from technology
problems on May 18 exposes a conflict between the historical,
quasi-governmental role of exchanges and their status as profit-
seeking public companies,  Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity
trading at Credit Suisse, told U.S. senators in Washington last
week. Those tensions can’t be managed fairly and should spur a
regulatory overhaul of the  securities market , he said.  Legislation that created the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 1934 also deemed the main venues self-regulatory
organizations, or  SROs , overseeing their member firms and
trading. Critics say the Facebook mishap shows how changes in
the structure of markets have made old regulations obsolete and
created an uneven playing field where exchanges are governed by
one set of rules and their competitors another.  “We recommend that the SRO status of the exchanges be
examined,” Mathisson said at a Senate banking subcommittee
meeting Dec. 18. The Facebook trading breakdown highlighted a
“peculiar quirk of the U.S. market structure -- that exchanges
do not have material liability for their failures. It is time
for policy makers to correct this mistake,” he said.  Absolute Immunity  Like the Commonwealth of Virginia and  Indian tribes ,
exchanges have absolute immunity for actions taken as part of
their regulatory duties. The doctrine arose when exchanges were
not-for-profit organizations owned by their member firms. The
shield protects them from lawsuits related to the exercise of
powers delegated by the SEC and prevents financial losses that
could jeopardize institutions seen as vital to the  U.S. economy .  “The concept of being an SRO is historically based on the
idea of having obligations to the market and getting certain
benefits” for living up to them, Joe Mecane, head of U.S.
equities at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said at the hearings. The
responsibilities include providing open and fair access to all
investors, publishing rules and fees, and overseeing trading,
while the economic advantages include immunity “when performing
certain of their regulatory functions” and revenue from the
sale of quotation and transaction data, he said.  ‘Sacred Cows’  SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said in October that
Congress should modernize laws built around the SRO framework in
the current high-speed, electronic era of rival exchanges that
outsource much of the oversight and surveillance they once
performed themselves. He questioned whether they should remain
SROs and said a broad analysis of the U.S. market and regulatory
structure should tolerate “no sacred cows.”  The Facebook debacle illustrates the growing tension
between public exchanges, or SROs, and their brokerage members,
many of whom operate competing trading venues themselves.
Friction has increased as exchanges became for-profit
corporations with shareholders and the members that once owned
them created private venues to execute orders.  With 13  stock exchanges , about 50 private broker-run dark
pools that trade shares, and securities firms executing orders
through their own systems for clients, the  New York  Stock
Exchange and Nasdaq no longer operate monopolies or oversee the
bulk of trading in corporations they list. NYSE became public in
2006 when it combined with Archipelago Holdings Inc. in a
reverse merger. Nasdaq, already public, became an exchange that
year. It previously operated a decentralized dealer market.  Facebook Catalyst  “Facebook is the catalyst,” said Mathisson, whose company
operates the largest U.S. dark pool, before the hearings. “This
issue has been burning since 2004 but it’s been burning in the
background,” he said, referring to a 73-page paper the SEC
published about regulatory and commercial conflicts within SROs.
“What got everybody talking was Facebook because it raised
questions about Nasdaq’s limited liability and raised questions
about why they have this legal status that’s different.”  Four brokerage firms say they lost a combined half-billion
dollars after Nasdaq mishandled Facebook’s offering on May 18,
allowing its systems to be overwhelmed by order updates and
cancellations just as the stock was to begin trading. Nasdaq,
enjoying legal protection afforded by its SRO status, has
proposed a voluntary compensation of $62 million instead of the
$3 million cap its rules allow for technical problems it causes.  The SEC hasn’t ruled on the proposal. Citigroup Inc. asked
the commission to reject it, saying the exchange’s decisions
resulted from “high-risk, profit-oriented behavior” by Nasdaq
and not actions that are part of its regulatory oversight,
according to an August  letter .  Making Whole  UBS AG, which says it lost more than $350 million related
to technical problems with the  Facebook IPO , told the SEC that
brokers should be made whole. Market-maker  Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KCG) , which nearly went bankrupt after its own trading mishap in
August, recommended the SEC approve Nasdaq’s proposal.  The payout proposal covers what’s “directly attributable
to the system issues experienced by Nasdaq,” the exchange
operator told the SEC in a Dec. 7  letter .  Facebook highlights the strained relationship between
exchanges and some of the large broker-dealers that use them.
While firms such as Citigroup and UBS lack the privileges
afforded to NYSE and Nasdaq under their SRO status, both firms
operate hidden-order venues that carved out profitable niches
partly because, as brokers, they don’t face SRO duties.  Matching Upstairs  “It’s a tug of war between brokers and the exchanges,”
Jerry Markham, a law professor at  Florida International
University  in Miami and author of “A Financial History of the
 United States ,” a three-volume account that starts in the 15th
century, said in a phone interview. “Exchanges say we’re a
centralized marketplace and trading will be more efficient, and
broker-dealers want to match orders upstairs away from the
exchanges.”  Since 1994 when the SEC last studied the underpinnings of
the U.S. markets, most trading has become automated and the
biggest exchanges went public, Gallagher  said  at a Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association conference in New
York in October. Yet the rules for trading and brokers’ conduct
are premised on a self-regulatory framework put in place decades
ago and based on practices that existed even earlier.  Gallagher said self-regulation is at a “crossroads” and
should be examined as part of a wider review of the rules that
define exchanges and broker-run dark pools. The electronic
markets that have risen around NYSE Euronext, which had a market
value of almost $5.9 billion before announcing a takeover by
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  on Dec. 20, and Nasdaq OMX are
“light years” from the trading industry in 1994, he said.  Policing Themselves  Exchanges responded to potential conflicts in policing
themselves while trying to earn a profit by entering agreements
with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to conduct
market oversight and surveillance, Neal Wolkoff, former CEO of
the  American Stock Exchange , said in a phone interview. Still,
they remain responsible for trading on their venues and make
decisions about when to halt buying and selling to preserve fair
and orderly markets, he said.  “You need price-determining institutions with transparency
to have a transparent market,” said Wolkoff, now an attorney at
Richardson & Patel LLP. “There has to be some mechanism for
exchanges to have a basic threshold of oversight of their own
marketplace. There’s less to be done now than used to be the
case, but there’s not nothing to be done.”  Big Questions  NYSE and Nasdaq have appealed to regulators for help
stemming the encroachment of alternative venues such as dark
pools into their business. Any discussion of the value of self-
regulation should encompass other “big market structure
questions” such as high-frequency trading, dark pools and
competition between exchanges and brokers operating venues,
Mecane said in a phone interview.  “Our position is that the status quo doesn’t work,”
Mecane said. “We need to dial it back or open it up further.”  The owner of the 220-year-old New York Stock Exchange will
sell itself to Atlanta-based energy and commodities market
operator IntercontinentalExchange, known as ICE, in part because
the profitability from facilitating U.S. equity trading has
declined over the last decade as brokers and other venues
siphoned away business. The Big Board now accounts for 21
percent of volume in the companies it lists, compared with 82
percent 10 years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $464 Million  Exchanges are public markets where all investors trade
according to the same rules and discrimination among customers
isn’t allowed. They split revenue from the sale of public
equities market data that totaled $464 million in 2008, the SEC
said in 2010. They have lower financial requirements than
brokers processing trades and benefit from the legislative
shield against civil lawsuits for actions that are part of their
oversight duties.  Their roles running transparent markets and facilitating
the process of capital formation warrant the immunity they
receive,  Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction
services at Nasdaq OMX, told senators last week.  “Exchanges by their very definition exist to perform the
price-discovery function by gathering trading interest from all
participants that want to participate and conduct that activity
in a fair, transparent, accessible manner,” Noll said. “No
other market participant has those same obligations.”  Few Obligations  Dark pools, private venues that face few of the obligations
exchanges do, came to prominence over the last five years
because of changes in regulation and technology starting in the
1990s. The shift to decimal pricing in 2001 from eighths and
sixteenths of a dollar led to better prices and drove firms
later known as high-frequency traders. SEC rules that went into
effect in 2007 gave advantages to fast electronic trading over
systems that relied on human intermediaries.  A third of  trading  now occurs away from exchanges, up from
16 percent in early 2008, excluding platforms called electronic
communication networks that compete with public markets,
according to data compiled by broker Rosenblatt Securities Inc.
Dark pools, which accounted for less than half the off-exchange
volume two months ago, tripled their share since the first
quarter of 2008, the Rosenblatt data show.  While dark pools are allowed to discriminate among users
and limit access to their venues, the brokers that operate them
aren’t without responsibilities. They have fiduciary obligations
to get clients the best execution possible, a duty that isn’t
shared by public exchanges. Carrying it out doesn’t translate
into protections from civil liabilities.  Blurred Lines  “We certainly would feel that consequence if we had a
failure within our system and it was attributed to our
technology,” Bob Gasser, chief executive officer of broker
 Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) , said at last week’s Senate
hearings. ITG created its Posit venue, now known as a dark pool,
in 1987. Gasser urged the SEC to resume a study of equities
market structure from early 2010.  Blurring lines further, many dark pools competing with
exchanges are owned by the exchanges’ biggest brokers. Barclays
Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Knight and automated trading firm
Getco LLC, which said Dec. 19 it will acquire Knight, are the
four main designated market makers overseeing trading in
corporations listed on the Big Board. All run private trading
venues. Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and market-maker Citadel LLC
also own platforms to execute client requests.  ’Exhaust’ Orders  Orders from mutual funds and brokers often seek executions
by passing through multiple dark pools, with exchanges as the
final destination, according to  Duncan Niederauer , chief
executive officer of NYSE Euronext. Instead of higher-quality
orders, public markets -- which set the prices for shares -- get
the “exhaust” or leftovers when buy and sell requests routed
through private networks remain unexecuted, he said at a company
investor-day event in April.  The estimated annual net income of about $400 million that
exchanges and Finra receive from the sale of public market data
is a “government-granted windfall” that comes at the expense
of investors, Credit Suisse’s Mathisson  said . It far exceeds the
regulatory costs of SROs it’s supposed to offset, he said.  Many of Mathisson’s suggestions for changes to the SRO
regime are “focused on reducing the economics for exchanges and
transferring a lot of those benefits back to the investment
banks,” which compete with exchanges by running their own
venues, Mecane told legislators.  Richard Ketchum , CEO and chairman of Finra, said at the
Sifma conference in October that while the SRO model should be
evaluated, no overhaul is needed. Finra, an SRO, was formed in
2007 when NYSE Euronext’s regulatory unit for member oversight
combined with the National Association of Securities Dealers,
which created Nasdaq in 1971.  “It continues to make sense for exchanges to be self-
regulatory organizations even though they’ve been commoditized,
even though they operate in ways that are not so dissimilar from
alternative trading systems,” Ketchum said. Their “collective
responsibilities” toward the marketplace should remain part of
their duties, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 