-- FCC to Propose Cuts in Prisoners’ Rates for Phone Calls
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-12-28T20:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/fcc-to-propose-cuts-in-prisoners-rates-for-phone-calls.html
The Federal Communications
Commission today said it will propose rules to lower rates
charged to prison inmates for interstate telephone calls, after
considering the issue for nine years.  The agency in a news release said it would consider rate
caps and other measures to rein in costs in the $1.2 billion
market dominated by Global Tel*Link Corp. and Securus
Technologies Inc., companies owned by private-equity firms.  “This is not just an issue of markets and rates; it is a
broader issue of social justice,” Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel, a member of the agency’s Democratic majority, said
in a statement posted on the FCC’s website. “When a single call
may cost as much as a month of unlimited phone service, the
financial burden of staying in touch may be too much for
inmates’ families to bear.”  Civil rights and religious groups supported by some members
of Congress have pressed the FCC to act on a petition filed in
2003 by prisoners and family members to cut rates they termed
“exorbitant.” High rates isolate prisoners from family
members, the advocates said.  Prisoners pay as much as $17 for a 15-minute call with
their families, according to filings at the FCC. Charges are set
by contracts that state and local agencies strike with
companies, and costs can include commissions the companies pay
to the agencies.  ‘First Step’  “It is encouraging that the FCC has taken the long-awaited
first step,” Lee Petro, a Washington-based attorney
representing the coalition seeking lower rates, said in an e-
mailed statement.  More work remains “to win justice for the incarcerated and
their families,” Petro said. “The petitioners and their
supporters face well-funded companies, supported by private
equity funds, who have had no reason to reform their practices
absent action by the FCC.”  Ajit Pai, a Republican who joined the FCC in May, said that
while he generally believes prices should be set by the
marketplace, he’s open to regulating prison phone rates.  “Choice and competition are not hallmarks of life behind
bars,” he said in a statement. “Inmates cannot choose among
multiple carriers for lower rates.”  ‘Wide Disparity’  The FCC today said it has found a “wide disparity” in
rates. In  New York , where commissions are prohibited, interstate
rates are as low as 48 cents a minute. In  Montana , where
commissions are charged, the interstate per-minute rate is 12
cents, the FCC said.  It said costs for a 15-minute interstate call were $6.45 in
 Texas , $6.65 in  California  and $16.55 in  Idaho .  Global Tel*Link, based in Mobile,  Alabama , has about 50
percent of the correctional phone services market, followed by
Dallas-based Securus with almost 30 percent, according to
 Standard & Poor’s .  Global Tel*Link is owned by American Securities LLC, a Park
Avenue private equity firm, and Securus is owned by New York-
based Castle Harlan Inc.  American Securities declined to comment,  Caroline Harris , a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Castle Harlan declined to
comment, Michael Millican, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Prison calls cost more than residential telephone service
for reasons that include security requirements and bad debts,
according to Securus, which said in a  filing  that it has about
1,400 contracts in 46 states.  Prisoners make collect calls or set up prepaid accounts
funded by relatives or by their earnings from prison jobs that
pay cents per hour. Service providers may collect per-call fees,
and the FCC today said it would scrutinize those charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  