-- Fed Says First Tennessee, Banco Bilbao Used Discount Window
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-12-28T18:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/fed-names-discount-window-borrowers-from-fourth-quarter-of-2010.html
The Federal Reserve said First
Tennessee Bank and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  were among
dozens of borrowers from its discount window during the fourth
quarter of 2010.  The central bank gave out hundreds of loans to banks across
the country during the period, all of which were repaid,
according to data the Fed released today on its website. The
borrowers were predominantly small banks.  The transactions occurred more than a year into the
recovery from the 18-month recession that was the longest and
deepest since the Great Depression. The world’s largest economy
expanded at a 2.4 percent pace in the fourth quarter of 2010
before growth stalled to a 0.1 percent rate in the next quarter.  The Fed’s release was the second of once-secret loan data
as required now by the Dodd-Frank Act. The discount window is
the Fed’s main tool for providing cash to banks that have
temporary funding shortfalls. The loans are fully collateralized
and made by the system’s 12 reserve banks.  The largest single loan was $1.02 billion that First
Tennessee Bank, a subsidiary of  Memphis , Tennessee-based  First
Horizon National Corp. (FHN) , borrowed on Nov. 24, 2010 and repaid two
days later.  Computer Glitches  Computer glitches at First Tennessee on Nov. 24, 2010, the
day before Thanksgiving that year, prevented transactions from
being cleared with the Fed, Tommy Adams, First Horizon’s
treasurer, said today in a telephone interview. Because it was
the day before a national holiday, the bank borrowed from the
Fed’s discount window until the technical problems could be
solved on the day after Thanksgiving, he said.  The Fed has three categories of loans. Primary credit is
for healthy banks with short-term funding needs. Secondary
credit is for troubled banks, and seasonal credit is for banks
that have uneven funding flows. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010
required disclosure of discount window loans with a two-year
lag.  Two of the largest loans were to the New York branch of
Banco Bilbao, Spain’s second-biggest bank. The Bilbao-based
lender borrowed $100 million on both Oct. 5, 2010 and Oct. 6,
2010, repaying both loans the following day.  Paul Tobin, a Madrid-based spokesman for BBVA, said that
the loans are part of a recurring test for the firm’s  New York- 
based investment bank that occur once or twice a year.  “It’s a
standard operation just to test the collateral,” Tobin said.
“We do it every year. It’s a symbolic amount.”  The Fed in March 2011 released discount-window loan
documents for the first time after court orders upheld Freedom
of Information Act requests filed by Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News Network
LLC. In all, the Fed released more than 29,000 pages of
documents, covering the discount window and several Fed
emergency-lending programs established during the crisis from
August 2007 to March 2010 as a result of the FOIA requests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  