-- First Nations Blockade Disrupts Canadian Propane Shipments
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-12-28T20:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/first-nations-rail-blockade-disrupts-canadian-propane-shipments.html
A First Nations blockade of a
 Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  link between the Sarnia, Ontario,
petrochemical industry and mainlines has disrupted rail
shipments of propane.  The barrier on the spur line, over which an average 450
Canadian National rail cars pass each day, began Dec. 21,
according to Jim Feeny, a Montreal-based spokesman for the
company. The disruption may force petrochemical plants to shut,
he said Dec. 26.  “The blockade is impacting propane supplies to points east
in Ontario into  Quebec  and as far away as Atlantic  Canada ,” Jim
Facette, chief executive officer in Ottawa for the Canadian
Propane Association, a trade group, said in a telephone
interview today. The disruption has forced shut a  Pembina
Pipeline Corp. (PPL)  propane terminal in Sarnia, he said.  Shawn Davis, a spokeswoman for Pembina in Calgary, said the
company’s Corunna, Ontario, terminal near Sarnia hasn’t been
able to ship propane or butane since yesterday.  “We are able to accommodate all of our requested volumes
through our other rail terminals,” Davis said in a telephone
interview. “There have been no Pembina customers impacted to
date.”  Pembina Pipeline’s Empress East natural gas liquids system
includes 20,000-barrels-a-day fractionation capacity in Sarnia,
according the company’s  website .  Blockade Goal  The blockade was initially organized by the  Aamjiwnaang
First Nation  to bring attention to another First Nations’
attempt to meet with Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , said  Ron
Plain , a spokesman for the Aamjiwnaang.  Protesters now say the Canadian National railway line runs
illegally over their property and are demanding that the same
environmental restrictions applied to chemical shipments in
Canada be extended to First Nations land, he said.  “There are no legal issues with our rail line,” Feeny
said. “It does run through First Nations property but we have
title to the land. In terms of environmental standards that
apply to chemical shipments, these are Transport Canada’s
standards which apply across the country and we are in full
compliance with.”  Products carried on the blockaded line include
polyethylene, methanol, butane and propane, according to Feeny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Clark in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  