-- Former Greek Finance Minister Denies Tampering With Lagarde List
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2012-12-28T17:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/former-greek-finance-minister-denies-tampering-with-lagarde-list.html
Former Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  denied accusations that he removed relatives’
names from a list of about 2,000 Greeks with deposits in Swiss
banks.  The so-called “Lagarde list” is an electronic file of
Greeks with Swiss bank accounts that was given to  Greece  in 2010
by then-French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde . Handling of
the list has drawn criticism from opposition parties and
lawmakers in Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s three-party
governing coalition.  Greece will only be able to collect up to 20 percent of 53
billion euros of outstanding taxes it is owed, according to a
report by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
dated November and released last week. The country’s economy is
expected to contract for a sixth year in 2013, according to
Finance Ministry forecasts released on Oct. 31.  Media reports today, including on Skai TV, said the names
of three people related to Papaconstantinou had been removed
from the list before the former Pasok minister submitted the
data to the country’s economic crimes unit to investigate. The
accounts of the people removed have at least $1.22 million in
deposits, Athens-based  Skai reported , without citing anyone.  “I won’t accept this fabrication of guilt which doesn’t
exist nor will I become the scapegoat in this case,”
Papaconstantinou said in an e-mailed statement today. “I have
absolutely no connection to any account on that list. I have not
tampered in any way with the data, which I had requested and
received from the French authorities.”  Pasok, which supports Samaras’s coalition, expelled
Papaconstantinou from the party saying he handled the issue “in
the worst way possible,” according to a statement e-mailed by
the party today.  Journalist Arrested  In October police arrested a Greek journalist for releasing
the names on the Lagarde list, saying he breached Greek privacy
laws. The journalist, Kostas Vaxevanis, said in a video message
that he published the list because of government inaction in
following up on the names of potential tax evaders.  The main opposition Syriza party said it will ask for a
parliamentary committee to be set up to investigate the
developments, which are included in a supplementary brief by the
prosecutor’s office, submitted to Parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  