-- India Mourns Rape Victim as Police Ready Murder Charges
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-12-30T00:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/gang-raped-new-delhi-woman-dies-in-singapore-hospital.html
Indians gathered in their thousands
in protests and candlelit vigils to mark the death in a
Singapore hospital of a woman beaten and gang raped in New
Delhi, as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh led appeals for calm.  Delhi police will press murder charges against the six men
accused of raping the 23-year-old woman and beating her with
iron bars in the back of the bus on Dec. 16, spokesman  Rajan
Bhagat  said by phone yesterday. The men may appear in court to
be charged as soon as Jan. 3, he said.  Some demonstrators held placards calling for the death
penalty for the alleged rapists and improved treatment for
women, as they congregated in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bangalore.
Others braved the cold winter’s evening in New Delhi to carry
candles or meet in quiet prayer. Earlier, crowds heckled Delhi
Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit near parliament in the capital.  The victim, attacked in a moving bus, “passed away
peacefully” early on Dec. 29, with her family and officials
from the High Commission of India at her side, according to a
statement from Kelvin Loh, chief executive officer at Mount
Elizabeth Hospital. She had suffered “serious injuries to her
body and brain,” he said. An Air  India  plane, carrying her
body, landed at New Delhi airport early today after a flight
from Singapore, the Press Trust of India reported.  Police yesterday barricaded roads in New Delhi and closed
10 subway stations to keep control over the swelling crowds and
prevent a recurrence of earlier, violent demonstrations in the
capital. Protests were barred in the capital except at a
designated site, Bhagat said in televised comments.  Constructive Action  “We have already seen the emotions and energies this
incident has generated,” Singh said in an e-mailed statement.
“It would be a true homage to her memory if we are able to
channel these emotions and energies into a constructive course
of action,” he said. It’s up to all Indians to “ensure that
her death will not have been in vain.”  Singh has appointed a retired Delhi High Court judge to
investigate the crime and fix lapses in policing. He also
pledged to consider tougher penalties for sex crimes after the
assault prompted street demonstrations organized through social-
media postings. The protesters, who fought water cannons and
tear gas on Dec. 22 and Dec. 23, demanded more be done to
protect women in the capital and across India.  “The need of the hour is a dispassionate debate and
inquiry into the critical changes that are required in societal
attitudes,” Singh said in his statement yesterday.  Unauthorized Bus  After tricking the woman and her 28-year-old male friend
into boarding the unauthorized chartered bus with dark, tinted
windows and heavy curtains, the crew of the vehicle and
accomplices assaulted the two over a period of about 45 minutes,
stripped them and then threw them out.  The woman, a physiotherapy student, whose name can’t be
revealed under Indian laws, was flown to  Singapore  for
specialist treatment, paid for by the Indian government.  The increased public role of women “is accompanied by
growing threats to their safety and security,” the prime
minister said on Dec. 27. “We must reflect on this problem,
which occurs in all states and regions of our country.”  Data provided by India’s National Crime Records Bureau show
about 24,200 cases of rape and 228,650 cases of crimes against
women were reported in 2011. United Nations figures show 1.8
cases of rape for every 100,000 in India, compared with 63 in
 Sweden , 29 in the U.K. and 27 in the U.S. Most instances of rape
go unreported in India.  Singh has vowed to hasten prosecution of the accused. The
panel led by the former chief justice of the Supreme Court has
been asked to rewrite criminal codes to allow harsher penalties
to be imposed, including capital punishment in the “rarest of
rare” rape cases.  Courts Overburdened  It typically takes years for ordinary Indians to get
justice because of a slow-moving legal process and overburdened
courts. Long-running trials and lax enforcement of laws have
also fueled protests in the nation’s capital. About 63,342 cases
were pending in the Supreme Court as of July 31, of which 67
percent have been on the roll for more than a year, government
data show.  Before last month’s execution of Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the
lone surviving Pakistani gunman involved in the 2008 Mumbai
attacks, India last carried out the death penalty in 2004, when
a convict was hanged 14 years after he raped and murdered a
school girl.  India has about 15 judges for each million of its 1.2
billion people, according to UN data. In  China , there are about
159 judges for each million people, while in the U.S. the figure
is about 108.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  