-- Germany’s Hesse Inflation Accelerated to 2.2% in December
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-28T10:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/germany-s-hesse-inflation-accelerated-to-2-2-in-december.html
Inflation in the German state of
Hesse accelerated in December on prices for food and travel.  The inflation rate increased to 2.2 percent from 1.8
percent in November, Hesse’s statistics office in Wiesbaden said
in a statement today. In the month, consumer prices rose 0.9
percent.  Oil prices  fell more than 7 percent this year as the
cooling economy curbed demand. The euro area entered its second
recession in four years in the third quarter and the German
economy, the region’s largest, may have contracted markedly in
the fourth quarter, according to the Bundesbank. The European
Central Bank forecasts that inflation in the 17-nation currency
bloc will slow to below its 2 percent limit next year.  “Inflation isn’t a big concern right now,” said Jens- Oliver Niklasch, an economist at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart. “I expect inflation rates of around 2 percent for
both  Germany  and the euro area in 2013.”  Germany’s inflation rate for December, based on data from
six states including Hesse, will be published on Jan. 2, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today, amending a
previous publication date of Jan. 3. The states of Saxony,
Brandenburg, Bavaria, Baden Wuerttemberg and North Rhine-
Westphalia will also release their reports on Jan. 2. In
November, the inflation rate declined to 2 percent, from 2.1
percent in October.  In the euro area,  inflation  slowed to 2.2 percent in
November from 2.5 percent in the previous month. The European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg is due to release its
first estimate for December inflation on Jan. 4.  Food prices in Hesse increased 1 percent in December,
prices for train tickets and plane tickets rose 3.1 percent and
2.9 percent respectively, the state’s statistics office said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  