-- German Stocks Drop, Paring Biggest Annual Gain Since 2003
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-12-28T15:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/german-stocks-little-changed-as-u-s-budget-talks-resume.html
German stocks  fell on the last
trading day of the year as concern grew that U.S. lawmakers will
be unable to agree a deal to avoid a wave of tax increases and
budget cuts.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Munich Re dropped at least 1 percent.
 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  retreated after regulators fined the
broadcaster. Porsche SE advanced 6.3 percent to the highest
price in nearly two years after a U.S. appeals court dismissed a
lawsuit against the automaker.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.6 percent to 7,612.39 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, bringing this week’s drop to 0.3 percent.
German markets shut early today and are closed on Dec. 31.
The broader HDAX Index also slid 0.6 percent.  The benchmark DAX has climbed  29 percent  this year, the
biggest annual increase since 2003, as the  European Central Bank 
and the Federal Reserve expanded asset purchases. That’s the
second-best performance among the 24 developed markets tracked
by Bloomberg.  “Everybody is focused on the fiscal cliff,” said John Plassard, vice president at Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva.
“Investors don’t want to take any risk before this final
countdown.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
today was 42 percent lower than the average over the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Budget Talks  Obama summoned congressional leaders to a White House
meeting three days before a year-end deadline to avoid $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases, amid increasing
concern that the time is too short to reach a deal.  Obama, who had been negotiating one-on-one with House
Speaker  John Boehner , will meet today with Republicans Boehner
and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , both
Democrats. The meeting will be held at 3 p.m. Washington time.  The president returned early from his holiday in Hawaii
yesterday as lawmakers disputed which party would be responsible
for missing the deadline for a debt deal, a failure that could
hurt the U.S. credit rating and cause a recession.  Separately, the House will hold an unusual Sunday session
on the evening of Dec. 30.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-biggest auto-parts
supplier,  led gains  on the DAX in 2012, surging 82 percent.
Chemical maker  Lanxess AG (LXS)  advanced 66 percent.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-largest airline, rallied 55
percent while  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the region’s biggest carmaker,
increased 49 percent.  Commerzbank Slips  Commerzbank and Munich Re led banks and insurers lower
today, falling 1.5 percent to 1.43 euros and 1 percent to 136
euros, respectively.  Deutsche Bank AG lost 1 percent to 32.95 euros. Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg sued Germany’s largest bank in New York,
accusing the lender of fraud in the sale of $173 million in
mortgage-backed securities in 2007.  “We believe this suit is without merit and we intend to
defend ourselves,”  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail.  ProSiebenSat.1, the broadcaster controlled by KKR & Co. and
Permira Advisers LLP, dropped 0.6 percent to 21.30 euros after
Germany’s cartel agency fined the company and RTL Group SA for
an agreement to encode the broadcast of some programs.  RWE AG, Germany’s second-largest utility, fell 1.1 percent
to 31.24 euros.  Porsche preferred shares surged 6.3 percent to 61.70 euros,
the highest price since January 2011. An appeals court in New
York state dismissed a lawsuit by  hedge funds  that accused the
German carmaker of concealing a plan to corner the market in
Volkswagen shares. The plaintiffs had sought more than $1
billion in damages.  Henkel AG, a German chemical company, rose 1.3 percent to
62.20 euros, snapping three days of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  