-- India Bonds Complete Weekly Gain on Rate-Cut Bets; Rupee Climbs
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-28T13:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/india-bonds-set-for-weekly-gain-on-rate-cut-bets-rupee-climbs.html
India’s 10-year bonds completed
their biggest weekly gain this month on optimism debt purchases
by the monetary authority and expectations of interest-rate cuts
will boost demand. The rupee also advanced.  The  Reserve Bank  of India bought 78.99 billion rupees ($1.4
billion) of securities at an open-market auction today,
according to a  statement  on its website. At a policy review on
Dec. 18, the RBI signaled it will cut  interest rates  in the
coming months, after holding the repurchase  rate  at 8 percent
for a fifth meeting.  “The prospects for  government bonds  are pretty good as
interest-rate cuts are expected next quarter to support
growth,” Upasna Bhardwaj, an economist in Mumbai at ING Vysya
Bank, a unit of the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
said in an interview yesterday. “Yields may slide as the
continuation of open-market purchases is also a positive.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week to 8.11
percent in Mumbai, the lowest level since July, according to the
central bank’s trading system. The yield was little changed
today and has dropped 46 basis points this year.  Asia ’s third-largest  economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the
three months through September, matching a first-quarter growth
rate that was the lowest in three years. Wholesale-price
increases will average 7.7 percent this quarter and 7.2 percent
in the first three months of 2013, according to the median
estimates of economists surveyed this month by Bloomberg.  Inflation Ebbing  “In view of inflation pressures ebbing, monetary policy
has to increasingly shift focus and respond to the threats to
growth,” the Reserve Bank said in a statement on Dec. 18.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell five basis
points this week to 7.63 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The contract was at 7.75 percent at the end of 2011.  India ’s rupee rose this week as data showed global funds
increased ownership of local shares at the fastest pace in 10
months after policy makers stepped up efforts to revive the
economy.  Foreign funds bought $4.1 billion more shares than they
sold this month through Dec. 26, set for the biggest addition to
holdings since February.  The rupee rose 0.5 percent this week to 54.7750 per dollar
in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has lost
3.1 percent this year, a drop second only to  Indonesia ’s rupiah
among Asia’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
unchanged at 10 percent. The measure decreased 200 basis points
in 2012.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.74 per
dollar, compared with 55.88 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.70 versus 55.78. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  