-- IPOs Slump to Lowest Level Since Financial Crisis
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/ipos-slump-to-lowest-level-since-financial-crisis-after-facebook.html
Initial public offerings in 2012
slumped to the lowest level since the financial crisis as signs
of an economic slowdown and  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  disappointing debut
curbed demand and prompted companies to push back sales.  IPOs have raised $112 billion worldwide this year, the
least since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Initial sales in western  Europe  dropped to one-third of last
year’s level, while concern about  China’s economy  helped cut
proceeds in  Asia  by almost half. U.S. offerings raised $41
billion, little changed from last year, as Facebook’s IPO
spurred a monthlong drought in U.S. deals.  With the possibility of $600 billion in U.S. spending cuts
and tax increases that could cause another recession also
weighing on the IPO market this year, the global backlog of
potential offerings has now swelled to the largest year-end size
since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg and Ipreo show. That
could set the stage for a rebound if lawmakers avert the so-
called fiscal cliff, according to Credit Suisse Group AG and
Barclays Plc, with companies from  China  Petrochemical Corp. to
ING Groep NV poised to potentially move ahead with offerings.  “A lot of people have been very selective,” Joe Castle,
head of equities syndicate at Barclays, said at a briefing this
month in  New York . “If we see some deals go out early in the
year that go well and trade well, then it feeds on itself for
more volume to come out in the U.S. and on a global basis.”  Europe Surge  In the fourth quarter, IPOs in western Europe surged more
than fivefold from a year earlier to $5.71 billion, and U.S.
initial offerings increased 15 percent to $8.8 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. First-time share sales in Asia fell
by 46 percent to $10.9 billion, the data show. Globally, IPOs
this quarter edged up to about $32.4 billion from $29.5 billion
in the year-earlier period.  The annual global IPO tally declined for a second straight
year as Europe slipped back into a recession, cutting the amount
raised in the region by about two-thirds to $9.91 billion. In
Asia, the biggest region for IPOs, proceeds fell by 43 percent
to $46.7 billion. The U.S. total barely eclipsed last year’s
mark, even including the $16 billion debut of Facebook, the
biggest technology IPO on record.  After Facebook fell as much as 32 percent in the first
three weeks after its IPO, companies such as Party City Holdings
Inc. and American International Group Inc.’s airplane-leasing
unit pulled planned offerings in favor of private sales.  Swollen Backlog  The global IPO backlog swelled to about $115 billion at the
end of this year, including a sale by Japan Post Holdings Co.
that’s planned for 2015, according to Ipreo, a New York-based
provider of market data. Excluding that offering, the backlog
would be about $65 billion, larger than the $52 billion a year
ago, the data show.  “Many companies may have felt that the broader economic
environment and their resultant earnings didn’t represent the
true worth of their businesses,” Darrell Uden, co-head of
equity capital markets for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at
Zurich-based UBS AG, said in a phone interview. “Many chose to
wait for a few more earnings cycles to ensure a better
valuation.”  U.S. lawmakers last week scrapped a proposed plan for
higher taxes, stalling budget talks and fueling concern that the
officials will fail to prevent tax increases and spending cuts
from taking effect in January. President  Barack Obama  and the
Republican-led  U.S. Congress  returned to  Washington  yesterday
with five days left to reach a deal.  Cash Pile  Unease on the part of companies and investors may give way
to an increase in new-share sales as a possible rise in mergers
and acquisitions prompts more fundraising for strategic
takeovers, according to Alasdair Warren, co-head of  investment
banking  in Europe at New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Global M&A in the fourth quarter rose to the highest since 2008
as companies started to draw on cash piles totaling more than
$3.5 trillion to make acquisitions.  “In the period post summer, there’s been a pickup in
issuance, but overall there’s still a degree of nervousness and
uncertainty in the market,” Warren said in a phone interview.
“In the first half of next year you are going to see more
meaningful primary capital raisings in the corporate space, in
many cases to improve strategic flexibility.”  Direct Line  In Europe, the fourth quarter was this year’s busiest for
IPOs, picking up even after the region’s economy shrank for the
second quarter in a row during the July-September period. IPOs
in Europe since 2007 haven’t managed to recover to even half of
their pre-crisis level, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as
concerns over sovereign debt across the region have persisted.  Telefonica SA’s German unit Telefonica Deutschland Holding
AG raised 1.45 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in October in
Europe’s largest IPO in 2012, listing in  Frankfurt . Britain’s
Direct Line Insurance Group Plc raised $1.5 billion in October,
and Russia’s OAO MegaFon raised $1.8 billion in November. All
three offerings were increased after underwriters exercised
over-allotment options to buy more shares.  There may be additional large telecom IPOs from Europe next
year, as Telefonica seeks to raise as much as 6 billion euros by
listing its Latin American assets, and Deutsche Telekom AG
evaluates a sale of its stake in a venture with France Telecom
SA. Privatization sales, including that of state-owned postal
service  Royal Mail , are also being lined up.  Creating Capital  “As cash-strapped governments in Europe look for ways to
create new capital, more state-owned entities will come to
market next year to repay government debt and reinvest in new
assets,” said Maria Pinelli, global vice chairman at Ernst &
Young LLP in  London , who oversees the firm’s IPO advisory
business.  Separately, ING U.S. Inc., an insurance unit of the largest
Dutch financial-services company, filed for a New York IPO in
November. ING Groep was ordered by the European Union to sell
insurance operations, its U.S. online bank and a Dutch mortgage
lender before the end of 2013 as a condition for approval of a
2008 bailout.  Slowing growth in China for a seventh straight quarter
hampered Asia’s IPOs, even as People’s Insurance Co. (Group) of
China Ltd. raised $3.6 billion in a  Hong Kong  initial sale last
month. Companies raised $5 billion in Hong Kong in the last
three months of the year, down 24 percent from the year-earlier
period, while deals in China in 2012 reached $15 billion, down
64 percent.  Proceeds from Hong Kong IPOs, which are at the lowest since
2003, may rebound next year as the Chinese economy improves,
said Michiya Tomita, a  fund manager  at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees $70 billion.  China Petrochem  China Petrochemical, the nation’s biggest refiner, plans to
seek about $1.5 billion in an IPO of its engineering unit,
people with knowledge of the matter have said. The IPO of
Sinopec Engineering (Group) Co. may start in Hong Kong in the
second half of 2013.  Japan’s biggest IPO this year helped narrow the region’s
loss of deal volume. Japan Airlines Co. raised 663 billion yen
($7.7 billion) on Sept. 10, bringing Asia’s value of initial
sales to just over half the amount raised in 2011.  Elsewhere in Asia, Malaysia’s IPOs raised $6.5 billion in
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About half of that was
the May debut by palm-oil maker Felda Global Ventures Holdings
Bhd. Malaysia’s economy is set to expand 4.8 percent next year,
nearly double the anticipated global rate of 2.45 percent,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Investors have begun to realize the growth potential of
Southeast Asia and the bright prospects of companies here,”
Dato’ Charon Wardini Mokhzani, chief executive officer of CIMB
Investment Bank, said in an e-mail. “The success of the
Malaysian IPOs and the overwhelming demand from domestic and
international investors for those IPOs have given other issuers
the confidence to proceed with their respective IPOs.”  Oil, Gas  The amount of money raised in IPOs globally this quarter
was about 44 percent greater than in the previous three months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The quarterly proceeds were
boosted by a combined $2.3 billion of oil and gas IPOs that
Credit Suisse led, helping the bank surpass JPMorgan Chase & Co.
for the year’s biggest share of U.S. IPO underwriting for the
first time since at least 1999, the data show.  Morgan Stanley was the top global IPO underwriter for the
third straight year in 2012, beating JPMorgan after helping lead
the Japan Airlines IPO.  New Stock  While a resolution to avert the so-called fiscal cliff in
the U.S., continued momentum in Asia’s  emerging markets , and
more government privatizations in Europe would help spur
increased IPO activity next year, fluctuations in the broader
equity markets may mean that companies will have to move quickly
to complete sales, said Ernst & Young’s Pinelli.  The market will see further benefit next year if investors
are willing to put more money into equity mutual funds,
enlarging the pool of cash available for new stock, according to
David Hermer, Credit Suisse’s head of Americas  equity capital
markets . Investors have withdrawn money from equity mutual funds
in favor of bonds every year since 2009, with outflows from
stocks totaling $135 billion this year, according to the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute   “There should be a continued pickup in IPO volumes,”
Hermer said in a phone interview. “But at the same time, you
need a receptive market to be able to absorb that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  