-- Iraq Star Rises in OPEC as Embargo Hurts Iran
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-12-28T18:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/iraq-star-rises-in-opec-as-embargo-hurts-iran.html
Iraq  jumped two places to No. 2 in
OPEC’s rankings this year, cementing its position among the
world’s leading oil producers. Neighboring  Iran  dropped three
spots to fifth as international sanctions took hold.  Second only to  Saudi Arabia  within the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Iraq’s output rose by 24 percent
this year as the BP Plc-led Rumaila field increased supply.
Iranian production shrank by the same percentage to the lowest
level since 1988, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and its
exports will continue to drop into 2013, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  “Iraq will continue to produce as much crude as it can
because oil is and will remain its main source of income in the
next few years,” said Anas Alhajji, chief economist for NGP
Energy Capital Management LLC in Irving,  Texas , which oversees
$13 billion in funds. “Iraq wants every penny it can get.”  The turnaround illustrates the nations’ contrasting
geopolitical fortunes. Iraq has become the region’s second-
fastest growing economy, attracting investment from  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and OAO Lukoil in the nine years since the ouster of
 Saddam Hussein . Iran, stymied by a European Union and U.S. ban
on oil exports, will suffer a decline in gross domestic product
this year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Export Reliability  Iraq’s crude  production  averaged 3.35 million barrels a day
last month, Bloomberg data show. Iran’s daily output slumped to
2.7 million, less than Venezuela and  Kuwait , OPEC’s third- and
fourth-largest producers, respectively.  The reliability of Iraqi exports is still at risk as the
central government in  Baghdad  and the Kurdistan Regional
Government fail to agree on crude revenue and contract terms.
Exxon Mobil Corp. wants to sell its stake in the West Qurna-1
field in southern Iraq, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi said
on Nov. 11.  “Constraints on export pipelines, government bureaucracy,
and the continuing dispute with the autonomous Kurdish region
will keep the country short of its ambitious goals,” Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management and a former  Middle East 
specialist at Shell, said in a Dec. 26 e-mail.  Global oil supply has risen this year, led by the U.S.,
where producers are using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to
unlock deposits in shale formations from  North Dakota  to Texas
and  Oklahoma . Production worldwide averaged 90.8 million barrels
a day in the third quarter, up 2.7 percent on 2011, the Paris-
based IEA said in its monthly report on Dec. 12.  High Maintenance  Output among OPEC members rose to a four-year high in
August, a month after the EU banned imports of Iranian crude, as
members sought to benefit from Brent at more than $100 a barrel.  Brent, the benchmark for more than half the world’s crude,
is poised for a fourth annual gain after averaging a record
$111.66 a barrel this year on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
West Texas Intermediate futures, the most-traded U.S. grade, is
set to drop this year for the first time since 2008 in  New York 
after rising domestic  output  bolstered inventories at Cushing,
Oklahoma, the nation’s biggest storage hub. WTI averaged $94.17
a barrel this year.  “Everyone is high maintenance these days,” said Mehdi
Varzi, a former Iranian diplomat and director of Varzi Energy
Ltd., an energy-consulting company. “The major players all need
high  oil prices  for their own reasons.”  Libya Climbs  Libya’s production more than doubled in 2012 as operators
including  Total SA (FP)  returned to the North African nation after
last year’s rebellion against  Muammar Qaddafi , lifting its
position among OPEC’s 12 members to ninth from 11th. Saudi
Arabia, the group’s biggest producer, pumped an average of 9.8
million barrels a day this year, the most since at least 1983.  “Saudi Arabia’s objective is to stabilize the market,”
Manaar Energy’s Mills said.  Iran’s output has been in decline since the end of 2008,
Bloomberg data show. The drop accelerated this year as the U.S.
and EU tightened sanctions aimed at curbing the Islamic
republic’s nuclear program. Iran says its atomic projects are
for civilian purposes.  The Iraqi economy will grow 10.2 percent this year and 14.7
percent in 2013, according to IMF forecasts. That’s the second-
fastest rate in the Middle East and North Africa, after  Libya .  Rumaila is forecast to produce 2.85 million barrels a day
toward the end of the next decade, making it the world’s second-
biggest field, according to BP’s website. The field, which
includes China National Petroleum Corp. as a partner, is pumping
at a rate of 1.43 million, Salem Bin Ashur, a spokesman for the
committee managing the field, said on Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  