-- Irish Home Prices Rise at Fastest Pace in More Than Six Years
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-12-28T12:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/irish-home-prices-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-more-than-six-years.html
Irish home values rose at the
 fastest pace  in more than six years in November as the country
recovered from  Europe ’s worst real estate crash.  Residential property prices rose 1.1 percent from the
previous month, the most since September 2006, the  Central
Statistics Office  said in a statement today. Values fell 5.7
percent from a year earlier and are 49 percent below their 2007
peak, the statement showed.  “The data strengthens our view that the Irish housing
market entered a new phase during 2012, following four
consecutive years of double-digit price declines,” Philip O’Sullivan, chief economist at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers
Ltd., said in a note today.  With the exception of Greece, Irish  house prices  fell the
most among 55 countries in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, data
compiled by Knight Frank LLP show. Irish total commercial
property returns are the worst in Europe in the five years
through 2011, according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Dublin residential prices rose 2.4 percent during November,
the fastest pace in two months, the  Central Statistics Office 
said. It was the fifth monthly increase this year. Prices in the
capital remain 55 percent off their 2007 peak.  “We see divergences across the country, with the prospects
for the Dublin market continuing to look brighter than other
areas, where oversupply remains a concern,” O’Sullivan said.  Irish  home prices  may have “over-corrected” by between 12
percent and 26 percent, two central bank economists, Gerard
Kennedy and Kieran McQuinn, said in April.  “As always with Irish property data, given the still-low
turnover and the fact that cash purchases are excluded from the
data, we would be cautious to suggest property prices are
rebounding strongly or that a recovery is fully in place,” said
Owen Callan, a Dublin-based analyst at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  