-- Italy Sells Bonds as Borrowing Costs Hold Near Two-Year Low
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-28T11:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/italy-auctions-bonds-as-borrowing-costs-hold-near-two-year-low.html
Italy  sold 5.9 billion euros ($7.8
billion) of bonds today with rates holding near the lowest in
two years amid optimism caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
will play a role in the next government.  The Treasury in Rome today sold 3 billion euros of 10-year
debt at 4.48 percent, up from 4.45 percent at the previous
auction on Nov. 29, which was the lowest since November 2010.
The Treasury also sold 2.9 billion euros of bonds due in 2017 to
yield 3.26 percent compared with 3.23 percent Nov. 29.  Today’s auction, the first sale of medium- long-term debt
to be settled in 2013, is the second market test for Italy since
Monti announced Dec. 23 that he would consider being the premier
candidate for a coalition backing his  economic agenda  in the
Feb. 24-25 election. The Treasury sold 8.5 billion euros of
bills yesterday.  “Many investors are taking the view that the
transformation of Italian premier Mario Monti from technocrat to
politician will ensure post-election stability,” Nicholas
Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London ,
said by e-mail after the sale. “The ’Monti effect’ is now vying
with the ’Draghi effect’ in underpinning Italy’s bond market”.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge in
July to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro has proven
an effective backstop for Italy’s borrowing costs. Draghi
followed that in September with the outline of a plan to buy
bonds of nations struggling to bring down borrowing costs.  Stable Majority  Polls suggest Pier Luigi Bersani, the center-left candidate
for premier and the front-runner to succeed Monti, may struggle
to get a majority in the Italian Senate unless he seeks an
alliance with parties backing Monti’s agenda.  This is “is a very likely outcome that could increase the
chances to have a pro-Europe and reforms-oriented bloc in the
next government,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura
International in London, said by e-mail before the sale.  Monti will meet today in Rome with Economic Development
Minister  Corrado Passera , International Cooperation Minister
Andrea Riccardi and  Pier Ferdinando Casini , who are among his
biggest supporters, newspaper la Repubblica reported.  Bersani, a former communist whose leadership in the
 Democratic Party  is grounded in support from Italy’s biggest
union, has pledged to respect the budget commitments taken with
the European Union while promising to do more to support
pensioners and workers. His party supports some of the measures
included in Monti’s political road map, he said Dec. 26.  Rising Uncertainty  While markets are not putting pressure on Italy,
uncertainty about the election outcome may increase the
country’s borrowing costs going forward.  “Much will then depend on the possibility of forming a
stable government, committed not only to following in Monti’s
steps in terms of budget discipline and reform, but also to
increasing actions in support of growth,” Intesa Sanpaolo SpA
said in its 2013 economic outlook published yesterday.  Italy’s 10-year yield was down 1 basis point to 4.5 percent
at 12:10 p.m. in  Rome , leaving the difference with comparable-
maturity German debt at 321.6 basis points.  A rise in borrowing costs, even temporarily, would have an
immediate impact on Italy, which needs to sell an average of
more than 30 billion euros of bonds and bills a month to finance
the euro-region’s second-biggest debt, currently at more than
126 percent of gross domestic product.  At today’s auction investors bid for 1.47 times the amount
of the 10-year debt offered, up from 1.18 times Nov. 29, and for
1.29 the amount of the five-year compared with 1.24 last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  