-- Italian Anti-Mafia Prosecutor Grasso to Run for Democratic Party
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-28T14:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/italian-anti-mafia-prosecutor-grasso-to-run-for-democratic-party.html
Italy ’s top anti-mafia prosecutor
Pietro Grasso said today he will run as a candidate for the
 Democratic Party  in national Parliamentary elections in
February.  Grasso has requested a leave from his job in order to enter
the race, he said today in Rome at a press conference with
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani.  “Many times as a magistrate I brought ideas to politics,
but only a few of them have been put into action,” said Grasso,
who has been Italy’s top anti-mafia prosecutor since 2005 and
previously served as chief prosecutor in Palermo, Italy.  “We chose to put two words -- morality and work -- before
the legislature and to make legality a top priority for our
country,” said Bersani, whose party leads in opinion polls.  Grasso will lead a district list of party candidates,
increasing his chances of winning a seat in Parliament. He also
said that no minister in Italy’s so-called technical government,
which the Democrats supported, will run in the elections for the
party.  Italian caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who said Dec.
23 that he would consider being the prime ministerial candidate
for a coalition backing his economic agenda, is meeting today in
Rome with some his supporters, including Union of Centrists
party leader  Pier Ferdinando Casini  and International
Cooperation Minister Andrea Riccardi, Ansa news agency reported
without citing anyone.  “There is no point in complaining, we must commit
ourselves. Rise up in politics,” Monti wrote in a Twitter post
on Christmas day.  The Vatican newspaper L’Osservatore Romano has endorsed
Monti’s decision to step in, saying the former European Union
commissioner is making an appeal to restore a sense of nobility
to Italian politics.  The Democratic Party leads in opinion polls with about 30
percent support, according to a SWG survey published Dec. 21.
Still, it might be difficult for the center-left coalition to
get a majority in the Senate unless it seeks an alliance with
the centrist parties backing Monti’s agenda.  A list led by Monti would get around 15 percent of the
vote, according to the same poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  