-- NYC Best: Coldplay, Phish, Whitney’s Legends, ‘Barber’
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/jay-z-coldplay-whitney-legends-shorter-barber-nyc-weekend.html
The Whitney is showing off its
permanent collection in a new exhibition, “American Legends:
From Calder to O’Keeffe.”  The museum’s holdings of 18 modern artists have been
arranged into a series of mini-retrospectives, including
familiar works as well as some that haven’t been shown in years.  You can see Joseph Stella’s Brooklyn Bridge,  Alexander
Calder ’s circus,  Edward Hopper ’s lonely streetscapes, Georgia
O’Keeffe’s erotic flowers.  Runs through May at 945 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-
570-3600;  http://whitney.org .  Saturday Night  Introduce your kids to opera at the Met. Bartlett Sher’s
production of “The Barber of Seville” has been trimmed to a
family-friendly two hours and will be sung in an English
translation by poet J.D. McClatchy.  Hear Rodion Pogossov as the wily barber, trilling “Figaro,
Figaro, Figaro!” as he enters.  At the  Metropolitan Opera ,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-
212-362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Afterwards, stop by Cafe Luxembourg for a hamburger with
those great French fries. 200 W. 70th St. Information: +1-212-
873-7411;  http://www.cafeluxembourg.com/ .  Sunday  Head to the Bard Graduate Center gallery for “Circus and
the City,” an exhibition about  New York ’s relationship to the
circus.  The history runs from John Bill Ricketts’s display of
equestrian talent in 1793 through P.T. Barnum and on to today’s
intimate Big Apple Circus. There are costumes, posters,
paintings and more.  At 18 W. 86th St. Information: +1-212-501-3023;
 http://www.bgc.bard.edu/gallery/ .  Sunday Night  To fight holiday fatigue, have a Ginseng Glow at Middle
Branch on 33rd Street. It’s not on the menu but bartender and
managing partner Lucinda Sterling created the drink using Santa
Teresa “1796” rum, Aperol and Korean red ginseng tea powder
with a splash of champagne on top. The little bit of lime and
honey makes a nice balance to the slightly bitter taste of the
ginseng.  Find the bar’s entrance through an unmarked door, down a
few steps in front of a nondescript brick building. This is a
craft-cocktail establishment, not a speed-rack saloon, so
prepare to wait for the magic.  At 154 E. 33rd St.  New Year’s Eve  If you don’t want to spend the day standing around Times
Square, welcome the New Year in  Brooklyn . Jay-Z returns to the
Barclays Center following eight sold-out shows this autumn.  He’ll be joined by Coldplay, in their first New York stand
since 2005. (They’re also playing sans Jay-Z the night before.)  If you get hungry, try a Cuban sandwich at the Cafe Habana
booth.  The Barclays Center is at 620 Atlantic Ave. Information:
+1-212-359-6387;  http://www.barclayscenter.com/ .  Looking for a more traditional approach to ringing in the
New Year? World Yacht is embarking on a harbor cruise that
includes a five-course dinner with selections like crab brandade
and filet mignon.  There’s a DJ, a premium open bar, an ultra-swank lounge
upstairs and a spectacular view of the city and the midnight
firework display at the Statue of Liberty.  Tickets are $350, boarding starts at 9 p.m. and the boat
sails from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. Information: www.worldyacht.com.  (Laurie Muchnick and  Catherine Smith  are editors for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on movies and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer of this story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 