-- KGB Used Aeroflot Jets as Spy Planes, U.K. Files Show
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-12-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/kgb-used-aeroflot-jets-as-spy-planes-u-k-files-show.html
Soviet spies used civilian planes to
snoop on British and American military installations during the
1980s, newly released U.K. documents show.  Britain’s Royal Air Force “established that some of these
aircraft deviated from their flight-plan routes in circumstances
which would lead us to assume that they were gathering
intelligence,” the then defense secretary, John Nott, wrote in
a memo to Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  that’s among
government files from 1982 published today after being kept
confidential for the prescribed 30 years.  The papers from the  National Archives  in London give an
insight into both the extent of Soviet espionage and the U.K.
government’s awareness of it. One agent from the KGB, the Soviet
security agency, was identified on arrival in 1977 and followed
for five years, subject to a series of British intelligence
operations before finally being expelled.  Relations between Thatcher’s government and the  Soviet
Union  were tense at the time, despite attempts by diplomats to
persuade her to take a conciliatory line. More than once in her
files she rejects a course of action proposed in a memo,
referring to the 1979 Soviet invasion of  Afghanistan  as the
reason.  As Communist Party general secretary  Leonid Brezhnev 
approached his 75th birthday at the end of 1981, Foreign
Secretary Peter Carrington said it would be “churlish” of her
not to send congratulations.  “Afghanistan?” Thatcher wrote in the margins of the memo
suggesting this. “I really don’t think we should send a
message.” She underlined “don’t.”  ‘Unannounced Descent’  Nott wrote to Thatcher about the KGB’s use of Aeroflot
planes over Britain after the Royal Air Force decided to look at
the activities of “the thousand or so Warsaw Pact airliners
which fly over the U.K. each month.”  In “one incident of particular interest,” the defense
secretary wrote, an Ilyushin IL62 from the Soviet airline “made
an unauthorized and unannounced descent from 35,000 feet to
10,000 feet, just below cloud level, to fly over  RAF Boulmer , a
radar station currently being modernized” in northeast  England .  The plane turned off its automatic broadcast of its height
during the maneuver, after which it returned to its previous
altitude and began transmitting again.  The RAF subsequently established the same plane performed a
similar operation over the U.S. Navy base at Groton,
 Connecticut , when the first Trident submarine was being
launched.  Trade Official  The KGB was also using more traditional methods. In
February 1982, the Security Service, the British internal
security agency popularly known as MI5, asked for permission to
expel a Russian trade official, Vadim Fedorovich Zadneprovskiy,
after he “engaged in unacceptable intelligence-gathering
activities.” According to the MI5 report, he had been
identified as a KGB agent on his arrival in 1977 and followed.  MI5 used his inquiries about British counter-surveillance
techniques to establish gaps in the KGB’s knowledge, with “some
success.” The security service watched as he ran a British
businessman, whom they codenamed “Court Usher,” as an agent,
even using him to deliver equipment “in a thoroughly
clandestine manner.” After concluding it wouldn’t be able to
recruit Zadneprovskiy, MI5 demanded he be thrown out.  It wasn’t just professional spies trying to get in on the
act. As the Falklands War raged, and the government wrestled
with the question of how to keep French-built Exocet anti-ship
missiles out of Argentine hands, Attorney General Michael Havers
sent Thatcher a handwritten note suggesting a way to intercept a
shipment.  ‘Bond Movie’  Acknowledging his idea “may be thought to be more
appropriate to a James Bond movie,” Havers said the Secret
Intelligence Service, MI6, should try to insert its own person
as loadmaster on any flight used to carry missiles to  Argentina .  “If this can be agreed, the loadmaster has total control
over the flight and, therefore, could redirect the aircraft in
transit to (for example)  Bermuda ,” he wrote. “This will cost
money (this is an expensive dirty business) but could, in my
view, be cheap at the price.”  Havers may not have been aware at the time that MI6 was
already running operations to precisely that end. Nott’s diary
recalls, without giving details, how the agency both prevented
Argentina buying missiles available on the open market and
disabled missiles it thought could fall into Argentine hands.  The U.S., while leading attempts to broker a cease-fire
between Argentina and the U.K., provided information from spies
as part of its support to Britain in the conflict.  ‘Magnificent Support’  A briefing for Thatcher before a meeting on June 9 with
President  Ronald Reagan  refers to “continuing close co-
operation between our respective intelligence agencies,
including the provision of a wide range of crucial additional
intelligence material and the exchange of intelligence
assessments.” At the meeting, Thatcher told Reagan of her
“grief” that his “magnificent support” could not be made
public.  There’s another nod to Bond in a briefing for Thatcher on
the entourage that was accompanying Reagan on a visit to the
U.K.  Secretary of State Alexander Haig “smokes a packet and a
half of cigarettes a day and enjoys (very) dry Martini,” the
note said. It didn’t say if he preferred his drink shaken or
stirred.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 