-- Kia Names Ex-Audi Designer Schreyer First Non-Korean President
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-12-28T09:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/kia-names-ex-audi-designer-schreyer-first-non-korean-president.html
Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  promoted its chief
designer Peter Schreyer to the role of president, the first
foreigner to attain the position at the company, as the South
Korean automaker seeks to elevate its global profile.  German-born Schreyer, hired from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2006, was
promoted to president from executive vice president, Kia said in
a statement today. The appointment makes Frankfurt-based
Schreyer, who remains chief design officer, one of three
presidents at the company.  “The promotion shows Kia’s key focus areas shifting from
production and cost efficiency, which were traditionally
considered more important, to design and research and
development,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at KB Investment
& Securities Co. in Seoul. “It also symbolizes Kia’s urge to
advance as a global company -- showing a foreigner could make it
to one of the top positions.”  Kia and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  are both headed by Chairman Chung Mong Koo. His son Chung Eui Sun hired Schreyer when the younger
Chung was co-CEO of Kia six years ago.  Kia and Hyundai Motor are stepping up efforts to move
upscale and away from their reputations as builders of cheap,
utilitarian cars. Schreyer, the designer of the Audi TT Coupe,
was hired to overhaul Kia’s lineup and allow the Seoul-based
automaker to charge more for its models.  ‘Tiger-Nose’  At VW, Schreyer was head designer for the namesake brand
and oversaw the development of the new Beetle, introduced in
1998. The 59-year-old studied transportation design at the Royal
College of Art in  London , joined Audi in 1980 and later became
the brand’s head of design.  Schreyer has revised Kia’s sedan lineup since joining the
company. His team introduced a common front shape with the
“tiger-nose” grille for Kia models in 2007, now featured by
almost all the company’s vehicles including the Optima, the
revamped Sorento sport-utility vehicle, the Soul crossover and
the Forte compact.  Kia, 34 percent owned by Hyundai Motor, is targeting to
sell 2.75 million units in 2013, the Korea Economic Daily
reported on Dec. 26, citing an unidentified Hyundai official.
Hyundai,  South Korea ’s biggest automaker, expects to beat its
full-year sales forecast of 4.29 million cars, Chief Financial
Officer Lee Won Hee said Oct. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  