-- N.Y. Wins U.S. Court Review of $415 Million Madoff Fight
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-28T23:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/n-y-wins-u-s-court-review-of-415-million-madoff-fight.html
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman persuaded a federal judge to decide a dispute with
the Bernard Madoff brokerage trustee over distributing a $415
million settlement with a Ponzi scheme investor to victims of
the fraud.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan said he was
convinced the case, started in bankruptcy court by trustee
 Irving Picard , requires a ruling by a higher court “after
carefully considering the parties’ written submissions and oral
argument,” according to an order filed today.  Schneiderman in June agreed to settle a state lawsuit
against the former Madoff investor, J.  Ezra Merkin , by allotting
most of the settlement money to investors in Merkin’s hedge
funds and the rest to the state. Picard responded by suing
Schneiderman in bankruptcy court to stop him from completing the
deal, saying it obstructs his own efforts to collect $500
million from Merkin and his funds for a different group of
investors.  Picard has said that under bankruptcy law he has sole right
to sue former Madoff investors who allegedly knew of the fraud,
and decide who gets the money. Rakoff has knocked tens of
billions of dollars off of Picard’s claims through rulings on
his rights as trustee and liquidator of the con man’s estate.  ‘Unprecedented’  Asking Rakoff to take this case, New York’s highest law
enforcement official argued that Picard hadn’t established a
legal claim to any of Merkin’s assets.  It would be “unprecedented” for a bankruptcy court to
stop the settlement of claims by a state law enforcement agency,
“on the ground that the settlement might make it difficult for
the trustee to collect a judgment he hopes to obtain someday,”
Schneiderman said in court filings.  “We are pleased with the judge’s decision,” said James
Freedland, a spokesman for the attorney general. Amanda Remus, a
Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Picard’s suit against Schneiderman is one of two similar
court fights that set the trustee against a state attorney
general. Picard was ordered into mediation after suing
California Attorney General Kamala Harris, alleging her $270
million lawsuit against a former Madoff investor’s estate
interfered with his collection of assets, and would help only
Californians.  Bankruptcy Clash  Both attorneys general portray their fight with Picard in
court filings as a clash between federal bankruptcy law, which
describes a trustee’s powers in fraud cases, and state law
governing their right to bring similar cases against investors
who funneled money to the Madoff Ponzi scheme.  According to Schneiderman, Picard is interfering with the
attorney general’s power to enforce New York’s Martin Act and
other legal rights of the people of the state. Since 2009,
Picard has “made intermittent efforts to intimidate” New
York’s attorneys general, threatening to sue to make them turn
over any funds taken from Merkin, Schneiderman said in a
September filing.  Removing the case from bankruptcy court “will promote
judicial efficiency and avoid further delay in making
distributions from the Merkin defendants’ assets” to hundreds
of investors who otherwise would get nothing from Madoff’s
estate, he told Rakoff.  Lawyer’s Call  Late last year, a Picard lawyer called the attorney
general’s office, saying he had heard a settlement was close,
Schneiderman said. Picard’s lawyer said the trustee would sue to
stop the deal “if the NYAG did not agree within 48 hours that
the bankruptcy court would have exclusive jurisdiction over any
disputes between the trustee and the NYAG,” according to a
September filing.  The attorney general rejected the demand, offering to hold
a meeting that the lawyer said he would set up and never did,
Schneiderman said.  Rakoff told the lawyers for the two sides to call the court
by Jan. 4 to set up a schedule. He would explain his decision to
take the case in a written opinion later, the judge said.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  