-- Nadal Withdraws From Doha, Australian Open With Virus
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-28T15:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/nadal-withdraws-from-doha-australian-open-with-virus.html
Rafael Nadal  withdrew from the
 Australian Open  because of a stomach virus, extending his
absence from tennis that started seven months ago with a knee
injury.  Nadal said in an e-mailed statement that he also pulled out
of next week’s Qatar Exxon Mobil Open in Doha because of the
illness. The Australian Open, the season’s first Grand Slam
tournament, is scheduled to start in Melbourne on Jan. 14.  “I always said that my return to competition will be when
I am in the right conditions to play and after all this time
away from the courts I rather not accelerate the comeback and
prefer to do things well,” Nadal said in the statement.  Nadal won a record seventh  French Open  title in June, his
11th Grand Slam single championship. He hasn’t played
competitively since losing in the second round of Wimbledon to
then 100th-ranked Lukas Rosol of the Czech Republic later that
month.  Diagnosed with a partially torn patella tendon as well as
knee inflammation, the Spanish left-hander missed the London
Olympics, the  U.S. Open , the season-ending ATP World Tour Finals
in London and the final of the Davis Cup.  Angel Ruiz-Cotoro, his doctor, said Nadal had “suffered
last week a viral process that provoked a gastroenteritis with
high fever for four to five days. Due to this, it’s been
recommended a break from sports for a week. Because of this and
considering that the next event is Doha, starting next week he
won’t be in sufficient physical conditions to continue with his
rehabilitation process.”  Nadal won the Australian Open in 2009, beating  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  in the championship match, and was
runner-up last year to top-ranked Novak Djokovic of  Serbia .  Return Delayed  After resuming training at the end of November, he had
initially been due to make his comeback at an exhibition event
yesterday in  Abu Dhabi . He said on his Facebook page on Dec. 25
that he had been ordered by doctors not to play because of a
stomach infection.  Nadal dropped two spots to No. 4 on the ATP World Tour
rankings during his absence. With a game built on grinding his
opponents down from the back of the court, the 26-year-old Nadal
has been injury prone throughout his career, with the current
layoff his longest.  Nadal missed the defense of his Wimbledon title in 2009
because of knee tendinitis, and has also struggled with a
shoulder injury and a recurring stress fracture in a foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 