-- Natura Riskless Return Faces Threat on Expansion Abroad
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2012-12-28T18:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/natura-riskless-return-faces-threat-on-expansion-abroad.html
Natura (NATU3)  Cosmeticos SA, Brazil’s
largest maker of beauty products, is expanding abroad after its
focus on the domestic market helped deliver the best risk-
adjusted return on the benchmark index.  The company, whose door-to-door business model mirrors  Avon
Products Inc. (AVP) , agreed last week to buy 65 percent of  Australia ’s
Aesop for A$68 million ($70.5 million). The acquisition of
Aesop, which has brick-and-mortar stores from  New York  to  Tokyo ,
marks a shift in Natura’s strategy of fueling growth through a
network of 1.5 million consultants peddling products from home
or work.  The tactic helped Natura post a return of 2.56 percent when
adjusted for volatility this year before today, the BLOOMBERG
RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows. That was the best gain on
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index, followed by consumer-health
products manufacturer  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  with an adjusted gain of
2.39 percent and water utility Cia. Saneamento Basico do Estado
de Sao Paulo with an adjusted gain of 2.46 percent.  “As long as they don’t get distracted from what is their
core market of Brazil I think they can dabble in some other
territories, but certainly that is something that bears
monitoring,” said Wendy Trevisani, portfolio manager of
Thornburg International Value Fund, which has $28 billion under
management including about 18.8 million  Natura shares . “While
growth in Brazil will remain strong, that growth isn’t something
that will continue forever.”  Avon Cuts  Natura’s expansion comes as Avon, the world’s biggest door-
to-door cosmetics seller, exits some international markets and
cuts jobs. New York-based Avon said in a Dec. 11 statement it
aims to save $400 million by the end of 2015 through cost-
cutting measures that include eliminating about  1,500 jobs 
globally and pulling out of  South Korea  and  Vietnam .  The press office for Natura declined to comment. Avon
didn’t respond to e-mail and telephone requests from Bloomberg.  The Brazilian maker of shampoos, sun-blocks and makeup
trades at 28 times estimated 2013 earnings, compared with 17 for
Avon, as Natura’s sales growth has outpaced its bigger rival
every year since 2007. Natura gets 88 percent of its sales from
Brazil, while Avon gets about 50 percent from  Latin America ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Unemployment near a record low and rising incomes will
likely fuel further revenue gains for the company, Clodoir Vieira, an economist at brokerage Souza Barros, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Brazil ’s economy is set to
grow 3.5 percent in 2013, up from 1 percent this year, according
to the median of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey conducted
Dec. 14-18.  GDP Growth  “Next year, GDP growth should improve, which really favors
these low-value products that don’t require credit and are based
more on a family’s income” said Vieira, whose housekeeper sells
Natura products, earning a commission of as much as 30 percent.  Natura, which bills itself as environmentally friendly
because its packaging is biodegradable and can be reused, is
seeking to build a “truly global brand,” Chief Executive
Officer Alessandro Carlucci said in a Dec. 20 regulatory filing.  The stock rose 1.6 percent to 58.93 reais at 4:34 p.m. in
 Sao Paulo  trading, bringing its year-to-date gain to 62 percent,
compared with 7.4 percent for the Bovespa. Natura’s 30-day
 historic volatility , a measure of price swings, climbed to 16
from this year’s low of 12.8 on Dec. 4.  ‘Expansion Spree’  “Investors may fear that Natura again is embarking on an
international expansion spree that distracts management from the
opportunities in Latin America,” Juliana Rozenbaum, an analyst
at Itau Corretores de Valores SA who rates the stock the
equivalent of a hold, wrote in a Dec. 20 report. Natura
previously tried to break into the market in Miami.  “The fact that Aesop runs flagship stores could also raise
questions about Natura’s willingness to learn about retail
operations and whether this would eventually be needed in Brazil
-- which we don’t believe to be the case,” she said.  The company’s cash from operations and low debt are a
“very big strength,” said Trevisani, the portfolio manager at
Thornburg.  “It’s a great little company,” she said. “It’s been an
amazing investment for us in light of what’s been a very
volatile market in Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  