-- Natural Gas Futures May Drop as Moderate Weather Replaces Cold
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-12-28T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/natural-gas-futures-may-drop-as-moderate-weather-replaces-cold.html
Natural gas futures may drop next
week on forecasts for moderate weather after a frigid start to
January, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seven of 14 analysts, or 50 percent, predicted that futures
will decline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Jan. 4.
Five, or 36 percent, said gas will advance and two said prices
will stay the same. Last week, 57 percent of participants said
gas would rise this week.  Unusually cold weather will be replaced as warmer air
spreads east from the central U.S. over the next 11 to 15 days,
according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  A  stockpile surplus  expanded during the first half of
December as above-normal temperatures reduced demand for the
heating fuel.  “Even though we have colder temperatures every day that
goes by, we still have plenty in storage,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “It’s
not really cold enough to cut into that supply yet.”  Natural gas has fallen 9.7 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $3.354
per million British thermal units so far this week in New York.
The futures are up 12 percent this year, heading for the first
annual gain in five years.  Prices will probably stay in a tight range of around $3.30
to $3.50 with a “downward bias” because ample supplies,
 weather forecasts  and thin trading volume during of the New
Year’s holiday period, Flynn said.  Stockpile Decline  U.S.  gas stockpiles  probably fell by 72 billion cubic feet
last week, based on the median of 11 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The five-year average decline for the week is 140
billion, Energy Department data show. Supplies fell by 87
billion the same time last year.  The department is scheduled to release the report at 10:30
a.m. today in  Washington , delayed by a day because of Christmas.  Inventories totaled 3.724 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Dec. 14, 10 percent above the  five-year average  for the
period, according to the department. The supply surplus was 4.6
percent at the end of November.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 49 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  5      7      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  