-- NBA’s Nets May Have More Interest in Jackson Than He Has in Them
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-28T14:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/nba-s-nets-may-have-more-interest-in-jackson-than-he-has-in-them.html
Phil Jackson  may be at the top of
the  Brooklyn  Nets’ coaching wish list to replace the fired  Avery Johnson . Whether he’s interested is the bigger question.  The 67-year-old Jackson, an 11-time National Basketball
Association champion coach, is the No. 1 target of the Nets,
ESPN.com reported yesterday citing unidentified people familiar
with the situation. Jackson’s agent, Todd Musburger, told
NBA.com that Jackson has no interest in the job at this time.  The Nets fired Johnson yesterday after losing 10 of 13
games following an 11-4 start. General Manager Billy King said
the search for Johnson’s successor would begin immediately, with
P.J. Carlesimo, 63, running the team on an interim basis. King
declined to address the report about Jackson.  “I’m not going to comment on anybody we’re supposedly
going to reach out to,” King said at a news conference. “At
this point, P.J. is our coach. I’ll be in constant contact with
ownership, but right now we’re going to give all our support to
P.J. and see how it goes.”  While luring Jackson out of retirement probably would be
expensive -- he made $12 million per year in his final seasons
with the  Los Angeles Lakers  from 2009 to 2011 -- Nets
billionaire owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  has spent money aggressively
to upgrade the roster.  Adding Jackson would be another salvo in the Nets’ budding
 New York  rivalry with the Knicks, who at 21-8 have the second-
best record in the Eastern Conference. Jackson was a reserve on
the Knicks’ 1973 NBA championship team.  .500 Record  The Nets’ slide has dropped them into third place in the
Eastern Conference’s  Atlantic Division  with a 14-14 record. All-
Star guard Deron Williams, who is shooting a career-low 39.8
percent, criticized Johnson’s offensive system last week and
King said yesterday that Johnson wasn’t reaching the players
anymore.  “The writing was on the wall,” said former NBA Most
Valuable Player  Charles Barkley , who’s now an analyst for Turner
Network Television. “It goes one of two ways -- you either
start winning or, if you keep losing, the coach is going to get
fired.”  Jackson’s 11 titles as coach of the Lakers and  Chicago
Bulls  are an NBA record, and it’s not known whether he’d come
out of retirement to coach a team that’s not considered a
championship contender. The Nets have 30-1 odds to win the NBA
title at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, 10th out of the
league’s 30 teams.  Former Phoenix Suns General Manager  Steve Kerr , who won
five NBA titles as a player and now works as a TNT analyst, said
the Nets’ vacancy lacks appeal for a coach as accomplished as
Jackson, who was inducted into the  Basketball Hall of Fame  as a
coach in 2007.  Average Team  “It’s an average to decent team,” Kerr said on TNT.
“They probably should be in the playoffs this year, but they’re
capped out for the next five years. They’ve got these huge
contracts with guys who are good players, but not great players.
 Deron Williams  hasn’t been himself for two years now and  Joe Johnson  is on the down side of his career.”  Johnson is making $19.7 million this season, while Williams
has a $17.2 million salary. Brook Lopez is under contract for
$13.7 million this year, with Kris Humphries getting $12 million
and  Gerald Wallace  $9.7 million.  The Nets, who haven’t been to the playoffs since 2007,
traded for Joe Johnson, a six-time All-Star, during the
offseason, while re-signing Williams, Lopez, Humphries and
Wallace. Brooklyn’s postseason drought is tied for the NBA’s
third-longest.  Nets Difficulties  “It’s a team that’s going to have a lot of difficulty
righting the ship and making any changes personnel-wise over the
next few years,” Kerr said. “So I think it’s a really
difficult job to step in right now.”  Jackson flirted with a return to coaching this season when
the Lakers fired  Mike Brown  after five games. He was passed over
in favor of Mike D’Antoni, the former coach of the Suns, Knicks
and Denver Nuggets.  Barkley said D’Antoni’s up-tempo offensive style would have
been perfect for Brooklyn’s personnel. Jackson is a proponent of
the so-called triangle offense, in which players are asked to
read the defense and react by making the proper pass.  “They should be one of the three or four best teams in the
East with all of the talent they have,” Barkley said on TNT.
“They need to play at a much faster pace. They have too much
talent to be walking the ball up and down the court. There’s one
coach in the NBA who plays that way and it’s  Mike D’Antoni , and
he’s got a job now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  