-- New Year Fireworks, Doherty Gig, Travolta: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-12-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/new-year-fireworks-doherty-gig-travolta-london-weekend.html
Pete Doherty is showing a newly
sensitive side in acoustic songs he’s playing in Brixton.  Doherty is trying to get the headlines to focus on his
music rather than his years of drug abuse and relationships with
 Kate Moss  and  Amy Winehouse . His new material is quiet,
reflective and far from the punky thrash of his rock bands
Libertines and Babyshambles.  Jamm, 261 Brixton Rd, London SW9 6LH. Information:
 http://www.brixtonjamm.org  or +44-20-7274-5537.  Saturday  Marlene Dietrich and Carmen Miranda bring glamour to
Southeast Asia.  More exactly, they serve as role models for a troupe of
cross-dressing British military entertainers in “Privates on
Parade,” directed and produced by  Michael Grandage . The musical
farce is set in 1948 and features three gay soldiers, one of
them ostentatiously so.  “Privates on Parade” elicits laughter even as it tackles
serious themes such as masculinity and war. Simon Russell Beale
and the rest of the cast never disappoint.  “Privates on Parade” is at the Noel Coward Theatre.
 http://www.michaelgrandagecompany.com  or +44-844-482-5140.  The Ivy is the ultimate theaterland restaurant and well
worth considering when seeing “Privates on Parade.”  The Ivy has never been particularly expensive, and it’s now
much easier to get a table than it was a few years ago.
Information:  http://www.the-ivy.co.uk/  or +44-20-7836-4751.  Saturday Night  It’s not every day you see senior management in pointes.  English National Ballet’s new artistic director Tamara Rojo
-- formerly a Royal Ballet star -- is refusing to hang up her
tutu, and no one’s complaining. Watch her sparkle as Clara in
“The Nutcracker” at the Coliseum on Saturday evening. The
production runs through Jan. 5.  From Jan. 9, you can see Rojo and other members of the
company perform “Sleeping Beauty.”  Information:  http://www.ballet.org.uk  or +44-20-7581-1245.  Sunday  The white polyester suit that brought fame to  John Travolta 
has been borrowed from its present owner -- a Mayfair-based
businessman -- and put on show.  The suit, one of three bought in  Brooklyn  for “Saturday
Night Fever,” sits on a dancing mannequin in “Hollywood
Costume” at the Victoria & Albert Museum. There’s also  Bruce Willis ’s blood-stained shirt from “Die Hard,”  Robert De Niro ’s
beige army jacket from “ Taxi Driver ” and  Meryl Streep ’s frumpy
blue suit from “The  Iron Lady .”  “Hollywood Costume” is a popular end-of-year show -- so
book ahead. Through Jan. 27 at the V&A, Cromwell Road, SW7 2RL.  Information:  http://www.vam.ac.uk  or +44-20-7942-2000.  If you are looking for a treat while visiting the show,
Daphne’s is a popular and charming restaurant whose longevity is
testament to its elegance. Daphne’s is open over the holiday
period (apart from Jan. 1) and there’s a set menu if you are on
a budget. Information:  http://www.daphnes-restaurant.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7589-4257.  New Year’s Eve  London’s skies light up on New Year’s Eve, courtesy of the
Mayor. Expect thousands to park along the river for a view. The
party starts with a live DJ at 10 p.m. Then Big Ben’s loud
bonging sets off the fireworks. Also on the menu: a collective
“Auld Lang Syne” singalong:
 http://www.london.gov.uk/events/nye .  If you’d rather skip the fireworks, put on your skates and
go for a swerve right on the river, at  Somerset House :
 http://www.somersethouse.org.uk/ice-rink .  Or you can cross the Thames to the Southbank Centre for the
Vintage New Year’s Eve Party. Tickets are priced from 100 pounds
($161), with options including gourmet dining. The party at the
Royal Festival Hall includes DJs such as Sink the Pink, a George
Formby impersonator and many live bands. Information:
 http://ticketing.southbankcentre.co.uk/   Quaglino’s is hosting a New Year’s Eve Ball. Tickets cost
125 pounds for a three-course meal, a glass of  Champagne  and
live music from a swing band and a DJ.  Mestizo is popular with Mexicans in London and this
restaurant, just off the Euston Road, may be a great place to
spend New Year’s Eve. There’s a taco party in the basement bar.
Tickets are 10 pounds if you book ahead, or 15 pounds on the
door. In the restaurant itself, Fiesta de Ano Nuevo kicks off at
8 p.m. Tickets are 55 pounds per person. Information:
 http://www.mestizomx.com/  or +44-20-7387-4064.  New Year’s Day  London is seeing off 2012 by trotting out the Olympic
volunteers who made the Games happen.  This year’s New Year’s Day Parade will feature 400 smiling
and waving volunteers and performers who took part in the
opening and closing ceremonies. They’ll be accompanied, as they
were for the Games, by drum ensemble Pandemonium.  The parade starts at 11:45 a.m. in Piccadilly before
winding its way to  Trafalgar Square  and  Parliament Square .  Information:  http://www.londonparade.co.uk .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
film.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 