-- NorthStar’s Hamamoto Sells NYC Co-Op in $50 Million Deal
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/northstar-s-hamamoto-sells-nyc-co-op-in-50-million-deal.html
David Hamamoto, chairman and chief
executive officer of  NorthStar Realty Finance Corp. (NRF) , sold his
Manhattan  co-op apartment  in a $50 million deal, exactly the
price he was seeking when he put it on the market in June.  The sale of the property at 944 Fifth Ave. was completed on
Dec. 7, according to New York City property records made public
yesterday. The buyer is listed as  Frank McCourt , with no other
identifying information provided.  The transaction includes a six-bedroom, six-bathroom unit
spanning the building’s  11th floor , as well as a ground-floor,
two-bedroom guest apartment, according to property records and
StreetEasy.com, a real estate listings website. The main
apartment, with a private elevator landing and “majestic”
views of Central Park, was featured in Architectural Digest,
according to StreetEasy.  The listing broker, John Burger of Brown Harris Stevens,
didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment on the deal.
Hamamoto didn’t respond to an e-mail.  NorthStar, a New York-based commercial property lender and
investor, has been involved in deals including seizing Chicago’s
landmark John Hancock Center this year from owners that included
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall real estate unit. NorthStar
teamed with Deutsche Bank AG to buy out debtholders and take
over the building, Chicago’s fourth-tallest.  Hamamoto also served as executive chairman of  Morgans Hotel
Group (MHGC) , owner of the Delano in  Miami Beach , Florida, and the
Hudson in midtown Manhattan. He resigned from that position and
the board of Morgans on Nov. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  