-- NYC Subways to Provide Arrival Times for Mobile Apps, Lhota Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-28T17:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/nyc-subways-to-provide-arrival-times-for-mobile-apps-lhota-says.html
New York City subway riders will be
able to see when their next train will arrive through a
smartphone application, Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Chairman Joseph Lhota said.  The app, developed by the MTA for  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone and
iPad devices, will also be adaptable for  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Android
software, Lhota said. Called MTA Subway Time, it will work
above ground at 156 stations on seven of the city’s 24 subway
routes. Lines with older technology will require more time
before joining the system.  “This would have been unthinkable a generation ago, but
now it’s a reality,” Lhota said at a news briefing in
 Manhattan ’s Grand Central Terminal. “You can find out whether
you need to go downstairs right away or whether or not you can
continue to make your phone call from upstairs.”  For Lhota, 58, the announcement was one of the last
official acts of his one-year stint as chairman of the biggest
U.S. transit agency. Last week he resigned, effective tomorrow,
saying he’s considering running for the Republican mayoral
nomination in 2013.  The system required installation of about $228 million of
new signal technology over the past 11 years, Lhota said. It’s
an extension of countdown clocks installed in many of the city’s
busiest subway stations by Lhota’s predecessor,  Jay Walder . The
programs use the same technology, Lhota said.  ’Fantastic’ Plan  “I think it’s fantastic, exactly the kind of information
riders want, and it will get them to use subways more often,”
said Gene Russianoff, an attorney and spokesman for the
Straphangers Campaign, a riders’ advocacy group.  The stations accessible through hand-held devices are the
numbered lines -- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 -- as well as the shuttle
between Grand Central Terminal and Times Square, Lhota said.  Two other lines, the L between northern  Brooklyn  and lower
Manhattan to 14th Street, and the No. 7 line that runs between
Manhattan and Queens, are being similarly updated and will be
available for users of the service soon, said Adam Lisberg, an
MTA spokesman.  The  New York  subway system handled 1.6 billion passengers
in 2011, and transports 5.3 million riders a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  