-- Obama Has Double Dilemma in Choice of New Pentagon Chief
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/obama-has-double-dilemma-in-choice-of-new-pentagon-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  faces a
growing dilemma in his choice of a new defense secretary to
succeed  Leon Panetta .  Having dropped United Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  and
named Massachusetts Democratic Senator John Kerry to replace
 Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state, Obama runs the risk of
appearing weak if he bows to political opposition again and
chooses someone other than former Nebraska Republican Senator
Chuck Hagel to lead the Pentagon.  Picking another candidate would show for a second time
“that the president’s important choices for personnel can be
vetoed by two or three senators,” said Sean Kay, a professor of
politics and government at Ohio Wesleyan University in Delaware,
Ohio, who specializes in U.S. foreign and defense policy. “The
White House will come out of this significantly weakened.”  If Obama sticks with Hagel in the face of opposition from
an ad hoc coalition of Republican advocates of muscular defense
policies, Democratic supporters of Israel and gay rights
activists, though, Obama might be forced to spend political
capital he needs for the bigger battle over the  federal budget 
and deficit reduction.  The leading alternative at present is Deputy Defense
Secretary  Ashton Carter , according to a person familiar with the
selection process, who asked for anonymity because the White
House hasn’t announced the president’s pick. Another prospect is
former Undersecretary of Defense for policy Michele Flournoy,
which would enable Obama to break new ground by nominating the
first woman for the top defense post. Former aides to President
 George W. Bush  and Republican commentators opposed to Hagel have
said they’d prefer either Carter or Flournoy.  Policy Implications  The choice has policy implications as well as political
ones. Carter is an expert on managing the Defense Department’s
byzantine bureaucracy and $600 billion-plus annual budget.
Flournoy is a defense policy expert with close ties to Obama.
Both, said one administration official who spoke on the the
condition of anonymity to discuss personnel matters, would cause
the disciplined Obama White House less heartburn than would
Hagel.  Hagel, 66, who met with Obama on Dec. 4 to discuss the
Pentagon job, served with his brother Tom as an enlisted man in
Vietnam and returned home with two Purple Hearts and a
conviction that, as he put it in a 2002  interview , “war is the
last resort that we, a nation, a people, call upon to settle a
dispute.”  ‘Unshakable Integrity’  The criticism of Hagel drew a counter-attack from a
bipartisan group of former U.S. national security advisers --
James L. Jones, Brent Scowcroft,  Zbigniew Brzezinski  and Frank Carlucci. “Hagel is a man of unshakable integrity and wisdom
who has served his country in the most distinguished manner in
peace and war,” they wrote in a letter published in the
Washington Post on Dec. 25.  Supporters argue that his service record -- he would be the
first former enlisted soldier to run the Pentagon -- and his
blunt manner -- “nonsense” is a word he frequently uses --
would serve him well in curbing defense spending and standing up
to big contractors and their congressional allies, as well as
four-star general officers who have no time for sergeants.  He’s drawn criticism from some Republicans for his public
opposition to the Bush administration’s troop surge during the
 Iraq war , questioning unilateral economic sanctions against
Iran, and calling the  defense budget  “bloated,” and also from
some members of both parties for citing the influence of the
“Jewish lobby” on behalf of Israel.  Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and
 John Thune  of South Dakota have expressed concerns about Hagel
and have promised tough confirmation hearings. Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, also a Republican, has said he wouldn’t support
a Hagel nomination.  ‘Left of Obama’  “However bad Obama’s foreign policy is, Hagel is to the
left of Obama,” William Kristol, who was chief of staff to Vice
President Dan Quayle, said in a Dec. 14 podcast. Kristol is
editor of the Weekly Standard, which calls itself a
“conservative magazine and blog.”  The rise of interest groups and individuals who oppose
White House cabinet nominations is a recent phenomenon, said
Martha Kumar, professor of political science at  Towson
University  in Maryland, who’s tracked presidential transitions.  “Once a name is put forward, you’ve groups lining up
pretty quickly and that can become a point that opposition
lawmakers use,” Kumar said in a phone interview.  The Obama administration also may be floating nominees’
names to assess opposition because, with negotiations over taxes
and spending programs under way, “you don’t want to spend time
arguing over nominations,” she said.  Contrarian Perspective  Discussions over fiscal matters also may be delaying Obama
naming his cabinet appointments before his second inauguration
on Jan. 21, Kumar said. At the start of their second terms,
President  Bill Clinton  had named most of his national security
team by Dec. 20, and Bush had completed naming his new cabinet
by this time, Kumar said.  Choosing Hagel, who opposed sending more U.S. troops to
Iraq in 2007 and has called for engaging with adversaries such
as Iran, might bring a contrarian perspective to Obama’s second
term, Kay said.  “When he ran for president in 2007, Obama said we don’t
need to just end the war in Iraq, but change the mindset that
got us into war,” Kay said. “If you don’t have people around
you who don’t challenge the most entrenched mindsets in
Washington like the military,” the president may not get good
advice.  Democratic Hawks  While Hagel is viewed as wary of U.S. military engagements,
Flournoy, the former Pentagon official who’s an adviser to the
 Boston Consulting Group , had been backed by former deputy
defense secretary and World Bank president  Paul Wolfowitz  as
well as by Kristol. She is considered a Democrat who favors a
more muscular U.S. military and isn’t unwilling to use that
power to pursue national security goals, said Peter Feaver, a
professor of political science and public policy at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  She represented “the hawkish wing of the Democratic party,
particularly when she was out of office during the Bush years,”
said Feaver, who was a national security council aide to
Presidents Clinton and George W. Bush and supported Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  Where Hagel was critical of the Bush administration’s
policies in Iraq, Flournoy criticized the Republican
administration “for failing to properly resource its overly
ambitious goals.”  Weapons Wonk  Flournoy served as the Pentagon’s top policy official from
2009 until February this year, when she stepped down to be more
available for her teenage children. In 2009, when the Obama
administration debated the size of the surge force to send to
Afghanistan, Flournoy argued for a larger force that would
remain longer than the White House wanted, Feaver said, citing
her role as mentioned in the book “Obama’s Wars” by  Bob Woodward .  Carter, who has alternated between Washington posts and a
faculty position at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of
Government, is a former Clinton administration Pentagon official
who was responsible for nuclear weapons reduction efforts. In
the Obama administration, he became the Pentagon’s top weapons
acquisition official until Obama nominated him to become deputy
defense secretary in October 2011.  A protege of Clinton administration defense secretary
William Perry, Carter has an advantage that neither Hagel nor
Flournoy have, Feaver said.  “He understands the procurement and management side of the
Pentagon, and that’s an important piece of the puzzle right
now,” Feaver said. “That’s where the money is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  