-- Lockheed Wins DoD Contracts Worth as Much $5.6 Billion
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-28T21:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/lockheed-wins-dod-contracts-worth-as-much-5-6-billion.html
Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT)  today received
Defense Department contracts worth as much as $5.6 billion for
31 additional F-35 jets and the last two of six advanced
military communications satellites, the Pentagon said.  The contracts will be immune from the automatic budget cuts
known as sequestration taking effect in 2013 if Congress and the
White House can’t negotiate an agreement to prevent more than
$600 billion in tax increases and the spending reductions.
Pentagon officials have said that most contracts awarded before
the start of 2013 wouldn’t be reduced.  Lockheed’s  Fort Worth , Texas-based Aeronautics unit’s
contract for a sixth installment of F-35s can’t exceed $3.67
billion when its final details are hammered out next year. The
Pentagon said it also awarded the company’s Sunnyvale,
California, Space Systems unit a $1.93 billion contract for the
final two  Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF)  satellites in
a constellation of six.  Today’s so-called “undefinitized contract action” for the
F-35 doesn’t trigger a $3.67 billion payment to the nation’s
largest defense contractor. Instead, it sets a threshold target
and obligates an unspecified amount to begin assembly of 18
conventional U.S.  Air Force  models, seven U.S. Navy variants
designed to land on aircraft carriers and six U.S. Marine Corps
short take-off and vertical landing (STOVL) versions.  Details such as the contract’s target costs, profit, cost
ceiling and overrun share line will be completed next year when
a final contract price is settled, much as those were for the
recently completed, $3.8 billion fifth production contract for
32 jets.  Initial Contract  Today’s initial contract doesn’t include as many as five
conventional F-35s for Italy and  Australia , or engines from the
Pratt & Whitney unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The satellite contract is a fixed-price incentive type that
requires Lockheed Martin to share the cost of overruns or
material failures. Contracts for the previous four AEHF
satellites were cost-plus types that required the Air Force to
foot the entire bill.  Lockheed Martin already has received about $489 million in
advance payments to start buying and making hard-to-get
satellite parts, according to Air Force figures. Those payments
bring the total value of the satellite contract to $2.4 billion,
according to the service figures.  Falls Church , Virginia-based  Northrop Grumman (NOC)  is the top
subcontractor on the program.  Bloomberg News  reported on Dec. 17
that the satellite contract was expected to be awarded this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  