-- Oil Slips as Gasoline Supplies Surge
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-28T21:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/oil-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-on-inventories.html
Oil slipped as gasoline supplies
climbed to a nine-month high on weaker demand and President
 Barack Obama  sought an up-or-down vote on his proposal to extend
tax cuts to avert a fiscal crisis.  Prices fell after the government said  gasoline stockpiles 
rose to 223.1 million barrels last week and distillate
inventories gained. Obama met with congressional leaders today
and asked for an interim plan to prevent more than $600 billion
in automatic tax increases and spending reductions set to begin
in January, an official familiar with the talks said.  “We have a big gain in gasoline stocks and demand has been
really soft,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “The president is going to sit down this
afternoon with everybody. I don’t think they’ll get a lot
done.”  West Texas Intermediate oil for February delivery fell 7
cents to settle at $90.80 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices gained 2.4 percent this week, a third
consecutive advance.  Oil traded at $91.24 a barrel before the release of the
inventory report at 11 a.m. in  Washington , two days later than
usual because of the Christmas holiday. Trading volume for WTI
futures contracts was down 52 percent from the 100-day average.  Brent Slides  Brent oil for February settlement slid 18 cents to $110.62
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
number of contracts trading was 44 percent lower than the 100-
day average. Brent rose 1.5 percent this week. The European
benchmark crude was $19.82 more expensive than New York futures.  WTI has declined 8.1 percent in 2012 as a U.S. shale boom
deepened the glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s biggest
storage hub. That has left it at an average $17.47 below Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has risen 3 percent this year.  Gasoline  inventories  jumped 3.78 million barrels last week
to the highest level since March 23, the Energy Department said.
Stockpiles were forecast to increase 850,000 barrels, according
to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Total petroleum consumption in the U.S. fell 5.5 percent
last week to 18.9 million barrels a day, the biggest drop since
Aug. 17, the report showed.  Consumption Issue  “The bigger issue is the consumption side,” O’Grady said.
“It’s a reflection of concerns about the economy.”  Distillate supplies , which include heating oil and diesel,
gained 2.42 million barrels to 119.4 million. Stockpiles were
estimated to drop 850,000 barrels from the prior week.  Inventories of  crude oil  slipped 586,000 barrels to 371.1
million, the department said. Supplies were forecast to decrease
1.75 million barrels. Stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the
delivery point for  New York  futures, increased 4.7 percent to a
record of 49.2 million barrels.  A failure to reach an agreement to avoid the U.S. spending
cuts and tax increases, collectively known as the fiscal cliff,
might push the U.S. into recession for the first half of 2013,
the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  has said.  “The fiscal cliff is the 800-pound gorilla in the room,”
said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in
Houston. “If we don’t get a resolution, we’ll have a weaker
economy and weaker oil demand.”  The U.S. is the world’s largest oil-consuming country,
followed by China and  Japan .  Budget Talks  “The worry is if you do end up with a recession, it will
be negative for oil consumption,” O’Grady said.  Obama, who had been negotiating one-on-one with House
Speaker  John Boehner , met for just over an hour today with
Republicans Boehner and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
as well as Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi , both Democrats. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner  also participated in the meeting, said an
administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “If they don’t do something to reach a deal, oil futures
are going to come off pretty strong,” said Tariq Zahir, a New
York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  