-- Hollywood Seeks to Repeat Record With ‘Hobbit,’ ‘Trek’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/hollywood-reprises-hobbit-to-star-trek-in-bid-for-13-record.html
Movie heroes  who lifted ticket sales
to a record in 2012, from  Iron Man  to Katniss Everdeen, are set
to carry Hollywood to another high next year.  Sales at U.S. and Canadian theaters probably rose 5.7
percent to $10.8 billion this year, fueled by higher attendance,
according to researcher  Hollywood.com . A gain of less than 2
percent in 2013 would give studios and cinemas $11 billion in
annual ticket revenue for the first time, Hollywood.com said.  While studios are making fewer films, they are focused on
characters with global appeal that attract broad audiences.
Action pictures, comedies and historical dramas all broke $100
million in sales during the past year, and  theater upgrades  that
include 3-D, digital projection and more comfortable seats have
lured guests back, executives said.  “We had a really great crop of movies,” said Rob Friedman, co-chairman of  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s film
division, which released “The Hunger Games” and “The Twilight
Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 2,” the third and fifth top-grossing
releases of the year. “We had moviegoers who were re-
energized.”  “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line Cinema and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., generated
$84.6 million in opening weekend sales in the U.S. and  Canada 
after its Dec. 14 release, a record for the month, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. The $152.5 million weekend debut for
“The Hunger Games,” with  Jennifer Lawrence  as the teen heroine
Katniss Everdeen, marked an all-time high for March.  “Tent-pole movies are now year-round events,” Paul Yanover, president of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Fandango Inc. online
ticket sales service, said in an e-mail.  2013 Forecast  With average ticket prices unchanged this year at $7.94,
attendance has risen in lockstep with revenue and is expected to
reach about 1.36 billion in 2012, up from a 16-year low in 2011,
according to  Paul Dergarabedian , a Hollywood.com analyst. He
expects prices to be little changed in 2013.  Dergarabedian’s forecast for $11 billion in sales next year
hinges on the success of returning comic book characters and
sequels, including “Iron Man 3” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , a new
“ Star Trek ” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures , “The
Hunger Games: Catching Fire” and “The Hobbit: The Desolation
of Smaug.”  Major studios have relied on popular characters from books
and comics to attract fans to films, such as Disney’s “Marvel’s
The Avengers,” the year’s top-selling movie at more than $1.51
billion worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo. At No. 2: Time
Warner’s “The Dark Knight Rises,” which collected box office
revenue of almost $1.1 billion globally. It was the third in the
Christopher Nolan-directed Batman trilogy.  Sony Pictures  Sony Corp. (SNE)  expects to be the top studio for 2012
domestically and worldwide, with ticket sales of $4.4 billion,
according to the company. It’s the first time Tokyo-based Sony’s
film unit has led the U.S. box office since 2006, according to
Box Office Mojo.  Sony Pictures, based in Culver City, California, had nine
films open in first place in North America, including “The
Amazing Spider-Man,” “Men in Black 3” and “Skyfall,” the
latest installment in the James Bond franchise.  “It was one of those years where the majority worked,”
Rory Bruer, Sony’s president of worldwide theatrical
distribution, said in an interview.  The six largest studios produced or distributed 130 movies
this year, down 38 percent from 209 a decade ago, according to
Box Office Mojo.  ‘Monsters University’  Burbank, California-based Disney, the world’s largest
entertainment company, will put out 10 movies next year,
including two Marvel sequels, “Iron Man 3” and “Thor: The
Dark World”; one Pixar sequel, “Monsters University”; as well
as pictures based on “The Wizard of Oz” and “The Lone
Ranger.” The company released 38 films in 2003, including the
former Miramax division, according to Box Office Mojo.  International ticket sales continue to expand, holding at
more than two-thirds of worldwide box office revenue.  Rentrak
Corp. (RENT) , another industry research firm, forecasts foreign
receipts to rise 2.7 percent this year to $23 billion.  The record results come as home-viewing options and the
quality of the home-entertainment experience continue to
improve. U.S. consumers spent almost $1.7 billion on online
video subscriptions through the third quarter of this year, up
263 percent from the same period in 2011, according to the
 Digital Entertainment Group , a studio-backed association.  Theater Upgrades  Investments by theater owners in digital and 3-D
projection, better sound systems, more comfortable stadium-style
seating and higher-end concessions have boosted attendance and
differentiated the experience from home viewing, according to
Lions Gate’s Friedman.  The four largest U.S. exhibitors, led by  Regal
Entertainment Group (RGC) , spent $2 billion over the past five years
building new theaters and upgrading existing ones, according to
data from regulatory filings.  Still, Friedman said, it’s the films that put fans in
seats.  “When those lights go down, it’s always about the
movies,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  