-- Exposed Mom as Sultry Muse, Amusement Parks: Chelsea Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/thomas-s-mother-makes-sultry-muse-amusement-parks-chelsea-art.html
Mickalene Thomas ’s large-scale
photographs of a regal black woman greet visitors at Lehmann
Maupin gallery in Chelsea.  The subject is depicted spread out on a couch with her
breasts exposed and sitting primly with a red dress pulled over
her knees. This is the artist’s mother and muse, Sandra Bush,
who passed away this year at age 61.  Photographed over time in a variety of guises, Bush always
conveys a mix of pride, vulnerability and seduction.  Having frequently appeared in Thomas’s richly textured,
rhinestone-studded paintings, Bush is also the focus of her
daughter’s first short documentary film.  It’s a moving, intimate portrait of a woman who aspired to
be a model, walked out on an abusive husband and overcame drug
addiction. The interview format is softened with old black-and-
white family photographs and film footage of fashion shows,
birthday parties and a hospital bed.  On her 50th birthday, Bush received a cake inscribed
“Happy Birthday to a Beautiful Woman,” and that’s how she
wanted to be remembered. Thomas makes that dream come true.  Prices for photographs range from $15,000 to $20,000. The
video is not for sale. “How to Organize a Room Around a
Striking Piece of Art” runs through Jan. 5 at 540 W. 26th St.;
+1-212-255-2923;  http://www.lehmannmaupin.com .  Tie-Dye Abstractions  Next door, large-scale paintings by  Keltie Ferris  feature
pixelated formations competing for space and attention with tie-
dyed fields.  The artist uses palette knife and spray-paint to create
tension between hard-edged geometric shapes and blurry areas.
The seductive, luminous palette includes tasty shades of
apricot, mango and peach deepened by purple and blue.  Ferris deftly orchestrates different types of perceptions,
often within a single painting, as if shifting the lens of a
camera.  Her canvas “Navigator” made me want to rub my eyes -- it
seemed like I was looking at it through a mist of tears. In
another, “1 2 and 3 4,” the focus kept changing throughout,
with fuzzy areas framed by steps, zigzags and straight lines.  Prices range from $25,000 to $45,000 and all works have
been sold. The show will reopen on Jan. 2 and run until Jan. 12
at Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 w. 26th St.; +1-212-744-7400;
 http://www.miandn.com/ .  Sinister Carnival  Israeli-born artist  Tal R  painted amusement-park scenes
with hyper-intense colors -- then turned the canvases on their
sides as if to suggest that things are not what they seem.  The artist’s solo debut at Cheim & Read, “The Shlomo,”
features fictional characters and is peppered with references to
early-20th-century art movements Fauvism, Symbolism and
Expressionism.  “Night Awning” shows a red-and-white polka-dot canopy
over striped doors, alluding to Kandinsky. “House Bonni”
depicts a small building composed of jewel-colored patchwork
reminiscent of Klee.  “Tea Time” has a group of men sporting distinctive
mustaches and hats. The composition’s focal point is a yellow-
and-green vehicle parked on pink, turquoise and purple ground.  Prices range from $35,000 to $125,000. “The Shlomo” runs
through Jan. 12 at 547 W. 25th St.; +1-212-242-7727;
 http://www.cheimread.com/ .  Muse highlights include Craig Seligman and Greg Evans on
 movies .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 