-- Home Depot’s Christmas in April Imperiled by Port Strike
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-28T15:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/home-depot-to-lowe-s-busiest-season-threatened-by-strike.html
Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  have
the most at stake among retailers facing a dockworkers’ strike,
with possible port closings cutting off shipments right before
the lucrative gardening season.  Home Depot, the biggest U.S. home-improvement chain, is
making plans in case 15,000 workers at ports from Maine to  Texas 
walk off the job, and Lowe’s said that it is monitoring the
talks. About 45 percent of the commerce that flows in an out of
the U.S. goes through East Coast ports, according to the
 National Retail Federation .  Retailers “would be hit far and wide from apparel to home
goods to patio furniture to barbecues,” Jonathan Gold, the
NRF’s vice president for supply chain and customs policy, said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Washington. “It is a
major concern. At this point, we don’t anticipate a
settlement.”  The International Longshoremen’s Association has vowed to
walk out if a deal isn’t reached before the Dec. 29 expiration
of its contract with the U.S. Maritime Alliance, whose members
include container-carrier companies. Talks broke down last week
after nine months of negotiations. A strike would be the first
at East Coast and Gulf Coast ports since 1977.  While most retailers have their biggest quarter around the
year-end holidays, Home Depot may generate 28 percent of its
annual revenue in the quarter ending in July as consumers stock
up for home and garden projects, according to  analysts  surveyed
by Bloomberg. Lowe’s may get 29 percent of its revenue in the
period, analysts estimate.  ‘Big Time’  “For Home Depot and Lowe’s, spring is a very big time for
them,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in  New York , said in a phone interview. “They have their
Christmas in April and May.”  Home Depot has contingency plans in the event of a strike,
Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based company, said
yesterday by e-mail, while declining to discuss those
preparations. Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , is
monitoring the situation and will make changes to its shipping
and transportation if needed, Maureen Wallace, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Home Depot fell 0.6 percent to $60.47 at 9:49 a.m. in New 
York, and Lowe’s slid 0.3 percent to $34.80. Home Depot had 
risen 45 percent this year through yesterday, while Lowe’s 
had gained 38 percent.  A majority of clothing chains haven’t made plans for a
strike just weeks before they’re expecting to receive spring
merchandise, which hits shelves in February, said Tony Ward, a
New York-based retail specialist at consulting firm Kurt Salmon.  Apparel Retailers  Retailers and apparel makers that have shifted orders from
China, where wages are rising, to factories in  Brazil , Costa
Rica and other Latin American countries are particularly
vulnerable because many of those goods enter the U.S. through
East Coast ports, he said.  “Quite a bit of that product that retailers had planned to
move through the East Coast is now challenged by the potential
of a strike,” Ward said. “It is a very large concern for
retailers that have a big spring season.”  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , the two largest U.S.
discount chains, also may be hurt by a strike, said Georgia
Ports Authority Executive Director Curtis Foltz, who oversees
the Port of Savannah,  the third busiest port for container cargo 
behind New York- New Jersey  and Los Angeles- Long Beach .  “Their product won’t be unloaded off ships, nor will it be
moving out of our facilities during any work stoppage,” he said
in a phone interview.  David Tovar , a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, declined to comment.  Target Plan  Target is monitoring the situation and has a “well-
defined” contingency plan, Jessica Deede, a spokeswoman for the
Minneapolis-based company said in an e-mail, while declining to
describe the plan.  The shutdown of ports from Maine to Texas would damage the
“fragile”  U.S. economy , already hurt by superstorm Sandy’s
damage to the Port of New York and New Jersey and other
northeastern U.S. shipping hubs, NRF President Matthew Shay told
President  Barack Obama  in a letter last week. He urged the
president to use “all means necessary,” including invoking
emergency powers under the Taft-Hartley Act, to head off a
strike.  An eight-day strike at the Port of  Los Angeles  and adjacent
Port of Long Beach last month ended without presidential
intervention.  ‘A Harbinger’  “That’s a harbinger for what we can expect,” Strasser
said. “My guess is it won’t be resolved by Saturday, but a week
from now it will be.”  A port strike may cause some disruption to imports of
frozen or refrigerated agricultural goods such as fruits,
vegetables and fish, said Ken Shea, a Bloomberg Industries
analyst in Skillman, New Jersey.  U.S. packaged-food makers don’t face “a significant near-
term risk” because most of their goods are transported by
trucks and trains, Shea said yesterday in an e-mail. The
International Longshoremen’s Association said it would continue
to handle containers of perishable items with a limited shelf
life during a strike.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ’s shippers have committed to shifting
its finished-food shipments to smaller ports, and the company
has the option to use Canadian ports, Becky Niiya, a spokeswoman
for the Omaha, Nebraska-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Consumer Demand  Retailers already are coping with consumers concerned about
the potential tax increases and benefit cuts that would go into
effect in January without action in Congress. U.S. holiday sales
grew 0.7 percent from Oct. 28 through Dec. 24, slowing from 2
percent a year earlier, according to MasterCard Advisors
SpendingPulse.  The Conference Board’s index of consumer  sentiment  fell to
65.1 from a revised 71.5 reading the prior month, figures from
the New York-based private research group showed yesterday. The
gauge was projected to fall to 70, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  The contract between the Longshoremen and the Maritime
Alliance covers more than 14,500 jobs at ports the management
group says handle 95 percent of container shipments from Maine
to Texas. The two sides began in talks in late March and reached
tentative agreements in July on issues involving new technology
and union jurisdiction over work on chassis used for the
containers.  Taft-Hartley  The remaining dispute centers on container royalty fees, or
levies that supplement wages. The  Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service , which has guided talks since September,
organized a meeting between the two sides this week in an effort
to salvage negotiations. All three parties declined to provide
further details on the new talks.  If federal mediation fails, the only remaining tool in the
government’s arsenal is Taft-Hartley, which empowers the
president to intervene in strikes that are deemed national
emergencies, said Phillip Wilson, president and general counsel
at the Labor Relations Institute in Broken Arrow,  Oklahoma .  President  George W. Bush  was the last president to invoke
the act. In 2002, he ended a lockout that closed West Coast
ports for 10 days.  That shutdown cost the U.S. economy $1 billion a day and
resulted in supply-chain disruptions that lingered for more than
six months, according to the NRF.  “The economy was in a much different place back in 2002,”
Gold said. “It was much stronger. There’s no telling what kind
of impact this would have on the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  