-- Lonmin CEO Farmer Steps Down at Platinum Miner Amid Illness
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-12-28T16:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/lonmin-says-ceo-farmer-will-step-down-amid-treatment-for-illness.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-
largest platinum producer, said Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer will resign because of the illness that saw him
hospitalized during a violent strike at its Marikana mine.  Simon Scott will continue in his role as acting CEO and has
asked not to be considered as a candidate for the permanent
position, Johannesburg-based Lonmin said today in a statement.  “Following the appointment of a new CEO, Simon will
dedicate his time fully to his role as chief financial
officer,” Lonmin said. It has appointed an executive search
company to find a successor.  Farmer, 50, was hospitalized for a “serious illness,”
Lonmin said on Aug. 16, without giving details of his condition.
The same day, police fired on striking miners near the Marikana
operation, killing 34 protesters in  South Africa ’s deadliest
mine violence since the fall of apartheid in 1994.  A six-week walkout at Marikana, about 170 kilometers (106
miles) northwest of Johannesburg, resulted in the loss of an
estimated 110,000 ounces of platinum production, Lonmin said in
a Nov. 9 statement. Marikana is in the Rustenburg region, site
of the world’s largest platinum reserves.  The strikes spread to gold, iron-ore and coal mines.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service have lowered
their ratings on South Africa since Sept. 27, citing an increase
in political risk after the walkouts.  Farmer, Lonmin CEO for four years, told a mining conference
in  Cape Town  in February that he expected a heightened risk of
disruption in platinum supplies as the South African operating
environment becomes “more challenging.”  Lonmin declined for a second day in London trading, losing
2.6 percent to 278 pence by the close. The FTSE 350 Mining Index
fell 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  