-- Monti Says He Will Lead Coalition in Italy’s February Elections
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-28T23:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/monti-says-he-will-lead-coalition-in-italy-s-february-elections.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said he will lead a coalition of centrist political parties that
support his agenda of fiscal rigor and pro-European policies in
February elections, marking a de-facto bid for a second term.  Monti’s announcement, made at an impromptu press conference
in Rome yesterday, takes his political role in the upcoming vote
a step further after the former European commissioner said Dec.
23 that he would consider leading a group of parties supporting
his agenda.  “A new political movement is being formed,” Monti told
reporters in Rome. The 69-year-old economist is heading a
coalition that includes small parties led by Catholic politician
 Pier Ferdinando Casini  and Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the
Ferrari SpA chairman, who formed a new movement in an attempt to
lure Monti into the race.  Several European political leaders and  Italy ’s business
elite have called on Monti to end his status as a non-partisan
independent and run in the elections to safeguard his revamp of
the Italian economy. His efforts, including an overhaul of
pension and labor laws, helped tame the country’s public
finances and restore investor confidence, while deepening the
country’s fourth recession since 2001 and sapping his popular
support.  “Mr. Monti’s decision to run for office is a bold and
risk-strewn move which shakes up Italy’s political landscape yet
presages a more fragmented parliament,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in
a note to clients after the announcement.  ‘Potentially Divisive’  A Monti coalition could eat into support for both the
Democratic Party, which leads in opinion polls, and Silvio
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party on the right. The decision
“sets the stage for a potentially divisive election campaign
centered around Mr. Monti’s economic agenda,” Spiro wrote.  The Democratic Party had the support of more than 30
percent of potential voters in a Dec. 21 poll by SWG Institute,
while Berlusconi’s backing was about 16 percent. A hypothetical
Monti-led coalition had support of about 15 percent. The Five-
Star Movement of comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo, drew
18.5 percent. Grillo, who is capitalizing on growing public
anger of rising taxes and  joblessness  under Monti, released a
16-point platform this week that calls for a referendum on
remaining in the euro.  ‘Significant Result’  The prime minister said he was sure his coalition could
score a “significant result” in the election scheduled for
Feb. 24 and 25.  Monti said that his allies will present a single list of
candidates in the Senate, a move that could help him win enough
seats in the upper house to influence the formation of a new
government.  Italian election law makes it more difficult to win a
majority in the Senate than in the Chamber of Deputies because
it gives more weight to parties that have a strong regional
base. Polls signal that while the  Democratic Party  will probably
win as majority in the Chamber, it may fall short in the Senate.
Monti’s senators could prove the key to forming a new
government, even if he loses the election.  Monti didn’t present himself as a candidate for premier,
unlike Berlusconi and Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the
Democratic Party. Still, if his coalition wins the elections he
would probably be appointed prime minister.  In Italy votes are not cast directly for a candidate for
premier. The country’s president generally asks the leader of
the coalition or party winning the most votes to try to form a
government.  Senator-for-Life  Monti doesn’t need to run on a list for Parliament as he
was appointed a senator-for-life by President Giorgio Napolitano
last year before being asked to lead a government of non-
politicians, following Berlusconi’s resignation in November
2011.  Bersani, designated as the candidate for a coalition of
left-of-center parties in a primary contest, is a former
industry minister who began his political career in the
Communist Party, and his primary victory was grounded in support
from Italy’s biggest union.  The Democratic Party backed the Monti government, and
Bersani has pledged to respect the budget commitments taken with
the European Union while promising to do more to support
pensioners and workers. His party supports only some of the
measures included in Monti’s political road map, he said Dec.
26.  Bersani “is likely to come under more pressure internally
to distance himself from Mr. Monti’s liberal economic program,”
Spiro wrote.  Monti’s political road map, designed to make Italy more
competitive, includes measures to boost female employment,
further efforts to open up closed professions and measures to
battle conflicts of interest and corruption.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Liefgreen in Milan at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  