-- Monti to Head Centrist List in Senate Race in Italian Election
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n
-- 2012-12-28T20:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/monti-to-head-italy-unified-centrist-list-in-senate-race.html
Caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said he would head a unified list of centrist political forces
in the Senate vote of Italy’s national elections in February,
effectively joining the race to become the country’s next
premier.  Monti, speaking in a televised press conference in  Rome ,
said he would lead the moderate groups supporting his political
agenda announced Dec. 23. Monti’s announcement today takes his
political role in the upcoming vote a step further after saying
five days ago that he would “consider” a request to seek the
premiership in the election.  “Today a new political movement is being formed,” Monti
said. He is heading a coalition that includes small parties led
by Catholic politician  Pier Ferdinando Casini  and Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the Ferrari SpA chairman, who formed a new
movement in an attempt to lure Monti into the race.  Several European political leaders and  Italy ’s business
elite have called on Monti to end his status as a non-partisan
independent and run in the elections to safeguard his revamp of
the Italian economy. His efforts, including an overhaul of
pension and labor laws, helped tame the country’s public
finances and restore investor confidence, while deepening the
country’s fourth recession since 2001.  “There’s still an economic crisis, it’s an unemployment
one,” Monti said today.  ’Potentially Divisive’  The announcement “sets the stage for a potentially
divisive election campaign centered around Mr. Monti’s economic
agenda,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , said in a note to clients.  In Italy, voters don’t choose a prime minister candidate
directly. They cast ballots for a party list or coalition, which
picks its candidate for premier. Monti already is a senator for
life so he doesn’t have to run for a seat in Parliament. Monti
said the parties supporting him, such as Casini’s UDC, would run
individually in the Chamber of Deputies, the body that chooses
the premier after the elections.  Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the  Democratic Party  and
its candidate for premier, is the favorite to win the
premiership, according to recent opinion polls.  Bersani “is likely to come under more pressure internally
to distance himself from Mr. Monti’s liberal economic program,”
Spiro wrote.  Italian election law makes it more difficult to win a
majority in the Senate because it gives more weight to parties
that have a strong regional base. Running a unified list in the
Senate would give Monti’s coalition a better chance of gaining
seats in the upper chamber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Liefgreen in Milan at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  