-- TOP Oil Market News: Oil Set for Weekly Gain; Iraq’s Star Rises
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-12-28T08:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/top-oil-market-news-oil-set-for-weekly-gain-iraq-s-star-rises.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain Since August on Budget Talks  Oil rose in  New York , extending the biggest weekly gain
since August, as U.S. lawmakers scheduled talks aimed at
averting tax increases and spending cuts that threaten the
economy of the world’s largest crude consumer.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Iraq Star Rises in OPEC as Embargo Hurts  Iran : Energy Markets  Iraq jumped two places to No. 2 in OPEC’s rankings this
year, cementing its position among the world’s leading oil
producers. Neighboring Iran dropped three spots to fifth as
international sanctions took hold.  Japan ’s Crude Oil Imports Fell 7.6% in November, METI Data Shows  Japan’s crude oil imports fell 7.6 percent to 15.67 million
kiloliters, data from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry showed today. Oil product imports dropped 3.5 percent
to 2.93 million, while exports increased 3.3 percent to 1.92
million.  Refiners Beating Exxon Join Pipe Boom for Lost Margins: Energy  Refiners from Tesoro Corp. to Phillips 66 that gained as
much as 86 percent this year are investing in pipelines for new
revenue as margins for turning oil into gasoline narrow from
record levels.  Mangalore Refinery Offers Fuel Cargoes for January, February  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. offered to sell
245,000 metric tons of refined oil products for loading from
end-January to February, the company said in documents e-mailed
to potential buyers.  Oil May Rise on Stronger Demand as Economy Grows, Survey Shows  Oil may rise next week as stronger economic growth boosts
demand, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Asia  Gasoil Crack Gains; Fuel Oil Discount Narrows: Oil Products  Asia’s gasoil crack to Dubai rose for a second day.
Naphtha’s premium to Brent fell.  Citgo Has Shutdown at Corpus Christi Refinery, NRC Filing Shows  Power outage resulted in partial shutdown of sulfur
recovery system at the refinery in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas ,
according to filing with the National Response Center.  Natural Gas Supply Drop Limited by Mild Weather, Forecasts Show  Natural gas inventories declined by about half the normal
rate last week as moderate weather crimped demand for heating
fuels, analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Fell 1.17 Mln Barrels  The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly
Statistical Bulletin from the  American Petroleum Institute . *T  Gasoil Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage rose in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  Saudi Arabia Must Review Its Oil Subsidies, Former Adviser Says  Saudi Arabia will need to reduce fuel subsidies that are
becoming an ever-greater fiscal burden as its population grows,
a former adviser to the country’s oil minister said.  Iraq Tells Lukoil to Cut Oil Production Target at West Qurna-2  OAO Lukoil, the Russian  oil company  with the most assets
overseas, said Iraq asked it to cut its production target at the
West Qurna-2 project by 33 percent.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Philadelphia Energy Said to Start Girard Point Work in January  Philadelphia Energy Solutions plans to close the Girard
Point section of its Philadelphia refinery near the end of
January for about 60 days of work, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  Shell Martinez,  California , Refinery Struck by  Power Failure  (1)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Martinez, California, refinery was
struck by a power failure, according to state and federal
filings.  JX Oil Refining to Drop 1% to 6.33 Million Kiloliters in January  JX Nippon’s oil processing will drop 1 percent to 6.33
million kiloliters in January, the company said today.  Shell Has Emissions at Martinez Oil Refinery, Nrc Filing Shows  Royal Dutch Shell Plc released 500 pounds of sulfur dioxide
at its Martinez, California, oil refinery after a loss of power,
according to a filing with the U.S. National Response Center.  Motiva Port Arthur Reports Stabilizing Pressure Relief Valve  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Port Arthur refinery reported an
emissions event during the restart of the No. 3 fluid catalytic
cracker yesterday. The event lasted from 4:42 p.m. to 4:48 p.m.,
according to a company filing with the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.  New York Gasoline Rises After Philadelphia Refinery Units Shut  Gasoline gained in New York Harbor after two units shut for
maintenance at the 355,000-barrel-a-day Philadelphia refinery.  Gasoline Gains in Low Trading Volume as Refinery Begins Work  Gasoline rallied in below-average trading volume the day
before Christmas as the largest U.S. East Coast refinery shut
units to begin a planned turnaround.  Shell Says Pernis Refinery Fire in Rotterdam Had Limited Impact  Royal Dutch Shell Plc said a fire earlier today had limited
operational impact at its Pernis oil refinery in the
Netherlands, Europe’s largest.  Phillips 66 Flared Gas at Wood River Oil Refinery in Illinois  Phillips 66 flared sulfur dioxide at its Wood River oil
refinery yesterday, according to a filing with the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 1.8 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan fell 1.8 percent to 11.08 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Surgut Said to Award January Urals Crude Tender to Repsol  OAO Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth- largest oil producer,
awarded a tender for two cargoes of Urals crude to Repsol SA for
loading from two Baltic ports, according to two people with
knowledge of the tender.  Algeria Raises January Saharan Blend Crude to $1.20 Premium  Sonatrach, the Algerian state-run oil producer, raised its
official selling price for benchmark Saharan Blend crude for
loading in January to $1.20 a barrel more than North Sea Dated
Brent, according to an e-mailed price list from the company.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the  Middle East ,  Africa  and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Toshiba in Talks to Sell Up to 16% of Westinghouse Electric (1)  Toshiba Corp., the Japanese manufacturer of nuclear
reactors, consumer electronics and home appliances, is in talks
to sell a stake in its Westinghouse Electric atomic-power unit
as industry growth slows.  Exxon to Sempra Can Export Half of U.S. Home Gas Supply: Energy  Natural gas suppliers from Sempra Energy to Exxon Mobil
Corp. are fighting for the first U.S. export permits after a
study said selling some of the fuel to Asia will benefit the
economy more than consuming it domestically.  Tokyo Electric Sued by 8 U.S. Sailors Exposed to Radiation Leak  Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the power plant which
had the world’s biggest nuclear disaster since 1986, was sued by
eight U.S. sailors claiming they were exposed to radiation and
the utility lied about the dangers.  Edenor Burns Bondholders With Biggest ’12 Rout: Argentina Credit  Bonds of Empresa Distribuidora y Comercializadora Norte SA
fell the most in Latin America this year as concern deepened
that fixed electricity rates and soaring inflation will push
Argentina’s largest power distributor to default.  Oil Supply Probably Dropped to 10-Week Low, Survey Shows (1)  U.S. oil stockpiles probably dropped to the lowest level in
10 weeks on refinery utilization and a decline in imports, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  EPA Head Jackson to Leave After Fighting Climate-Change Foes (2)  Lisa Jackson  said she will step down as head of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency after four years during which
she led the first efforts to curb carbon- dioxide emissions to
combat global-warming risks.  Noble Sees Shell Alaska Rig Ready in 2013 After U.S. Checks (1)  Noble Corp. expects to have its Noble Discoverer rig ready
for Royal Dutch Shell Plc to resume drilling in Alaska’s Chukchi
Sea next year, after fixing issues raised during a U.S. Coast
Guard inspection.  Edison International Units Sued by Chevron Over Oil Fields (1)  Units of Edison International were sued by affiliates of
Chevron Corp., which asked a bankruptcy judge to help facilitate
their attempted $82.5 million purchase of a joint oil-field
support venture near Bakersfield, California.  German 2013 Power Drops to Record on Above-Average Temperatures  German power for 2013 dropped to a record after day-ahead
prices during the Christmas holidays fell below zero while
above-average temperatures pushed down electricity for next-
quarter delivery.  OTHER MARKETS  Yen Weakens to 28-Month Low as Asian Stocks, Commodities Advance  The yen weakened to the lowest since August 2010 amid
speculation the  Bank of Japan  will inject more cash. Asian
stocks and most commodities advanced as U.S. lawmakers arranged
meetings before a budget deadline.  Yen Slides to 28-Month Low on Declines in CPI, Factory Output  The yen sank to a 28-month low after data showing drops in
Japanese consumer prices and factory output fanned speculation
the central bank will heed government calls to step up cash
infusions to end deflation.  Yuan  Sets Tone for Asia as Japan Dethroned by  China : Currencies  Asian central banks are tolerating gains in their
currencies against the yen as China’s economic recovery
diminishes concern that stronger exchange rates may damp their
export advantages.  Asian Stocks Climb as Japan Consumer Prices Fall, Weakening Yen  Asian stocks rose, with Japanese shares posting their
biggest annual advance since 2005, after a report that the
country’s consumer prices fell fanned speculation the central
bank will respond to government calls for more asset purchases.  Reliance Buys Indian Property Stocks, Bajaj Sells Drugmakers (1)  Indian policies to lure foreign investors and revive Asia’s
third-biggest economy are driving the nation’s largest money
managers to accumulate automakers, property companies and metal
producers that stand to benefit most from a recovery.  Rubber to Extend Bull Market as Stimulus Accelerates Recovery  Rubber will likely extend a  bull market  next year as
monetary and fiscal stimulus from Japan to China and the U.S.
will accelerate a global recovery and boost raw-material demand.  Gold Bulls Strongest Since August as Funds Retreat: Commodities  Gold traders are the most bullish in four months as U.S.
lawmakers near a deadline for budget talks, at a time when  hedge
funds  are cutting bets on higher prices.  Obama Summons Congress Leaders to Meet as Budget Deadline Nears  President  Barack Obama  summoned congressional leaders to a
White House meeting three days before a year-end deadline to
avoid $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases as
lawmakers gave little sign they intend to act together on a
budget plan.  First Gulf War Commander Norman Schwarzkopf Dies at 78 Years Old  General Norman Schwarzkopf, who led U.S. forces to victory
in the 1991 Persian Gulf war, died yesterday. He was 78.  SPORTS  Benitez in Line to Get Chelsea Job Permanently: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Australia Routs Sri Lanka to Clinch Test Cricket Series Victory  Australia beat Sri Lanka by an innings and 201 runs to take
an unbeatable 2-0 lead in their Test cricket series.  Australia Closes in on Cricket Series Victory Against Sri Lanka  Australia closed in on a cricket series win against Sri
Lanka after taking a 304-run first- innings lead and reducing
the touring team to 43-4 at lunch on day three of their second
Test.  ENERGY PRICES
Energy Prices:  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       91.32  +0.45  +0.5  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.23  +0.43  +0.4    Ice February
Gasoil ($/Ton)         945.00  +7.50  +0.8    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       283.61  +1.48  +0.5  Nymex     Jan.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.40  -0.02  -0.5  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.96  +0.25  +0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            307.98  +0.75  +0.2  Nymex     Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.62    --
Gold ($/Oz)          1,663.70  +0.2
MSCI World Index     1,337.25  +0.1  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  