-- Toronto Stocks Seen Trailing U.S. Market for Third Year
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-12-28T21:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/toronto-stocks-seen-trailing-u-s-market-for-third-year.html
Canadian  stocks  will trail U.S.
equities for a third straight year in 2013 as economic growth
fails to keep pace with a global recovery, a survey of
strategists found.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index is expected to
finish next year at 12,886, up 4.1 percent from the Canadian
gauge’s level on Dec. 27, according to the average estimate of
seven strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500 Index  will
advance 8 percent in 2013, based on the average estimate of 14
strategists. The U.S. benchmark measure last underperformed the
 S&P/TSX (SPTSX)  in 2010, the end of a seven-year streak of
outperformance by the Canadian index.  The S&P/TSX fell 57.65 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,316.12
in Toronto today. The benchmark Canadian equity gauge has
trailed markets in every developed nation this year except for
Portugal and Spain.  “There’s so much noise out there, with the European
situation,  China  had a slowing economy this year, and the U.S.
has been kicking the budget can down the road for a while,”
said  John Kinsey , fund manager with Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto, which manages about C$1 billion ($1.01 billion). “The
market is going to be similar to what we saw in 2012, but on
balance we do feel we will be moving forward.”  The S&P/TSX will be hampered in 2013 by record levels of
 consumer debt  and a housing market that is showing signs of
slowing, analysts said. That is likely to weigh on financial
shares, tempering any gains among energy and raw-materials
companies from a possible rebound in  China’s economy .  Canadian shares  rose  3.5 percent in 2012 to yesterday,
trailing a 13 percent rally in the  S&P 500 . The S&P/TSX plunged
as much as 11 percent from the year’s high in February as
European leaders wrestled with the region’s debt crisis. After
recovering to reach a seven-month peak in November, the index
has since slipped 1 percent as U.S. lawmakers struggled to reach
a budget accord and avoid more than $600 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts.  China Slowdown  Equities have also been weighed down by the
underperformance of commodity shares, which have been hurt by
slowing growth in China. Raw-material companies are the  worst 
performers of 10 major industries in the benchmark index this
year, falling 8.5 percent as of yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Energy shares are down 4.3 percent for
2012.  The Chinese economy has decelerated for seven straight
 quarters , to 7.4 percent growth in the third quarter, the
slowest pace in three years. China, the world’s second-largest
economy, is a major consumer of Canadian raw materials.  For  Canada  next year, “it’s all contingent on what happens
in China,” said Luciano Orengo,  fund manager  with Manulife
Asset Management Ltd., in a phone interview from Toronto. His
team manages about C$1.4 billion.  New Leader  With Xi Jinping set to become the country’s new president
in March, analysts expect the party leadership to stimulate the
economy to encourage a turnaround. China’s gross domestic
product is expected to accelerate to 7.8 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012 and will improve further through the first half
of 2013, according to analysts’ estimates as surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The upside story for China can be substantial for
materials,” said Shailesh Kshatriya, senior investment analyst
with Russell Investments Ltd. in Toronto. “There’s still a lot
of room for urbanization in the rural areas in China,
opportunities for base metals to move higher.”  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest diversified mining
company which produces metallurgical coal, copper and other base
metals, is poised to benefit from any increased infrastructure
spending. Teck fell 0.9 percent in 2012 and traded at a 32
percent  discount  to the S&P/TSX Materials Index as of yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cost Overruns  The outlook for mining shares is not as promising even with
a rise in gold prices, said Vincent Delisle, investment
strategist with Scotia Capital Inc.’s portfolio strategy group.  “The issue is cost overruns,” he said while presenting
his 2013 equity outlook in Toronto, referring to rising costs
for many gold producers developing large-scale projects.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  has raised the cost estimate for its
Pascua-Lama project on the border of Chile and Argentina twice
this year, most recently to as much as $8.5 billion in November.
Barrick and Goldcorp Inc., the world’s two largest producers,
have fallen 26 percent and 20 percent, respectively, this year.  Gold prices , meanwhile, have risen 6.2 percent in 2012, set
for a 12th straight annual gain on the back of widespread
monetary stimulus from central banks around the world.  “Gold equities have brought an extra level of risk in the
past 18 months and that is a very difficult hurdle to
surmount,” Delisle said. “Copper, oil, iron ore, and other
industrial materials are much more levered to China.”  Heavy Oil  Brandon Snow, a fund manager with Cambridge Advisors, a
unit of CI Investments Ltd., said he is considering buying into
heavy oil producers such as Canadian Natural Resources Inc. and
Baytex Energy Corp. His firm manages about C$5.8 billion.  “Heavy oil is what you want exposure to,” said Snow,
whose Cambridge Canadian Equity Corporate Class  fund 
outperformed 56 competitors this year with a 17 percent gain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Heavy oil is a type of
crude commonly produced in the  oil sands  that has a higher
consistency than the West Texas Intermediate standard.  The spread between WTI and Western Canadian Select, which
is the traditionally discounted price at which Canadian heavy
crude trades, has widened over the past year to as much as
$42.50. This compares with a $15.87 average spread over the past
four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil production grew much faster in 2012 than anyone
expected, Snow said, substantially lowering demand for Canadian
oil in the U.S. This pricing factor is “unlikely to repeat”
and he expects the spread to return to more normal levels next
year.  Housing Market  The single biggest risk for the S&P/TSX, and especially for
 financials  that account for 33 percent of the index, remains the
Canadian housing market and attendant record-high consumer debt
levels, said Russell’s Kshatriya.  “Financials will be challenged due to the housing
slowdown,” he said. “The direct profitability of the
commercial banks will be affected by consumers borrowing less.”  Consumer credit-market debt such as mortgages rose to a
record 164.6 percent of disposable income in the third quarter,
according to  Statistics Canada .  Mark Carney , governor of the
 Bank of Canada , has repeatedly warned Canadians to avoid pushing
their debt levels any higher.  The  International Monetary Fund , in a report on the
Canadian economy on Dec. 19, said  house prices  and residential
investment as a share of GDP is higher than levels “consistent
with economic fundamentals” and recommended the nation should
use regulation to avoid a further buildup of  household debt .  Canadian GDP  The IMF forecasts Canadian economic growth of “just below
2 percent” in 2013. Economists estimate the global economy will
expand at a pace of 2.4 percent next year, faster than the 2.2
percent predicted for 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer with Sun Life Global
Investments Inc., said the Canadian economy has become
vulnerable due to its resilience through the 2008 global
financial crisis, which led to a housing boom amid low  interest
rates   held  at 1 percent since September 2010.  “After 2008, every economy in the world had a process of
deleveraging, fixing up their balance sheets and getting set up
for growth down the road. Canada was the only one that didn’t,”
he said. “At some point, we have to do it, and we will see
Canada take its step back in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  