-- Toshiba in Talks to Sell Up to 36% Stake in Westinghouse
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-12-28T10:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/toshiba-in-talks-to-sell-36-stake-in-westinghouse-sasaki-says.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese builder
of nuclear reactors, is in talks to sell as much as 36 percent
of its Westinghouse Electric atomic-power unit as industry
growth slows after last year’s meltdowns in Fukushima.  The company is in discussions with three parties for a
possible sale of as much as 16 percent in the business, and is
talking with three other parties about selling a 20 percent
stake, President Norio Sasaki said in an interview today. One of
the parties in the latter discussions is  Chicago Bridge & Iron
Co. (CBI) , he said.  Toshiba said in October it had interest from potential
partners for the nuclear business and was open to talks on
selling stakes as long as it retained majority control. A sale
would allow it to offload shares after being forced to buy 20
percent of Westinghouse as  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  exercises an option
to sell its stock. It also would reduce Toshiba’s exposure to
the nuclear industry following Japan’s power-plant shutdowns and
global growth in alternative energies.  “It’s good for Toshiba, as it can make effective use of
cash from the sale,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive
officer at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge
fund advisory firm. “The company can still do what it wants to
do with Westinghouse as it will still hold a majority stake.”  Potential Buyers  Most of the offers for the 20 percent stake have come from
U.S. companies, while Toshiba has received interest from “all
over the world” for the 16 percent stake, Sasaki said.  “We’d like the buyer of Shaw’s 20 percent to be an
American company,” Sasaki said. “For the other 16 percent, it
doesn’t have to be American as long as we get synergies and U.S.
regulators approve it.”  Toshiba, which also makes consumer electronics and home
appliances,  rose  5 percent, the most since Sept. 7, to 337 yen
in Tokyo trading.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
added 0.7 percent. The stock advanced 7 percent this year.  “By selling a stake, we can get a partner to help us boost
profitability,” Sasaki said.  Toshiba paid $4.16 billion for 77 percent of the nuclear-
power services provider in 2006. It now owns 67 percent after
selling a portion to  Kazakhstan ’s Kazatomprom in 2007.  Boosting Stake  The Japanese company is set to acquire 20 percent of
Westinghouse from  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based Shaw Group next
month for 125 billion yen, bringing its total holding to 87
percent.  “It has been Toshiba’s idea to keep a 51 percent share and
let others hold the rest,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace
Securities Co., said by phone yesterday. “It is good if the
company can bring that to reality.”  Chicago Bridge & Iron, based in  The Hague , agreed in July
to buy Shaw Group for about $3 billion to expand its nuclear
business. Shaw and CB&I are part of the group constructing the
first new reactors in the U.S. since the Three Mile Island
nuclear disaster in 1979.  Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose party regained power
after a Dec. 16 election, indicated he may allow utilities to
build nuclear- power plants  if they meet safety standards to be
set by the Nuclear Regulation Authority, the Tokyo Shimbun
newspaper said Dec. 1, citing an interview with Abe.  Former Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in September approved
a policy calling for banning the construction of new plants.  China, Czech Republic  “We want the new government to create an environment where
we can project a growth picture,” Sasaki said. “The  energy
policy  should be part of the country’s growth strategy, and
nuclear power should be one of the options.”  Sasaki said Westinghouse’s business will benefit from
demand in  China  and the  Czech Republic .  “Demand for nuclear power plants is coming from emerging
countries where power supply is short, and not all of them are
prone to earthquakes,” Myojo’s Kikuchi said.  Toshiba, the biggest maker of NAND flash memory after  South
Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co., cut its full-year earnings
forecasts in October amid weaker sales of semiconductors and as
a stronger yen eroded overseas earnings. The company was also
hurt by slumping demand for televisions, forcing it to end
domestic production last fiscal year.  “We’re working to make our TV operation profitable” in
the three months ending in March, Sasaki said. “We’re at the
last stage of clearing inventories, including parts, so our TV
business has been improving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  