-- How Christmas Became the Most Commercialized Holiday
-- B y   P e n n e   R e s t a d
-- 2012-12-28T15:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/how-christmas-became-the-most-commercialized-holiday.html
You’ve got to hand it to Lucy van
Pelt. She called it as she saw it. “Look, Charlie, let’s face
it,” she barked in “A Charlie Brown Christmas.” “We all know
that Christmas is a big commercial racket. It’s run by a big
eastern syndicate, you know.”  As we conclude yet another season of that commercial
racket, we are tempted to think that Christmas had once been a
pure holiday, full of wonder and free of capitalistic
corruption. Yet there is little evidence that such a day ever
existed -- and certainly not in the U.S. In fact, the American
Christmas ascended to its central place on the national calendar
as a result of an intense marriage between sentiment and
commerce, an example of healthy, if uneasy, codependency.  In 1800, Americans recognized the holiday in scattered
fragments -- perhaps with a church service, a feast or an
outbreak of rowdiness. More often, Christmas Day passed unnoted.
But the forces of urbanization, industrialization and
immigration had already begun to effect significant cultural
changes, not least a greater emphasis on the individual home as
a haven from the perceived dangers of the public sphere. The
home provided an orderly, moral and nurturing refuge from the
increased crowding, competition and contention in the public
world of commerce and politics.  Domestic Religion  It was in this idealized home that the American Christmas
took shape, the scraps and slivers of various folk traditions
blended to serve a religion of domesticity. The modern holiday
first took form among the urban upper classes, where wives and
mothers had the leisure to embroider the celebratory rituals of
home life. Children hung their stockings “by the chimney with
care,” anticipating the arrival of  Santa Claus . Evergreen trees,
freshly cut and carefully positioned in the parlor, sparkled
with tinsel, candies and hundreds of tiny candles. As churches
caught on to the evolving tradition, sacred spaces were soon
transformed by music, liturgy, pageants and greenery.  But Christmas’s popularity has, from its formative years,
been bound inextricably to the very tumult from which it claimed
to be a respite: the burgeoning world of commerce. Rituals set
forth at first in modest forms were soon enhanced through the
penny press. No better example exists than Clement Clarke
Moore’s “A Visit from St. Nicholas,” written for his family’s
entertainment in 1823, but soon endlessly reprinted each season
in newspapers. In the years after the Civil War, Thomas Nast
created a full life and more vivid body for Santa in engravings
he did for Harper’s Weekly magazine. Other publications printed
patterns to knit for Christmas gifts; explained the etiquette of
Christmas dinner; and published countless romantic stories in
which orphans and widows helped less-sensitive souls understand
“the true meaning of Christmas.”  The press’s elaboration of Christmas kindled countless new
business opportunities. When Godey’s Lady’s Book, the most
widely read magazine in the nation at the time, published an
image of a family gathered around a small tree set atop a table,
the idea of a Christmas tree soared in popularity. Woodsmen
started heading into the forests each December to cut evergreens
to sell on street corners. By the 1870s, parlor Christmas trees
had become common, and a new industry was flourishing.  Commercial Cathedrals  F.W. Woolworth -- who had already pioneered a successful
business model based on fixed prices and 10 cent inventory --
quickly saw the commercial possibilities in importing Christmas
ornaments from  Germany  where, he reported, they were “made by
the very poorest class.”  Tinsel, toys, candleholders, candles, candies, garlands and
wooden ornaments found ready markets. Greenhouse-grown
poinsettias were sold as early as 1830, but in the 1870s,  New
York  shops began selling them as Christmas specialties. Louis
Prang, a German immigrant and the inventor of a
chromolithography process, presided over a workforce of hundreds
of young women in  Massachusetts  who hand-colored Christmas cards
-- elegant new greetings intended to be sent cheaply to family
and friends everywhere. Department stores, novel emporia that
tantalized Americans with goods in every size and quality,
became cathedrals of commerce, important suppliers of the gifts
necessary to take home for family and friends.  By the late 19th century, Christmas ruled over two
intertwined domains: the private and public. The lights, sounds
and sentiment that symbolized and celebrated home and family had
moved outward into public streets and stores. All of which led
Charles Dudley Warner to say, in 1884, “We have saved out of the
past nearly all that was good in it, and the revived Christmas
of our time is no doubt better than the old.”  These days, it is a commonplace to say that the economy
depends on Christmas sales and that marketing strategies, such
as Black Friday, threaten the holiday of yore. True enough. But
less often noted is that the market revolution of the 19th
century, and the consumer economy it created, made possible and
continues to sustain what we mean when we talk about the “spirit
of Christmas.”  (Penne Restad is the author of “Christmas in America” and a
distinguished senior lecturer in the Department of History at
the  University of Texas  at Austin. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Penne Restad at
 restad@mail.utexas.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  