-- Toyota Wins Preliminary Approval of $1.1 Billion Recall Accord
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-12-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/toyota-wins-preliminary-approval-of-1-1-billion-settlement-1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and lawyers suing
the company persuaded a judge to give preliminary approval to a
$1.1 billion settlement of claims that recalls for unintended
acceleration hurt the value of U.S. customers’ vehicles.  The terms of the settlement filed Dec. 26 are “fair,
reasonable and adequate,” U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in
Santa Ana, California, said yesterday in granting preliminary
approval. Final approval will be determined following a fairness
hearing set for June 14, Selna said.  The settlement resolves the economic-loss portion of the
Toyota sudden-acceleration litigation. Class, or group, actions
were filed on behalf of Toyota owners who contended the company
drove down the value of their vehicles by failing to disclose or
fix defects.  Selna yesterday granted preliminary certification of the
Toyota owners as a class action, for settlement purposes only
and contingent on final approval of the agreement.  The cases were combined in a multidistrict litigation
before Selna, who is also handling the federal personal injury
and death suits. Lawsuits claiming personal injuries and deaths
caused by such incidents remain pending, with the first federal
trial set for February in Santa Ana.  10 Million  The company, based in Toyota City,  Japan , recalled more
than 10 million vehicles for problems related to unintended
acceleration in 2009 and 2010, starting with a September 2009
announcement that it was recalling 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus
vehicles because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam
accelerator pedals. The company later recalled vehicles over
defects involving the pedals themselves.  Toyota has paid $66.2 million in fines to the U.S. National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration for how some of the
recalls were conducted. The company last month agreed to pay
$25.5 million to settle an investor lawsuit claiming Toyota’s
alleged failure to disclose information on unintended
acceleration problems caused the stock to plunge in 2010.  “We are gratified that Judge Selna has granted his
preliminary approval of the settlement, which will provide value
to Toyota customers and provides an added measure of confidence
in our vehicles,” Julie Hamp, Toyota’s U.S. chief
communications officer, said yesterday by e-mail.  ‘Swift’ Approval  The “swift preliminary approval” will allow notices about
how to participate in the settlement to be mailed in March to
current and former Toyota owners, Steve Berman, co-lead
plaintiffs’ lawyer, said in a statement issued yesterday by his
law firm Seattle-based Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP.  Toyota announced Dec. 26 it would take a writedown of $1.1
million to cover the cost of the settlement. The total value of
the settlement may reach $1.4 billion, including as much as $200
million in attorneys’ fees, lawyers for the plaintiffs said.  Under the settlement, Toyota will install a brake override
system in more than 3 million vehicles that were subject to
floor mat entrapment recalls, provide a fund of $250 million for
former Toyota owners who sold their cars from Sept. 2, 2009, to
Dec. 31, 2010, and provide an additional $250 million to current
Toyota owners whose vehicles aren’t eligible for brake-
overrides, according to yesterday’s Hagens Berman statement.  Court Approval  Toyota will pay as much as $200 million in fees and $27
million in costs to plaintiffs’ lawyers, pending final court
approval, according to the Dec. 26 settlement filing.  Toyota didn’t admit to any defects in its vehicles or any
wrongdoing in the settlement.  Toyota’s $1.1 billion writedown also covers an agreement in
principle to resolve a lawsuit brought by the district attorney
of Orange County,  California , against Toyota, Hamp said Dec. 26.
The Orange County suit claimed violations of consumer-protection
laws through the sale of allegedly defective vehicles.  The writedown includes an agreement to settle a multistate
investigation by attorneys general in the U.S., Hamp said.  The case is In re Toyota Motor Corp. Unintended
Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products Liability
Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  