-- Paraguay to Emulate Bolivia With First Dollar Bond Sale
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2012-12-28T20:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/paraguay-looking-to-emulate-bolivia-with-first-dollar-bond-sale.html
Paraguay , the only Latin American
economy set to contract this year, plans to issue the first
dollar bonds in its two-century history in the first quarter of
2013 to tap booming global demand for higher-yielding debt.  The landlocked South American country is looking to issue
about $500 million in bonds to yield 5 percent, in line with a
recent sale by neighboring  Bolivia , Finance Minister Manuel
Ferreira said in a telephone interview from Asuncion today. The
exact amount and date is being worked out with underwriters
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, he said.  “We want to exploit favorable market conditions to raise
funds for a major infrastructure investment program,” Ferreira
said. “We have similar debt and economic metrics to Bolivia and
we believe we can repeat its success.”  Bolivia returned in October to the international  bond
market  for the first time since the 1920s, selling $500 million
of 10-year debt to yield 4.875 percent. Yields on the securities
have since risen to 5.2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Paraguay’s debt fell to about 13 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 58.4 percent in 2002.  The government will channel the funds from the bond sale
into investment projects such as roads and electricity networks,
Ferreira said.  ‘Desperate For Yield’  Benchmark interest rates close to zero in  Europe , the U.S.
and  Japan  have led investors to buy bonds from countries
including Bolivia, Mongolia and Zambia in search of higher
yields. Latin American sovereign debt yielded  an average  5.26
percent on Dec. 28, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG
indexes.  “People are desperate for extra yields,” Tiago Ventura,
who helps manage $950 million of Latin American fixed-income
funds at Santander Asset Management, said in a phone interview
from  Madrid  yesterday.  Paraguay’s BB- credit rating was put on negative watch by
 Standard & Poor’s  after the impeachment of President Fernando Lugo in June, which provoked the country’s suspension from the
Mercosur regional trade bloc, which includes neighboring
Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. Paraguay’s rating puts it in the
same category as Vietnam and Bangladesh.  The caretaker government of President Federico Franco has
calmed investors by continuing his predecessor’s fiscal policies
and strengthening financial institutions, said Richard Francis,
a Latin America analyst at S&P.  Post-Impeachment Policy  “The policy environment has actually been somewhat better
after the impeachment,” Francis said in a Dec. 21 interview
from  New York .  Paraguay’s April 21 presidential elections are not expected
to change the country’s economic policies, said Daniel Correa,
chief economist at Asuncion-based consultancy Investor Economia.  “The top three candidates all support the  finance
ministry ’s bond project,” Correa said in a Dec. 22 phone
interview.  The finance ministry recapitalized Paraguay’s central bank
on Dec. 18 in preparation for the  bond issue .  The central bank sold the ministry 3.9 trillion guaranis
($922 million) of local bonds at a 0.5 percent adjustable
interest rate, erasing the bank’s current account deficit.  Shrinking Economy  Paraguay has  South America ’s second-lowest GDP per capita
after Bolivia, according to the  World Bank . The country relies
on agriculture for 20 percent of GDP, Ferreira said. A decline
in soybean exports during a drought earlier this year caused the
economy to contract 1.2 percent in 2012, according to central
bank estimates. That makes it the only country with a shrinking
economy among 33 Latin American and Caribbean nations surveyed
by the  International Monetary Fund .  “A lot of people are going to buy Paraguay bonds not to
miss out on the allocation, but after that it’s going to be more
difficult to find support, because there is little positive news
coming from these countries,” said Ventura, whose Santander
funds own about $9.5 million of Bolivian bonds.  Paraguay’s prospects will improve next year with growth of
as much as 11 percent, according to the IMF.  “As favorable weather conditions reappear, the economy is
expected to rebound sharply in 2013,” IMF wrote in its last
country statement in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  