-- Pending Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Climb for Third Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-28T15:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/pending-sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-climb-for-third-month-1-.html
Pending home sales rose for the
third month in November, a sign of the housing recovery’s
resilience in the face of fiscal threats facing the U.S.  The  index  of pending home sales climbed 1.7 percent to
106.4, the highest reading since April 2010, after a revised 5
percent gain in October, the National Association of Realtors
reported today in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey called for a 1 percent advance.  Low borrowing costs and stable prices are drawing
homebuyers three years after a recession triggered in part by a
collapse in housing prices. Fewer foreclosures are coming onto
the market, easing concerns that values could fall.  “Housing is building some momentum,” Ryan Sweet, a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “There is a growing
perception that now is a good time to buy. Prices are starting
to tick up, mortgage rates are still rock-bottom and the job
market has shown some signs of improvement.”  Another report today showed the economy picked up in
December. The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer rose to
51.6 in December, a four-month high, from 50.4 in November. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  Shares Drop  Stocks slumped, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a fifth day, amid concern talks between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers may not yield a budget
deal by the year-end deadline. The 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,408.99 at 10 a.m. in New York.  Estimates for pending home sales in the Bloomberg survey of
35 economists ranged from a 2.7 percent drop to an increase of
6 percent.  Three of four regions showed a gain last month, including a
5.2 percent increase in the Northeast and a 4.2 percent advance
in the West. Sales contracts were little changed in the South.  Pending sales are considered a leading indicator because
they track purchase contracts in advance of actual transactions,
which are tabulated a month or two later. Existing or previously
owned homes account for more than 90 percent of the housing
market.  Sales of existing homes reached a three-year  high  in
November, rising 5.9 percent to a 5.04 million annual rate, the
Realtor group reported last week.  Sales Climb  New-home sales , also logged when contracts are signed, rose
4.4 percent in November to a 377,000 annual pace, the highest
level since April 2010, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday.  Property values, too, are picking up. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index last week showed home prices rose 4.3 percent in October
from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month advance since May
2010.  Record-low borrowing costs have helped fuel demand for
would-be buyers who qualify for financing. The average rate on a
30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was 3.35 percent this week,
according to Freddie Mac. A late November reading of 3.31
percent was the lowest in data going back to 1972.  Federal Reserve policy makers this month expanded asset
purchases in a continuing bid to reduce unemployment and spur
growth. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said that tight credit
availability remains a concern to the housing market.  Stronger Traffic  Homebuilders are taking advantage of strong demand and
tight inventory by breaking ground on new communities and
raising prices.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and  KB Home (KBH)  are reporting
stronger traffic at their sales offices.  “New demand is now being created due to increased urgency
to take advantage of incredible affordability as prices are now
on the rise,” KB Home Chief Executive Officer Jeff Mezger said
on a Dec. 20 earnings call. “While it’s been a few years in the
making, housing is becoming a bright spot for the economy and
the industry is once again positioned to play its historical
role of being a job creator and leading the national economy
into a full recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  