-- Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Blood Thinner Approved by U.S. FDA
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-28T22:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/pfizer-bristol-myers-blood-thinner-approved-by-u-s-fda.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s blood thinner Eliquis was approved by U.S. regulators
after more than a year of review, giving the companies a new
potential blockbuster heart drug.  Eliquis was cleared by the Food and Drug Administration for
the prevention of blood clots that develop in patients with the
heart rhythm disorder atrial fibrillation, the agency said today
in a statement. The approval comes three months before the FDA’s
most-recent March deadline for a ruling on the drug, allowing
the two New York-based companies to start sales sooner.  “The new anticoagulants are really exciting
developments,” William Zoghbi, president of the  American
College of Cardiology , said in a telephone interview. “They
address some of the concerns that traditional warfarin has
offered.” Warfarin is the half-century-old drug that has been
the standard of care before new medicines like Eliquis.  The government’s sign-off ends several setbacks in the
efforts by Pfizer and Bristol-Myers to win sales clearance for
the blood thinner. The FDA delayed approval in March 2012 and
rejected the therapy in June, saying it needed more data from
the companies’ clinical trials. Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker, and Bristol-Myers will split sales, which may total
$5.2 billion by 2020, Catherine Arnold, an analyst at Credit
Suisse in New York, said in a note to clients.  Pfizer shares rose less than 1 percent in extended trading
to $24.99 at 4:57 p.m. New York time, after closing at $24.89.
Bristol-Myers rose 1.9 percent after closing at $31.90.  Common Condition  About 2.66 million people in the U.S. have  atrial
fibrillation , the most common type of irregular heart beat,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta. The disease becomes more common with age. Patients have
a higher risk of blood clots, which can cause strokes, and of
heart failure.  Eliquis will provide another option for the prevention of
blood clots and strokes, and the drug showed in clinical trials
that it was more effective than warfarin, the FDA said in its
statement. It is among a group of new blood thinners such as
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Xarelto,  that are potential replacements for
warfarin, which requires regular blood monitoring by doctors.  The new drugs carry some risk of bleeding, as does
warfarin. Bleeding can happen in the stomach, under the surface
of the skin, or most dangerously, in the brain.  The new blood thinners offer a better trade-off between
bleeding and stroke-prevention, said Andrew Epstein, a professor
of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.
“One intracranial bleed is a small price for the great decrease
in morbidity and mortality,” Epstein said in a telephone
interview. “There ain’t any free lunch.”  Eliquis has been approved in  Europe  and  Japan . Pfizer and
Bristol-Myers also want to gain approval for use in clots
elsewhere in the body, including the legs and lungs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  