-- Philippine Peso Set for Best Year Since 2007 on Upgrade Prospect
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-28T03:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/philippine-peso-set-for-best-year-since-2007-on-upgrade-prospect.html
The Philippine peso is set for its
best annual advance since 2007, spurred by the fastest economic
growth in  Southeast Asia  and speculation that the nation is on
track to win its first investment-grade rating.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on the country’s BB+
debt rating to positive from stable last week and said an
upgrade is possible in 2013 as public finances improve. The peso
reached its strongest level since March 2008 last month after
official data showed the $225 billion  economy  grew 7.1 percent
last quarter, the fastest pace in two years. Its rally in 2012,
 Asia ’s best exchange-rate performance after  South Korea ’s won,
prompted the central bank to impose limits this week on banks’
non-deliverable currency forwards positions.  “The  Philippines  turned into the darling of investors in
2012 as growth exceeded expectations and further upgrades look
imminent,” said Dalmacio Martin, senior vice president at  BDO
Unibank Inc. (BDO) , the nation’s largest lender. “Benign inflation
allowed the central bank to cut policy rates four times this
year, while a narrowing budget deficit enhanced our allure.”  The peso strengthened 6.7 percent this year to 41.075 per
dollar at 10:37 a.m. in  Manila , data from Tullett Prebon Plc
show. That’s the biggest gain since a 19 percent appreciation in
2007. The currency climbed 0.1 percent today and was little
changed from a week ago. Philippine financial markets will be
closed Dec. 31 and Jan. 1.  One-month implied volatility in the peso, a gauge of
expected exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell to 4.4
percent from 7.75 percent a year ago.  Tobacco Tax  S&P’s decision to bolster the nation’s credit outlook on
Dec. 20 came a few hours after President  Benigno Aquino  signed
into law higher tobacco and liquor taxes, which are estimated to
boost revenue by 184.3 billion pesos ($4.5 billion) in the first
four years of implementation. The credit assessor last raised
the rating by a notch in July to the highest sub-investment
grade, followed by a similar move by Moody’s Investors Service
in October.  The country’s inflation rate fell to a five-month low of
2.8 percent in November, according to the most recent data. The
central bank reduced its benchmark overnight borrowing rate by a
total one percentage point in 2012 to an all-time low of 3.5
percent. The government’s 11-month budget deficit of 127.3
billion pesos was less than half the 2012 ceiling, according to
a report yesterday.  The Philippines will likely reach investment grade in 2013
and managing the currency would become “more challenging” by
then, central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said Dec. 21.  Curbing Forwards  Bangko Sentral  ng Pilipinas imposed a ceiling for non-
deliverable forwards for local lenders at 20 percent of capital,
and 100 percent for foreign entities, Governor Amando Tetangco
said in a Dec. 26 briefing. Banks have two months to comply with
the regulation, which will be reviewed after six months,
Tetangco said.  Earlier this year, Bangko Sentral  ordered lenders  to
provide more funds to cover risks on forward transactions and
banned overseas investors from its special-deposit accounts.
Capital controls won’t be necessary at this stage, Tetangco said
this month.  “Excess liquidity and lingering positive sentiment will
remain as drivers, but it is difficult to replicate the same
results next year as we have become relatively expensive,”
Martin said. “Regulatory prudential measures will also limit
returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  