-- Porsche Jumps on New York Court Dismisal of VW Stake Case
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-28T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/porsche-wins-n-y-court-dismissal-of-hedge-funds-vw-case.html
Porsche SE (PAH3)  rose to the highest in
almost two years after an appeals court ruled that  New York 
state isn’t the proper location for  hedge funds  to sue the
German carmaker over its stake strategy in buying  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   There’s an “inadequate connection” between New York and
the events at issue in the case, with only e-mails and phone
calls taking place there, the Appellate Division of the state’s
Supreme Court said in a decision yesterday. Porsche  jumped  as
much as 7.4 percent to 62.37 euros in Frankfurt trading, the
highest price since Jan. 19, 2011.  Porsche asked the appeals court in November to reverse a
lower court’s rejection of its motion to dismiss the 2011 suit
by 26 hedge funds, including  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital
Inc. The funds, which had bet that Volkswagen stock would fall,
claimed that Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche misled investors
by denying through much of 2008 that it intended to  acquire 
Volkswagen, which is based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , and by using
manipulative trades to hide its stock positions.  “We find that these connections failed to create a
substantial nexus with New York, given that the events of the
underlying transaction otherwise occurred entirely in a foreign
jurisdiction,” an appellate panel said.  The appeals court said witnesses and documents in the case
are located in Germany, which provides an “adequate alternative
forum.”  The plaintiffs sought more than $1 billion in damages.
Porsche is also being sued in  Europe  over the issue.  ‘Important Victory’  “This is an important victory for Porsche,” said Robert Giuffra, an attorney for Porsche at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP,
said in a statement. “The appeals court squarely held that
these cases do not belong in a New York state court,”  James B. Heaton, an attorney for the plaintiffs, declined
to comment about the decision.  Porsche was  trading up  6.4 percent at 10:14 a.m., valuing
the manufacturer of the 911 sports car and Cayenne sport-utility
vehicle at 19 billion euros ($25 billion). Volume was 35 percent
higher than the three-month daily average.  The carmaker said on Oct. 26, 2008, that it  controlled  74.1
percent of Volkswagen, partly through options, and was seeking
an eventual takeover. The disclosures caused the shares to surge
as short-sellers raced to cover their positions.  Investors in Germany and the U.S. have claimed Porsche lied
about its intentions to take over the carmaker. The failed bid
led Porsche to agree to sell its sports-car business to
Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, as debt soared. That
transaction was completed on Aug. 1, when Volkswagen purchased
the remaining shares in the maker of the 911 sports car for 4.5
billion euros.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 650435/2011, New York State  Supreme Court , New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  