-- Rampaging Horned Pigs Pace ‘Southern Beasts’: Interview
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/rampaging-horned-pigs-pace-southern-beasts-interview.html
The Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs
don’t speak much beyond grunts and snorts, but they earn their
place in the title of  “Beasts of the Southern Wild.”   An enchanting film that was acclaimed at last year’s
 Sundance Festival  and has made many Best of 2012 lists,
“Beasts” tells the story of a pugnacious 6-year-old girl named
Hushpuppy, her fierce, dying father Wink and “the Bathtub,” a
lush Mississippi Delta town near  New Orleans .  The Bathtub is practically underwater even before a storm,
and a terrifying herd of ravenous beasts called aurochs (played
by those piggies) brings apocalypse to the tight-knit,
multiracial community.  I spoke last week with Lucy Alibar, who co-wrote the
screenplay with director Benh Zeitlin, at Bloomberg’s offices in
 Manhattan .  Gerard: We’re watching this movie about a cantankerous dad
and his resourceful little girl when suddenly we hear thundering
hooves and snorts.  Alibar: I wanted these mythical aurochs to come out of cave
paintings, devouring the children as they were losing their
parents. That was the conceit behind it. We used Vietnamese pot-
bellied pigs and added little horns and green-screened it.
They’re really smart. You can train them to run, sit, stop and
kneel.  Autobiographical Play  Gerard: The kneeling is one of the most inspired and
touching scenes in the movie. “Beasts” is based on your play,
“Juicy and Delicious.” Is it autobiographical?  Alibar: My dad got sick and I started writing this play
about a kid -- I made it a boy so I could really write about me
and my dad and protect myself a little bit. I think father-child
relationships -- there’s a reason everyone writes about their
dad.  I was just figuring all that out when I started writing the
play. I wrote “Juicy” without thinking about how I was going
to stage it, which in retrospect is probably an important thing
to consider.  Gerard: How did a play about  Florida  become a movie about
 Louisiana  and mythical creatures?  Alibar: The stage play didn’t quite tell the story the way
I wanted it to. It really was about the world ending because you
were going to lose your dad. It was a lot more expressionistic,
a little blurry compared to what we did with the screenplay.  Gerard: And then Benh Zeitlin saw the play.  Bayou Setting  Alibar: Benh came to me and wanted to turn it into a movie.
We got into the Sundance Lab and that’s where it got to be a
distilled way of looking at why I wanted to tell that story. He
wanted to set it in south Louisiana.  Gerard: You met in  New York  as kids.  Alibar: We were 13 and in this playwriting contest called
Young Playwrights. It’s an incredible organization. At night
they take you to see plays and Benh and I loved the weird ones.
 “Hedwig and the Angry Inch.”  I’m from the  Florida panhandle 
and I’d never seen anything like that, where it was OK to talk
about gay people.  Gerard: And Benh?  Alibar: He’s from Queens and his parents are folklorists,
they study the way different people tell their stories. So we
both have this love of storytelling.  Gerard: The scenes between Hushpuppy and Wink are so
intimate.  Too Rough  Alibar: Working out Hushpuppy and Wink’s relationship was a
big part of what Benh and I talked about. In the first draft
there were a lot of comments that the relationship was too
rough, that he was too mean to her.  My dad is a great dad and he’s very Southern, very old-
school  Georgia . So there was never any hugging or “I love you”
or anything like that, but it never occurred to me that he
didn’t.  Gerard: The denizens of the Bathtub are black and white,
young and old. They are impoverished but have incredible zest,
and nature abounds.  Alibar: I grew up in a very mixed black and white area. I
never saw an Italian person or a Mexican person or an Asian
person or a Jew until I came to New York for Young Playwrights.  I was interested in people taking care of each other. How
much are we all responsible for each other? We wanted to make
the father and the place where Hushpuppy lives synonymous. He
belongs there in this environment only they can live in. That
same kind of wildness, joy, aliveness and lust for life -- we
wanted to create a place like that.  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  movies  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 