-- Treasuries Rise a Third Day Amid Pessimism on Cliff
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-12-28T22:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/treasuries-lag-behind-stocks-by-most-since-2009.html
Treasuries rose for a third day amid
speculation U.S. lawmakers will struggle to reach agreement in
time to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600
billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  Ten-year notes gained for the first  week  in a month,
pushing the yield below its 200-day moving average of 1.74
percent, as congressional leaders met with President  Barack
Obama  to discuss the stalemate while the year-end deadline
approached. The  Federal Reserve  bought $5 billion of Treasuries
in the last purchase under its Operation Twist stimulus program.  “The market is listening to the rhetoric,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “The closer you get to the edge, the more you almost have
to assume the odds are getting worse. That said, the incentives
for policy makers are still to get something done and to
announce it at the last possible moment.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  slid four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.7 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.69
percent, the lowest level since Dec. 13. The price of the 1.625
percent security due in November 2022 rose 10/32, or $3.13 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 10/32. The yield lost six basis points
this week.  Yields on 30-year bonds decreased four basis points today
and six basis points this week to 2.87 percent.  One-month bill rates fell below zero, dropping to the
lowest level since December 2008. They touched negative 0.0456
percent before ending the day at zero.  Previous Bets  The long-bond yields reached a three-month high of 3.03
percent on Dec. 18, and 10-year yields touched a seven-week high
of 1.85 percent, on bets the stalemate would be resolved.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in five-year note futures in the week
ending Dec. 25 to the lowest level since May 2010, according to
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 9,329 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions fell by 56,678 contracts, or
86 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  U.S. government securities returned 2.3 percent in 2012 on
an annualized basis through yesterday, set for the worst
performance since a 3.7 percent loss in 2009, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 16 percent, including reinvested dividends, amid
signs the  U.S. economy  is improving.  Bonds gained less than 0.1 percent this quarter and lost
0.4 percent this month, Merrill Lynch index data show.  Vote Sought  Obama, who had been negotiating one-on-one with House
Speaker  John Boehner , met with Republicans Boehner and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , as well as Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , both
Democrats.  The president sought an up-or-down vote on his proposal to
extend tax cuts for annual income up to $250,000, absent a
counteroffer from congressional leaders. The Republican-led
House will convene a rare Sunday session on Dec. 30.  If the deadline is missed, the economy would probably enter
a recession in the first half of 2013 after the automatic tax
boosts and spending reductions, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Handicapping Whims  “The most difficult thing about trading in this
environment is trying to handicap the whims of politicians,”
said Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $10 billion as co-
head of government and mortgage-backed securities at Federated
Investors Inc. in Pittsburgh. “The fundamentals take a back
seat to the headlines.”  John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at Armored
Wolf LLC, said his firm is buying Treasury 10-year notes as
lawmakers grapple in the budget-deficit showdown.  “That’s something that would benefit if the economy is
dysfunctional and the Fed kind of steps up its open-mouth
operations,” Brynjolfsson, who’s based in  Aliso Viejo ,
 California , said in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Michael McKee  and  Joe Brusuelas .  The efforts in  Washington  probably will produce “nothing
that’s reasonable,” Brynjolfsson said.  Housing Data  Treasuries remained higher even after the National
Association of Realtors reported pending  home sales  in the U.S.
rose for a third month in November. The group’s index climbed
1.7 percent to 106.4, the highest reading since April 2010.  “It’s all about the fiscal cliff,” said   Ian Lyngen , a
government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “We did not respond to this data at all. There’s
not been a great deal of economic data that’s been far enough
off the mark to change anyone’s broad expectations about the
pace of the recovery or monetary policy.”  The central bank bought Treasuries today maturing from
February 2021 to November 2022, according to the Fed Bank of  New
York ’s website. The purchase is the last in the program to
replace short-term Treasuries in the Fed’s holdings with longer-
term debt to cap borrowing costs.  The Fed plans to purchase $45 billion of Treasuries a month
at least as long as unemployment stays above 6.5 percent and
inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no
more than 2.5 percent. The central bank is also buying $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  