-- Rebar Set for Best Quarter in Two Years on China Property Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-28T07:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/rebar-set-for-best-quarter-in-two-years-on-china-property-demand.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures
climbed to a five-month high, heading for the best quarterly
performance in two years, on optimism that a recovery in the
real estate market in  China , the biggest user, may boost demand.  Rebar for delivery in May closed 1.2 percent higher at
3,916 yuan ($628) a metric ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
the highest level for the most-active contract since July 13.
Futures have climbed 8.9 percent this quarter, the biggest
advance since the last three months of 2010. That reduced this
year’s decline to 7 percent.  New home prices rose in 53 of the 70 cities the government
tracks in November from the previous month, the most in 18
months, China’s statistics bureau said Dec. 18. Retailing, real
estate and mining have improved, according to the China Beige
Book summary. Iron-ore producers strengthened as steel demand
rose from housing, infrastructure and manufacturing, CBB
International LLC, a New York-based researcher, said in the
summary e-mailed yesterday.  “Market participants have been looking for a release of
pent-up demand early next year, along with rising home prices,”
Zhang Lei, an analyst at Nanhua Futures Co., said by phone from
Shenyang city, Liaoning province. “An unusually strong physical
market has been supporting futures as demand is usually tepid”
in the winter season, he said.  The average spot  price  for rebar climbed 0.4 percent to
3,637  yuan  a ton yesterday, the highest level since Nov. 27,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. Spot
 iron ore  at Tianjin port advanced 3 percent to $139.40 a dry ton
yesterday, the highest level since May 9, data compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd. showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  