-- Redskins Seek First Division Title Since 1999 Against Dallas
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-28T20:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/redskins-seek-first-nfl-division-title-since-1999-against-dallas.html
Robert Griffin III was 8 years old
when the  Washington  Redskins last won the National Football
Conference’s East title in 1999.  The Redskins’ rookie quarterback gets a chance to end the
NFC East’s longest current title drought, when Washington hosts
the Dallas Cowboys in a showdown for the division crown in two
days and a spot in the National Football League playoffs.  The Redskins have won six straight games under Griffin, the
second pick in this year’s draft out of Baylor University,
following a 3-6 start. It’s the franchise’s longest winning
streak since a seven-game run in the 1996 season.  “I told the guys, ‘Don’t play this up so big that you
can’t seize it,’” the 22-year-old Griffin said at a news
conference two days ago. “You have to approach it the same
exact way you have for the last six weeks. Know it’s for all the
marbles, but don’t go out and play scared. You have to play like
you have nothing to lose and we’ve done that the last six
weeks.”  If the Redskins, who are three-point favorites, lose, they
would have an outside chance to make the playoffs as the NFC’s
final wild-card representative, but would need the Chicago Bears
and  Minnesota  Vikings to both lose their regular-season finales.
The Bears and Vikings are both 9-6 and in the hunt for a wild-
card berth, which go to the two non-division winners with the
best records in each conference.  “We want to control our own destiny and it’s our job to do
that,” said Griffin, who was voted to the Pro Bowl after
passing for 3,100 yards and 20 touchdowns while rushing for a
quarterback rookie-record 752 yards and six scores.  Eliminate Giants  The only way for the Cowboys (8-7) to make the postseason
is by beating the Redskins and winning the NFC East. A Dallas
victory would also eliminate the  New York  Giants, the defending
Super Bowl champions, from postseason contention.  The Giants have lost five of their past seven games and are
rooting for more than a Redskins’ win this weekend. New York (8-
7) needs to beat the Philadelphia Eagles at home on Dec. 30 and
have the Cowboys, Bears and Vikings all lose to make the
playoffs as a wild-card team. The Bears visit the 4-11 Detroit
Lions and the Vikings host the 11-4 Green Bay Packers. The
Giants are favored by 7, the Bears by 3 and the Vikings are 3
1/2-point underdogs.  “It’s obviously not the circumstances that you want, but
at least you have a circumstance,” Giants quarterback Eli Manning said. “Sometimes that’s all you can hope for.”  The NFC East is one of two division titles up for grabs
heading into the final week of the season.  The San Francisco 49ers (10-4-1) can clinch the NFC West
with a victory at home against the  Arizona  Cardinals (5-10). The
49ers also could earn a bye in the first round of the playoffs
with a win and a Packers’ loss in Minnesota.  NFC West  If the 49ers lose, the Seattle Seahawks (10-5) could take
the NFC West title with a home win against the St. Louis Rams
(7-7-1). The Seahawks also are in position for a first-round
playoff bye if they win and the 49ers and Packers lose.  With the NFC South-champion Atlanta Falcons (13-2) having
earned a week off during the opening round of the playoffs,
Green Bay could wrap up the other first-round bye with a win
against the Vikings.  Minnesota would clinch the NFC’s final wild-card berth with
a win against the Packers. The Vikings also could slip into the
postseason with losses by the Cowboys, Giants and Bears.  The Bears’ postseason chances hinge on a win against the
Lions and a loss by Minnesota.  While all six playoff spots have been locked up in the
American Football Conference, the Houston Texans, Denver Broncos
and New England Patriots will be competing for the two first-
round byes.  Bye Berths  The Texans and Broncos would be able to rest their players
during the opening round of the postseason simply by winning
this weekend. Houston (12-3) visits the Indianapolis Colts (10-
5) and Denver seeks its 11th straight victory at home against
the Kansas City Chiefs (2-13).  The Patriots (11-4) need a home win against the Miami
Dolphins (7-8) and a loss by either the Texans or Broncos for a
first-round bye.  “I’m not trying to look anywhere past Sunday,” Patriots
coach Bill Belichick said. “Our game against Miami doesn’t
stand on its own, but in conjunction with some other games. It
could have an impact on what happens to us the following week.
We’ll try to do the best we can with our opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  