-- Refiners Beating Exxon Join Pipeline Boom for Lost Margin
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-12-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/refiners-beating-exxon-join-pipeline-boom-for-lost-margin.html
Refiners (S5OILR)  from  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  to
Phillips 66 that gained as much as 86 percent this year are
investing in pipelines for new revenue as margins for turning
oil into gasoline narrow from record levels.  Refiners are set to beat all except three of 154 industry
groups on the Standard & Poor’s index for 2012, as a U.S.
production glut let them buy oil at a record average of $17.46 a
barrel below the global benchmark. That spread will diminish in
2013 as more than 20 new pipelines enter service and route oil
to new buyers along the Gulf Coast, Deutsche Bank AG forecast.  Phillips 66 and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , with a combined
market value of $53 billion, have responded by expanding in the
very business that’s eroding their margins -- pipelines.  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO) , a San Antonio refiner that may create a crude
transportation unit, was named the top energy stock pick of 2013
by Bank of America Corp. analysts, even after its 61 percent
gain in 2012.  “The key to success for these independent refiners is
diversity, flexibility,” said Harold York, principal oils
analyst in Houston for Wood Mackenzie Ltd., which doesn’t rate
stocks. “When one segment gets hot and the other gets cool, the
ability to shift emphasis from the waning segment to the hot
segment, that’s going to be a critical path for them.”  While transportation projects including oil-by-rail and
pipelines are booming, providing a natural diversification for
refiners, some of the world’s most successful investors are
betting that the companies have at least another year of gains.  Billionaire Investors  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn  and BlackRock Inc. have taken stakes of 4
percent or more in refiners this year, attracted in part by
diversification. Buying into the so-called midstream business is
one of several corporate strategies refiners used along with
dividend increases and share buybacks to boost returns.  All were largely made possible by the boom in U.S. oil and
natural gas output stemming from the use of new production
techniques.  U.S. oil  output  increased to an average 6.7 million barrels
a day in November, the most since 1993, as the combination of
horizontal drilling and a process known as hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, allowed companies to access crude previously
trapped in tight rock formations from  Texas  to North Dakota,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  Diminishing Spread  The rapid production ramp-up outstripped existing pipeline
and refining capacity, creating a glut in several regions of the
U.S. that played into the hands of crude processors selling
gasoline and diesel at prices linked to the global cost of oil.  The record $17.46-a-barrel spread to the benchmark should
diminish by 66 percent to as low as $6 a barrel in 2013 as more
than 20 pipelines go into service, “taking the U.S. crude
transportation market from heavily distorted to very efficient
in less than 24 months,” Paul Sankey, an analyst with Deutsche
Bank in New York, said in a Dec. 19 note to investors.  Plans to turn pipeline assets into tax-exempt investment
vehicles and small-scale projects aimed at securing access to
cheaper crude have prompted analysts at Bank of America and
Barclays Plc to name refiners among their top energy stock picks
for 2013.  Marathon, based in Findlay,  Ohio , rose 86 percent in 2012
and provided a 91 percent return to shareholders, the highest of
refiners on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index. Of the top 10
performers on the Russell 1000 Energy Index in 2012, four were
U.S. refiners, led by  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) , which has doubled in
value, Tesoro, Valero and Marathon.  Forming MLPs  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil company, has gained
2.5 percent this year.  Marathon sold 17.3 million units in  MPLX LP (MPLX)  on Oct. 25,
creating a $2.2 billion pipeline unit with some of its logistics
assets. The master-limited partnership, or MLP, which pays no
corporate income tax and distributes cash to owners of limited
partnership units, will fuel profits when refining margins
narrow, said Garry Peiffer, president of MPLX.  “We are very big in the logistics business,” Peiffer said
in a phone interview. “We are going to be using that vehicle to
allow us to grow in a part of our industry that previously we
couldn’t compete in.”  Tesoro is sending crude by rail from North Dakota to the
company’s Anacortes,  Washington , refinery. The San Antonio
company’s 2012 adjusted earnings per share are forecast at
$6.87, up $2.76 from a year earlier. The $2.76 leap in a single
year is 6.4 percent of its share price, the biggest profit gain
compared with the stock price of the 70 energy stocks on the
Russell 1000 Energy index.  ‘Revolutionary’ Discount  Tesoro is the top refining pick of Chi Chow, an analyst
with Macquarie Group Ltd. Barclays’ seven top energy stocks for
2013 include Tesoro.  Valero Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Bill Klesse ,
who plans to spin off the company’s convenience store business,
said Oct. 30 that he’s open to creating a small master-limited
partnership for pipeline assets and plans to continue to boost
access to cheaper crude at its refineries.  “The availability of discounted crudes to refiners has
been revolutionary,” Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero, said in
a telephone interview.  Phillips 66, which has surged 52 percent since it was spun
off from ConocoPhillips in May, is predicting a more modest
decline in refining profitability in 2013 than Deutsche Bank,
according to a presentation by Chairman and CEO Greg Garland at
the Houston-based company’s first analyst day Dec. 13.  Pipeline Earnings  The company plans to create an MLP in 2013 with pipeline
assets, which would make  Phillips 66 (PSX)  the fourth refiner since
2011 to do so. The company could also boost the potential value
of the partnership over time by using additional assets it owns,
growth projects or acquisitions, Garland told reporters.  Within as few as five years, Phillips 66 plans to earn as
much from pipelines and making chemicals as refining crude, he
said.  Refining “is a very volatile business” and buying new
plants isn’t necessary given growth opportunities in the other
business units, Garland said. “Shifting capital into the higher
returning parts of the business makes a lot of sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  