-- Rinehart and Singleton Seek to Boost Say in Fairfax Media
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-28T08:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/rinehart-and-singleton-seek-to-boost-say-in-fairfax-media.html
Gina Rinehart , Asia’s richest woman,
and John Singleton, an investor in publishing and broadcasting,
said they agreed to work together to boost their say in the
operations of  Fairfax Media Ltd.. (FXJ)   Gutenberg Investments Unit Trust, of which Singleton is a
principal, bought shares in Fairfax after the media company’s
board rejected a sale or joint venture of their radio assets to
 Macquarie Radio Network Ltd. (MRN) , Singleton said in an e-mailed
statement today. He didn’t say how many shares Gutenberg bought.  Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting Pty has a 15 percent stake
in Fairfax, making her the biggest shareholder, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. She failed to get a seat on
Fairfax’s board in June after disagreeing on conditions
including signing Fairfax’s Charter of Editorial Independence.  “Both Gina and I believe that the lifeblood of Fairfax is
the integrity and accuracy of its journalism,” Singleton said
in the statement. “This in no way would be compromised if
Hancock Prospecting and Gutenberg Investments had a significant
say in the future of Fairfax.”  Fairfax is the publisher of the Sydney Morning Herald and
the Australian Financial Review and operates radio stations in
Sydney,  Melbourne , Brisbane and Perth.  Rinehart and Singleton plan to file a statement with the
Australian Stock Exchange Dec. 30 to inform the market of their
holdings and association before developing any plans, Singleton
said.  Fairfax Media faces many challenges in an ever-changing
media market landscape and with the current soft advertising
market, Rinehart said in the statement.  No further comment would be made at this time, Singleton
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  