-- Ringling Bros. Producer Gets $9.3 Mln ASPCA Settlement
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-28T18:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/ringling-bros-producer-gets-9-3-mln-aspca-settlement.html
The owner of the Ringling Bros. and
Barnum & Bailey Circus will receive $9.3 million from the
 American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals  under
a settlement that resolves protracted litigation over how the
circus cared for its elephants.  Circus operator Feld Entertainment Inc. and the ASPCA filed
dismissal papers in federal court in  Washington  today, ending
litigation that had dragged on for more than 10 years, both
sides announced in statements today.  Legal proceedings by Feld against the  Humane Society  of the
U.S., the Fund for Animals, Animal Welfare Institute, Animal
Protection Institute United with Born Free USA, former Ringling
Bros. employee Tom Rider and the attorneys involved will
continue, according to the statement.  “Animal activists have been attacking our family, our
company, and our employees for decades because they oppose
animals in circuses,” Kenneth Feld, chairman and chief
executive officer of Feld Entertainment, said in a statement
today. “This settlement is a vindication not just for the
company but also for the dedicated men and women who spend their
lives working and caring for all the animals with Ringling
Bros.”  The litigation stems from a complaint filed by ASPCA, the
 Animal Welfare Institute , the Fund for Animals and Tom Rider in
July 2000, alleging the “Greatest Show on Earth” mistreated
its elephants with hooks and chains in violation of the
Endangered Species Act.  2009 Trial  Ringling Bros. won at trial in December 2009, when the
judge ruled that the case was based on the untruthful testimony
of star witness Rider, who cared for Ringling elephants in one
of the circus’s traveling units from 1997 to 1999. The court
found Rider had received more than $190,000 over eight years
from animal rights groups.  The circus, formed by the merger of two troupes 93 years
ago, sued the ASPCA and other animal rights groups in August
2007 in the same court, claiming they violated federal
racketeering laws by paying Rider to act as a plaintiff and
witness in several cases alleging animal abuse.  “After more than a decade of litigating with Feld
Entertainment, the ASPCA concluded that it is in the best
interests of the organization to resolve this expensive,
protracted litigation,” ASPCA president and CEO Ed Sayres said
in a statement. “We are glad to put this matter behind us.”  Steve Pain, a spokesman for Feld, said he was pleased with
the settlement and hoped the other animal rights groups would
also seek a settlement. “This litigation has had nothing to do
with animal care and everything to do with their political
agenda,” Payne said in a telephone interview. “We hope they
also will do the right thing.”  The case is American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals v. Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus,
03-02006, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  