-- Risks to Indian Economic Stability Have Risen, Reserve Bank Says
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-28T13:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/risks-to-indian-economic-stability-have-risen-reserve-bank-says.html
Slower Indian expansion and threats
from trade and budget deficits have increased the economic risks
the nation faces, its central bank said.  “Relatively high” inflation, lower savings and moderating
investment and consumption have boosted risks, the  Reserve Bank 
of India said in its biannual  Financial Stability Report  today.
It flagged a “high” current-account gap, “stressed” fiscal
position and rising corporate leverage and falling
profitability.  The monetary authority left  interest rates  unchanged for a
fifth meeting on Dec. 18, while signaling it may cut borrowing
costs in coming months to spur Asia’s third-largest economy as
price pressures ebb. India’s potential growth rate may have
declined to about 7 percent, according to the report, compared
with 8.5 percent before the onset of the global financial
crisis.  “The euphoria over BRICS as a growth engine has been
dented,” Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said in the report,
referring to the  emerging markets  of Brazil, Russia, India,
China and  South Africa . “Confidence in the financial sector
remains low, uncertainty persists and investment climate
globally is yet to revive.”  The report also highlighted “large foreign currency
denominated overseas borrowings with unhedged exposures” at
many Indian companies in a period when exchange-rate volatility
remains “elevated.”  Indian inflation, as measured by the wholesale-price index,
has exceeded 7 percent for most of this year. It eased to a 10-
month low of 7.24 percent in November. Subbarao has left the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged since a 50 basis points cut to
8 percent in April this year.  India yesterday cut the goal for annual economic growth in
the five years to 2017 to 8 percent from 8.2 percent, and
signaled further fuel-price rises to limit subsidies that have
stoked the budget gap. Gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, matching a three-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  