-- Rubber to Extend Bull Market as Stimulus Accelerates Recovery
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-12-28T07:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/rubber-to-extend-bull-market-as-stimulus-accelerates-recovery.html
Rubber will likely extend a  bull
market  next year as monetary and fiscal stimulus from  Japan  to
 China  and the U.S. will accelerate a global recovery and boost
raw-material demand.  Futures in  Tokyo , a global benchmark, will climb 14 percent
to 344 yen a kilogram ($3,981 a metric ton) by March, according
to the median estimate from seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
who correctly predicted in September that the price would climb
to 300 yen by the end of 2012. The threshold was crossed
yesterday for the first time since May.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who won a landslide
election victory last week, instructed his ministers to compile
emergency economic measures early next month. His call for
unlimited monetary easing and a 2 percent inflation target has
sent the yen to a 28-month low against the dollar, helping
exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  boost sales overseas,
leading to stronger demand for the commodity used in tires.  “Abe will likely do whatever he can to end Japan’s decade-
long deflation and revive its economic expansion,” Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo,
said by phone today. “Investors are betting on his scenario.”  After rallying 47 percent from this year’s low of 205.6 yen
reached on Aug. 14, futures were 15 percent higher for the year
at 302.5 yen at the settlement today, reversing last year’s 36
percent slump. The price is still 44 percent below a record high
of 535.7 yen on Feb. 18, 2011.  Weaker Yen  The yen touched 86.64 per dollar, the weakest since Aug. 3,
2010, and traded at 86.43, extending this year’s loss to 12
percent. A weaker Japanese currency makes yen-based contracts
cheaper for holders of other currencies.  JPMorgan revised its yen projection today, saying the
currency will fall to 90 against the dollar in the second
quarter next year. Nomura reduced its yen forecast to 90 per
dollar for the second quarter from 85, citing Abe’s
“aggressive” push toward a 2 percent inflation target.  The  Federal Reserve  said Dec. 12 it would buy $45 billion
of  Treasury securities  a month from January, adding to $40
billion a month of existing mortgage-debt purchases. Data this
month showed the world’s largest economy grew at a 3.1 percent
annual rate last quarter, exceeding all projections in a
Bloomberg survey. The  International Monetary Fund  expects a 3.6
percent global expansion in 2013, from 3.3 percent this year.  Biggest Producers  Rubber production is expected to decline as the so-called
wintering season starts in February in  Thailand , the world’s
largest producer and exporter, slashing latex production. Output
in  Indonesia , the second-biggest grower, may drop for the first
time in four years in 2013 as the country limits output and
shipments in coordination with other producers.  Production may decline 8.9 percent to 2.77 million tons
from an estimated 3.04 million tons this year, according to
Agriculture Minister Suswono. That would be the first fall since
2009, when output dropped 11 percent to 2.44 million tons, data
from Indonesia’s Directorate General of Estate Crops show.  Thailand, Indonesia and  Malaysia , representing 67 percent
of global supply, agreed in August to combat lower prices by
limiting shipments and cutting down trees, paring 450,000 tons.  “Rubber will extend the rally, boosted by Japan’s stimulus
measures, declining supplies during wintering seasons and
export-cut measures,” Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at DS Futures
Co., said by phone from Bangkok.  Rubber will also draw support from better demand in China,
the world’s largest consumer, as the nation’s economic growth is
forecast to accelerate next year.  “As  China’s economy  has been on a recovery trajectory,
demand from the auto sector will also recover,” said Naohiro Niimura, a partner at research company Market Risk Advisory.  China Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing may expand at a faster pace in
December, according to a preliminary reading on Dec. 14 by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics, adding to signs the economy
is strengthening as a new leadership takes power. The government
has approved projects for the construction of about 2,000
kilometers (1,250 miles) of roads, subways in 18 cities and
extra spending on railways.  Chinese monthly passenger-vehicle sales rose to the highest
level in almost two years in November, beating analyst estimates,
as  consumer confidence  improved with the economy and dealerships
increased discounts to reduce stockpiles.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles, gained 8.75 percent to 1.46 million units last
month, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers. Passenger car sales will increase about 10
percent next year, according to Xu Changming, director of
information resource development at the State Information Center,
part of the nation’s top economic planning body.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  