-- Rubber Rallies to Seven-Month High as Weak Yen Increases Appeal
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-12-28T03:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/rubber-rallies-to-seven-month-high-as-weak-yen-increases-appeal.html
Rubber extended a rally to the
highest level in more than seven months, gaining for a fifth day,
after  Japan ’s currency dropped to the lowest in more than two
years on prospects for additional stimulus to end deflation.  Rubber for delivery in June rose as much as 1.1 percent to
304 yen a kilogram ($3,519 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange, the highest level for the most-active contract since
May 8. Futures, which traded at 302.5 yen at 12:18 p.m. in Tokyo,
have gained 15 percent this year on prospects of improving
demand and after top producers limited supplies.  The yen dropped after data showed a fall in Japan’s
consumer prices, adding to the case for increased monetary
easing by the central bank. A weaker Japanese currency increases
the appeal of yen-denominated contracts and helps exporters such
as Toyota Motor Corp. boost sales overseas. Japan’s new prime
minister, Shinzo Abe, has instructed his ministers to compile
emergency economic measures and backed unlimited monetary easing.  “Futures were bought as investors bet the yen’s downtrend
will continue into next year under the economic policies of the
new Japanese government,” said Hideshi Matsunaga, analyst at
broker ACE Koeki Co in  Tokyo .  A run of five daily gains would be the best streak since
September. Most-active prices are also poised for the fourth
weekly advance. Rubber is used to make tires and gloves.  Japan’s consumer prices excluding food fell 0.1 percent in
November, data showed today. The Bank of Japan’s inflation
target is 1 percent, and Abe has said he may change the law
governing the central bank if it doesn’t double its price goal.  Rubber for May delivery added 0.3 percent to 26,025  yuan 
($4,176) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  China  is the
world’s largest natural-rubber user. The price reached 26,135
yuan yesterday, the highest since May 11.  Thai rubber free-on-board advanced 1 percent to 98.10 baht
($3.20) a kilogram yesterday, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand . The country is the largest exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  