-- Sales Approaching $4 Trillion in Stimulus Repast: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-12-28T16:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/sales-approaching-4-trillion-in-stimulus-repast-credit-markets.html
Corporate  bond  sales worldwide are
approaching an unprecedented $4 trillion this year as yields
touch all-time lows and investors pump record amounts of cash
into fixed-income securities.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  led $3.94
trillion of offerings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The total exceeds the  $3.89 trillion  from 2009, when government
guarantees aimed at rebuilding confidence in the banking system
spurred issuance after the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  Companies from the neediest to the most creditworthy took
advantage of borrowing costs that fell to a record-low 3.27
percent this week as central banks held down interest rates to
prop up the economy. Investors also funneled $475.3 billion into
bond funds as global growth, which slowed to an estimated 2.2
percent this year from 2.91 percent in 2011, prompted them to
seek alternatives to equities.  “2012 was a great year for credit,” John Hines, the head
of investment-grade syndicate at Wells Fargo & Co. in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina, said in a telephone interview. “We saw very
strong demand technicals over the course of the year. With that
backdrop, issuers were keen to issue.”  Record Quarters  Issuance soared, reaching a record $1.19 trillion in the
first quarter, Bloomberg data show, as Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke held to his plan to keep interest rates near
zero percent and as the European Central Bank injected cash into
the financial system. Supply waned in the three months ended
June, then jumped to $996.8 billion and $981.4 billion in the
third and fourth quarters, respectively, both records for those
periods.  “The market’s tone alternated between bearish and bullish
but the events were the same events that the market has grappled
with for years,” Mark Bamford, the New York-based head of
global fixed-income syndicate at Barclays Plc, said in a
telephone interview. “We had a year where there were no new
shocks.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk pared gains as President  Barack Obama  was said to
offer a scaled-back fiscal-cliff package in a meeting with
congressional leaders three days before a year-end deadline for
a budget deal.  Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 95.7 basis points as of 11:33 a.m.
in New York, after earlier reaching 97.1 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Obama will offer the narrower
budget package at a White House meeting at 3 p.m. in Washington,
a Democratic aide with knowledge of the plans said.  The credit-swaps measure typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, added 0.35 basis point to 14.38 basis points
as of 11:33 a.m. in New York, after earlier reaching 15.13. The
gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
government securities and narrows when they favor assets such as
company debentures.  GE Bonds  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 28 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:35 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Bond deals this year surpassed the previous record in 2009,
when the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program provided government backing for new
senior unsecured debt to shore up confidence in the banking
system.  Investor optimism this year was tempered by the global
implications of the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and the
budget stalemate in  Washington .  “There was very strong demand for paper and issuers were
keen to lock in low rates with the backdrop of potential market
disruptions from Europe and the fiscal cliff,” Wells Fargo’s
Hines said.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed said Dec. 12 that it will continue  quantitative
easing , buying $45 billion a month of Treasury securities
starting next month. It’s held interest rates at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 and for the first time linked the
outlook for the benchmark rate to unemployment and inflation.  The global economy will expand 2.2 percent this year, the
slowest growth since 2009, down 0.71 percentage point from 2011,
according to the average estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The yield on bonds worldwide fell 1.56 percentage points
this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate & High
Yield index data show. Borrowing costs have tumbled from an all-
time high of 9.05 percent in October 2008, when credit markets
seized in the weeks following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  ‘Different World’  “It’s a different world,”  Sabur Moini , who manages about
$2.5 billion of high-yield assets at Payden & Rygel in Los
Angeles, said in a telephone interview. “The Fed’s zero
interest rate policies are going to be with us next year and
maybe even until 2014 and 2015. We’ve all had to adjust to a
lower-yield world,” he said, adding that spreads are still
attractive.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debentures declined to 219 basis points
as of Dec. 26 from 351 basis points at year end, and compare
with an average of 117 basis points between 2005 and 2007, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The record amount of money funneled into bond funds this
year outpaced the $99 billion of net inflows in 2011, according
to EPFR Global, a research firm in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . All
equity funds posted a collective outflow of $66.9 billion this
year.  Issuance in the U.S. reached a record, climbing 31 percent
to $1.47 trillion, exceeding the  previous all-time high  of $1.24
trillion in 2009, Bloomberg data show. Sales of high-yield
bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, reached $354 billion. That’s 23
percent above the  previous record  of $288 billion set in 2010.  Abbott’s Offering  “They are trying to capture the high level of demand that
is prevalent in the market,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in
a telephone interview. “For the riskier companies they
particularly don’t want to wait until things get worse,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was the largest global company bond
underwriter for the fifth straight year, with a market share of
7.3 percent, according to Bloomberg data that excludes self-led
deals. The biggest U.S. bank by assets was followed by Citigroup
Inc., Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc.  A $14.7 billion offering from drug and medical-device maker
Abbott last month was the biggest dollar-denominated sale since
February 2009, when  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  issued $16 billion of debt,
Bloomberg data show. United Technologies Corp. sold $9.8 billion
of debt in the year’s second-biggest dollar sale to help finance
its acquisition of Goodrich Corp.  ‘Great Rotation’  With this year’s drop in interest rates erasing next year’s
price return potential, investment-grade returns will plunge to
about 1.6 percent in 2013 from 10.2 percent this year, according
to a Dec. 3 research note from Bank of America. High-yield will
fall to about 7 percent next year from 13.2 percent in 2012.  High-grade funds in the U.S. reported about $860 million of
outflows in the week ended Dec. 19, their first in more than a
year, while dollar high-yield funds reported outflows of about
$360 million, according to a Dec. 20 Bank of America report.  Issuance next year of investment-grade dollar debt will
drop roughly 16 percent to $800 billion due to rising interest
rates and less favorable liquidity conditions in the second half
of 2013, according to the Dec. 3 report.  Next year, central banks will start raising interest rates
and trigger “the ‘great rotation’ out of bonds, into
equities,” analysts led by Bank of America’s Hans Mikkelsen
wrote in the Dec. 3 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  