-- San Francisco Mansion Discounts Luring Tech Millionaires
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-12-28T19:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/san-francisco-mansion-discounts-luring-tech-millionaires.html
Jeff Paster, a developer of luxury
homes in  California ’s Marin County, couldn’t find a buyer for
the brand-new  waterfront mansion  he listed in January for $45
million. He’s expecting that one will turn up at an auction this
weekend, with a starting bid set at $25 million.  “People at this income level always have money,” Paster
said in an interview at the 15,000-square-foot (1,400-square-
meter) residence on Belvedere Island, a tony enclave north of
San Francisco that’s known for views of the downtown skyline and
 Golden Gate  Bridge. “We had qualified buyers circling for
months, but with no sense of urgency. This sets a deadline.”  Technology executives paying discounts to listed prices
have been active buyers of luxury properties this year in the
 San Francisco  Bay area, where the growth of social-media and
Internet firms including Twitter Inc. and Yammer Inc. has
created a new wave of millionaires. Some older homes sat unsold
for years before finding buyers, said Rick Turley, president of
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage of Northern California.  In 2012, there have been 13 publicly recorded transactions
for more than $10 million in exclusive San Francisco
neighborhoods such as Pacific Heights, Presidio Heights and Sea
Cliff, according to DataQuick, a research firm. That’s up from
six sales last year and a dozen in 2007, the previous high mark.
The numbers don’t include deals in expensive areas outside the
city, such as Belvedere or Tiburon, in Marin County; Atherton in
San Mateo County; or  Palo Alto  in Santa Clara County.  Home Demand  “Over a long listing period, it’s hard to say what will
happen, because obviously the market is constantly changing,”
Turley said. “The success of tech and social media means people
are looking very generally at San Francisco and the Silicon
Valley as places to live because these businesses are sourced
here. It’s highest on their radar.”  Initial public offerings in 2012 by Bay-area companies
raised a record $17.5 billion in public equities markets,
including sales by Menlo Park-based Facebook Inc.,  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  in
San Francisco and Workday Inc. of Pleasanton, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The total is more than double the $8.3
billion reached in 1999, the height of the dot-com boom.  This year’s Bay area IPOs generated $9.4 billion in cash
for selling shareholders. Other investors have been able to
generate money before initial stock sales through the rise of
secondary-share markets such as SharesPost Inc.  Yammer Founder  Yammer Founder David Sacks, who sold the social-media
company to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in June for $1.2 billion, earlier
this year bought an unfinished home in Pacific Heights that had
been listed for $38.5 million. The transfer tax indicated a $20
million sale.  Sacks’s new residence, built in the style of a French
chateau, was last purchased by Peter Sperling, incoming  chairman 
of  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , who paid $32 million in 2002, said David
Barrett of listing brokerage Warwick Properties Group.  “It’s built to be the finest residence in San Francisco,
from limestone quarried in  France  and with the same glaziers who
worked on the Eiffel Tower renovation,” Barrett said.  This month, Jay Paul, the San Francisco-based developer of
6 million square feet of Silicon Valley offices, including
Google Inc.’s four-building complex in Sunnyvale, completed a
purchase in the same neighborhood, said a person with knowledge
of the transaction who asked not to be named because it hasn’t
been made public. The house sold for $28.25 million, said Dona
Crowder of TRI Coldwell Banker, a co-listing broker on the home.
She declined to comment on the buyer.  Seller Deals  The deal was at a 48 percent discount to the asking price
in 2007, around the time U.S. housing prices peaked. The seller
had most recently sought $34 million, Crowder said.  Paul didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  In some cases, luxury discounts this year in San Francisco
and the Silicon Valley are a reflection of aged homes built
decades ago that needed extensive renovations, Crowder said.
Sellers were also motivated by the prospect of higher capital
gains taxes in 2013, she said. Her listing on Broadway in
Pacific Heights received higher bids in the past, including one
earlier this year, which were rejected by the seller, she said.  “The generations are turning over in this neighborhood,”
Crowder said in a phone interview. “If it were understood back
then that record prices were being offered, it would have been
wise to sell” in 2007.  Dorsey, Benioff  Jack Dorsey, a Twitter co-founder, paid $9.9 million in
February for a “humble” two-bedroom house in Sea Cliff that
had been listed for $12.5 million, said Olivia Hsu Decker, owner
of Tiburon-based Decker Bullock Sotheby’s International Realty
and Dorsey’s agent on the deal.  Salesforce.com (CRM)  Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  bought a nearby house in 2009,
Decker said.  The Sea Cliff neighborhood is named for its location high
above the  Pacific Ocean , west of the Golden Gate. In May,
Dorsey, who is known to take public buses to work, tweeted a
quote from the Chilean poet Pablo Neruda, “I need the sea
because it teaches me,” Decker said in an e-mail.  Other multimillion-dollar homebuyers this year include  Mark
Pincus , founder of online game maker  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  He purchased a
Pacific Heights house in July for $16 million after a $500,000
price cut, said Decker, who represented him in the past and also
is the listing agent for the Belvedere home.  Rising Prices  The region’s broader housing market is also showing strong
demand, bolstered by the addition of 32,400 new jobs in the San
Francisco metropolitan area in the year through November. House
and condominium prices in the nine-county Bay area last month
rose almost 21 percent from a year earlier to a median $438,000,
the highest since August 2008, according to San Diego-based
DataQuick. Sales jumped almost 16 percent.  Paster has been developing the Belvedere estate since 2008,
when he acquired two adjacent lots for $9.3 million, and put the
property up for auction in November after two price reductions,
the most recent to $35.9 million. The decision was made with the
aim of “causing those interested to act,” he said. There is an
undisclosed reserve beyond $25 million.  “This is one-of-a-kind property,” he said in an interview
at the home earlier this month, seated behind a French antique
desk in the library, the town of Sausalito visible through
floor-to-ceiling windows behind him. “It’s like a Picasso. How
much is that worth?”  The 1.14-acre (0.46-hectare) site hugs the shore, with the
house laid out in two wings on three levels. The seven bedrooms
and living areas have mahogany flooring, and the nine full
bathrooms are tiled with marble and limestone. Terraces paved
with fossil stone from  India  are accessible from most rooms on
the main floor through oversized folding doors.  ‘Beautiful Spot’  Belvedere , about 17 miles (28 kilometers) north of San
Francisco by car and less than a square mile in size, became a
favored spot to build summer homes at the end of the 19th
century, said Dave Gotz, archivist of the Belvedere-Tiburon
Landmarks Society. The community, connected to Tiburon by a
natural causeway so not technically an island, had the virtues
of a warmer climate compared with the windy city.  “It’s a beautiful spot, with small streets and steep
hillsides coming down on the west side,” said Mike Fuson,
Belvedere’s interim city manager. “The housing stock is
expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  