-- SEC Suspends Southridge Trading After Kinross Statement
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-12-28T18:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/sec-suspends-southridge-trading-after-kinross-statement.html
Trading in  Southridge Enterprises
Inc. (SRGE)  was halted by the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission two
days after the mining company said it was forming a partnership
with Canada’s  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  in Mexico.  The temporary suspension was initiated because of questions
regarding the accuracy of statements made by Southridge
concerning “certain claims regarding a joint partnership and an
arrangement to obtain funding and to change the listing venue
for Southridge stock,” the SEC said today in a statement.  Kinross, Canada’s third-largest gold producer, denied a
statement from Southridge on Dec. 26 that the two were entering
a partnership to develop projects in Mexico. Southridge, based
in  Dallas , rose as much as 88 percent in over-the-counter
trading after it said earlier the same day the companies were
working to finalize an agreement for the Cinco Minas and Gran
Cabrera properties.  “Kinross wishes to make clear that there is no such joint
partnership, joint venture or other similar such arrangement or
agreement in place, and nor do we expect there to be such a
joint partnership, agreement, acquisition, investment or other
equivalent transaction involving Kinross and Southridge in the
foreseeable future,” Toronto-based Kinross said in a separate
statement yesterday.  A comment in Southridge’s statement attributed to a Kinross
employee, Martin Moscosa, “was incorrectly attributed to him,”
Kinross said.  ‘Signed Agreements’  “Southridge Enterprises does have two signed agreements
from Mr. Martin Moscosa,” Southridge said today in an unsigned
message sent from an e-mail address listed on its website. The
company said it has e-mails confirming Moscosa’s “direct
quotation.”  No one responded to voicemail messages left at the Texas
phone number listed on Southridge’s e-mail and their latest
press release.  Steve Mitchell , a Kinross spokesman, said today
that he wouldn’t comment on the matter beyond what the company
said in its statement yesterday.  The SEC said the suspension in Southridge trading is from
9:30 a.m.  New York  time today through Jan. 11.  The shares  closed
yesterday at 0.6 cent in New York.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  are the two largest
Canada-based gold producers by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  