-- Serbia’s Drcelic Sees Bond Yields Fall on Budget Cuts
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-28T14:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/serbia-s-debt-manager-sees-bond-yields-falling-on-budget-cuts.html
(Corrects bond auction details in 13th paragraph.)  Serbian debt yields will probably
keep falling in 2013 as fiscal consolidation improves public
finances, said Branko Drcelic, the head of the  Serbian Debt
Management Agency .  The Balkan nation expects a stable dinar and slowing
inflation to help attract investors to its treasuries and bonds,
Drcelic said in an interview yesterday in Belgrade.  The government seeks to narrow the budget gap to 3.6
percent of gross domestic product in 2013 from 6.7 percent of
GDP this year, which may convince credit rating companies to
raise  Serbia ’s rating, Drcelic said. It is rated BB- by both
Fitch and  Standard & Poor’s , three levels below investment
grade, with a negative outlook.  “The domestic market liquidity is great, the dinar has
firmed and stabilized and we have started the fiscal
consolidation plan, the results of which will be fully visible
in 2013,” Drcelic said. “The stronger dinar and stable
inflation will help lower the cost of borrowing.”  Serbia is now paying 11.87 percent on 53-week dinar debt,
compared with 14.59 percent on Sept. 5 and 5.05 percent on 18-
month euro-denominated borrowing, down from 6.3 percent earlier
this year, according to the agency. Yields have fallen to
early-2012 levels since July, when Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s
Cabinet took office and trimmed spending to narrow the budget
gap of more than 7 percent.  “We are reaping the early benefits of all the fiscal
consolidation measures taken in the past three months,” Drcelic
said. “Liquidity in the local market is great and that’s
reflected in an excellent bid-to-cover ratio in the past several
auctions.”  Sufficient Funds  Serbian borrowing costs have declined as investors seek
higher yields amid near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and the
euro area, while the  Federal Reserve ’s programs that pump money
into the financial system through bond purchases have improved
liquidity.  “We have secured sufficient funds to repay debts in the
first five months of the year” and considering the good
liquidity, “there is no need to rush” and we will “be waiting
to seize the window of opportunity” for any major borrowing, he
said.  Serbia will borrow 525 billion dinars ($6.09 billion) next
year to plug budget holes and repay debts. Half will come from
domestic borrowing, $2 billion will come from new Eurobond sales
and $1 billion in a loan from  Russia  to support the budget.  “Our main goal next year is to minimize the cost of
borrowing because of discrepancy between what we pay abroad and
in Serbia,” Drcelic said. Yields on the Serbian five-year
Eurobonds stood at 4.417 percent at 11:35 a.m. in Belgrade,
compared with 5.1 percent on Nov. 16. Its 10-year Eurobond
yielded 5.135 percent, down from 7.837 percent on May 1, just
five days before Serbia held general elections.  Eurobonds  Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said on Oct. 31 Serbia
would aim for a Eurobond sale next spring, after concluding a
new loan deal with the  International Monetary Fund .  Serbia sold Eurobonds in September and November, attracting
investors from the U.S., U.K.,  Denmark ,  Germany , as well as
buyers from  Singapore  and  Hong Kong , Drcelic said. Foreign
investors also hold around a third of the Serbian dinar-
denominated debt.  The government will sell 100-million euros ($131.7 million)
worth of 2-year bonds with a 4.875 percent coupon on Dec. 31,
where yields dropped to 6.20 percent in an auction on July 24
from 6.25 percent in June.  The government plans to raise nearly $1.4 billion in the
first quarter when repayments total $1 billion, including a
debut sale of a seven-year dinar-denominated bond in March.  Inflation fell to 11.9 percent in November and the central
bank said it will rebound to about 13 percent in December. It is
forecast to fall to between 2.5 percent and 5.5 percent by the
end of 2013, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  