-- Serb Central Bank Amends Bad Debt Rules to Boost Credit
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-28T14:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/serb-central-bank-amends-bad-debt-rules-to-boost-credit.html
Serbia’s central bank has amended
rules on bad debt, allowing lenders to transfer non-performing
loans from their portfolios to third parties and release funds
for greater credit activity.  Non-performing loans stood at 399.5 billion dinars ($4.6
billion) at the end of the third quarter this year, accounting
for 19.9 percent of banks’ credit portfolios, according to
central bank  data . Loan-loss reserves stood at 127.9 percent of
all non-performing loans.  “Considering that the high level of problematic loans is
to the greatest degree a consequence of late loan repayments by
companies, new regulatory solutions allow banks to cede the
claims” in line with international practice and standards, the
Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije said in an e-mailed
statement today.  It also called on banks to “invest additional effort” and
“restructure claims against companies that have a chance to
recover despite difficulties.”  “This will release significant funds that banks have so
far set aside in loan-loss provisions and enable an increase in
credit activity through financing of good projects and
clients,” the central bank said.  The new rules, taking effect on Dec. 31, will also allow
banks to determine the creditworthiness of their retail clients
based on income and loan track-record, allowing them to be more
flexible in determining customers’ credit risk, it said.  Credit activity in  Serbia  rose 2.4 percent in the third
quarter compared with the previous three-month period, as the
government released subsidies to banks to encourage them to
offer cheaper loans to corporate clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  