-- Spain Posts Current Account Surplus as Recession Continues
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-28T10:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/spain-posts-current-account-surplus-as-recession-continues.html
Spain posted its third monthly
current  account  surplus since the start of the euro as the Bank
of Spain said the  economy  continued to contract in the final
quarter.  The October surplus amounted to 865 million euros ($1.14
billion), the Bank of Spain said. That narrowed the shortfall
for the first 10 months of the year to 14.9 billion euros from
31.7 billion euros a year earlier.  Spain, which ran the world’s second-biggest current-account
deficit during its debt-fueled housing boom, is trying to
rebalance its economy by reducing labor costs and strengthening
exports. Demand for imports has slumped as consumers struggle
with the highest unemployment rate in  Europe , at 26 percent, and
the deepest budget cuts on record.  Contracting internal demand continued to weigh down the
economy in the last three months of the year, making for a sixth
quarter of recession, the Bank of Spain said today in its
monthly bulletin. It will give its first estimate of gross
domestic product at the end of next month and the National
Statistics Institute publishes its data on Jan. 30.  As Spanish bonds and stocks have risen since July, when the
European Central Bank pledged to do whatever was needed to hold
the euro together, foreign investment has increased. In October,
Spain registered foreign-portfolio-investment inflows of 6.56
billion euros, compared with outflows of 9.3 billion euros in
the same month last year, the Bank of Spain said. Still, for the
first 10 months of the year, 83.1 billion euros of foreign
investments left the country, almost twice the amount of the
previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  