-- U.K. Stocks Drop Most in a Month Amid U.S. Budget Concern
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-28T17:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/u-k-stocks-little-changed-as-u-s-budget-talks-continue.html
U.K. stocks  declined the most in a
month amid concern U.S. lawmakers may not reach a budget deal by
the year-end deadline to prevent automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from coming into effect in January.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  dropped 2.6 percent after saying its chief
executive officer will resign.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  followed a gauge of mining companies lower.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 28.93 points, or 0.5 percent, to
5,925.37 at the close in London, the most since Nov. 26. The
benchmark gauge has still rallied 6.3 percent this year as the
European Central Bank announced an unlimited bond-buying plan
and the U.S. Federal Reserve expanded asset purchases. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.5 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.3 percent.  “This is the last chance for U.S. politicians to reach an
agreement,” said Jacques Porta, who helps manage $627 million
at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris. “It’s difficult to anticipate what
will happen, so investors feel the need to be cautious. At this
stage, everything is possible. If a deal is done, markets are
going to go up like a rocket. If not, it’s bad news, especially
in the short term, so markets are going to go down.”  Obama, who returned early from a holiday in Hawaii
yesterday, called congressional leaders to a White House meeting
three days before a deadline to avert more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  Bipartisan Meeting  Obama will meet House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, both Republicans, as well as
Democrats  Harry Reid , the senate majority leader, and  Nancy
Pelosi , the House minority leader.  Separately, the Republican-led House will hold an unusual
session on the evening of Dec. 30.  Lonmin Plc slid 2.6 percent to 278 pence after saying CEO
Ian Farmer will step down as he’s being treated for a “serious
illness” that he was hospitalized for in August. Chief
Financial Officer Simon Scott, who is the acting CEO, has asked
not to be considered for a permanent position, the company said.  Lonmin shares have tumbled 25 percent from Aug. 16, when
South African police fired on striking miners near the company’s
Marikana operation, killing 34. The same day, Lonmin said Farmer
had been hospitalized for an illness it didn’t specify.  A gauge of mining shares listed in the FTSE 350 Index
declined 0.7 percent. Anglo American lost 0.9 percent to 1,904
pence, while Glencore retreated 1.2 percent to 353.65 pence.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  slid 1.5 percent to 769
pence, while  Informa Plc (INF)  slid 1.1 percent to 450 pence. A  gauge
of media companies  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  