-- U.K. Post-Holiday Shopping Trips Barely Rise Amid Online Boom
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-28T10:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/u-k-post-holiday-shopping-trips-barely-rise-amid-online-boom.html
The number of Britons making
shopping trips for post-holiday bargains barely increased on the
day after Christmas as more people sought discounts online.  Visits to U.K. shops and malls gained just 0.6 percent on
Dec. 26, compared with the same day last year, according to
research company Experian Footfall.  Westfield Group (WDC) , the owner
of the Stratford and  London  White City shopping centers, said
Boxing Day shopper numbers met its expectations, though declined
to say if that represented an increase on last year.  Post-holiday clearances are traditionally one of the
busiest periods of the year for Britain’s retailers as shoppers
seek discounts on everything from clothes to books. Many store
owners began offering discounts online on Christmas Day this
year. Britons made a record 107 million visits to retail
websites on Dec. 25, up 86 percent on last year, Experian said.  Overall, holiday business for U.K. retailers was “not
exceptional,” according to the  British Retail Consortium , which
forecasts that sales only increased modestly.  “Christmas hasn’t been a boom time,” BRC Director General
Helen Dickinson said in a statement. “Customers bought only
similar amounts to last year. Sales were hard-fought and often
driven by discounts, so cutting into margins, though retailers
worked hard to ensure they had the right products available,
whether in store or online, and at the right prices.”  At Westfield’s London malls, the level of discounting
“seems pretty similar to last year,” U.K. General Marketing
Manager Myf Ryan said by phone.  Next Plc (NXT)  and  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  were
among the most aggressive with price reductions of 50 percent to
70 percent on some items, Ryan said.  Westfield, which opened at 6 a.m. for the Next sale on Dec.
26, had “significant” lines of shoppers from about 1 a.m.,
Ryan said. Billionaire Philip Green’s Topshop and Topman outlets
had queues outside for the first time, she said. The Westfield
malls stayed open until 10 p.m., an hour later than last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  