-- U.S. Embassy Cuts Operations in Central African Republic
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n
-- 2012-12-28T11:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/u-s-embassy-cuts-operations-in-central-african-republic.html
The U.S. embassy in the  Central
African Republic  suspended operations as the country’s
government prepared for negotiations with rebels that have
overtaken at least 10 towns this month.  Ambassador Laurence Wohlers and his diplomatic team left
the country yesterday, State Department spokesman Patrick
Ventrell said in a statement on its website. A warning was also
issued to U.S. citizens against all travel in the country, where
the government is trying to fend off attacks by the insurgent
groups that accuse President Francois Bozize of failing to
implement a peace accord.  Rebel forces want the terms of the four-year-old, so-called
Libreville Comprehensive Peace Agreement re-negotiated and
oppose plans by Bozize to seek a third term in office. Talks
between representatives of the fighters and the CAR government
may be held today after Foreign Affairs Minister Antoine Gambi
arrived in  Gabon , Claude Ayo Iguendha, the CAR consul in the
country, said by phone today.  “The Central African Republic government is more than ever
open to dialog and responds to the will of the rebels to
negotiate,” Iguendha said.  Nassour Ouaidou, secretary-general of the Economic
Community of Central African States, said there was no reason
for panic because the rebels have pledged to not invade the
capital, Bangui, Radio  France  Internationale reported today.  Diplomatic Relations  The U.S. isn’t suspending diplomatic relations with the
country, Ventrell said in the State Department statement.  “This decision is solely due to concerns about the
security of our personnel and has no relation to our continuing
and long-standing diplomatic relations with the CAR,” he said.  The State Department has said it is increasing attention to
security at U.S. embassies in the aftermath of security
shortcomings highlighted by the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S.
diplomatic compound in Benghazi,  Libya , in which Ambassador
Chris Stevens and three other Americans were killed.  France announced Dec. 26 that it was sending some of the
250 soldiers it has based at the airport in Bangui to secure the
French embassy after it was attacked by protesters. The U.S.
embassy also is in Bangui.  About 2,000 pro-government demonstrators attacked the
French embassy to protest what they said is France’s passivity
against Seleka rebels that have taken over much of the Central
African Republic, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Central African Republic was the world’s 12th-largest
producer of rough diamonds by value in 2010, when output was
250,000 carats, according to data on the U.S. Geological
Survey’s website. A carat is equal to a fifth of a gram. The
country also produces gold and has undeveloped resources of
copper, iron, manganese and uranium, the USGS said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  