-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Dec. 21 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-12-28T16:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-dec-21-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 15.3 million
barrels per day during the week ending December 21, 266 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 90.3 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging over 9.5
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased
last week, averaging slightly over 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 8.0 million barrels per day
last week, down by 374 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 8.3 million barrels per day, 294 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 602 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 214 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 0.6 million barrels
from the previous week. At 371.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
increased by 3.8 million barrels last week and are well above
the upper limit of the average range. Finished gasoline
inventories increased while blending components inventories
decreased last week. Distillate fuel inventories increased by
2.4 million barrels last week but remained below the lower limit
of the average range for this time of year. Propane/propylene
inventories decreased by 0.4 million barrels last week, but
remained well above the upper limit of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories increased by 3.0 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 19.0 million barrels per day, up by 1.9 percent from
the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.5 million barrels
per day, down by 2.8 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged over 3.7 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 6.9 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 5.2
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  