-- Underwater Homeowners Will Work for Less Pay: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/underwater-homeowners-will-work-for-less-pay-cutting-research.html
People who are underwater on their
home mortgages probably will accept “significantly” lower wages
than other homeowners, according to a  study  published this month
by the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta.  The recent U.S. housing bust left many homeowners with
 mortgage debt  larger than the equity value of their homes, say
Fed Bank of Atlanta economist Chris Cunningham and Robert R.
Reed of the  University of Alabama .  They cite data showing that 31.4 percent of U.S. homeowners
were underwater in the fourth quarter of 2011. People in that
situation tend to value  employment  more than those with
significant housing wealth do, because without a job they would
default on their home loan, Cunningham and Reed said. They thus
are willing to accept lower wages than their counterparts.  Their study found that being underwater is associated with
a wage decline of between a 5 percent and 9 percent.  The risk is that by agreeing to work for lower wages,
underwater workers create a negative feedback loop in which
“house price depreciation leads to lower wages, and in turn,
lower wages lead to greater housing losses,” they said.  * * *  Just because emerging and developing nations spent a longer
period in expansion in the past decade than advanced economies,
the first time that has occurred, they shouldn’t rest easy,
according to an  International Monetary Fund   working paper .  Such economies must increase policy buffers if they want to
continue to grow when developed nations are in a downturn, Abdul
Abiad, John C. Bluedorn, Jaime Guajardo and Petia Topalova of
the IMF wrote in the paper, published Dec. 20.  “Should the external environment worsen again, emerging
market and developing economies will likely end up ‘recoupling’
with advanced economies, much as they did during the Great
Recession,” they said. “To guard against such a scenario,
these economies will need to rebuild their buffers, to ensure
that they have adequate policy space to respond to shocks.”  A debate over the decoupling of the two blocs was silenced
when emerging nations slumped in 2009 along with developed ones
during the global financial crisis, they said.  A study of boom-and-bust cycles over the decades showed low
inflation, limited public debt and high reserves extend growth
periods and tend to hasten recoveries, they said. Inflation
targeting and a countercyclical fiscal policy can also
“significantly increase” the length of expansions and
accelerate economic rebounds, the authors said.  “If improvements in policy frameworks -- including greater
exchange rate flexibility and more countercyclical macroeconomic
policies -- in many of these economies are maintained, this will
also help them better weather potential shocks on the horizon,”
they said in the report.  * * *  The U.S. risks undermining its scientific output by
imposing visa restrictions that prevent foreign students from
studying there, a report in this month’s Economic Journal said.  The study of 700,000 postgraduate students in 2,300 science
and engineering departments of top U.S. universities from 1973
to 2004 found each additional student leads to 0.9 extra journal
articles per year.  That points to a “key benefit of high-skilled immigration
in the U.S, which relies on innovation for growth and helps to
explain the vociferous complaints by U.S. academic departments
about visa restrictions on foreign graduate students,” said
academics Eric T. Stuen of the  University of Idaho ,  Yale
University ’s Ahmed Mushfiq Mobarak and Keith E. Maskus of the
University of Colorado Boulder.  * * *  The Federal Reserve has won a three-decade fight to better
anchor inflation expectations, lowering the risk that a short-
term shock leads to a sustained rise in prices.  Fed Bank of Dallas research economist J. Scott Davis
calculated that on average from 2000 to 2011, a one percentage
point surprise in the U.S. inflation rate raised long-term
 inflation  expectations by 0.03 percentage points. That compared
to a 0.28 percentage point increase from 1982 to 1989.  “The Fed has been better able to anchor such expectations
so that now long-run expectations barely change following a
series of dramatic, but ultimately transitory, inflation
surprises,” Davis wrote in the Dallas Fed’s  latest Economic
Letter .  * * *  The U.S. economy’s sluggish response to the Fed’s easy
monetary policy may lie in the performance of small businesses.  Small firms typically account for half of private
employment and output as well as an even larger share of job
creation, according to a Dec. 10  report  by  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
economists Nathan Sheets and Robert A. Sockin. Such companies
are particularly dominant in real estate and construction, where
they account for 75 percent of output.  The trouble is, small companies are under “substantial
stress.” Their aggregate share of output, employment and bank
lending is trending down, Sheets and Sockin found.  In addition to cyclical impact, small companies may also be
suffering because large businesses enjoy better access to global
trade and are able to absorb the requirements of the new health-
care law, they said. By tending to dominate capital-intensive
industries, big companies probably also have benefited from the
recent decline in  interest rates  and are better placed than
smaller rivals to secure credit as the banking industry
consolidates.  While small firms have accounted for 60 percent of recent
 job creation , Sheets and Sockin said that reflected
entrepreneurism and the rapid growth of young firms rather than
the gradual expansion of existing companies. They recommend that
policy makers push to encourage entrepreneurship and small-
business creation rather than supporting small business per se.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  