-- Muni-Bond Settlement, Empire State, CFTC Rule: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-28T18:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/muni-bond-settlement-empire-state-ipo-wells-fargo-compliance.html
(Corrects item under Compliance Action to remove error
originally reported in a story on Empire State on Dec. 26,
removing reference to dissident investor.)  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America
Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch are among five firms that will pay $4.48
million to settle regulatory claims they used funds from
municipal and state bond deals to pay lobbyists.  Local authorities were unfairly asked to reimburse payments
that the firms made over five years to a California lobbying
group to help them influence the state, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority said yesterday in a  statement . The firms
inadequately described the fees, wrapping them into bond-
underwriting expenses, Finra said.  The banks, also including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , agreed to pay $3.35
million in fines and reimburse certain California bond issuers
$1.13 million, according to the statement. Citigroup’s $1.28
million in sanctions were the largest, followed by Merrill’s
$1.07 million.  The lobbying payments spanned 2006 through 2010, according
to Finra. The companies didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Goldman Sachs “discontinued the longstanding industrywide
practice of seeking reimbursement for such fees” in California
last year, the bank said in a statement. It also refunded the
lobby-group fees that had been charged on state-level issuances
in which the firm was lead underwriter.  Spokesmen for New York-based Citigroup and Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America said the firms are pleased to
have resolved the matter. Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan
and Morgan Stanley didn’t immediately respond to messages
seeking comment.  Compliance Policy  China Passes Law Requiring People Identify Themselves Online  China passed rules today requiring people to identify
themselves when signing up for Internet and phone services, as
the Communist Party tightens control over the world’s largest
population of web users.  The law, ratified by the Standing Committee of the National
People’s Congress, will enhance protection of personal
information online and “safeguard public interests,” the
official Xinhua News Agency said. China, home to 550 million web
users, censors the Internet by blocking access to websites with
pornography, gambling and content critical of the Communist
Party’s rule.  The rules may give the party greater control over mobile
phone users, as well as microblogs and websites that have become
platforms for people to air dissent, rumor and claims of
corruption not tolerated in print media. The party’s image was
damaged after online activists exposed officials who maintained
extramarital affairs, snapped up property and luxury items and
covered up allegations of wrongdoing by family members.  Under the law, people must give their real names when they
sign up for Internet, fixed phone line or mobile phone services.
Providers must also require people’s names when allowing them to
post information publicly, it said.  One of the proposals under discussion for carrying out the
new law is to require users to give their identification-card
numbers when they sign up for Internet and mobile-phone
services, according to a ministry official who declined to be
identified because the information hasn’t been released.  An editorial in the state-run  People’s Daily  on Dec. 24
said online freedom must not impinge on the freedoms of others.  For more, click here.  China May Allow Securities Fund Sales on E-Commerce Websites  China may allow asset management companies to sell
securities fund products on third-party e-commerce websites to
boost sales, according to a statement posted on the China
Securities Regulatory Commission’s website yesterday.  The regulator issued a draft regulation to seek public
feedback yesterday, the statement says.  Compliance Action  Empire State Building IPO Vote Can Proceed, Regulators Say  The company that controls the  Empire State Building  can go
ahead with a vote to allow the iconic  New York  skyscraper to be
included in a proposed real estate investment trust.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued a
“notice of effectiveness” yesterday for the plan to ask about
2,800 co-investors in the tower to approve the conversion of
their interests into units of  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) , a
REIT proposed by  Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony. Empire State
Realty filed in February to raise as much as $1 billion in an
initial public offering.  The determination means the SEC believes the offering
document contains enough information for the investors to make
an informed decision, said Thomas Voekler, an attorney at
Richmond, Virginia-based Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank Plc,
who specializes in real estate public offerings. A group of
investors whose parents and grandparents bought shares in the
tower in the early 1960s have challenged the Malkins, saying the
offering shortchanges them.  While yesterday’s filing says nothing about the merits of
the proposed offering, “it’s a very important step,” Voekler
said in a telephone interview. After months of amendments, “the
disclosure document is set where it’s going to be set.”  The Malkins want to consolidate the tower and 18 other
properties they control into a publicly traded company. Malkin
Holdings LLC confirmed that the SEC declared the offering
statement, known as an S-4, effective.  The company “will commence its solicitation of investors
in due course,” Hugh Burns, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Empire State Realty hasn’t specified the number of shares
it plans to sell or the price range. The $1 billion is a
placeholder amount used to calculate fees and may change when
the terms are set.  The Malkins need 80 percent approval from the 3,300 units
held by the co-investors to include the skyscraper in the IPO.
Unitholders of companies that control 1 Grand Central Place,
formerly known as the Lincoln Building, and the Fisk Building at
250 West 57th St. also must approve the plan.  A separate set of investors agreed in September to settle a
class-action lawsuit challenging the proposed offering.  Hewlett-Packard Says Justice Department Opened Autonomy Probe  The U.S. Justice Department opened an investigation
relating to Autonomy Corp. after  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  accused the
software company of misrepresenting its performance before being
bought last year.  Justice Department representatives informed the company on
Nov. 21 of the probe, Hewlett-Packard said yesterday in its
annual 10-K regulatory filing. The computer maker booked an $8.8
billion writedown related to Autonomy last month after finding
that some revenue had been recorded prematurely or improperly.  Hewlett-Packard is cooperating with authorities while Chief
Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  works to turn around the company
after years of strategic missteps. Palo Alto, California-based
Hewlett-Packard also said it’s providing information to U.S. and
U.K. regulators.  Former Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch, who left Hewlett-Packard in
May, struck a $10.3 billion deal last year with Whitman’s
predecessor,  Leo Apotheker , to sell the company he co-founded.  Yesterday’s filing didn’t include any additional details
behind Hewlett-Packard’s claims of accounting errors, which made
up $5 billion of the writedown.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, declined
to comment yesterday beyond details in the filing.  “It is extremely disappointing that HP has again failed to
provide a detailed calculation of its $5 billion writedown of
Autonomy, or publish any explanation of the serious allegations
it has made against the former management team, in its annual
report filing,” Lynch  wrote  in a statement yesterday, in which
he pledged full cooperation with any investigation.  “We continue to reject these allegations in the strongest
possible terms,” he said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Courts  Wells Fargo Wins Order Reversing Decision on Overdraft Fees  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  won its bid to throw out a judge’s order
that it pay California customers $203 million for manipulating
debit-card transactions to boost overdraft fees.  The decision, issued Dec. 26 by the U.S. Court of Appeals
in  San Francisco , reverses a lower-court order requiring Wells
Fargo to cease its practice of charging overdraft fees based on
its posting in high-to-low order customers’ debit-card
transactions. The bank’s practice is a “federally authorized
pricing decision,” the appeals court ruled.  The three-judge panel also returned the case to the
district court, finding that Wells Fargo is liable for fraud
violations of California’s unfair competition law. The lower
court was directed to determine what damages, if any, Wells
Fargo must pay.  Customers alleged in the 2007 complaint that San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo changed the way it treated daily debit
transactions and cash withdrawals in 1999 so that transactions
with the highest dollar amount posted first, rather than in the
order they occurred.  The practice, which customers alleged was intended to boost
revenue from overdraft fees, led to account holders overdrawing
funds by small amounts multiple times a day, according to the
complaint.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. bank by market value, had
argued to the appeals court that customers were warned about the
practice, which was stated in account agreements and allowed by
the  Federal Reserve  and other national bank regulators.  The decision “largely reaffirms Wells Fargo’s position,”
bank spokesman Ancel Martinez said in an e-mailed statement.
“We look forward to resolving the remaining issues,” he said.  Michael Sobol, a lawyer representing plaintiffs in the
case, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo, 10-16959, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  CFTC Mutual Fund Rule Appeal Sought by Chamber of Commerce  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  is seeking to appeal a judge’s
decision to uphold a rule by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission requiring mutual funds with commodities investments
to register with the agency.  The Chamber of Commerce and the  Investment Company
Institute  filed a notice of appeal yesterday in federal court in
Washington, seeking to ask an appeals court to reverse a Dec. 12
ruling by U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell that the CFTC acted
properly and within its authority when it issued the rule.  Howell, writing in a 93-page opinion, rejected arguments by
the chamber of commerce and the institute that the rule is
unnecessary, and that the commission didn’t properly assess the
costs and benefits when it approved the regulation in February.  David Hirschmann, president and chief executive officer of
the chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said
in an e-mailed statement that the District Court’s decision fell
short of well-established D.C. Circuit precedent requiring
agencies to “adequately measure the costs imposed by capital
markets regulations on businesses, investors and the economy.”  Under the rule, funds would have to file reports with the
CFTC about their use of leverage, exposure to risk from
counterparties and other investment trading data. The groups
argued the measure isn’t needed because mutual funds are already
overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Stephanie Allen, a CFTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the notice of appeal.  The case is Investment Company Institute v. U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, 1:12-cv-00612, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews  Rosner Says Big Banks Becoming ‘GSEs of Next Decade’  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at Graham Fisher & Co., talked
about the outlook for U.S. banks, financial regulation and the
residential housing market.  Rosner spoke with Sara Eisen and Alix Steel on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.”  Neil Barofsky , former special
inspector for the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program
and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, also spoke.  For the video, click here.  U.K. Bank Group Plans Consumer Panel, Advisory Council, FT Says  Banks have become “detached from the rest of the
country,” and need to “get reintegrated,”  British Bankers’
Association  Chief Executive Officer Anthony Browne told the
Financial Times in an interview.  Bank chairmen “realize that banks need to have a wider
social purpose beyond generating return on equity,” Browne
said. The BBA will write to members to tell them it’s setting up
panel and council, FT reported.  BankUnited (BKU)  CEO Says Volcker Rule Has Bankers’ ‘Hair on Fire’  The Volcker rule, which began as a simple concept, has
morphed into “one of the more complex issues in banking,”
BankUnited Chief Executive Officer John Kanas told CNBC.  “Bankers didn’t figure it would affect smaller
institutions, but now it affects institutions all the way down
to $50 million community banks and it’s got people running
around with their hair on fire trying to figure out how to
implement” the rule, he said.  The pending rule on so-called qualified mortgages has the
“potential to become a serious impediment in the mortgage”
industry, Kanas added.  He predicted more firings and consolidation in the banking
industry. Kanas noted that smaller banks already are “quietly
having to shrink down.”  BankUnited will look to buy underperforming small banks
“when we can buy them at the right price,” Kanas said.  Comings and Goings  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson to Leave Agency Early Next Year  Lisa Jackson  said she will step down as head of the
Environmental Protection Agency after four years during which
she oversaw the first efforts to curb carbon-dioxide emissions
to combat global-warming risks.  Jackson, 50, made the announcement today in a statement
released by the agency. Her plan is to leave after the
president’s  State of the Union  speech next month.  Under Jackson the EPA negotiated fuel-efficiency standards
with automakers and set the first-ever rules for mercury
pollution from coal-fired  power plants .  Health and environmental groups have praised Jackson for
taking up rules that were delayed or weakened under the previous
administration, while Republicans in Congress complained that
the EPA’s efforts were choking off the still-struggling  U.S.
economy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 