-- Munis Beat All Assets in Longest Streak Since 2006: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/munis-beat-all-assets-in-longest-streak-since-2006-muni-credit.html
U.S. state and local debt returns
will exceed those on stocks, Treasuries, corporate bonds and
commodities for a second straight year when adjusted for
volatility, the longest winning streak since 2006.  Defaults on local bonds this year dwindled to the lowest
since at least 2009 and state tax revenue rose to pre-recession
levels. Even with interest rates near four-decade lows, the $3.7
trillion market was more appealing to U.S. investors seeking
shelter from  Europe ’s lingering debt crisis and potential
federal tax increases in 2013.  “Municipals over the last year or two have definitely
regained their semi-safe status,” said Jim Pass, a Chicago-
based managing director at Guggenheim Partners, which oversees
$8.5 billion in local bonds. “Interest rates continued to
decline and spreads continued to tighten.”  Muni debt has returned 3.7 percent this year through Dec.
26 after accounting for trading swings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Company
bonds have earned the second-most, at 3 percent, followed by the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  index of stocks at 1.2 percent and U.S.
Treasuries, which returned 0.7 percent. Commodities were little
changed.  State and local debt returned 4.4 percent last year on a
risk-adjusted basis, also the highest among the assets. Munis
trailed the group in 2010.  Chapter 9  Investors weren’t deterred even as yields started the year
near the lowest since the 1960s. Municipal mutual funds added
about $50 billion of assets this year through Dec. 19, the most
since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  The wave of cash persisted through Chapter 9 bankruptcy
filings from three California municipalities -- Stockton, San
Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes. Munis rallied for five straight
months starting in July, after Stockton became the biggest U.S.
city to seek court protection from creditors on June 28.  The price-swing variations on local debt are smaller than
those on other assets, boosting the risk-adjusted returns,
Bloomberg data show. That may be because about 70 percent of
muni bondholders are individuals, said Jamie Pagliocco, director
of bond managers at Fidelity Investments in Merrimack, New
Hampshire.  Whitney's Error  Muni investors “tend to be longer-term holders, and as an
asset class it’s going to have lower volatility
characteristics,” said Pagliocco, whose company oversees about
$32 billion in tax-exempts. “As many headlines as there have
been around the muni market, it’s a really high-quality asset
class.”  About $26 billion flowed out of muni mutual funds in 2011
on concern that state and local government credit quality would
deteriorate after the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009. The outflows were spurred in part by banking analyst
 Meredith Whitney ’s incorrect December 2010 prediction of
“hundreds of billions of dollars” of muni defaults within a
year.  Instead of widespread municipal failures, local governments
showed signs of stabilizing in 2012.  Half of all U.S. states either returned to peak tax-
collection levels from before the recession or will soon,
according to a survey by the National Conference of State
Legislatures released this month. Only 91 muni issuers defaulted
for the first time this year through Dec. 18. That’s on pace to
be the fewest since at least 2009, Municipal Market Advisors
data show.  ‘Background Noise’  The  yield  on benchmark AAA munis due in 10 years fell to
1.4 percent this month, the lowest since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in January 2009. The interest rate has since
risen to 1.75 percent as of yesterday, fueled by speculation
that the tax-exempt status of municipal-bond interest may be
capped as part of a federal deficit-reduction plan.  “I had continued to find interesting how little the market
reacted to the amount of discussion around tax reform,”
Pagliocco said. “I’ve seen far less Draconian discussions move
the market, and up until these last weeks, the market went
through a lot of background noise” and still rallied, he said.  Munis also benefitted from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s policy of keeping the central bank’s benchmark rate
near zero, which has pushed the yield on U.S. Treasuries to
near-record lows. That kept benchmark AAA local-debt interest
rates above those on federal securities from mid-May to
September, the longest streak since 2009.  Cheapest Asset  The 10-year  muni-Treasury ratio , a gauge of relative value
between the asset classes, was about 101 percent this week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. A ratio above 100 means munis are
less expensive relative to Treasuries.  “The muni-Treasury ratio was well over 100 percent for a
long time, and as rates got lower and returns got lower, people
were looking for the last cheap asset class out there,” said
Craig Brandon, a portfolio manager in  Boston  at Eaton Vance
Management, which oversees about $30 billion in munis. “People
finally realized munis were the cheapest asset class.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized. Higher volatility means an asset’s
price can swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the
prospect for unexpected losses.  Following is a pending sale:  FAIRFAX COUNTY, VIRGINIA plans to sell about $300 million
in general-obligation bonds as soon as Jan. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt
Aaa, its highest grade. (Added Dec. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  