-- Urals Crude Drops to Two-Month Low as Supply to Europe Gains
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-12-28T11:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/urals-crude-drops-to-two-month-low-as-supply-to-europe-gains.html
Russian Urals crude dropped to its
biggest discount versus Dated Brent in more than two months as
exports to  Europe  are set to increase in January.  The Urals  differential  in northwest Europe increased today
to $1.35 a barrel less than Dated Brent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the largest since Oct. 9. In the
Mediterranean, the grade’s  discount  to the benchmark widened to
$1.01, the most since Oct. 25, the data show.  Shipments of the blend from the Black Sea port of
Novorossiysk will climb to 3.295 million metric tons in January,
or 779,108 barrels a day, according to a final loading program
obtained by Bloomberg News. That’s up 7.4 percent from a revised
3.069 million tons this month.  A total of 5.4 million tons,
will be shipped from the Baltic port of Primorsk, the final plan
showed. That’s up 17 percent from 4.605 million in December.  Russia  is the world’s largest energy producer while Europe
is the largest importer of Urals. The nation recently extended
its East Siberia-Pacific Ocean, or ESPO, pipeline, to boost oil
shipments to Asia. ESPO, the country’s most expensive
infrastructure project, has the capacity to transport 600,000
barrels a day of crude via the port of Kozmino.  “Russia’s final January loading schedule shows an increase
in Urals liftings, implying that westbound seaborne exports will
not be negatively affected by the expansion of the ESPO
pipeline, at least not in January,” Vienna-based consultants
JBC Energy GmbH said in a report. “The higher supply appears to
already be taking its toll on the European market for sour crude
as assessments have recently come under pressure.”  There are 16 shipments of Urals totaling 1.6 million tons,
or 378,323 barrels a day, planned from Ust-Luga on the Baltic
Sea, according to the program, down from 1.8 million tons this
month. There is one free position at the port in the final
January program.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  