-- Turkey Trade Deficit Exceeds Estimates as Imports Grow
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-12-28T11:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/turkey-s-trade-deficit-bigger-than-expected-as-imports-rise.html
Turkey’s  trade deficit  narrowed less
than expected in November as imports increased for the first
time since May, indicating a pickup in economic activity.  The gap was $7.16 billion in the month, bigger than the $6
billion median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five
economists. The deficit fell from $7.57 billion a year earlier,
the Turkish statistics office in Ankara said on its website
today. Imports rose 13 percent to $21 billion, the biggest
increase since October 2011. Exports rose 25 percent to $13.8
billion.  “November marks the turnaround in the trade deficit,”
Sengul Dagdeviren, chief economist at ING Bank in Istanbul, said
by phone yesterday before the figures were released. Imports of
investment and intermediate goods increased, “the first time we
have seen this since 2011, when the central began tightening,”
she said today.  Turkey ’s central bank tightened monetary policy in the
first half of the year to tame inflation and curb a consumer
credit boom that pulled in imports and drove the current-account
deficit to $77 billion last year. Governor Erdem Basci has
gradually lowered rates since the end of May as growth declined.
Growth was 3 percent in the second quarter and 1.6 percent in
the third, the slowest in three years.  Gold Exports  Exports were driven by gold exports to  Iran  and the  United
Arab Emirates , which were $1.2 billion in November. Last month
Turkey exported $1.5 billion. Precious metal exports have surged
to $15.5 billion this year amid tighter international sanctions
against the Islamic Republic over its nuclear program. In the
first eleven months of last year, Turkey exported $3.7 billion
in precious metals.  “Strong export performance is amplified again with ongoing
gold exports to Iran through UAE,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist
at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said today in an e-mailed report.  The stronger export performance was also partly due to a
higher number of work days in November when compared to the same
month last year due to a religious holiday in November 2011. The
Eid al-Adha holiday is based on a lunar calendar and shifts back
about 10 or 11 days every year, putting it in October this year.  Turkey has diversified its exports away from the crisis-hit
European Union, its largest trading partner, to the  Middle East ,
 Asia  and  Africa . The share of the EU in Turkey’s exports fell to
42 percent from 45 percent a year earlier.  “Turkey’s diversification of export markets has been quite
successful,” Ozan Gaziturk, an economist at Istanbul-based
lender  Sekerbank TAS (SKBNK) , said by telephone yesterday. “For the
past four or five years, the EU share in exports has declined,
and Turkey has done a good job in finding new markets.”  The lira fell 0.2 percent to 1.7920 against the dollar at
11:23 a.m. in Istanbul. Yields on benchmark two-year bonds
increased one basis point to 6.17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  