-- VW Rises as Audi Boosts World Car-Market Dominance Goal
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-12-28T14:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/vw-rises-as-audi-boosts-world-car-market-dominance-goal.html
(Corrects Toyota’s company name in final paragraph.)  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, rose to a two-decade high for a second consecutive day
as investment plans by its Audi luxury brand underpinned the
company’s push to take the top spot in the auto industry.  Volkswagen preference shares gained as much as 1.1 percent
to 174.45 euros, the highest intraday price since at least Nov.
5, 1992, and were trading up 0.2 percent at 1:34 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 49 percent this year.  Audi, the world’s second-ranked luxury-car maker, outlined
a program yesterday to spend 13 billion euros ($17 billion)
through 2016 developing models and adding production with the
aim of overtaking premium-market leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG. (BMW)  VW is targeting 2018 as the year it becomes the world’s
biggest carmaker. IHS Automotive consulting company predicts it
might reach that goal in terms of sales as early as 2014.  “VW is global behemoth combined with a growing premium
luxury offering, and is a buy because of its cheap valuation,”
David Arnold, a London-based automotive specialist at Credit
Suisse, said by phone.  BMW also touched the highest price since 1992 today, the
second time in consecutive trading sessions, before retreating.
Die Welt newspaper cited Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner in an interview yesterday as saying the Munich-based
company’s sales this year will probably rise 7.8 percent to
about 1.8 million cars and sport-utility vehicles. BMW’s 11-
month sales in  China  rose more than 25 percent, and it’s
shifting vehicles to the U.S. market as demand in Europe drops.  “BMW is a bet on the stability of Chinese and U.S.
earnings and a re-rating of the stock,” Credit Suisse’s Arnold
said.  Volume of share trading in Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW was
26 percent of the three-month daily average, and the carmaker
had a market value of 77.6 billion euros. The shares also gained
along with those of Porsche SE, the holding company that
controls the majority of VW’s common stock, after a  New York 
state appeals court dismissed an investor lawsuit yesterday
related to the Stuttgart, Germany-based sports-car
manufacturer’s effort to take over the larger company.  Volkswagen’s 11-month group sales increased 10 percent to
8.29 million vehicles, propelled by 12 percent growth in
November. The carmaker is likely to top  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in 2014 with sales exceeding 9.4 million
vehicles to become the world’s No. 1 automaker, IHS estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  