-- When Getting Your Butt Kicked Is the Strategy
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-12-28T19:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/when-getting-your-butt-kicked-is-the-strategy.html
Buzzfeed has  one of many pieces  about anonymous Republicans bemoaning their
party's strategic incompetence, this time about the debt ceiling deal. They
report: It’s difficult to find a Republican operative
who is willing to say on the record that going over the fiscal cliff next
Tuesday is a good idea. Provoking a crisis is bad politics: Republicans are
resigned to taking the blame. And it’s bad for their policy agenda: They will
likely be cornered into a broader tax hike than the best deal they could get
from President  Barack Obama  today, and with none of the spending cuts that might
now be on the table. And yet, the dominant emotion among most
Republicans here is one of sheer resignation. Here's what Buzzfeed is missing: For Republicans, losing the political fight
isn't a downside of the strategy. It is the strategy. Republicans are eventually going to have to agree to a compromise deal that
is acceptable to a broad swath of Democrats and that substantially raises taxes.
Their base is going to hate that. But if they drag their feet and get smacked
around enough on the way to the deal, they will be able to sell the idea that
they had no choice but to cave. It's very similar to the 2011 fight over the debt ceiling increase, which
Republicans  for a time insisted  would have to be linked to congressional passage
of a balanced budget amendment. A good fight -- or at least the show of one -- placates the conservative base
and helps Republicans avoid primary challenges. It also makes the Republican
Party look incompetent and reckless, damaging the national brand. Indeed,
Republicans actually  lost the popular vote  for House seats in November, though
they held on to a House majority due to a favorable electoral map. The California Republican Party has shown over the past two decades that
kicking and screaming and being unreasonable can help secure a cozy minority of
legislative seats with a true-believing party base behind you. It's a strategy
that works. It's just not a strategy that works for building electoral
majorities. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .  