-- White House Says No Defense Programs Are Immune to Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/white-house-says-no-defense-programs-are-immune-to-cuts.html
Pentagon officials must make across-
the-board reductions in weapons and research funds instead of
slices that could spare some programs under the automatic
 federal budget  cuts scheduled to take effect next week,
according to the White House Office of Management and Budget.  Whether cuts are made at the so-called “program, project
and activity,” level instead of in larger “accounts” such as
“Air Force Aircraft” has been one of the biggest unanswered
questions about what happens if the automatic cuts known as
sequestration take effect at the start of the new year.  The arcane difference in how Pentagon budget cuts are
implemented has major implications for defense companies because
if they had greater flexibility, the military services might be
able to reduce some programs more than others, according to
officials and analysts.  “Investors should realize there is no safe defense haven
when cuts are made at PPA level,” said  Byron Callan , a defense
market analyst with  Washington , D.C.-based Capital Alpha
Partners LLC, in an e-mail statement.  That also means no one in the defense community would be
spared the pain of sequestration if President  Barack Obama ’s
administration and Congress can’t reach an agreement to prevent
more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending
cuts taking effect starting in January. That prospect could add
to the pressure to reach a deal, especially for legislators with
significant defense spending and jobs in their states or
congressional districts.  Industry Warning  The Aerospace Industries Association, which represents more
than 300 aerospace and defense companies and their suppliers,
said yesterday that policy makers must find a way to avoid
sequestration even if they can’t resolve broader conflicts over
tax rates and entitlement programs such as Medicare.  “Risking American lives and livelihoods for political
leverage is wrong,” Marion Blakey, the group’s president and
chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale told a  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  conference in Nov. 29: “I believe we should count on
sequestration being at the line-item level for the investment
accounts, maybe with some added flexibility for us if we need
it.”  Pentagon budget officials and attorneys have determined
that they have no flexibility in making the automatic spending
reductions, which could approach $62.3 billion, some $10 billion
more than previously estimated and as much as a 12 percent cut
in this year’s spending.  The White House has exempted $149 billion in military pay
and compensation from any cuts, leaving most of the burden on
the Defense Department’s operations and maintenance, procurement
and research accounts.  Navy Procurement  The Navy aircraft procurement account, for example, funds
the Chicago-based  Boeing Company’s (BA)  F-18 fighter and P-8 maritime
patrol aircraft and  Falls Church , Virginia-based  Northrop
Grumman’s (NOC)  E-2 surveillance aircraft.  If the Navy had authority to cut at the account level, it
“could choose to cut one of these programs more deeply than
others,” Callan wrote in a note to clients.  Asked if it was granting the Pentagon flexibility to reduce
procurement and research at the broader account level, the OMB’s
press office said in an e-mail statement that it wasn’t the
budget office’s decision to make.  The press office pointed to the Budget Control Act language
that mandates cuts at the program level: “The sequestration
order would specify the reductions by budget account, and
agencies would be required to apply the same percentage
reductions by program, project, and activity (PPA) within each
account,” OMB said.  Different Assessment  In a Nov. 16 assessment of potential reductions under the
act, though, the  Congressional Research Service  said the budget
office “has final authority in determining how sequestration is
implemented.”  Even without OMB guidance, the military services “could
have some limited ability to target cuts” to certain contracts
within each program line “as long as the overall sequester
amounts are met,” CRS analysts Amy Belasco and D. Andrew Austin
wrote in the assessment.  Pentagon officials have sought to minimize the disruptive
effects of sequestration on programs. “We’re not going to have
to modify an awful lot of contracts,” Pentagon Undersecretary
for Acquisition Frank Kendall told a Washington audience Nov.
14. “Most of the money we’re talking about that will be
affected by sequestration hasn’t been put on contract yet.”  Future Contracts  “Planned contracts” will “have less money available,”
he said. “In some cases, we just won’t award those future
contracts. It’s not about terminating or modifying the ones we
have,” Kendall said.  Pentagon leaders know that a sequester of 10 percent or
more of their resources “while a blunt instrument, is
manageable and probably, in the end fixable,” said  Gordon Adams , a professor at American University in Washington who was
an official in the White House budget office during the Clinton
administration.  Most Department of Defense program officers “already know
how to manage a program with 10 percent fewer resources than
they had asked for; they do it all the time,” Adams said in an
e-mail.  “Contractors have already been told there will be no
contract cancellations, there may be changes in new contracts
and some renegotiation of multi-year contracts,” he said.  “So
industry can take a deep breath and continue work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  