-- Myriad Stymies Cancer Answers by Impeding Data Sharing
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-28/myriad-stymies-cancer-answers-by-impeding-data-sharing.html
Tory Galloway thought her negative
result on a widely-used test sold by  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) 
cleared her DNA as a cause for her fallopian tube cancer.  She happily advised her four sisters that the disease
didn’t result from a family trait. The relief from the December
2010 test, though, was short lived. In October, after getting
results from a broader scan at the University of  Washington  that
included dozens of genes, she learned the truth: Her cancer was
caused by a mutation that wasn’t included in the Myriad product.  “It makes me nuts to even think about it,” said Galloway,
a landscape designer in Indianola, Washington.  The broader test, created by University of Washington
researchers, uses technology to identify as many cancer risks as
possible. There’s one problem: Such a test can’t include the
 BRCA1 and BRCA2  genes that are the most common inherited causes
for breast and ovarian cancer because Myriad owns the patents on
them. This prevents other U.S. laboratories from using them in a
commercial test.  In the mid-1990s, Myriad helped kick-start the gene-testing
revolution by pinpointing the two BRCA genes. Now, the world’s
biggest genetic testing company for breast cancer, with a  market
value  of $2.2 billion, is under attack by researchers, genetic
counselors, doctors, and their patients.  Besides stifling competitors from offering combination
tests including the BRCA genes, critics also said the company
won’t share data from decades of testing that could aid research
into how best to interpret screening. They said Myriad doesn’t
adequately respond when other researchers find added BRCA
mutations that address risks their current tests don’t cover.  At Stake  “What is at stake is the way we want our health-care
system to work,” said  Robert Cook-Deegan , a professor of public
policy, biology, and medicine at Duke University in Durham,
North Carolina, who supports limits on gene patents. “The
testing has been set up by Myriad to optimize this business
model. It is not set up to optimize public health outcomes.”  The dispute, which has grown in intensity as more and more
cancer-causing mutations are found, has spilled out of the
laboratories and clinics into the U.S. Supreme Court. A ruling
next year in a case challenging Myriad’s hold on the BRCA
patents could either support the company’s profit-driven motives
or redefine a nascent industry in a way that affects millions of
dollars in revenue.  Myriad officials reject the criticisms, saying they offer
faster, more accurate testing for harmful mutations in breast
cancer genes than any other laboratory in the world, and its
patents haven’t hindered research or patient care.  Life Saver  “Myriad has never done anything to harm patients,” said
Peter Meldrum, Myriad’s chief executive officer, during an
interview at his company’s headquarters in Salt Lake City, near
the Wasatch Mountain foothills. “We have the most accurate
results, we give the fastest results.” There has never been a
reported case in which Myriad wrongly told that a woman she had
a cancer-causing mutation, he said.  Carol Mackoff, 70, a Chicago-based managing director for
Rice Financial Products Co., says Myriad “saved my life.”  Mackoff tested positive on a Myriad test for a BRCA1
mutation in 2002 after visiting an ovarian cancer prevention
program at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in  Chicago , she said
in a telephone interview. Within weeks, she had her ovaries
removed to prevent ovarian cancer, and later in 2009 had a
prophylactic double mastectomy.  Without the Myriad test, “I would have had cancer,” she
said. “The fact that they developed these tests and gave me a
tool to work with to allow me to prevent getting cancer, I owe
them everything.”  Breast Cancer  Faster, cheaper DNA testing is revolutionizing medical
care. Nowhere has the impact been felt more strongly than in
breast cancer.  A woman who tests positive using Myriad’s tests
carries as much as an 80 percent chance that she will get breast
cancer in her lifetime. Testing helps women take charge of their
medical future, providing options that can include preventative
surgery and more extensive monitoring.  Widespread use of the tests has made Myriad an unabashed
financial success. The company’s testing business, led by its
flagship $3,340 BRCA product, carries an 87 percent gross  profit
margin  that in fiscal 2012 generated $496 million in sales,
according to Myriad.  That’s helped boost the company’s  shares  30 percent this
year.  Meldrum and Utah researcher Mark Skolnick founded Myriad in
May 1991, about a year after Mary-Claire King, a geneticist now
at the University of Washington, stunned the scientific world by
proving that a single gene can raise the risk of breast cancer.
Skolnick is retired from the company.  Venture Backed  Backed by venture capital money, Myriad beat King and her
academic colleagues to pinpoint the location of the BRCA1 cancer
gene and patent it. They won a similar race to find another gene
linked to increased risk -- BRCA2. Myriad filed a patent
application for that cancer gene just days before a British-led
team published a scientific paper announcing they had found it.  Sales have soared, fueled by patents which give Myriad a
virtual monopoly on genetic testing for hereditary breast cancer
in the U.S. About 227,000 American women are diagnosed with
breast cancer every year and about 5 to 10 percent carry the
mutant genes.  “Nobody else has built a half a billion-dollar business
around tests for single genes,” Peter Lawson, a New York based
analyst for Mizuho Securities USA, said in a telephone
interview. “They are the dominant player in the industry.”  Myriad is also “far and away the most conspicuous and
controversial” testing company relying on gene patents, said
Duke’s Cook-Deegan.  Research Stifled  While Myriad provides accurate testing for mutations in
BRCA1 and BRCA2, its exclusive right to test those genes limits
laboratories and researchers in developing new tests, said King,
the University of Washington geneticist.  In 2006, after it became clear that Myriad’s main test
missed some BRCA mutations, Myriad angered geneticists and
genetic counselors when it didn’t modify its main test to
include those mutations.  Instead, it came out with a separate test, now priced at
$700, to detect the additional BRCA mutations missed by the main
test. Insurance companies didn’t cover the second test for
years, and most women didn’t get it until recently, genetic
counselors said. Some women who tested negative on the main test
may wrongly think they don’t have a cancer-causing gene.  Standard Practice  Kathleen Maxian thought she wasn’t at high risk for
inherited ovarian cancer, because her sister, who’d had breast
cancer, had undergone Myriad’s main test and was cleared.  She was wrong. When Maxian developed ovarian cancer in
2009, she was shocked to find out that her sister had undergone
only one of Myriad’s available tests. If her sister had gotten
the second part of the two-part test, Maxian would have known
that she was also vulnerable to ovarian cancer as well as breast
cancer.  “It was absolutely devastating,” said Maxian, who said
she would have gotten her ovaries removed and her cancer likely
would have been prevented. “There are a lot of women out there
like my sister and I ... we are time bombs.”  It is standard practice to split up tests, and insurers’
refusal to pay for the second test put Myriad in a no-win
position, said Mark Capone, president of Myriad’s testing unit.
The company has provided the second test free to patients who
meet certain family and personal history criteria.  Patent Constraint  In 2010, King and her colleague, Tom Walsh, devised a new
test that looks at dozens of breast and ovarian cancer genes,
including the BRCA genes. When the  University of Washington 
introduced a commercial version of the test this summer
including 40 genes, it had to remove the BRCA genes because of
Myriad’s patents, she said.  Use of the broader screens would eliminate delays and
confusion caused by having to take as many as three rounds of
tests that need to be passed by insurance, and may involve
sending different blood samples to multiple labs, said Ellen
Matloff, who heads cancer genetic counseling at  Yale Cancer
Center  in New Haven,  Connecticut , and is a plaintiff in the
case.  “Every time a woman dies of breast or ovarian cancer who
turns out to have a mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2, or any of the 20
or so sister genes, I feel in a way that it’s on us,” King said
in an interview. King is outgoing president of the  American
Society of Human Genetics , which has joined in amicus briefs
with other organizations against gene patents. King recused
herself from the discussions, she said.  Sharing Data  Myriad is working actively on its own product to scan 
multiple cancer-risk genes at once, said Meldrum, the CEO. While
the new technology used for such tests is rapidly improving, it 
still is “not accurate enough now for clinical purposes,” 
potentially leading to errors if used before it is perfected, he 
said.  Myriad also refuses to share genetic data collected from
many thousands of women tested since 2004, eight years after the
BRCA test was first marketed.  Scientists worldwide are moving to place mutation data into
public databases to improve interpretation of genetic tests and
reduce the number of women left in limbo with ambiguous results,
said  James Evans , a geneticist at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. Even in well-known genes, there are
thousands of possible mutations in different ethnic groups, and
it’s not always obvious whether a mutation is harmful.  Working Together  In one effort, 48 U.S. companies and university genetics
labs have agreed to work together to put mutations into a
government-run database, said  Heidi Rehm , a geneticist at
Harvard Medical School in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , who is
heading the project. Myriad hasn’t yet agreed to participate,
she said in an e-mail.  Myriad’s reasoning for the secrecy is straightforward.
Sharing “doesn’t make a lot of business sense,” Meldrum said.  Myriad “is holding clinical testing back,” said Evans, a
board member for the American College of Medical Genetics and
Genomics, a plaintiff in the Supreme Court case against Myriad.
“There’s no medical, or rational, logic here.”  Runi Limary, 36, of Austin,  Texas , found a cancerous lump
in her right breast in 2005 when she was 28. She had that breast
removed, followed by 14 months of chemotherapy and antibody
therapy. She put off getting Myriad’s test because her insurance
didn’t cover it until she changed jobs in 2007.  The gene test was less helpful than she had hoped.  In Limbo  She had a mutation in BRCA1 that Myriad had only seen in
two other patients, she said, which meant that the company
wasn’t sure whether it was harmful or not.  As a result, Limary is in limbo. She faces an agonizing
decision soon, whether to get her ovaries surgically removed to
prevent ovarian cancer, she said.  If Myriad’s database was public, and if there were more
competitors doing the test, she might have received a definitive
answer sooner on whether her tumor was due to a bad gene, she
said.  She is a plaintiff in the  patent  case against Myriad.  There are simply too many questions left about genetic
testing to allow Myriad to control results affecting millions of
women, Limary said. “It is very disheartening,” she said.  Myriad is now gearing up for what may be its biggest
challenge -- defending its patents before the U.S. Supreme
Court, which agreed on Nov. 30 to hear the case.  Natural Products  In that suit, the justices are being asked to decide
whether BRCA or other human genes that have been removed from
the body are products of nature, and thus ineligible for
protection, or whether isolating and purifying the genes from
the body creates a patentable invention.  The 20 plaintiffs include patients, scientists and genetic
counselors, professional groups representing more than 100,000
pathologists, geneticists and lab workers, and the consumer
health organizations Breast Cancer Action and  Our Bodies
Ourselves .  The plaintiffs won the first round in the case in March
2010, when a federal judge invalidated parts of seven patents.
An appeals court partially overturned that decision this past
August, setting the stage for the Supreme Court to take the
case.  The high court is expected to decide the Myriad case by
next summer.  If the patents are upheld, they will remain in force until
2015, Meldrum said. The company also has an additional 17
patents on its BRCA testing that, so far, are unaffected by that
lawsuit. They provide strong protection until 2018, and by then
Myriad will have introduced a new test that combines BRCA with
the other cancer risk genes, he said.  “As a pioneer you will take arrows,” said Capone, the
president of Myriad’s testing unit. “We have put the patient at
the center of focus of the entire organization.”  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-00398, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  