-- 
T&D Is Said to Close Japan-Focused Hedge Fund, Return Money on High Costs

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-10-14T05:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/t-d-asset-said-to-close-japan-focused-hedge-fund-as-trading-costs-rose.html
T&D Asset Management Co. , with about
$27 billion in assets, closed its Japan-focused hedge fund
because of higher-than-expected trading costs and returned money
to clients, according to four people familiar with the matter.  The T&D Japanese Equity Long & Short Fund shut at the end
of September after starting in June 2010 with about 700 million
yen ($9.1 million) from T&D Asset, the fund management arm of
Japanese insurer  T&D Holdings Inc. (8795) , the people said, asking not
to be identified because the information is private. Hisakazu
Amano, who heads the investment department at T&D Asset,
declined to comment.  About 72 hedge funds in Asia have closed down this year,
according to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte., as economic
concerns in the U.S. and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis made it
difficult for some to navigate volatile markets, and investors
remained reluctant to take bets.  Global Trading Strategies , a
Sydney-based hedge fund founded by three former Goldman Sachs
JBWere Pty traders, finished trading July 31.  “For hedge funds in Asia to get sufficient attention from
investors, you have to outperform significantly in various
measures against their more established rivals,” said Rory Kennedy, chief operating officer at Rogers Investment Advisors
K.K. “It’s been like this for several years and it’s only going
to get worse in this kind of a market volatility it
understandably makes many investors nervous.”  Bow and Arrow  The T&D Asset’s fund was run by Susumu Tominaga and Kazuko Yuzaki, who were hired by T&D Asset in June 2009 from Yunzei
Investment Research, a Tokyo-based hedge-fund advisory firm. The
fund, whose managers nicknamed it “Meigen,” which means to
exorcise demons with a bow and arrow in Japanese, was T&D
Asset’s first that bet on gains and declines in Japanese stocks.  Prior to Yunzei, Tominaga was at Schroeder Investments
Management Ltd. where he headed a team that oversaw $4 billion
in assets. Yuzaki formerly worked as the head of  Japan ’s small
to mid-cap stocks sales team at Nomura Securities Co. Both
Tominaga and Yuzaki, who left T&D Asset, declined to comment.  Shares of T&D Holdings dropped 2.4 percent to 764 yen as of
2:05 p.m. in  Tokyo , extending declines in the morning session.  Costs related to executing stock trades led to a negative
performance of the fund, the people said. The Eurekahedge Japan
Hedge Fund Index is down 0.9 percent through September, compared
with the 4 percent drop by the global benchmark, based on data
compiled by Eurekahedge.  Increased Scrutiny  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 that
led to a global financial crisis increased scrutiny of the
industry. Assets managed by Japan-focused hedge funds dropped 57
percent to $16.6 billion from a peak of $39 billion in 2006,
according to Singapore-based Eurekahedge.  Artradis Fund Management Pte, whose hedge funds made $2.7
billion in profits for investors as markets see-sawed in 2007
and 2008, closed down after it lost money from wagers on price
swings in the last two years, according to Singapore-based co-
founder Stephen Diggle.  Global Trading returned investors their money after its
strategy of betting on global economic trends faltered. The fund,
which peaked at $1.2 billion in 2008 after starting in 2005,
finished trading July 31 after more than a year of negative
returns, Chief Operating Officer Murray Chatfield said Oct. 12.  Highbridge Capital Management LLC, the hedge-fund firm
owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co., is liquidating its $1.4 billion
 Asia  Opportunities Fund after manager Carl Huttenlocher resigned,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  