-- 
Madoff Trustee Sues Jewish Association

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-14T19:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/madoff-trustee-sues-jewish-association-for-5-2-million-1-.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm sued the Jewish Association for Services for the
Aged for $5.2 million in fictitious profit over six years.  Trustee Irving Picard lost his bid to claw back six years
of Ponzi proceeds from the  New York  Mets owners last month, when
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff cut a $1 billion suit by two-
thirds, saying he could take back only two years of withdrawals.  In today’s suit against the Jewish Association, filed in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York, Picard said he’s entitled to
claim six years of transfers under state and federal laws. The
trustee last week asked Rakoff to allow him to appeal the Mets
ruling.  “It suggests that he thinks he can get the Rakoff ruling
overturned,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor at
Seton Hall University in Newark,  New Jersey , who posted comments
about last month’s ruling on a blog, Credit Slips.  Picard said in court papers last week that Rakoff’s ruling
on his lawsuit against the Mets owners,  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, “arbitrarily” gave them some of the confidence man’s
investors fictitious profits from the Ponzi scheme that “all
customers were previously denied” by a higher-court ruling.  According to Rakoff, Picard can’t take back so-called
settlement payments made by the Madoff brokerage to its
customers. Picard is free to try to take two years of
withdrawals, he ruled.  Impact of Ruling  The two-year limit and another aspect of the ruling may
cost Picard $6.2 billion in potential recoveries through
lawsuits, the trustee has said.  In another case, U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  ruled that
Picard’s theories were valid when he sued investor  Ezra Merkin ,
and the trustee may be relying on that decision to sue the
association, said  Peter Henning , a law professor at  Wayne State
University  in Detroit.  In his complaint against the Jewish charity, Picard said
the charity had an account with Madoff in New York, and took out
“non-existent profits supposedly earned in the account” over
six years that were “other people’s money,” because the con
man paid “profit” using new money coming in.  “The trustee is entitled to a judgment against defendant
avoiding and preserving the six year transfers,” he says.  David Warren, president of the association, said he was
“deeply disappointed” that Picard was taking legal action.  Vigorous Defense  “We will vigorously defend ourselves and will not allow it
to distract us from our mission,” he said in a phone interview.
The association provides services to the aged in New York.  Warren declined to comment on possible defenses to the
suit.  He might try to move the case out of  bankruptcy court  and
into Rakoff’s court, said Henning, the Wayne State professor,
who has written articles on the Madoff case. According to
Picard, people and companies he has sued in 247 actions are
rushing to find new judges.  The case is Picard v. Jewish Association, 11-ap-02773, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 