-- 
Lady Gaga, Bono, Kenny Chesney Perform for Clinton Foundation

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/lady-gaga-bono-kenny-chesney-perform-for-clinton-foundation.html
Lady Gaga will lead an A-list
concert at the Hollywood Bowl Saturday night honoring former
President  Bill Clinton ’s charitable work and achievements since
leaving the White House.  The “ Decade of Difference ” fundraiser is part of a
weekend of festivities, including a $6,500 per couple  gala
tonight  belatedly celebrating Clinton’s 65th birthday (Aug. 19)
at the Hollywood Palladium.  Also scheduled to perform at the Hollywood Bowl are U2’s
Bono and the Edge, Usher, Somali-born rapper and singer  K’Naan ,
Colombian singer-songwriter Juanes,  Kenny Chesney  and special
guests, said Clinton spokesman Matt McKenna.  “We have helped establish a global network of givers,”
Clinton said in a recent phone interview about his  Clinton
Global Initiative . “These are people of a wide variety of means
and assets who have decided to work together to fill gaps in the
social fabric between what the private sector can produce and
what the government can provide.”  The William J. Clinton Foundation organized the event to
raise money to support its charitable giving and philanthropic
activities. It’s perhaps best known for launching the Global
Initiative, the annual meeting that pairs companies and
philanthropists with nonprofits to tackle issues such as
affordable AIDS and HIV treatment,  climate change  and improving
access to health care.  Since leaving the White House, Clinton has had a hand in
funding and shaping global issues through his  Little Rock ,
Arkansas-based foundation. With an annual budget of more than
$200 million, it has given about 4 million people HIV/AIDS
treatments and helped cut  greenhouse gases  by getting businesses
to change energy practices.  Matchmaker  The Global Initiative, which serves as a matchmaker for
nonprofit and nongovernmental programs, has secured more than
2,000 pledges by attendees to tackle problems affecting more
than 300 million people in 180 countries.  Clinton also serves as the  United Nations’ Special Envoy
for Haiti , and he helped form the nonprofit Clinton Bush  Haiti
Fund  to raise money for the Caribbean nation to repair damage
from last year’s 7.0 earthquake.  “I had this sense that people were hungry to get beyond
talking about things to doing them even if they fail,” Clinton
said. “We can’t be right all the time, but we’ve got to figure
out how to address these problems, and there’s got to be a way
to do it together.”  (“A Decade of Difference: A Concert Celebrating 10 Years
of the William J. Clinton Foundation” is Saturday at the
Hollywood Bowl, 2301 N. Highland Avenue in  Los Angeles  at 7 p.m.
Tickets and information:  http://www.clintonconcert.com . Yahoo!
will host a live webcast of the concert at
 http://clintonconcert.yahoo.com .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 