-- 
Thailand’s Tourism Industry Spared From Floods, May Help Battered Economy

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-14T06:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/thailand-s-tourism-industry-spared-from-floods-may-help-battered-economy.html
Thailand ’s tourism industry has so
far been spared from the nation’s worst floods in more than half
a century, and may help support the economy after the disaster
devastated manufacturing hubs and agricultural land.  Phuket, Krabi, Pattaya and Koh Samui, Thailand’s biggest
tourist draw cards, escaped the deluge that swamped central and
northern provinces including the ancient city of Ayutthaya.
Efforts to bolster flood defenses around Bangkok will help the
capital avoid widespread damage, Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra said today.  “Most of the  areas affected  are not tourism areas, so
while it’s affecting our farmers and many of our industrial
estates, the effect on tourism is minimal,” said William Heinecke, chief executive officer of  Minor International Pcl (MINT) ,
the nation’s biggest hotel operator, in an interview yesterday.  Thailand’s tourism industry has recovered from multiple
blows in recent years. In 2004, more than 8,000 people died when
the Indian Ocean tsunami devastated Thai beach resorts including
Phuket and Kao Lak. In 2008, Bangkok’s international airport was
shut down for two weeks by anti-government demonstrations, and
protests erupted in the capital again last year, culminating in
an army crackdown that killed more than 90 people in the city’s
most popular shopping district.  “You mustn’t underestimate the ability of Thailand to
respond very quickly to these types of events as they’ve shown
in the past,” said Heinecke, whose Bangkok-based company owns
the Four Seasons,  St. Regis , Marriott and Ananatra hotel chains
in Thailand. Minor hasn’t received any cancellations because of
the flooding, Heinecke said.  Chatuchak, Khao San  Many of Bangkok’s top attractions, including the  Chatuchak
weekend market  and tourist areas around Sukhumvit Road, Silom
and Khao San Road are unaffected by flooding, and ferries are
still operating on the Chao Phraya River, according to the
government’s website. Luxury hotels along the river, including
the  Shangri-la , are preparing sandbags and water pumps to
protect against any inundation.  Hotel occupancy rates in Bangkok and Phuket are “at a
normal rate of 60 percent to 70 percent,” Thai Hotels
Association President Prakit Chinamornpong said yesterday. Those
rates may fall if monsoon rains don’t end soon, Prakit said.  “If Bangkok is flooded or the flooding drags on until next
month, which will be the start of peak season for tourism, that
will have a great impact,” Prakit said by phone.  Tourism Minister Chumpol Silpa-Archa earlier this week
reaffirmed a target to attract 19 million tourists this year,
and said the floods haven’t had an effect on tourism.  Revenue Earner  “Tourism can still support Thailand’s economy,”
Sisdivachr Chevaratanaporn, president of the Association of Thai
Travel Agents, said today by phone. “The industry generates
hundreds of billion baht in revenue. There may be some damage,
in the tens of billion baht, but that’s still not much compared
to the total.”  The country attracted 15.8 million tourists last year,
generating 585 billion baht ($19 billion) of revenue, according
to government data. Revenue from tourism accounts for about 7
percent of the nation’s gross domestic product, former Prime
Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said in March.  “The target of 19 million tourist arrivals this year will
be hard to meet, though we should attract more than 18
million,” Sisdivachr said, adding that arrivals in the fourth-
quarter may fall by as much as 20 percent if the floods persist
into November, when Thailand’s peak tourist season begins.  Much will depend on the success of efforts to protect
Bangkok from the deluge.  “I’m pretty confident they are going to protect the city
at all costs,” Minor’s Heinecke said. “This is still the
center of the  tourism industry .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  