-- 
Alcatel-Lucent, Noven, EA, Claiborne: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/alcatel-lucent-noven-ea-claiborne-intellectual-property.html
Alcatel-Lucent’s patent-infringement
jury award against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may be reduced to $26.3
million from $70 million, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff in  San Diego  said at a
hearing Oct. 12 that she will review more legal arguments before
issuing a ruling. Huff said she agreed with the world’s largest
software maker that the jury’s July 29 award wasn’t supported by
evidence presented during a 10-day trial.  The judge said she disagreed with how an expert witness for
Alcatel-Lucent calculated damages and told lawyers $26.3 million
is “a fair damages figure that is not excessive based on the
totality of the evidence.” She asked attorneys on both sides to
file additional legal arguments on her finding by the end of the
month before she makes her decision final.  The infringed patent relates to technology used in
Microsoft’s Outlook program and two other applications.
Microsoft asked the judge to reduce the award to no more than $5
million.  Microsoft attorney Roger Denning told the judge that
Alcatel-Lucent’s formula for computing damages didn’t comply
with guidelines set by Huff and appellate court rulings.  “Those went ignored,” he said. “Lucent put its head down
and bullied through with its $70 million figure ignoring the
guidance that was given.”  Alcatel-Lucent’s lawyers argued there was more than
sufficient evidence to support the jury’s verdict and that the
verdict should be respected.  “If the court is going to take the judgment out of the
jury’s hands the standard is extraordinarily high,” said
company attorney Luke Dauchot.  Lawyers for Alcatel-Lucent also asked Huff to award $38.3
million in prejudgment interest on top of the jury’s $70 million
award. Alcatel-Lucent,  France ’s largest maker of
telecommunications equipment, also has been awarded $450,479 in
trial costs.  The technology at issue, called the “Day patent,” was
described in court during the trial as involving a touch-screen
form entry. Microsoft argued the patent relates to a simple
“date-picker” function and has nothing to do with e-mail, the
most popular function on Outlook. Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent
described the technology as a tool that “plays a central role
in the entire operation” of Outlook.  A different jury in San Diego in 2008 found that Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded
$358 million in damages. An appeals court, upholding the
infringement verdict, overturned the damages award, finding the
calculation lacked sufficient evidentiary support. The case was
sent back for retrial on damages only.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v. Gateway Inc., 07-
cv-02000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California 
(San Diego).  Noven Files Patent Suit Against Watson Over Daytrana Copy  Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co.’s Noven Pharmaceuticals unit
sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  to prevent it from selling a
generic version of Daytrana, a skin patch for children with
attention deficit disorder.  Watson is seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval to sell a copy of Daytrana, according to the complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in  Newark ,  New Jersey . Miami-
based Noven said the Watson version would infringe two patents
and seeks a court order to prevent sales until the patents
expire in 2018.  Under federal drug law, the filing of the lawsuit prevents
the FDA from granting Watson final approval for 30 months unless
a court rules in the generic-drug maker’s favor before then.  “We are challenging the patents on the product,” said
Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, in a phone interview. He declined to comment further.  The case is Noven Pharmaceuticals v. Watson Laboratories,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  EA Sues ‘Negative Ion’ Bracelet Maker for Infringing Mark  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , maker of the John Madden NFL video
games, sued a  Florida  maker of “negative ion” products for
trademark infringement.  Energy Armor Inc. , of Jacksonville, Florida, is accused of
marking its so-called negative ion wristbands with an EA logo
that is confusingly similar to one for which the game company
has a registered trademark.  Electronic Arts, based in  Redwood City , California, said
the Florida company published photos of professional athletes
wearing the wristbands as part of an ad campaign. The mark on
the wristbands is “confusingly similar” and the bands are sold
through some of the same retail channels as Electronic Arts’
games, according to the complaint filed in federal court in  San
Francisco .  The game maker claims that Energy Armor intended to cause
confusion and to trade off Electronic Arts’ goodwill and
reputation. Electronic Arts said it is concerned that its own
reputation may be tarnished by the association with Energy
Armor’s products.  Electronic Arts asked the court to order the Florida
company to stop using the mark and to destroy all allegedly
infringing products and promotional materials. Additionally,
Electronic Arts requested a court order directing the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office not to register Energy Armor’s
trademark and for awards of money damages, profits attributable
to the alleged infringement, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Energy Armor didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Electronic Arts is represented by  Colby B. Springer  and
 Michael J. McCue  of Lewis & Roca LLP of Phoenix.  The case is Electronic Arts Inc., v. Energy Armor Inc.,
3:11-cv-04184-JCS, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Claiborne Turns Trademarks Loose in $328 Million Transaction  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) ’s $328 million sale of its Liz
Claiborne, Monet and other brands means a turnover of at least
half of the New York-based apparel company’s trademarks.  According to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office trademark
database, Claiborne has about 130 active trademarks. Many of
them are variations on the Claiborne or Liz theme, including
“Liz sport,” “Lizwear,” “ Liz&Co.” and “Liz is.” Those
marks, together with those related to the Monet jewelry brand,
are going to J.C. Penney Co., with several of the Claiborne-
related marks to be licensed back to Liz Claiborne until July
2020.  The Claiborne company did retain international rights for
the Monet brand, according to a  company statement . Part of the
purchase price is an advance of $20 million for Claiborne to
develop exclusive brands for J.C. Penney.  Additionally, in a $40 million transaction, Claiborne sold
its Dana Buchman marks to  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , the Menomonee Falls,
Wisconsin-based department-store chain, and affiliates of  New
York ’s Bluestar Alliance LLC acquired Claiborne’s Kensie,
Kensiegirl and Mac & Jac brands.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Copyright Notice Removed From U.S. Military Court Website  Following a complaint from the president of the  National
Institute of Military Justice , the federal government removed a
copyright notice from a website for the military court in Cuba,
the Sacramento Bee  reported .  The site -- www.mc.mil -- went live in early October with a
copyright notice right below images of the Statue of Liberty and
 Abraham Lincoln , the newspaper reported.  Eugene R. Fidell , who is a professor at  Yale University ’s
law school in addition to his leadership role at the military
justice group, contacted the webmaster to point out that
government is barred by an 1895 statue from having a copyright
to its own publications, according to the Bee.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets /Industrial Espionage  Former Citadel Employee Charged With Trade-Secret Theft  A former Citadel LLC employee was charged with stealing
trade secrets from the Chicago-based investment firm.  Yihao “Ben” Pu, 24, was arrested Oct. 12 and faces as
long as 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted,
U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in  Chicago  said yesterday in a
statement.  Citadel hired Pu last year to help develop proprietary-
trading strategies for the $11 billion hedge fund. Citadel
officials allegedly discovered Pu copying company data onto a
removable storage device, according to the U.S.  “Pu was attempting to construct a trading strategy similar
to the one used by Citadel,” Fitzgerald said, citing evidence
recovered in the investigation. Citadel sued Pu in  Illinois 
state court in August.  Pu made an initial appearance Oct. 12 before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Maria Valdez. He was being held in federal
custody while awaiting a detention hearing scheduled for today,
according to prosecutors.  Robert Greenspoon, the attorney representing Pu in the
civil suit, yesterday declined to comment on the criminal
allegations. Greenspoon, who appeared in court with Pu Oct. 12,
said he won’t be the lead defense counsel in the criminal case.  Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined to
comment on the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Pu, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The civil case is
Citadel LLC v. Pu, 11CH30493, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit
Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 