-- 
AMR’s American, Pilot Union Accelerate Talks as Crew Shortage Adds Urgency

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-14T20:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/american-airlines-pilots-accelerate-talks.html
American Airlines and its pilots
 union  are working to reach a contract agreement over the next
several days, spurred by a manpower shortage that forced the
carrier to cut flights and close a crew base.  Talks are set to run through the weekend at an undisclosed
location away from American’s Fort Worth, Texas, headquarters,
according to the  Allied Pilots Association . The union’s board
will convene tomorrow to provide guidance if an accord is near
to end more than five years of negotiations.  Pilots are a bellwether group in industry bargaining, and a
proposed contract may help American in its bid for new deals
with flight attendants, mechanics and baggage handlers. American
has said it needs new agreements to help parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  return
to profit after annual losses since 2008.  “A new pilot deal would mark a healthy step in the right
direction for a company desperately in need of good news,”
Hunter Keay, an analyst at New York-based Wolfe Trahan & Co.,
said in a note today. “The mere signal of progress and change
could provide a sense of optimism and momentum that carries over
to other unions and, more importantly, to willing lenders.”  Keay, who rates AMR “underperform,” said he expects a
tentative agreement before the company announces third-quarter
results on Oct. 19. Analysts estimate that AMR will post its
14th loss in the past 16 quarters.  Third Try  The current round of pilot talks marks the third time in
recent months that union and airline negotiators have met for a
week’s worth of “intense” bargaining in hopes of securing an
agreement.  “They are still at it,” Sam Mayer, an Allied Pilots
Association spokesman, said today in an interview. “They are
working hard. We are hopeful this final push will lead to an
agreement that works for both sides.”  Missy Cousino, an American spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that “talks continue to be productive.”  AMR fell 0.7 percent to $2.94 at 4 p.m. in New York. The
shares have tumbled 62 percent this year to lead declines in the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  American is seeking productivity enhancements that will
help reduce industry-leading labor expenses at the third-largest
U.S. airline, while its unions want to recoup part of the $1.6
billion in annual concessions made in 2003 to keep AMR out of
bankruptcy.  ‘Inordinately High’  “AMR’s inordinately high labor costs already are crushing
it, and time and options are running out,” said Vicki Bryan, a
senior bond analyst with Gimme Credit LLC. “Air travel is
slowing, fares are falling and AMR is rapidly losing market
share.”  Bryan, based in Houston, rates AMR’s debt as
“underperform.”  Covering the immediate pilot shortage will require the
airline to win union waivers of some contract provisions.
American said yesterday that unusually large numbers of pilot
retirements left staffing levels “critically short.”  APA President David Bates said in an Oct. 7 statement that
the gap between the sides on pivotal unresolved contract issues
was “substantial.” Since then, American has said it will cut
seating capacity 3 percent this quarter, shut a San Francisco
crew base for more than 300 pilots and retire as many as 11 jets
next year because of the staffing shortfall.  Once American amends its pilot contract, the carrier will
still need time to train replacements as crew members are
prepared for moving up to bigger jets, said Robert Mann,
president of consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New
York.  “A quick contract is not going to solve that problem,”
said Mann, a former executive at American. “You could get some
relief on flying, but couldn’t solve the training center
problem. That is the weak link right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  