-- 
Harrisburg Council Faces Claims They Broke Laws in Filing for Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-10-15T00:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/harrisburg-council-faces-claims-they-broke-laws-in-filing-for-bankruptcy.html
Pennsylvania  officials joined
Harrisburg Mayor Linda D. Thompson in an bid to dismiss a
bankruptcy petition filed by the city council, which critics say
violates local, state and federal laws.  Thompson and lawyers for the state are seeking an immediate
end to the bankruptcy, which began Oct. 11 after four members of
the city, the capital of Pennsylvania, voted to hire a lawyer to
file the case. Thompson says the council members didn’t follow
proper procedures and the state says the bankruptcy violates a
law passed earlier this year by legislators.  In court papers filed today, the state asked a judge to put
“a quick end to this ill-advised and transparent gambit
fostered by a bare majority faction of Harrisburg’s city
council.”  The city council voted 4-3 on Oct. 11 in favor of Chapter 9
municipal bankruptcy, seeking to ward off a state takeover of
its finances after failing to pay debt on a trash-to-energy
incinerator. Mark D. Schwartz, a lawyer based in Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania, faxed the bankruptcy petition to the Harrisburg
court that night.  The bankruptcy was “filed without requisite authority”
and “must be dismissed,” Thompson said in papers submitted
late yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Harrisburg.  “If I didn’t think it had merit, I wouldn’t have filed
it,” Schwartz said in an interview responding to questioning
about the validity of the bankruptcy filing. “I don’t feel that
anything was spurious.”  Judge France  Thompson, who hired the law firm Tucker Arensberg PC to
oppose the bankruptcy, said her lawyers will file a formal
dismissal motion “shortly.” In the meantime, she asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary D. France to set up a conference quickly
to schedule an emergency motion to end the case.  France set a hearing for Oct. 17 to discuss the status of
the case and to set a schedule for the coming battle over
whether the bankruptcy should be dismissed. She set Nov. 21 as a
deadline to file objections to the bankruptcy.  France  still must decide who will represent the city in the
case. She will look to the municipal code governing Harrisburg
to decide which lawyer speaks for the city, bankruptcy attorney
R. Dale Ginter said in an interview. If she sides with Thompson,
the case may be over quickly, he said.  ‘No Standing’  “The mayor has no standing” and is just a spectator in
the case. “The governing body is the council not the mayor,”
Schwartz said.  Other issues include whether the filing violated the law of
the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as Governor Thomas Corbett has
asserted, and whether the case meets the tests laid out in
Chapter 9 of the federal  bankruptcy code , which governs
municipal bankruptcy filings.  “It sounds to me like those who want Harrisburg in
bankruptcy have some hurdles to overcome,” said Ginter, who was
born and grew up in Harrisburg. He now lives in Sacramento,
 California , where he represented retirees in the municipal
bankruptcy of Vallejo, California.  Chapter 9 gives municipalities advantages in bankruptcy
that private companies don’t have. For example, a bankruptcy
judge can’t appoint a trustee to run a city.  June Law  The code also imposes a burden that corporations don’t
face: cities must have permission from their state government to
file for bankruptcy, Robert G. Flanders Jr., an attorney with
Hinckley Allen Snyder LLP said in an interview. Flanders is a
former  Rhode Island  Supreme Court judge who was appointed by the
state as the receiver for the city of Central Falls, Rhode
Island, which filed bankruptcy in August.  In June, Pennsylvania passed a law that barred a Harrisburg
bankruptcy filing until July. France may need to rule that law
wasn’t valid to justify allowing the bankruptcy to go forward,
Ginter said.  That law, which purportedly bars the city from seeking
court protection, contains “bizarre” language and is
“unconstitutional”, Schwartz said. The law was directed solely
at Harrisburg and you can’t legislate to one city, he added.  Next week, legislators for Pennsylvania will consider a
bill that would let Corbett name a receiver who would develop a
recovery plan. That official would be able to sell assets, hire
advisers and suspend the authority of elected officials who
interfere.  ‘Extremely Seriously’  “Any bankruptcy judge would take that extremely
seriously,” Ginter said.  Pennsylvania Representative Glenn Grell of Hampden Township
in Cumberland County said state intervention is in the best
interest of city residents because it will put a long-term plan
in place. That plan was rejected by the council.  Bankruptcy is a better option than the pain of a state-
imposed recovery plan, said Councilwoman Susan Brown-Wilson, who
backed the filing.  The city of 49,500, seat of Dauphin County, faces a debt
five times its general-fund budget because of an overhaul and
expansion of the incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough
revenue. Its guaranteed debt is about $242 million, with $65
million of it overdue, according to the bankruptcy petition.  ‘Dumping Ground’  The Pennsylvania law barring Harrisburg from filing
bankruptcy was passed on June 30, the last day of the
legislature’s session before it broke for the summer. Before the
vote, Representative Joe Markosek, a Democrat representing
Allegheny and Westmoreland counties, called the bill a “GOP
dumping ground” for legislation that couldn’t get passed
earlier in the session.  France will also consider whether the bankruptcy complies
with other aspects of federal law as laid out in the bankruptcy
code. The code requires the city to negotiate in good faith with
its creditors and be unable to pay its bills as they come due.  The city has a better chance of showing it meets those
standards, Ginter said.  As the case goes forward, the bankruptcy is likely to be
challenged by several different entities, said Clayton W.
Davidson, an attorney for Dauphin County, which opposes the
bankruptcy. Dauphin County is a co-guarantor for some of the
city’s debt.  “I’m glad I’m not the bankruptcy judge,” said Ginter, of
the  Sacramento  law firm of Downey Brand LLP.  The case is In re City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
11-06938, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at   mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in  New York  at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 