-- 
Harvard Sports Analysis Sees Chance of Knicks-Like Surprise After Lockout

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T14:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/harvard-sports-analysis-sees-chance-of-knicks-like-surprise-after-lockout.html
A shortened National Basketball
Association season gives less-talented teams an increased chance
of making the playoffs and potentially winning the championship,
according to the Harvard College Sports Analysis Collective.  The NBA, which locked out players on July 1, canceled the
first two weeks of the usually 82-game season this week after
talks failed to produce a new collective bargaining agreement.
More games are in jeopardy, according to the league, which
played a 50-game season in 1998-99 due to labor strife, the
first time the league lost games to a work stoppage.  Statistics show that fewer games don’t allow the better
clubs to separate themselves in the standings, said David Roher,
co-president of the  collective , a student-run group dedicated to
quantitative analysis of sports strategy and management.  “A 35-win team’s chances of making the playoffs increases
as the number of games played decreases,” said Roher, referring
to win totals from last season.  Assuming games are independent of each other, which can be
debated, Roher says a 35-win team has about a 10 percent chance
to make the playoffs in a 50-game season, double that of an 82-
game campaign.  A truncated season may, for example, benefit the  Milwaukee
Bucks , who won 35 games last season, or Michael Jordan’s
Charlotte Bobcats, who won 34. The Bucks finished ninth in the
Eastern Conference, two games behind the  Indiana Pacers , with
the Bobcats 10th.  The top eight clubs in each conference qualify for the
postseason.  Short Season  The NBA and the players’ association reached a settlement
in early January 1999, ending the previous stoppage and allowing
50 regular-season games to be played.  The  New York Knicks  finished eighth in the Eastern
Conference that season with 27 wins, compared with 43 the
previous year, and upset teams with higher win totals to reach
the NBA Finals, where they lost to the  San Antonio Spurs .  “The important thing is getting into the playoffs,” said
Roher, a junior at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard who is
scheduled to graduate in May. “The postseason is where,
statistically, a lot more things can happen.”  Roher’s co-president, John Ezekowitz, declined comment
because he’s a paid consultant for the NBA’s Phoenix Suns. As a
team employee, he faces a league-imposed fine for discussing
matters related to the lockout.  All NBA playoff rounds are best-of-seven games.  Major
League Baseball  uses a best-of-five format in the American and
National League Division Series, followed by best-of-seven
league championship series and  World Series .  More Games  Seven games aren’t enough from a statistical perspective to
ensure the better team wins, Roher said.  “It’s closer to 50-50 than you’d think,” he said.  For the better team to advance almost all of the time,
teams would have to play at least a best-of-17 series, Roher
said.  Perhaps that explains why New York Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  used the word “luck” 10 times while explaining why his
97-win team lost to the 95-win Detroit Tigers in the first round
of the baseball playoffs.  The Yankees weren’t the only higher-win team bounced in the
first round. The  Philadelphia Phillies , who won a major league-
best 102 games during the regular season, were eliminated by the
90-win  St. Louis Cardinals .  The  Minnesota Timberwolves  had an NBA-low 17 wins last
season. According to Roher, their best shot at a title is a
protracted standoff between owners and players.  “Based on the principle of variance, a one-game season
would be the ideal for that team,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  