-- 
Asian Currencies Advance for a Second Week on Share Purchases

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-14T08:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/asian-currencies-head-for-second-weekly-gain-on-stock-purchases.html
Asian currencies had a second weekly
gain, led by  South Korea ’s won, on optimism European leaders
will act to stem the debt crisis, spurring investors to buy
emerging-market assets.  Foreign funds bought $1.6 billion more stocks than they
sold this week through yesterday in Taiwan, South  Korea ,
Indonesia and Thailand. Global leaders from the Group of 20
nations will meet in Paris today after German and French leaders
pledged on Oct. 9 to devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help
Greece and strengthen Europe’s economic governance.  “Foreign investors were buying Asian stocks as concern
over the European debt crisis eased a bit for now,” said Kozo
Hasegawa, a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.
“However, the problem is not fundamentally solved and those
external factors will influence the markets for the time
being.”  The won strengthened 1.9 percent this week to 1,156.13 per
dollar at the close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.9 percent to 3.1315 and
while Taiwan’s dollar rallied 0.6 percent to NT$30.300.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.5
percent in the past five days. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares rallied 3.4 percent this week.  Currency Forecasts  Asian currencies will extend their slide in the third
quarter in the three months through December before rebounding
in early 2012 as export demand picks up, said Standard Chartered
Plc, the most-accurate forecaster for the region.  The global economy isn’t likely to see another recession as
it did in 2008 as  Europe  will “muddle through” its debt crisis
and U.S. policy makers will stave off a downturn, said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy at Standard Chartered in
 Singapore . Nations from  China  to Brazil are considering
increasing the International Monetary Fund’s lending resources
to help stem the European debt crisis, Group of 20 and IMF
officials said.  The won halted a five-week decline as the Bank of Korea
refrained from raising  interest rates  this week to protect
growth. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and his U.S.
counterpart Barack Obama agreed on the need for currency
stability, Lee’s office said in a statement after a summit in
 Washington .  Korean Won  The currency slid as much as 0.8 percent earlier today
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Spain’s ratings yesterday to AA-
from AA, citing a likely deterioration of the nation’s bank
assets.  “The Spain downgrade dealt a blow to sentiment in the
market,” said Nam Kyung Tae, Seoul-based currency dealer at
state-run Industrial Bank of Korea. “Still, any sharp decline
in the won is blocked by the news of currency-stabilization
cooperation with the U.S.”  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent for a fourth straight
month, the central bank said in Seoul on Oct. 13.  The won,  Asia ’s worst performer last quarter, will drop 1.8
percent per dollar during the current three-month period and
climb 7.1 percent in the first quarter of next year, according
to Standard Chartered.  The ringgit completed a second weekly gain after Prime
Minister Najib Razak forecast economic growth will quicken next
year.  Malaysia’s Growth  Gross domestic product may rise as much as 6 percent from a
maximum of 5.5 percent this year and the country’s budget
deficit is forecast to narrow to 4.7 percent of GDP from 5.4
percent, Najib said last week. Industrial output rose a faster-
than-expected 3 percent in August from a year earlier after
contracting a revised 0.5 percent in July, according to a
Statistics Department report on Oct. 11.  The ringgit held its advance today after neighboring
Singapore said it will slow gains in its currency rather than
halt appreciation.  “The ringgit is firmer for the week because of better
local economic data,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency
strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . Still,
“the pressure for the ringgit to weaken is still there given
the global uncertainties.”  Elsewhere,  Thailand ’s baht gained 0.4 percent this week to
30.81 per dollar, the Philippine peso rose 0.4 percent to
43.375, while Indonesia’s rupiah climbed 0.5 percent to 8,860.
China’s yuan advanced 0.1 percent to 6.3771.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  