-- 
Stocks, Commodities Rally, Treasuries Drop on G-20 Outlook, Retail Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-14T21:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/asian-stocks-snap-six-day-rally-euro-weakens-after-s-p-downgrades-spain.html
Stocks gained, extending the biggest
weekly rally since July 2009, as the Group of 20 began talks to
tame  Europe ’s debt crisis and U.S. retail sales and Google
Inc.’s results beat estimates. Commodities rose and the euro
completed the largest weekly advance versus the dollar since
March 2009.  The MSCI All-Country World Index rose 1.4 percent,
extending its weekly gain to 5.5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index jumped 1.7 percent to 1,224.58, the highest level
since Aug. 3. Google jumped 5.9 percent, rising a ninth straight
day. Copper increased 3.1 percent as the S&P GSCI Index of
materials climbed 2.4 percent today and 5.2 percent this week,
its best advance of the year. Ten-year Treasury note yields rose
six basis points to 2.25 percent. The euro was at $1.3881, up
3.8 percent this week.  Equities rallied as elements of the European rescue plan
emerged with finance officials from the G-20 beginning talks in
Paris. The bigger-than-forecast 1.1 percent increase in U.S.
retail sales last month eased concern that slumping  consumer
confidence  will hurt spending, while Google’s earnings showed
growing demand for online advertising.  “The economy seems to be re-accelerating as the various
threats to growth moderate,”  David Goerz , the San Francisco-
based chief investment officer at Highmark Capital Management
Inc., which oversees $17.2 billion, said in an e-mail.  Debt Turmoil  Policy makers are discussing an expansion of the
International Monetary Fund’s role as part of a global G-20
agreement next month in Cannes,  France , according to three
officials, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are not public. Talks are in preliminary stages as potential
contributors wait to see what measures Europeans take to end the
debt turmoil at an Oct. 23 summit, they said.  European officials were said to consider writedowns of as
much as 50 percent on Greek bonds, people familiar with the
discussions said.  The  S&P 500  capped its first back-to-back weekly gain since
July. Apple Inc. rose 3.3 percent as analysts predicted it will
sell as many as 4 million new iPhone 4S devices this weekend as
customers around the world lined up. Energy companies led gains
among 10 S&P 500 industries, climbing 3.6 percent. Technology
companies added 2.1 percent.  The better-than-forecast growth in retail sales helped the
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S. turn positive for
the first time since April 29, the day the S&P 500 peaked at an
almost three-year high. A positive reading in the index signals
that data has collectively exceeded estimates over the past
three months.  Consumer Confidence  U.S. equities maintained gains even after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary October index of
consumer sentiment fell to 57.5 from 59.4 a month earlier, the
group reported today.  The S&P 500 has rebounded more than 11 percent from a 13-
month low on Oct. 3 and today rose above levels where rallies
stopped in August and September. The gauge closed at 1,218.89 on
Aug. 31 before dropping 4.4 percent in the next three sessions,
and ended at 1,216.01 on Sept. 16 before losing 7.1 percent by
Sept. 22. The index has fluctuated intraday between a high of
1,230.71 and a low of 1,074.77 since Aug. 5.  ‘Clear That Hurdle’  "It would be pretty important to break that trading range,"
Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion, said in
a telephone interview. "Even as we had this robust rally, it
hasn’t drawn the technicians to have
conviction in buying. If we crack through this 1,230 area, then
they are going to say -- it’s clear that hurdle."  Corporate profits are calming U.S. stock investors more
than any time in 19 years, reducing the cost of insurance
against losses at the same time investors gain confidence in
European efforts to solve the debt crisis.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index fell 28
percent in the six trading sessions before New York-based Alcoa
Inc. posted results, a record drop before the start of earnings
season, according to data  since January 1993 compiled by
Bloomberg. The VIX , as the benchmark measure of U.S. equity
derivatives is known, fell 6.6 percent through yesterday since
Alcoa’s earnings trailed analyst estimates Oct. 11.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.8 percent and climbed 2.8
percent in five days for a third straight weekly gain, its
longest stretch since April. SAP AG increased 2.1 percent after
the largest maker of business-management software said earnings
and sales rose in the third quarter on rising demand for its
services. SAP also reiterated its full-year forecast.  All 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 advanced except for
banks, which slipped after  Fitch Ratings  put more than a dozen
lenders on watch negative as part of a global review.  BNP
Paribas SA dropped and Societe Generale SA fell more than 3
percent.  Italy  Confidence Vote  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index rallied 2.5 percent to lead gains
among European nations and the 10-year bond yield lost two basis
points to 5.80 percent, according to generic rates. Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won a parliamentary confidence vote
today to avert the collapse of his government, giving him more
time to try and steer Italy out of Europe’s debt crisis.  Spain’s 10-year note yield climbed four basis points to
5.24 percent after. The extra yield investors demand to hold
French 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened
eight basis points to 93 basis points, the most since the euro
started in 1999. The Belgian two-year note yield increased 10
basis points to 2.52 percent.  The cost of insuring European sovereign debt rose after S&P
said it was downgrading  Spain  because of slowing growth and
concern rising defaults will undermine banks. The Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps linked to 15
governments gained 3.4 basis points to 337.  Copper Rallies  Copper rallied 3.1 percent to $3.4085 a pound in  New York 
and is up 4.1 percent in five days, its biggest weekly gain
since July. Stockpiles in London Metal Exchange warehouses
decreased for an eighth day to the lowest level since April 13.
Copper imports by  China  climbed for a fourth month to the
highest level in 16 months in September, according to customs
data.  Shares of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. gained as
Morgan Stanley said in a note that stabilizing copper
inventories worldwide and rising demand from China are
“favorable” for the world’s largest publicly traded producer
of the metal.  Oil for November delivery climbed 3.1 percent to $86.80 a
barrel, a three-week high, on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
reversing an early decline.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.5 percent, heading
for its eighth consecutive gain, the longest streak since July
2010.  Hong Kong , Russia  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese shares
traded in Hong Kong fell 2.2 percent. The National Bureau of
Statistics said consumer prices rose 6.1 percent in September
from a year earlier, the fourth consecutive month of inflation
above 6 percent. China’s money supply grew at the slowest pace
in almost a decade as inflation stayed above the government’s
target, highlighting the risk that efforts to tame prices will
trigger a slowdown.  The Micex Index jumped 3.1 percent in Moscow as oil rose.
The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 1.3 percent in Istanbul and the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained 1.2
percent.  The euro rose 1.2 percent to 107.17 yen, which retreated
against all 16 major currencies as investors pursued riskier
assets.  Australia ’s dollar and the Mexican peso led currencies
that strengthened versus the euro.  The Dollar Index, which
tracks the U.S. currency against those of six trading partners,
fell 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  