-- 
Asia Stocks Drop as Europe Downgrades, China Inflation Sow Doubt

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-10-14T10:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/asian-stocks-decline-as-spain-downgrade-deepens-global-recovery-doubts.html
Asian stocks fell, ending a six-day
winning streak for the regional benchmark index, after credit-
rating downgrades of  Spain  and European banks fueled concern the
region’s debt crisis slow global growth.  Chinese companies tumbled as a report showed continued high
inflation, lessening the chances of monetary-policy easing in
the world’s second-largest economy.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a
clothier that gets 83 percent of its revenue in Europe, dropped
1.5 percent in  Hong Kong . Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
 Japan ’s biggest lender, fell 1.5 percent after JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the No. 2 U.S. bank by assets, said profit declined.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 miner, fell 2.1 percent in
Sydney after commodity prices slumped yesterday.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index dropped 0.7 percent to 116.89
as of 7:35 p.m. in  Tokyo . The gauge climbed 9.7 percent in the
previous six days, setting the measure on course for its biggest
weekly gain since March after German Chancellor Angela Merkel
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy pledged last weekend to
deliver a plan to recapitalize  Europe ’s banks and address
Greece’s debt crisis.  “Investors are hoping Europe will find a solution to the
sovereign-debt crisis, but if that doesn’t happen the market
could come back down again,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-
based fund manager at Schroders Plc, which oversaw $323 billion
as of June 30. “Politically, it’s going to be difficult to find
a solution. Governments in the U.S. and Europe are left with
limited stimulus options.”  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.9 percent, with
Olympus Corp. tumbling 18 percent after the company’s board
ousted Michael Woodford as president. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slid 0.9 percent and the Kospi Index increased 0.7
percent, with Nexolon Co., South Korea’s biggest maker of
silicon ingots and wafers used in solar cells, surging 30
percent in its trading debut.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 1.4 percent. The Hang Seng
 China  Enterprises Index of Chinese companies dropped 2.2 percent
after reports showed the nation’s money supply grew at the
slowest pace in almost a decade as inflation stayed above the
government’s target, highlighting the risk that efforts to tame
prices will trigger a slowdown. China’s  Shanghai  Composite Index
slid 0.3 percent after falling as much as 1.2 percent.  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd., a developer of properties in
China’s north, slumped 10 percent to HK$2.99.  China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , a builder controlled by the nation’s
construction ministry, retreated 4.2 percent to HK$13.60 on
concern China may continue with steps to slow inflation.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
lender by market value, sank 4.3 percent to HK$4.25.  “The government is unlikely to loosen monetary policies
until the year end as inflation stays at a high level,” said
Gao Ting, Beijing-based chief China strategist at UBS AG, said
in an interview in Shanghai.  China’s Growth Slowing  Inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July
compared with a government full-year target of 4 percent. Growth
in China is already slipping after tightening moves, with
analysts forecasting that data next week will show a 9.3 percent
expansion in the third quarter, down from 9.5 percent in the
previous three months.  Esprit dropped 1.5 percent to HK$11.60 in Hong Kong.
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , a global surfwear maker, declined
2.1 percent to A$3.70 in Sydney. Carmaker Honda Motor Co. lost
2.4 percent to 2,248 yen in Tokyo, while Canon Inc., a camera
maker that depends on Europe for about a third of its sales,
slipped 2.6 percent to 3,445 yen.  Olympus plunged 18 percent to 2,045 yen. Chairman Tsuyoshi
Kikukawa will replace Woodford as president due to disagreements
over management style, the maker of cameras and medical
equipment said in a statement today. Woodford couldn’t be
reached immediately for comment.  Debt Crisis  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index gained 0.9
percent. The U.S. gauge slipped 0.3 percent in  New York 
yesterday, paring gains from the best rally over seven days
since 2009 after JPMorgan reported a 33 percent profit decline
as investment banking and trading income slumped and amid
speculation equities rose too much on optimism Europe’s debt
crisis may be contained.  Asian markets retreated after Spain had its long-term
sovereign credit rating cut to AA- from AA by Standard & Poor’s
with a negative outlook, the third reduction by S&P in three
years. Separately, UBS AG, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc had long-term issuer default grades
cut by Fitch Ratings, which put more than a dozen other lenders
on watch negative.  Banks in Asia also declined as concern grew that defaults
among European nations may trigger a credit crisis similar to
the one after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  ‘Fiscal Austerity’  Mitsubishi UFJ fell 1.5 percent to 335 yen in Tokyo, while
 HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender, slipped 1.5 percent
to HK$63.70 in Hong Kong.  “Much uncertainty remains as to how Europe will support
its banks, beef up the bailout fund and ensure a controlled
‘default’ of Greece,”  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. wrote in a
note to clients today. “Fiscal austerity will continue to bear
down on growth.”  Stocks in Europe fell yesterday after the  European Central
Bank  said imposing further losses on holders of Greek debt posed
a risk to the euro area’s financial stability.  An escalation in Europe’s debt crisis may trigger a selloff
in Asian assets and disrupt currency markets, the  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday. The IMF report came before
Slovakia approved Europe’s enhanced bailout fund, completing
ratification across the 17 euro countries.  Copper Drops  BHP Billiton  lost 2.1 percent to A$36.86 in Sydney and
rival Rio Tinto Group, the world’s No. 2 miner by sales,
declined 1.5 percent to A$68.30. Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest
offshore energy producer, slumped 4.6 percent to HK$13.28.  New York-traded copper futures fell 2.6 percent yesterday,
while the London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum sank 2.4 percent. Crude oil
futures in New York slipped 1.6 percent. Copper and oil futures
rose today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.3 percent loss by the  S&P
500  and a 14 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  