-- 
Asia Stocks Advance Most Since March on Optimism Over European Debt, China

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-10-14T23:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/asian-stocks-rise-most-since-march-on-optimism-over-european-debt-china.html
Asian stocks posted the biggest
weekly gain since March amid rising confidence European policy
makers will act to tame the region’s debt crisis and speculation
China will boost support for its equity market.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which depends on  Europe  for 21 percent of its
sales, rose 8.2 percent as euro-area leaders pledged plans to
protect the region’s banks.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  surged 12 percent
in  Hong Kong  after a Chinese sovereign wealth fund said it began
buying shares of the four biggest national banks.  Esprit
Holdings Ltd. (330)  jumped 13 percent in Hong Kong after the clothier
refuted claims it overstated the number of its Chinese stores.  “There is hope that if a comprehensive European bank
package is announced, the damage to the real economy will be
less than currently expected,” said Belinda Allen, a senior
investment analyst at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management in Sydney, which oversees about $145 billion. “That
would be better news for global growth and commodity demand.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 3.4 percent to 116.82
this week, the biggest weekly advance since the week ended March
25, after French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel pledged action on the euro region’s debt crisis.
The index is down 15 percent this year amid concern the global
economy is poised for another recession as Europe’s troubles
worsens and U.S. growth falters.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 1 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index rose 4.3 percent, and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
gained 4.5 percent.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 1.7
percent.  Exporters, Banks  Lenders and exporters advanced after  Olli Rehn , the
European Commission’s economic and monetary affairs commissioner,
said the region’s debt crisis can be resolved.  Sony rose 8.2 percent to 1,531 yen. Samsung Electronics Co.,
South Korea’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics, rose 3
percent to 886,000 won.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s No. 2
lender by market value, advanced 1.7 percent to A$21.61.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender, rose 3.4 percent to
HK$63.70 in Hong Kong.  Bank of China surged 11 percent to HK$2.68 after state-
owned Central Huijin Investment Ltd. said it started buying
shares of the four biggest national banks. China Minsheng
Banking Corp., the nation’s leading non-state lender, gained 18
percent to HK$5.45.  ‘Certainly Cheap’  “ China ’s purchases of banking shares is sending a message
to investors that we’re nearing the floor,” said  Pauline Dan ,
Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung Asset
Management, which oversees about $72 billion. “Valuations,
particularly for Chinese banks, are certainly cheap.”  Esprit Holdings jumped after refuting a report by Hong
Kong-based Next Magazine that the clothier had overstated the
number of its stores in China. The retailer said the claims had
arisen due to outdated information on its website. Shares jumped
12 percent to HK$11.60.  Japanese exporters fell after floods in Thailand disrupted
production at their factories. Chemicals maker Showa Denko K.K.
fell 3.2 percent to 150 yen, while Nikon Corp., which produces
cameras and chipmaking equipment, plunged 9.3 percent to 1,747
yen.  Among other decliners, optical-equipment maker  Olympus Corp. (7733) 
dropped 15 percent to 2,045 yen after announcing its board voted
to replace President Michael C. Woodford. Chairman Tsuyoshi
Kikukawa said the ousted executive didn’t focus enough on
bringing employees together toward a common goal. Woodford
couldn’t be reached immediately for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  