-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Drop After Spain’s Downgrade Damps Demand

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-14T01:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/australian-new-zealand-dollars-drop-after-spain-s-downgrade-damps-demand.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell against the yen for a second day after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut Spain’s long-term sovereign credit rating, damping
demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The currencies of both South Pacific nations slid against
the dollar as declining Asian stocks spurred a flight to safer
assets. Losses in the so-called Aussie and kiwi were limited
before a meeting of Group-of-20 finance chiefs starts in Paris
today.  “I don’t think the market’s out of the woods yet,” said
 Thomas Averill , a director at foreign-exchange and interest-rate
risk management company Rochford Capital in Sydney. “The Aussie
is going to be drifting over the course of today and may get
sold quite aggressively overnight.”  Australia ’s currency slid 0.2 percent to 78.22 yen at 12:19
p.m. in Sydney. The Australian dollar fell to as low as $1.0145
before trading at $1.0165, 0.3 percent lower from yesterday. The
New Zealand dollar declined 0.3 percent to 79.27 U.S. cents, and
weakened 0.3 percent 61 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.8 percent.  S&P lowered Spain’s credit rating to AA- from AA, the
company said in a statement. The outlook is negative.  “The market would want to take a breather into G-20 on the
weekend,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency
sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest
brokerage. “I think the market will want to sell the euro
before it sells any other currencies so we’re buying Aussie and
kiwi.”  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export market, will today report
inflation figures for September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  