-- 
Tax Holiday Backers Emphasize Big Picture in $1 Trillion Quest

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-10-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/tax-holiday-backers-emphasize-big-picture-in-1-trillion-quest.html
Faced with criticism that companies
didn’t use proceeds of a 2004 tax holiday to create jobs
directly, advocates for repeating the policy are emphasizing the
indirect economic effects of repatriating more than $1 trillion.  Whether the money is used for hiring or stock buybacks, “I
would much rather have their foreign earnings here rather than
in, say, France,” said Kenneth Kies, a tax lobbyist at the
Federal Policy Group in Washington whose clients include
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Pfizer Inc.  Those companies, along with Apple Inc., Google Inc., and
Qualcomm Inc., are part of a coalition urging Congress to
temporarily reduce the tax rate on profits held overseas. They
want a repeat of a 2004 law that let companies pay 5.25 percent,
instead of 35 percent, when they bring that cash to the U.S.  A flurry of studies and legislative activity over the past
few weeks has brought increased attention to the proposed
repatriation tax break. Lawmakers from both parties are trying
to position the repatriation holiday as a tonic for the ailing
economy. The proposal hasn’t advanced in Congress because of
Democratic opposition, concerns about its cost to the government
and the experience after the 2004 holiday.  Opponents, including Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of
Michigan, have complained that companies used the proceeds of
the 2004 holiday to buy back stock instead of creating jobs. He
released a  report  Oct. 10 showing that the 15 corporations that
brought back the most money after the 2004 holiday cut a
combined total of almost 21,000 jobs.  ‘Embarrassing Failure’  “It’s very clearly understood that it failed, and beyond
that, it was an embarrassing failure,” said  Chuck Marr ,
director of  federal tax policy  at the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities, a Washington group that advocates for low-
income families.  Such criticism misses the point, Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican, told reporters yesterday.  “To say that over $300 billion came back into the American
economy and it had no impact is difficult to swallow,” he said.
“What they’re trying to target specifically is that did people
spend it the way we wanted them to spend it.”  Laura D’Andrea Tyson , chair of the  Council of Economic
Advisers  under President  Bill Clinton ,  released a study 
yesterday estimating that a repatriation tax break would cause
companies to bring home $1 trillion, add between $178 billion
and $336 billion to the gross domestic product and generate as
many as 2.5 million jobs. A study done for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in September showed higher growth and job-creation
projections.  Investment Argument  “Anything we can do to encourage investment and
consumption spending is a positive in terms of bringing the
economy closer to its capacity,” she said.  Tyson is on the board of directors of  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , a
member of the coalition of companies seeking the repatriation
holiday. She released the study in conjunction with the  New
America Foundation , a Washington group that studies policies
affecting the information-age economy. The chairman of its board
of directors is  Eric Schmidt , executive chairman of Google.  Marr questioned whether shareholders would increase their
consumption significantly if stock prices increased because of
corporate buybacks.  “This argument comes because their main argument has so
utterly failed,” he said.  ‘Wet Puppy’  Edward Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of
 Southern California , said the companies seeking a repatriation
holiday often portray their offshore profits “as a wet puppy”
waiting to be let back in the house.  That’s untrue, he said, because companies’ assets outside
the U.S. are often held in dollar-denominated securities.  “The money, in fact, to that extent, is already in the
 United States  economy,” he said. “The route is a little bit
indirect.”  Kenneth Serwin, Tyson’s co-author of the repatriation
study, said the indirect route isn’t as influential in the
economy as higher stock prices spurred by buybacks. Increased
consumption by shareholders will spur economic growth, he said.  As the economic argument among experts continues, the
legislative path for a repatriation holiday remains uncertain.  Companies are trying hard. The coalition and its members
have more than 160 lobbyists working on the issue, including at
least 60 who worked for a sitting member of the House or Senate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Bipartisan Proposal  On Oct. 6, Senators  Kay Hagan , a North Carolina Democrat,
and  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, released a bill that
would set a maximum  tax rate  of 8.75 percent with a rate as low
as 5.25 percent for companies that expand their payrolls by at
least 10 percent.  Within the next week, Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Mark Kirk  will unveil legislation that would institute a tax holiday
for repatriated offshore profits and dedicate the proceeds to
infrastructure investment, Kirk said in an interview earlier
this week.  The Illinois Republican, who has been working with  New
York ’s Schumer, who is the third-ranking Senate Democrat, to
craft the legislation, said he is trying to win support from
other Republicans.  ‘Big Picture’ Debate  Kirk said he and Schumer want their proposal to fit into
the “big picture” debate over jobs and the federal budget,
adding that they hoped it was something the so-called
supercommittee charged with finding at least $1.2 trillion in
budgetary savings might consider.  “It clearly would add to the Treasury and the cash flow of
the United States,” he said.  The Joint Committee on Taxation, the official scorekeeper
for tax legislation in Congress, disagrees. A repeat of the 2004
holiday would cost the government $78.7 billion in forgone
revenue over the next decade, in part because companies would
continue shifting profits overseas and holding them there in
anticipation of another tax holiday, the panel said.  That revenue estimate has dampened support for the
proposal, as has the Obama administration’s opposition to a
stand-along holiday. Furthermore, Republicans such as Ways and
Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a  Michigan  Republican, have
said they prefer addressing offshore profits as part of a
broader overhaul of the  tax code .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  