-- 
Maystadt Says Higher Bank-Capital Requirement May Stifle Lending

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 
2011-10-14T13:44:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/maystadt-says-banks-clearly-to-have-funding-problems-in-2012.html
European Investment Bank Chairman
Philippe Maystadt said raising  capital requirements  for banks in
the region might choke off lending and impede economic recovery.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called on Oct.
12 for a coordinated recapitalization of the region’s lenders,
with government funds if necessary, as part of a wider rescue
package. Banks would temporarily have to meet “significantly
higher” capital requirements and those incapable of providing
the extra buffers should be prohibited from paying bonuses or
dividends, Barroso said.  “A very likely consequence of the measures that are being
announced right now is that banks will further restrict credit
to the real economy, and in particular for investment, which is
a determining factor for recovery,” Maystadt said at a forum in
Brussels today.  Maystadt said he’s “not convinced” that most big European
banks are short of capital, though they’ll probably face a
squeeze next year.  “Banks will likely have a funding problem in 2012, that’s
clear,” he said. “They’ll have more trouble finding the
funding they need and that means they’ll pay more for it, and
therefore their profit will be reduced. But I’m not convinced at
this stage that most big banks have a real solvency problem.”  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said yesterday that he doubted forcing European lenders to boost
their capital levels would master the sovereign debt crisis.  “The European Banking Authority considers that we must now
go to 9 percent to restore confidence,” Maystadt said. “As
they say, one must now be ‘overwhelming’ -- do too much to show
that we’ve done enough.”  “The reaction of banks is hardly surprising,” he said.
“I fear that we’re seeing a sort of short-term escalation that
doesn’t seem fully justified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  