-- 
Banderas Tests Fake Skin on Human Guinea Pig; Birders: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-14T02:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/banderas-tests-fake-skin-on-human-guinea-pig-birders-movies.html
Pedro Almodovar takes outrageousness
to a new level with “ The Skin I Live In ,” his genre mishmash
about a plastic surgeon who uses a kidnap victim as a guinea pig
for his artificial-skin experiments.  Dr. Robert Ledgard, played by a poker-faced  Antonio Banderas , locks Vera (Elena Anaya) in a room where she’s
constantly monitored by security cameras. She exercises and
watches TV while wearing a flesh-colored body suit that shows
off her fine form.  It’s not even the most outlandish outfit in Almodovar’s
film: There’s a robber dressed as a tiger and a clothing-store
clerk shackled by chains and stripped to his underwear.  The story is so off-the-wall that you may find yourself
creeped out one minute and laughing the next.  Ledgard vows to develop a burn-proof skin after his wife is
charred in a car crash and commits suicide upon seeing her
disfigured face. He’s also intent on avenging a sexual assault
on his daughter (Blanca Suarez) by a young man she met at a
party.  The doctor somehow merges those goals into a warped fantasy
that he turns into reality.  The director never quite gets a handle on the material,
adapted from Thierry Jonquet’s novel “Tarantula.” As strange
as his movies are, Almodovar usually infuses them with a strong
dose of humanity. In “The Skin I Live In,” however, the main
characters are as cold as a corpse.  “The Skin I Live In,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens
today in New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: **  ‘The Big Year’  Does watching a snowy owl increase your pulse rate? Would
you rather photograph a sandhill crane than  Angelina Jolie ?  If so, you’ll probably love “ The Big Year ,” a comedy
about three obsessive men competing for the title of world’s
greatest bird-watcher. If not, you’ll likely be bored by this
featherweight story.  Corporate tycoon Stu ( Steve Martin ), computer geek Brad
( Jack Black ) and building contractor Kenny ( Owen Wilson ) are all
dissatisfied with their lives and looking for a challenge. They
find it through birding, specifically a yearlong contest to see
who can spot the most species in  North America .  Stu and Brad want to dethrone defending champion Kenny, a
cocky competitor who holds the world record. Touring the U.S.
and  Canada , including a trip to the Aleutian Islands, they keep
crossing paths in their bid for birding immortality.  To satisfy viewers who may not be enthralled by
ornithology, director David Frankel (“The Devil Wears Prada,”
“Marley & Me”) and screenwriter Howard Franklin throw in trite
subplots about the trio’s families.  The soundtrack includes “Surfin’ Bird,” “Blackbird,”
“Come Fly Away” and “I Like Birds.” So much for subtlety.  “The Big Year,” from 20th Century Fox, opens today across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 