-- 
Berlusconi Survives Confidence Vote in Parliament as Italian Bonds Slump

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-14T13:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/berlusconi-survives-confidence-vote-as-italian-bonds-slump.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won
a parliamentary confidence vote today to avert the collapse of
his government, giving him more time to try and steer Italy out
of Europe’s debt crisis.  Berlusconi carried the vote in the Chamber of Deputies in
Rome 316 to 301. The motion was called after the premier failed
to muster a majority in a routine ballot this week, prompting
President Giorgio Napolitano to call on the premier to clarify
“questions and concerns” about his ability to govern the euro
area’s third-biggest economy.  Pressure is mounting on Berlusconi, 75, as investors dump
Italian debt even after the  European Central Bank  began buying
it on Aug. 8 to stem surging borrowing costs. The yield on the
nation’s benchmark 10-year bond rose for a sixth day to as high
as 5.86 percent, the most since Aug. 5, when Berlusconi unveiled
a 54 billion-euro ($73 billion) austerity package that convinced
the ECB to backstop  Italy ’s debt.  “Winning the battle does not mean that the war has been
won,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd., said in an e-mail. “The longer that Berlusconi
hangs on by his fingernails, the less likely that a temporary
technocratic government can be put in place to implement the
more unpopular measures in terms of structural reforms before
holding a general election.”  Deepening Divisions  The extra yield investors demand to hold Italy’s 10-year
bond instead of equivalent German debt narrowed four basis
points after the vote to 361 basis points. That compares with a
euro-era record of 416 basis points on Aug. 5. The ECB bought
Italian  government bonds  today, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the transactions.  The austerity package further deepened fissures in
Berlusconi’s coalition as ministers pushed back against the
spending cuts put forward by Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti .
 Umberto Bossi , leader of the  Northern League  that’s part of the
ruling coalition, said Oct. 6 it was “objectively difficult” for
the government to last until the end of its term in 2013.  Berlusconi has sought to make peace in recent weeks among
warring factions in his coalition, while also trying to defend
himself in four different criminal trials, including one for
paying a minor with sex. He denies any wrongdoing.  Botched Vote  Berlusconi called for the confidence motion after key
allies failed to turn up on Oct. 11 for a routine vote on the
2010 budget report. Tremonti and Bossi were both absent from the
ballot, raising doubts about their commitment to the government.  Concerns about the government’s ability to boost growth
enough to bring down a debt of 1.9 trillion euros led all three
main rating companies to downgrade Italy over the past month.
Until July, Italy had avoided the worst of the debt crisis with
a  budget deficit  last year of 4.6 percent of output, less than
 France ’s 7 percent.  “We’ve kept public finances in order and we’re the best in
 Europe  in terms of primary surplus,” Berlusconi told reporters
today at Parliament. “We also have a deficit by far lower than
other important European countries such as France and  England .
As far as the policies for growth are concerned, we have to make
sure they don’t negatively affect our finances.”  Growth Plan  Berlusconi said that next week he will present a long-
delayed plan to boost growth that would be revenue-neutral. He
acknowledged yesterday that austerity measures may slow growth,
which has lagged behind the euro-region average for the last
decade, making it harder to cut debt of about 120 percent of
output, the second largest in Europe after  Greece .  Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  this week urged the
government to quickly passes measures to boost the economy,
saying austerity cuts alone wouldn’t spare the nation from an
“ungovernable” debt spiral.  “If protracted, the high borrowing costs seen in the last
three months could largely offset” the effects of the austerity
measures, “with a further negative impact on the cost of debt,
in a spiral that may end up being ungovernable,” Draghi said in
a speech in  Rome  on Oct. 12.  Berlusconi said he will discuss Draghi’s successor with
Napolitano later today. Draghi takes over as ECB president on
Nov. 1 and Berlusconi has publicly clashed with Tremonti over
his possible successor and other issues, such as tax cuts.  “The next crisis is just round the corner and the chances
that this government will run its full term to 2013 are
decreasing by the minute,”  James Walston , a professor of
politics at the American University in Rome, said. “Spring
elections are more and more likely and the overall prospects are
not good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 asarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  