-- 
Blackstone Increases Size of Emdeon Buyout Loan as Prices Rise

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-10-14T13:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/blackstone-increases-size-of-emdeon-buyout-loan-as-prices-rise.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  increased the
size of a leveraged loan it’s seeking to finance an acquisition
of  Emdeon Inc. (EM)  by $24 million to $1.224 billion and set the
 interest rate  at the low end of the range it had offered
investors.  The lower rate means that the provider of billing systems
and software for health-care companies will pay $3 million less
in annual interest payments, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prices of leverage loans rose 1.48 cents this week to
89.28 cents yesterday, according to the  Standard & Poor’s /LSTA
U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  Companies with stronger credit profiles are still able to
attract investor dollars even as leverage-loan issuance in the
U.S. fell 57.5 percent in the third quarter, according to S&P’s
Leveraged Commentary and Data. Concerns that Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis could hamper the economic recovery have roiled
global markets and caused lenders to shun riskier asset classes
such as loans and high-yield bonds.  “You’re seeing a bifurcated market now,” Darin Schmalz, a
director at  Fitch Ratings  in  Chicago , said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “If you’re a good quality credit there is
going to be demand for your paper. The attributes that make this
asset class attractive are still present and that hasn’t gone
away despite the fact that we’re still facing macroeconomic
issues both in the U.S. and globally.”  The S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, is up
from a low of 59.2 cents on Dec. 17, 2008, three months after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. The index fell 5.66
percent in August, the biggest monthly decline since Nov. 2008.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are ranked below Baa3
by Moody’s and less than BBB- by S&P.  New Issue Sales  New issue sales fell to $50.6 billion in the third quarter
from $119 billion in the three-month period ended June 30,
according to S&P’s LCD. Year-to-date issuance of $310.8 billion
outpaces last year’s $233.4 billion figure.  Emdeon is offering investors 5.5 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate on the $1.224 billion
 term loan  B, with a minimum 1.25 percent on the benchmark
lending rate, according to Bloomberg data. The loan is expected
to price at 97 cents on the dollar, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting the yield to investors.  Emdeon’s Banks  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and SunTrust Banks Inc. are arranging
the deal for the Nashville, Tennessee-based company, Bloomberg
data show.  The loan will contain a first-lien net leverage covenant
after it was originally marketed to investors without financial
maintenance provisions, said the person. The banks plan to
distribute the debt to investors today and close and fund the
deal Nov. 2.  A term loan B is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . In a revolving credit, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  “We think the credit markets reflect a binary outcome,
with markets either improving in response to increased stability
in Europe or deteriorating further in the face of a disorderly
resolution of  Greece  and/or other peripherals,” Brad Rogoff,
head of U.S. credit Strategy at  Barclays Capital , wrote in an
Oct. 7 report. “While the focus remains on the sovereign debt
crisis, macro data in the U.S. continue to come in mixed, and
recessionary fears are growing, given the slower growth
trajectory.”  ‘Downside Risks’  The  Federal Reserve  said Sept. 21 that it saw “significant
downside risks” in the economy and it will replace $400 billion
of short-term debt with longer-term Treasuries to try to
increase growth as the economic recovery slows down.  Slovakia approved  Europe ’s enhanced bailout fund yesterday,
which completes the ratification across the 17 euro countries.
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  on Oct. 12 called for
a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan
to Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to ease
debt woes.  The number of U.S., European and emerging market and other
developed region issuers downgraded by Standard & Poor’s in the
third quarter outpaced the number of upgrades, analysts led by
 Diane Vazza  wrote in a report yesterday. The downgrade ratio, or
the number of downgrades per total rating actions, is below
historical averages in all regions except emerging markets.  “Demand can go in and out pretty quickly,” Fitch’s
Schmalz said. “What you saw in the third quarter was a lot of
the deals got larger pro rata tranches, meaning revolver and
term loan As, to cater specifically to that bank loan market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 