-- 
Ex-Heavyweight Boxing Champ Michael Spinks Sues Former Promoter’s Estate

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-10-14T22:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/boxing-champion-spinks-sues-former-promoter-s-estate-over-money.html
Ex-heavyweight boxing champion
Michael Spinks sued the estate of his former promoter, Ronald E.
“Butch” Lewis, alleging Lewis failed to properly manage
millions of dollars Spinks earned in his career and violated
agreements to continue paying the boxer’s living expenses.  Lewis, who died this year, commingled his personal funds
with Spinks’s money and used the boxer’s winnings to pay
personal and business expenses for himself and his children,
Spinks said in a  Delaware  Chancery Court lawsuit. The suit also
names Robert L. Johnson, founder of Black Entertainment
Television, as a defendant. Johnson serves as one of the
executors of Lewis’s $8.5 million estate, according to court
filings.  “Lewis’s estate has refused to honor Lewis’s promise and
has failed to pay any of Spinks’s living expenses,” the boxer’s
lawyers said in the suit, filed yesterday in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Neither Johnson, head of a real estate investment firm, nor
Leonard L. Williams, a Wilmington-based lawyer, immediately
returned calls for comment on Spinks’s suit.  Lewis, 65, died at his home in  Bethany Beach , Delaware, in
July. A former used car salesman in Philadelphia, Lewis rose to
become one of the boxing world’s top dealmakers in the late
1970s and 1980s, according to the New York Times. He represented
both Michael and  Leon Spinks , two brothers who each won gold
medals in the 1976  Olympic Games .  World Champion  Michael Spinks won the heavyweight boxing championship in
1985 when he defeated Larry Holmes to win the title. He lost the
title in 1988 to  Mike Tyson  in a 91-second knockout. Spinks
retired at age 32.  Lewis negotiated “substantial paydays” for Spinks over
the course of his career, racking up a more than $24 million in
revenue, according to the suit. Lewis agreed to manage Spinks’s
money for him and pay his living expenses for the rest of his
life, lawyers said in the complaint.  The month after Lewis’s death, Johnson and Williams cut off
payments of Spinks’s living expenses without telling him, the
boxer’s lawyers said. That move caused Spinks’s health insurance
to lapse, they added. Those bills totaled as much as $50,000 a
month, according to the filing.  “Spinks has had to invade his pension and retirement funds
and incur significant taxes and penalties in order to meet these
obligations,” the boxer’s lawyers added in the filings.  Spinks contends Lewis left millions to his children in his
will and the promoter spent $500,000 on a party a month before
his death. The boxer is asking a judge to bar Johnson and
Williams from transferring any assets of the Lewis’s estate
until there can be a full accounting and to order the executors
to resume paying Spinks’s living expenses.  Former NBA Owner  Johnson is the head of RLJ Development LLC, a closely held
real estate investment company based in Bethesda,  Maryland . He
sold his stake in BET to Viacom in 2001 for about $3 billion.  The billionaire also once owned the  National Basketball
Association ’s  Charlotte Bobcats . He sold his majority interest
in the team to former NBA superstar  Michael Jordan  in 2010.  The case is Michael Spinks v. the Estate of Ronald E.
“Butch” Lewis, 6931, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  