-- 
Cain Draws Big Crowds Promoting ‘9-9-9’

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-16T00:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/cain-draws-big-crowds-promoting-9-9-9-.html
Herman Cain , taking his economic
plan to rural  Tennessee , said his proposed 9-9-9 tax overhaul
distinguishes him from the conventional options favored by his
rivals for the Republican presidential nomination.  “All the other Republican candidates, God bless them all,
start with the current  tax code ,” Cain, the new leader in some
Republican primary presidential polls, said at a city park in
Bartlett, Tennessee, yesterday. “It’s been a mess for
decades.”  Cain rejected criticism by Texas Governor Rick Perry and
other rivals that his proposed 9 percent taxes on personal and
business income, along with a new 9 percent federal sales tax,
would raise levies on low- and middle-income citizens.  “No, I’m not going to change” the 9-9-9 plan, Cain said
in Cookesville today. “I’m not going to back down. It’s how
we’re going to get this economy going again.”  The plan would replace payroll taxes now embedded in
products, reducing prices to offset the new sales tax, along
with eliminating  capital gains  and inheritance taxes, Cain said.
The plan showed his business-oriented, problem-solving approach,
he said.  Cain’s comments drew repeated applause at Tea Party-
supported events in five small towns in Tennessee that each
attracted more than 500 people. One of the largest gatherings
included more than 1,500 people at an exhibition hall in Waverly,
a town of about 4,000 people 65 miles west of Nashville. Cain
concluded his talk by singing a gospel song, “He Looked Beyond
My Faults.”  Immigration Policy  Cain’s stand on immigration policy has helped him overtake
Texas Governor Rick Perry in polls, said Chuck Smith, a retired
engineer and spokesman for the Roane County Tea Party in
Harriman, Tennessee.  “He hit all the Tea Party buttons including taxes and
immigration,” Smith said today.  The U.S. should secure its border with  Mexico  by building a
20-foot, barbed-wire, electrified fence, Cain said in
Cookesville today. The fence would have signs, in English and
Spanish, saying “it will kill you,’” he said.  Retired factory representative Jimmy Stevens of Waverly
said yesterday he decided Cain was his favorite candidate about
three weeks ago. “He is ultra conservative and that’s what I
like,” said Stevens, a spokesman for the Humphreys County Tea
Party, which helped organize the event. “We don’t want
moderates or Republicans in name only.”  Primary Schedule  Cain, who reported raising $2.6 million in the third
quarter, said he is campaigning in Tennessee because “the whole
primary schedule has been tossed aside” with states moving up
their election dates. “It makes other states much more
important,” he said after speaking to about 1,000 people in the
parking lot of a strip shopping center in Jackson, Tennessee.  Referring to the two states that traditionally kick off the
nomination process, Cain said he has already been to  Iowa  “two
or three times,” and also made numerous trips to  New Hampshire .
He plans to spend next weekend in Iowa.  Tennessee’s primary is scheduled for March 6, almost two
months after the expected Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3, and more than
a month after Florida will hold what may be a decisive primary
on Jan. 31.  Selling to Peoria  “If you can sell it to Peoria, you can sell it anywhere,
and we are about as Peoria as you can get,” said Larry Epps,
vice mayor of Cookeville, Tennessee, where Cain spoke to more
than 500 people at Tennessee Tech University today.  His two main competitors have raised 10 times as much money
as he has, Cain said, without naming Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
or former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. “It ain’t all
about the money,” Cain said.  Romney reported that he raised $14.2 million in the period
between from July 1 to Sept. 30. Perry’s campaign has said he
raised about $17 million in the third quarter.  Brian Collins, a courier company owner in Cookeville, spent
$50 to attend a Cain breakfast fund-raiser today at a local
country club.  “He’s not  Washington , and he came up the way most
Americans do,” said Collins. “The fact he’s black is a bonus
because it shows anyone can succeed if they persevere.” Only a
handful of African-Americans attended the Cain events except in
Bartlett, where there were several dozen.  Cain’s comments on his tax plan weren’t specific enough for
Joyce Robinson, a retiree who said yesterday in Bartlett that
she has been active in the Mid-South Tea Party since 2009.  “It was good, but I’d like to learn more,” she said.
“I’m a numbers person, a mathematician and I still need to
understand it better. We already have a high state  sales tax  in
Tennessee.”  Other crowd members praised the business background of the
former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive.  “I’ve never been very involved in politics, but I’m going
to get involved now because we are in such a crisis,” said Jim
Stiles, an owner of an insurance and tax consulting firm in
Germantown yesterday. “I like the fact that Cain isn’t a
politician.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Harriman, Tennessee at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  