-- 
Cain Needs to Give Voters the 411 on His 9-9-9 Tax Plan: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-14T00:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/cain-needs-to-give-voters-the-411-on-his-9-9-9-tax-plan-view.html
“The 9-9-9 plan that I have proposed
is simple, transparent, efficient, fair and neutral.” That’s
 Herman Cain  defending his tax overhaul plan at the Oct. 11
Bloomberg-Washington Post Republican presidential candidates’
debate in New Hampshire.  Cain is correct in claiming that his plan, which has
vaulted him to the top of the opinion polls and was the debate’s
unofficial theme, is simple and efficient. But he misses the
mark on the other three: It’s not transparent, fair or neutral.
Still, he’s on the right track, and we encourage him, along with
those who call 9-9-9 unworkable, to come up with a better plan.  The former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza
would replace the current tax code with a 9 percent tax on
personal income, a 9 percent tax (down from 35 percent) on
corporate income, and a new 9 percent national sales tax. That’s
really the extent of it. Gone would be deductions for mortgage
interest and charitable contributions. Gone would be business
deductions for workers’ wages. Gone, too, would be paycheck
deductions that fund Social Security and Medicare.  Rival Republicans around the debate table mocked the plan
as simplistic, but we side with voters who yearn for simplicity
in the  tax code . At 72,536 pages, it’s mind-numbingly complex.
It forces taxpayers to adopt inefficient tax-avoidance
strategies. Many Americans view the system as biased toward
special interests, which can afford lobbyists to wring favors
from Congress and tax lawyers to exploit loopholes.  Laudable Goals  Cain is also right to say his proposal is efficient. It
would expand the tax base so more Americans and corporations
contribute to the government’s coffers. At the same time,
government would no longer pick winners and losers through the
tax code. Those are laudable goals.  But 9-9-9 is far from perfect. One small issue is its lack
of transparency. Cain’s campaign website devotes all of 500
words to the plan. Reporters have had to wrest important details
from him, including who devised it (Rich Lowrie, an accountant
and investment adviser in Gates Mills,  Ohio ). Only now are we
learning that it would actually set income and sales taxes at a
decidedly non-catchy 9.1 percent to raise the same amount of
federal tax as the current system.  Cain insisted at the debate that his plan would raise no
more and no less than the $2.3 trillion the federal tax system
produced in pre-recession 2008, but the next day he had to admit
that the plan wouldn’t replace $67 billion in excise taxes on
gasoline, beer and cigarettes. Cain now says he would keep those
levies. The bigger problem is that, by aiming for neutrality, 9-
9-9 would raise no new revenue to address chronic budget
deficits or lower the U.S.’s $14.8 trillion debt.  Regressive Plan  The biggest issue of all is that 9-9-9 is regressive. It
would unfairly give the wealthy an enormous tax break while
placing a greater burden on middle- and lower-income Americans.
The affluent would get the same top tax rate of 9 percent as
everyone else. Investors would pay no taxes on  capital gains ,
and inheritors would escape taxes on estates. Low-income
households would lose the deductions that complicate the tax
code but that also keep it progressive.  Taxes would most definitely rise on the nearly one-half of
households that pay no federal income taxes at all, a category
that includes many older Americans who don’t have jobs and whose
Social Security benefits aren’t taxed. It also includes the
working poor, who can combine the standard deduction, the $1,000
per-child tax credit and the earned-income tax credit to reduce
their tax liability to zero, or to get a check from the IRS.  Poverty Grants  Cain argues that lower-income workers would pay less
because payroll taxes, which total 15.3 percent of wages, of
which half is paid by employers, would disappear. He would also
create “poverty grants,” vaguely described as lower rates for
those living in designated empowerment zones.  But what 9-9-9 would give with one hand (scrapping payroll
taxes), it would take with the other (child and earned-income
tax credits). Here’s another example: By not allowing companies
to deduct the cost of labor from taxable income, 9-9-9 would
cause the true cost of hiring workers to rise. Companies would
probably make up for the extra cost by lowering pay.  Cain would also require low-income and middle-class
families to pay 9 percent national sales taxes on such
essentials as housing, clothing, medicine and food, which many
states don’t tax at all. If those items were excluded, less tax
would be collected, and Cain might need to change his plan to
10-10-10.  Political Problems  The 9-9-9 plan also has political problems. Conservative
lawmakers dislike the sales tax because it would give Congress a
new stream of money to spend. It would come on top of -- not
instead of -- existing state sales taxes, and that won’t sit
well in  New Hampshire , an early voting state with no sales tax.
In  Florida , another early primary state, 9-9-9 is likely to be
unpopular among older voters.  Cain ultimately would eliminate individual and corporate
income taxes in favor of a national sales tax. We have said
before that a  consumption tax  offers the best route to broader
 tax reform , if coupled with tax credits for the elderly, low-
income workers and the very poor.  A revamped tax system must offer more than a snappy slogan
that fits on a bumper sticker. We encourage Cain to keep
refining his plan to make it truly fair, transparent and
neutral. As for rival candidates who say 9-9-9 is unworkable,
show us your plan.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 