-- 
Cain Vow to Balance Budget Dismissed Over ‘Massive’ Cuts Needed

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/cain-vow-to-balance-budget-dismissed-over-massive-cuts-needed.html
Herman Cain ’s self-described
“bold” 9-9-9 tax proposal has received most of the attention
in his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination. His
plans for the federal budget are more radical.  Cain this week pledged at a debate to balance the
government’s books in a single year if elected. This would
require the elimination of what the Congressional Budget Office
projects may be a more than $800 billion deficit in 2013.  Erasing the deficit that quickly would mean a more than 20
percent cut in spending, which could force reductions in
politically sensitive programs such as Social Security, Medicare
or defense, since they make up more than half the budget.  Even those pressing hardest for the government to reduce
its deficit, which the CBO said was $1.3 trillion last year in a
budget totaling $3.6 trillion, call Cain’s plan unrealistic.  “The massive spending cuts or tax hikes it would take to
balance the budget in one year are politically unrealistic and
would be economically disruptive,” said Maya MacGuineas, head
of the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.  Cain made his pledge in an Oct. 11 presidential debate
sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post, promising
that in the “first year that I’m president and I oversee a
fiscal year budget, make sure that revenues equal spending.”  That goes far beyond any of the major deficit-cutting plans
being considered in Washington, where even deficit hawks say it
will take decades to produce a balanced budget.  Not Until 2040  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , who came under
pressure earlier this year from Tea Party colleagues demanding
the Republican budget be balanced within 10 years, couldn’t even
do that. His plan, which has since been adopted by his House
Republican colleagues and was backed by Senate Republicans,
wouldn’t show a single balanced budget until 2040. It would
leave a deficit of $391 billion in 10 years. Ryan yesterday
declined to comment on Cain’s plan.  A proposal drawn up by the heads of President Barack Obama’s debt commission wouldn’t balance the budget for 25
years. And unelected budget experts at the Washington-based
Bipartisan Policy Center, in no danger of losing their jobs to
voters unhappy with cuts, couldn’t come up with what they
considered a plausible plan to ever show balance.  The single most aggressive proposal that’s been put to a
vote this year in Congress was by Senator  Rand Paul , a freshman
Republican from  Kentucky . It would erase the annual deficit
within five years in part by eliminating four Cabinet
departments. It was overwhelmingly  rejected  by his colleagues,
Republicans and Democrats alike, winning just seven votes.  ‘Not Yet Ready’  “People here are not yet ready to do what it would take to
balance the budget, even in the Republican caucus,” said Paul,
whose father, Ron, is seeking the party’s presidential
nomination. “It’s an enormous amount of money to cut in one
year,” he said of the Cain proposal, adding it might get even
less than seven votes in the Senate were it put to a vote.  Republicans in Congress have had to settle for promising to
put the government “on the path” toward balance and calling
for a constitutional amendment that would require the government
to balance its books. While the amendment has little chance of
being approved, it does allow lawmakers to underscore their
desire to cut spending.  Cain, the front-runner for the nomination according to a
Wall Street Journal-NBC News poll released this week, has
offered few details on how he would get rid of the deficit. Rich Lowrie, an economic adviser, declined to identify what the
candidate would cut.  ‘In Due Course’  “We will roll out spending reform in due course, so it is
too early for me to comment now,” Lowrie wrote in an e-mail.
It’s a “priority for sure,” though if Cain’s tax plan is “not
addressed first, the spending will only get harder to solve,”
he said. “First step is to grow the economy.”  Cain said during the debate that it’s time to “get serious
about not creating annual deficits so we can bring down the
national debt.” He has called for replacing the current  tax
code  with his 9-9-9 plan, which would set income, sales and
business taxes all at 9 percent.  Cain has already backed away from a clean 9-9-9 plan. In
Concord,  New Hampshire , on Oct. 12, he told reporters that his
plan wouldn’t apply to used goods. His campaign then said that
excise taxes now in place, such as those on beer and cigarettes,
would remain.  Democrats dismiss budget-balancing promises by the former
chief executive of Godfather’s Pizza, calling them naïve.  Stick to Pizzas  “He ought to stick to his pizzas,” said Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat who
laughed when asked about the proposal. “It’s great for a
campaign, but it doesn’t work in real life.”  Perhaps the biggest obstacle to balancing the budget is
demographics. The long-anticipated retirement of the baby boom
generation has begun, with the eldest becoming eligible this
year for Medicare, three years after they began receiving Social
Security. Those two programs, which already represent about one-
third of all spending, are projected to grow rapidly in coming
years with the ranks of Social Security beneficiaries projected
to almost double over the next 25 years.  Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle generally agree that
benefits shouldn’t be cut for current retirees or those
approaching retirement because they should be given time to
adjust to any changes. Ryan’s plan would only begin cutting
Medicare for those turning 65 in 2021, which means those
reductions wouldn’t even begin to pare the deficit until then.  If Social Security and Medicare are spared cuts, along with
the Pentagon, and the government continues to make its interest
payments on the national debt this year, that would leave about
$1.3 trillion in spending available for cuts -- about equaling
last year’s deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  