-- 
Cain’s Sales Tax Would Hurt Consumer Spending ’For Some Years’

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/cain-s-sales-tax-would-hurt-consumer-spending-for-some-years-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Herman Cain ’s plan to create a national sales tax would hurt
retailers, threaten economic growth and shift the tax burden
onto the middle class and poor, tax experts and business groups
said.  Cain’s so-called 9-9-9 plan, which would replace the
current tax code with a system of three separate taxes of 9
percent each, has boosted his popularity among voters. The
former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza has surged
in polls in recent weeks, and a Wall Street Journal/NBC News
poll released this week put him in the lead.  Tax experts and business groups interviewed yesterday don’t
like his tax plan as much as voters. They said it would shift
the burden to middle-income and poor families and would hurt
sales across the economy, at least in the short term.  “There will be a noticeable decline in  consumer spending 
for some years,” said Rachelle Bernstein, vice president of the
 National Retail Federation , based in  Washington , in an
interview. “We know that that has an impact on consumer
spending and GDP.”  Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
gross domestic product.  Cain has proposed a 9 percent sales tax on all goods and
services, another 9 percent on personal income and the third on
corporate gross income. During the debate in  New Hampshire 
sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post on Oct. 11,
Cain said the proposal is his top policy goal.  Expanding Tax Base  “It expands the base,” he said during the debate. “When
you expand the base, we can arrive at the lowest possible rate,
which is 9-9-9.”  That expansion means that long-standing tax breaks, such as
the mortgage interest deduction and the exclusion from income of
employer-sponsored health insurance, probably would vanish.  Although Cain hasn’t released extensive details of his
plan, it also would probably add a  sales tax  on many products
and services, such as new homes, financial transactions and even
doctor visits. Several business and trade groups contacted by
Bloomberg News declined to comment on the plan because they
didn’t want to take a position on the presidential race.  Impact on States  Michael Bird, federal affairs counsel for the  National
Conference of State Legislatures  in Washington, said the sales
tax, on top of what state and local governments already levy,
could make it difficult for them to adjust their tax rates.  “Would the 9 cents create a ceiling, or would states say,
now we have to lower our costs because the cost of goods and
services are higher than a lot of people are comfortable with?”
Bird asked. “It’s hard to say.”  Robert Dietz, an economist at the  National Association of
Home Builders , said new homes sales would see a double tax
increase. The house itself would be subject to the 9 percent
retail sales tax, and then buyers would have to pay tax on the
interest on their mortgage, as opposed to now when they can
deduct that interest from their income.  “Layering a new tax on top of the sale of a newly
constructed home would certainly be bad for the housing
market,” he said. Each new home creates the equivalent of three
full-time jobs for a year, he said.  Trucking Hit Hard  Small trucking firms and drivers may be hit hard by a sales
tax on fuel piled upon already-high excise taxes, such as the
24.4 cent-per-gallon levy on  diesel fuel  and a surcharge already
applied to new heavy-duty vehicles, said Todd Spencer, executive
vice president of the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers
Association, which represents truckers under contract with
larger U.S. companies such as Landstar Systems Inc.  Further taxing fuel “may be a hard sell for Mr. Cain at a
time when diesel is headed back towards a $4 per gallon
average,” Spencer said. “Adding a 9 percent sales tax and a 9
percent VAT (value-added tax) onto the 12 percent federal excise
tax truckers already pay on new trucks and trailers would
certainly cause them to think twice about buying new
equipment.”  “There’s a lot in this plan that’s just kookie,” said
Steve Wamhoff, legislative director at Citizens for Tax Justice,
pointing out that it doesn’t tax dividends or inheritance at
all, but does tax wages. “It makes the tax system much, much,
much more regressive than it is today.”  The proposal would hit middle- and low-income people with a
larger tax burden because they spend more of their money on
food, clothing and household goods and have less left over to
save and invest, which wouldn’t be taxed.  Increased Burden  Ed Kleinbard, a professor of tax law at the University of
 Southern California  in  Los Angeles , said Cain’s plan would
increase the federal tax burden of a family of four making
$50,000 a year by $5,100 to $13,500.  “It’s less money in most people’s pockets after tax and
more money in the pockets of the wealthy,” said Kleinbard, a
former staff director at Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation.  The Cain campaign’s own analysis of the plan doesn’t
address how it would change the distribution of the federal tax
burden, other than including a provision for some sort of
“poverty grant,” which Cain has described as a lower rate in
targeted “empowerment zones.”  Long-Term Boost  Will McBride, economist for the  Tax Foundation  in
Washington,  said Cain’s tax plan would spur economic growth in
the long run. While the 9 percent federal sales tax would
depress consumption now, if consumers know they will have more
money in their pockets in the future because of lower taxes,
they will spend more.  “This is not a Keynesian plan; this is a long-term growth
plan,” McBride said.  Even some conservatives that advocate for a simplified tax
system disagree with Cain’s approach.  Ryan Ellis,  tax policy  director at Americans for  Tax
Reform , which advocates for lower tax rates and smaller
government, said the plan introduced entirely new taxes that are
expected to rise with time.  The business tax functions like a value-added tax, he said,
where the inputs to a product are taxed along the way. “When
you raise the VAT, it’s embedded in the price of the good so
it’s a politically easy tax to raise,” he said. “The people
who know tax policy in the conservative movement are not
responding well to this.”  Not All Bad  Still, Ellis said the plan is better than the current
system though not as good as some alternatives.  “It would radically simplify the tax system,” he said.
“It would move the tax system toward a consumption base and it
would do so at very much lower marginal tax rates.”  Most groups said they aren’t lobbying for or against 9-9-9
yet because it’s unclear whether it will become a viable
proposal.  “In general, we are supportive of efforts to simplify the
 tax code ,” said Jason Brewer, spokesman for the Retail Industry
Leaders Association, based in Arlington, Virginia. “We are not
in favor of a national sales tax. If in the primary season this
becomes a hot topic, we will certainly weigh in more publicly,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
Or  afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  