-- 
California May Pay 15% More to Borrow After Revenue Shortfall: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/california-s-705-million-gap-may-spell-higher-borrowing-cost-muni-credit.html
California , facing mandatory
spending cuts with revenue below forecast, may have to pay
almost 15 percent more to borrow $2 billion this month than it
did in September as municipal yields climb to a 10-week high.  Top-rated 10-year tax-exempt yields exceeded 2.57 percent
yesterday, the highest since Aug. 3. They’ve jumped from 2
percent on Sept. 26, the lowest since the Bloomberg Valuation
index began in January 2009, as weekly state and local debt
sales reached $8.8 billion, the most of 2011.  California, the most-indebted U.S. state, issued $2.4
billion of general-obligation bonds last month at yields about a
third less than two years earlier as investors rewarded the
budget passed by Governor  Jerry Brown  and Democrats in June. It
may get a cooler reception this time after fiscal first-quarter
revenue came in $705 million below projections and as 10-year
yields posted their biggest five-day advance since November.  “There’s a volatile market, with negative news in terms of
their financial position,” said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-
income trading in  New York  at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth
Management, which has $12 billion of assets. “California is
going to need to come in on the wider end of the spread range
that it’s been trading in.”  California state and local bonds have outperformed all
municipal debt and U.S. Treasuries this year, providing
investors with a 10.1 percent return, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes that combine price gains and
interest payments. Treasuries returned 7.4 percent and
municipals returned 7.6 percent, the indexes show.  Lowest-Rated State  The state’s $70.1 billion of general-obligation bonds are
rated A- by  Standard & Poor’s , its fourth-highest investment
grade and the lowest among U.S. states. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the state A1, its sixth-highest rank.  Next week’s general-obligation issue, planned for Oct. 17,
is California’s second since the end of a 2011 moratorium on
sales meant to curb borrowing costs as lawmakers worked to
complete their budget.  When the state sold $2.4 billion of similar debt last
month, 10-year bonds were priced to yield 3.17 percent, or 109
basis points more than the top-rated index. A 5 percent security
sold then traded yesterday at a 3.51 percent average yield,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, about 94 basis points
more than the index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Even Wider  Pollack said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if the state had
to price yields “closer to the 125 range” at next week’s sale.
A difference of that much would boost borrowing costs by 14.7
percent from the premium California paid in September.  The market “is a little weaker now then it was last
month,”  Tony Shields , a senior trader at Charles Schwab & Co.
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.
“Last month there wasn’t much supply, and now there seems to be
some supply so they’ll do fine, but they’re going to have to
obviously adjust for the change in rates.”  California’s tax revenue in the first three months of the
fiscal year that began in July fell $705 million below
projections, the state said on Oct. 10.  Brown and his party counted on as much as $4 billion of
revenue gains in their $86 billion annual  general-fund budget ,
which used $12 billion of spending cuts and other measures to
close a $26 billion projected deficit.  The budget includes a provision that triggers automatic
spending cuts if the extra $4 billion appears unlikely by year’s
end.  Credit Positive  “That’s an awesome credit positive,” said Alan Schankel,
director of fixed-income research for Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, which manages $11.8 billion in fixed
income. “If the revenues aren’t coming in, then there is a
mechanism to make sure there isn’t a shortfall.”  The first tier of reductions, if the gap is $1 billion,
would trim  University of California  and California State
University budgets by $100 million each, increase community-
college fees by $10 per unit and cut in-home services for the
elderly and disabled.  All but $200 million of next week’s sale is of tax-exempt
securities, according to the  preliminary offering statement  on
the treasury’s website. Proceeds from the sale can be used for
public projects such as prisons, parks, schools and levees.  Treasurer Bill Lockyer also plans to use $133 million to
refinance taxable Build America Bonds sold in a 2009 private
offering to the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.  Following is a description of coming municipal sales:  VIRGINIA COLLEGE BUILDING AUTHORITY will sell $156 million
of education-facility revenue bonds as soon as Oct. 18 through
competitive bids. The bonds will finance capital projects on six
campuses. Fitch Ratings grades the bonds AA+, its second-highest
rank. (Added Oct. 14)  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA will sell $104 million of revenue
bonds as early as Oct. 17 to finance a new headquarters for the
Association of American Medical Colleges. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch will lead the sale. The bonds are rated A+ by S&P,
the fifth-highest grade. (Added Oct. 14)  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY,
the largest public-transit operator west of  Chicago , plans to
issue about $235 million of revenue bonds as soon as Oct. 27,
according to an offering statement. Proceeds will refund debt
issued in 2001, retire some commercial paper and help build
reserves. The bonds are rated Aa2, Moody’s third-highest grade.
Stone & Youngberg LLC will lead banks. (Added Oct. 13)  PENNSYLVANIA, whose capital city of Harrisburg filed for
bankruptcy this week, plans to sell $826 million of tax-exempt
general-obligation debt through competitive bids on Oct. 18,
according to a preliminary official statement. Proceeds will
finance public works and refund debt. The state is rated AA,
S&P’s third-highest grade. (Added Oct. 13)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  