-- 
California Pension Changes to Require Voter Approval

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-14T01:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/california-pension-changes-to-require-voter-approval-brown-says.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  said
some of his proposals to shore up two public pension systems may
require voter approval to alter the state Constitution.  Brown said he’ll introduce measures “very soon” to
bolster the pension systems that are more than $100 billion
short of funds needed to meet projected obligations to retirees.  The most-populous U.S. state is home to the two largest
public pensions -- the $225 billion  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , known as Calpers, and the $146.6 billion
California State Teachers’ Retirement System, or Calstrs --
which both saw their unfunded liabilities rise in part because
of investment losses.  “I will make specific reforms,” Brown said yesterday at a
conference in  Beverly Hills , without elaborating. “Some of them
will take constitutional changes so ultimately it will have to
get on the ballot and the people will have to vote on it.”  Calpers had $49 billion less in assets than needed to cover
its expected obligations as of June 30, 2009, the latest figure
available, spokesman  Brad Pacheco  said. Calstrs was $56 billion
behind its ability to pay anticipated obligations as of June 30,
2010, according to a staff report in April.  “There is no doubt that we are going to have to adjust our
pensions so that money coming in is going to be equal to what we
can expect what the money going out will be,” Brown said.
“It’s not even a matter of higher math. It’s fifth-grade
arithmetic.”  The 73-year-old Democrat has said he’s weighing a hybrid
system in which retirees would receive both a guaranteed pension
and a 401(k)-style account in which they bear  investment risk .  Caps on Payouts  Brown also has said that he was considering caps on
retirement payouts to public employees and measures to crack
down on double dipping -- workers simultaneously receiving
pensions and government salaries -- and spiking, the practice of
inflating late-career salaries to boost pensions.  Brown’s remarks came as state Assembly Speaker John A. Perez and Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, both
Democrats, appointed six lawmakers to a new conference committee
tasked with evaluating changes to pensions. The committee
consists of four Democrats and two Republicans.  The constitutional changes Brown mentioned may refer to
 Proposition 162 , a measure approved by voters in 1992 that
granted pension boards “sole and exclusive” authority over
investments, said Dave Low, chairman of union-backed
Californians for Retirement Security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  