-- 
Calpers Plans Front-Running, Personal Stock-Trading Restrictions

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-14T19:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/calpers-plans-front-running-personal-stock-trading-restrictions.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension fund, is
considering a proposal to restrict personal stock trades by
employees as a way to avoid conflicts of interest.  The  proposed rules  would require about 700 Calpers
employees and their spouses and domestic partners to get
approval before trading a stock for their personal accounts.
They would prohibit trades at least one day before and after the
fund’s transactions with the same company. They would also
forbid so-called front running -- capitalizing on advance
knowledge that the fund is to going to take or sell a position
by buying shares beforehand.  Calpers, with $225 billion in assets, considered similar
restrictions in 2008. The move foundered after resistance by
employees over questions on implementation and concerns that
such rules needed to be done through a formal state regulation.
This time, the fund said it reviewed the personal trading
policies of other pension funds and financial-services firms and
met with staff and labor unions to develop the proposal.  “The policy is designed to help prevent  insider trading 
and front running, avoid conflicts of interest and help ensure
that Calpers’ employees are complying with federal securities
laws and meeting their fiduciary duty to Calpers,” the fund’s
chief risk officer, Larry Jensen, said in a report to the board.  The regulation would require employees to use a Calpers-
designated brokerage for their personal trades and hold
securities for at least 30 days. It would bar workers from
trading in stocks that the fund is prohibited from owning, and
from making personal investments based on confidential
information learned by virtue of their employment.  Spouses, Partners  Spouses and domestic partners who work as traders or
brokers at a private firm would be exempted from the rules when
those trades are part of their jobs.  Calpers employees are already subject to federal securities
rules against insider trading and state laws that prohibits a
government employee from using work information for personal
gain.  The fund’s  Benefits and Program Administration Committee 
will consider the proposal Oct. 18. If approved, the plan would
be submitted to the full board.  The pension plan was rocked by a pay-to-play scandal last
year unrelated to stock trades in which a former board member
who became a paid middleman was accused of attempting to trade
personal favors to the then-chief executive officer of Calpers
in return for business for his clients.  -- Editors: Pete Young, Ted Bunker  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  