-- 
Canada August Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-14T12:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/canada-august-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's manufacturing shipments report for August
released by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales rose 1.4% to $47.6 billion in
August, the highest level since October 2008. The gains
were concentrated in the transportation equipment, food,
and petroleum and coal product industries.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales were up 1.1%, the
second consecutive increase.  Higher sales were reported in 11 of 21 industries,
representing 70.0% of total manufacturing.  Quebec ,
Newfoundland and Labrador, and Ontario led the provincial
increases.  Manufacturing sales rise in August for a second
consecutive month  Transportation equipment industry leads the advances  Sales of transportation equipment rose 7.0% in August,
following a 3.5% gain in July. The gain in August was
associated with increases in the aerospace product and
parts, railroad rolling stock, and ship and boat building
industries. These gains were partially offset by declines
in sales of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts.  In the  food industry , sales increased 3.9% in August,
the first increase in four months. Advances were
widespread in the industry.  Sales in the petroleum and coal products industry rose
2.7% in August to $6.4 billion. A portion of the increase
reflected higher volumes reported by some petroleum
refineries following maintenance shutdowns in July.  The gains were somewhat offset by declines in the
fabricated metal product (-7.0%) and primary metal (-2.7%)
industries.  Manufacturing sales rise in most provinces  Manufacturing sales rose in eight provinces in August,
with Quebec, Newfoundland and Labrador, and Ontario
reporting the largest provincial sales increases in dollar
terms.  In Quebec, manufacturers reported a 3.5% increase in
sales to $11.8 billion. The aerospace product and parts,
the food, and the petroleum and coal product industries
were the main contributors to the increase.  Sales rose 53.6% to $397 million in Newfoundland and
Labrador, reflecting substantial gains in the non-durable
goods industries. The increase in August is the largest
since June 2009.  Manufacturing sales in Ontario increased 0.4% to $21.5
billion in August as advances were reported in 13 of 21
industries. The largest gains occurred in the aerospace
product and parts, food, and miscellaneous industries.
These gains were largely offset by declines in the primary
metal,  motor vehicle , fabricated metal product, and motor
vehicle parts industries.  Sales declined 5.6% in Nova Scotia and 2.4% in
Manitoba, the only provinces with decreases.  Modest gains in inventory levels  Inventory levels edged up 0.3% to $63.5 billion in
August. Inventory levels were trending upwards after their
recent low in May 2010 but have levelled off over the past
few months. In August, manufacturers in 12 of 21
industries reported higher inventory levels.  The inventory gains were led by the aerospace product
and parts (+3.3%), machinery (+1.9%), and food (+1.7%)
industries. These gains, however, were mostly offset by
declines in the primary metal and computer and electronic
product industries.  Modest gains in inventory levels  The inventory-to-sale ratio declined from 1.35 in July
to 1.33 in August, the second consecutive monthly
decrease. The inventory-to-sales ratio measures the time,
in months, that would be required to exhaust inventories
if sales were to remain at their current level.  The inventory-to-sales ratio declines  Unfilled orders advance for the eighth consecutive month  Unfilled orders rose 1.3% to $60.3 billion in August,
their highest level since April 2009. The largest
contributors to the gain were the aerospace product and
parts (+1.2%) and fabricated metal product (+5.0%)
industries.  Unfilled orders up eight consecutive months  New orders rose 0.8% to $48.4 billion in August. There
were gains in new orders from the aerospace product and
parts, food, and petroleum and coal product industries.
However, these were offset by declines in orders in the
machinery, fabricated metal product, and primary metal
industries.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  