-- 
Canada Dollar Rises on G-20, Gains in Manufacturing, U.S. Retail

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-14T21:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-as-g-20-optimism-boosts-risk-asset-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar rose along with
equities and government bond yields as optimism that a meeting
of Group of 20 finance ministers will progress toward resolving
Europe’s debt crisis boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Canadian currency extended gains against the greenback
after government reports showed factory sales reached the
highest in almost three years in August and U.S. retail sales
rose more than forecast in September. It traded at the strongest
in three weeks against the greenback and is up 2.9 percent this
week, tracking equities.  “It’ much more of a risk-positive week,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist in Toronto at TD Securities
Inc., a unit of Canada’s second-largest bank, in a telephone
interview. “Commodities have rallied, equities have rallied,
volatility has dropped back. All of those things are going to be
good for the Canadian dollar. It remains to be seen how long
this can last.”  The Canadian currency strengthened 1.1 percent to C$1.0098
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, touching the most since
Sept. 22. One Canadian dollar buys 99.03 U.S. cents.  The MSCI World Index, a gauge of developed nations’ stocks,
rose 1.5 percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
advanced 3.2 percent to $87.28 a barrel in  New York .  Euro Bet  Investors should sell the euro against the Canadian dollar,
betting the 17-nation currency will weaken to C$1.3660, Standard
Bank Plc said. The bank recommended entering a short position on
the euro at C$1.4030 with an initial target of C$1.3850,  Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10 currency strategy in  London  at  South
Africa ’s largest bank, wrote today in a note to clients.  Abandon the trade if the euro strengthens to C$1.4380, he
wrote. A short position is a bet an asset will decline.  “Markets feel a lot calmer than they felt even a week
ago,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at Bank of
Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital in Toronto, in a telephone
interview. “We’ve turned all the forecasts extremely
pessimistic on the outlook for the U.S. Economy and now we’re
having upside surprises, which is also helping risk sentiment
generally.”  Canada’s 30-year government bonds rose eight basis points
to 2.97 percent, the highest close in more than a month. The
nation’s bond market is having its worst month in almost two
years, trailing global peers, as demand shifts to higher-
yielding assets such as stocks on optimism a worldwide liquidity
crisis will be averted.  Canadian bonds lost 1.1 percent this month, the most since
December 2009, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
broad Canada index, which tracks 1,182 bonds with a par value of
C$1.1 trillion ($1.08 trillion). Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
broad global index fell 0.5 percent this month to Oct. 13.  Bond Sale  Canada will sell C$3.5 billion of two-year bonds on Oct.
19, according to a statement on the central bank’s website. The
previous auction of two year bonds, on Sept. 14, fetched an
average yield of 1.03 percent and a bid to coverage ratio of
2.53 times,  Bank of Canada   data  show.  The nation’s factory sales rose 1.4 percent on a seasonally
adjusted basis to C$47.6 billion ($46.8 billion), the highest
level since October 2008,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. The increase exceeded all 21 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of economists that had a median estimate of a 0.5 percent
gain.  U.S. retail sales gained 1.1 percent, the biggest advance
since February, and followed a 0.3 percent gain for August, a
stronger performance than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.7 percent rise in purchases last month.  Inflation Watch  Canada’s consumer prices rose an annualized 3 percent last
month from a year earlier, according to the median of 12
economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Statistics Canada is
due to release the data on Oct. 21 at 7 a.m.  As hopes for a European rescue package rise, traders are
trimming bets that the Bank of Canada policy makers will lower
 interest rates  when they meet on Dec. 6. Odds of a rate cut fell
to 32 percent yesterday, from 72 percent last week, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index swaps.  Group of 20 finance ministers began a two-day meeting today
to discuss plans to tackle  Europe ’s debt crisis. European
leaders may complete the rescue plan at an Oct. 23 summit to
present to a meeting of G-20 leaders on Nov. 3-4. The aim is to
put together what the French and German governments call a
“durable” fix to the turmoil that has propelled  Greece  to the
edge of default and is roiling global markets.  “G-20 optimism” is boosting the Canadian dollar, Firas Askari, head of  currency trading  in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit, said by e-mail. “Risk is
on and the Canadian dollar does well.”  The loonie has dropped 4.1 percent this year, the worst
performance in a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The greenback is down 2.8 percent. The yen is up 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  