-- 
Capesize Shipping Costs Climb to 10-Month High on Ore Imports

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-10-14T15:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/capesize-shipping-costs-climb-to-10-month-high-on-ore-imports.html
The cost to hire capesize vessels 
climbed to a 10-month high as rising imports of  iron ore  to
China boosted demand for the ships.  Monthly iron-ore shipments to China, the largest consumer
of the material, will average 60 million metric tons from
September through December, UBS AG said in a report dated
yesterday. That would exceed the record 59 million tons imported
in the first quarter of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Daily rents for the fleet of 1,297 capesize vessels that
haul iron ore and coal advanced 1 percent to $31,329 a day,
the highest since Nov. 25, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange. The exchange provides freight costs on more than 50
maritime routes. Rates have more than tripled since Aug. 1.  Iron ore imports to  China  are expected to slow in the
next few months as the country’s growth moderates, steel prices
fall and production declines, RS Platou AS, an Oslo-based
investment bank, said in a weekly report e-mailed today.  “That said, a steep decline in iron ore prices could see
sustained imports of iron ore despite easing demand,” the bank
said.  Iron ore, coking coal and steel products account for 51
percent of dry-bulk seaborne trade, estimated at 3.56 billion
tons for 2011, according to  Germany ’s DVB Bank SE, which
specializes in transportation lending. An estimated 63 percent
of the 1-billion tons of ore shipped by sea this year will go to
China, according to UBS.  Imports Cheaper  Since early August imported iron ore has been cheaper to
buy than ore mined in China, supporting shipping hire costs,
 Omar Nokta , a New York-based shipping analyst at Dahlman Rose &
Co., said in an e-mailed response to questions. That’s only
happened three or four times since 2008, he said.  Prices in China for the imported steel-making ingredient
declined 8 percent this month, tempting buyers to delay
purchases until prices fall even more, Plamen Natzkoff,
a freight, iron ore and coal trader at London-based Ronly
Holdings Ltd. said.  “The strength of demand is not what’s driving the volume
of shipments, it’s the availability of the material that is
driving the volume,” Natzkoff said by phone. Miners in
Australia and  Brazil  expanded production in the last two or
three months, sending prices lower, he said.  Chinese mines produced the equivalent of 315 million tons
of iron ore of 63 percent iron content, while the country
imported 619 million tons in 2010, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development said in a report published in July.  The Baltic Dry Index, a broader measure of commodity
shipping costs, advanced 0.8 percent to 2,173 points, the
highest since Dec. 7. Shipping rates rose for all four
vessel types that the Baltic Dry Index tracks. Panamaxes, the
largest to navigate the Panama Canal, gained 1.1 percent to
$16,702 a day. Smaller supramaxes rose 0.7 percent to $16,671
and handysizes climbed 0.4 percent to $11,911.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  