-- 
Carrefour Forced to Reprice Its Bond Sale on Moody’s Review

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-10-14T15:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/carrefour-forced-to-reprice-bond-sale-on-moody-s-rating-review.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the second-biggest
retailer, was forced to increase the pricing of its first
benchmark bond in more than a year after a cut in its profit
forecast prompted Moody’s Investors Service to put the company’s
rating on negative review.  Carrefour boosted the interest on its 500 million-euro
($690 million) bond due 2018 to 285 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, a banker involved with the transaction
said, from the 250 basis-point price talk. It’s the French
supermarket’s first benchmark issue since it sold 1 billion
euros of 2021 bonds in July 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company followed
borrowers including  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  to the
 bond market  amid optimism policy makers will come up with what
they call a “durable” solution to the euro-region crisis.
Moody’s put Carrefour’s Baa1 rating under review for a possible
downgrade today after the retailer cut its 2011 profit forecast
for the second time in three months.  “Carrefour is an absolute giant and I have no doubt that
there’ll be a turnaround eventually, but not soon enough to
prevent Carrefour’s credit rating being cut,” said Torstein Jorstad, a credit analyst at Societe Generale SA in London.  An external spokesman for Carrefour, who declined to be
identified citing internal policy, confirmed the terms of the
bond and said the issue was to refinance forthcoming debt
redemptions. He wouldn’t comment on the Moody’s review and
initial price talk.  G-20 Optimism  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
started talks in Paris about how to end the two-year-old
sovereign crisis, aiming to come up with a plan at an Oct. 23
summit. Speculation they’ll draw a line under the region’s woes
helped push down borrowing costs for companies this week, with
the extra yield investors demand to hold European corporate
notes rather than benchmark government debt dropping 18 basis
points to 186, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “With roughly another week to go to the summit, we think
there are probably two or three active days before the market
will slow down and get ready for the 23rd,” Anke Richter, a
strategist at Mizuho International Plc in  London , wrote in a
note to investors.  Carrefour’s 3.875 percent senior unsecured bonds due April
2021 fell as much as 5 percent, the biggest drop ever, to 88.42
cents on the euro today and were at 88.58 cents as of 4:50 p.m.
in Lonon. The securities, sold on July 22, 2010, have lost 9
percent of their value in the past three weeks, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Banca IMI SpA,  Barclays Capital , Credit Agricole CIB, ING
Groep NV, Natixis and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc managed
the French retailer’s new deal, said the banker involved in the
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  