-- 
Carrefour Sells Its First Bonds in a Year Amid Crisis Optimism

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-14T10:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/carrefour-sells-its-first-bonds-in-a-year-amid-crisis-optimism.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the second-biggest
retailer, is selling its first benchmark bond in more than a
year as optimism policy makers will get to grips with the
European crisis spurred issuance.  Carrefour is selling bonds due 2018 that may be priced to
yield about 250 basis points more than the swap rate, according
to a banker involved in the deal, who declined to be identified
because the transaction is private. It’s the French
supermarket’s first benchmark issue since it sold 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) of 2021 bonds last July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Optimism that finance ministers and central bankers from
the Group of 20 will come up with what they call a “durable”
solution to the euro-region crisis at an Oct. 23 summit
encouraged companies including  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT)  to sell bonds this week. Borrowing costs tumbled, with the
extra yield investors demand to hold European corporate notes
rather than benchmark government debt dropping 18 basis points
to 186, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “With roughly another week to go to the summit, we think
there are probably two or three active days before the market
will slow down and get ready for the 23rd,” Anke Richter, a
strategist at Mizuho International Plc in  London , wrote in a
note to investors.  Carrefour’s 3.875 percent senior unsecured bonds due April
2021 fell 2 percent to 90.4 cents on the euro after the company
cut its 2011 profit forecast for the second time in three months
yesterday. The securities, sold on July 22, 2010, have plunged 7
percent in the past three weeks, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Banca IMI SpA,  Barclays Capital , Credit Agricole CIB, ING
Groep NV, Natixis and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
managing the French retailer’s new deal, said the banker
involved in the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  