-- 
Cattle Prices Jump to Record as Beef Exports Cut Supply From Smaller Herds

-- B y   B l a i r   E u t e n e u e r
-- 
2011-10-14T20:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/cattle-prices-jump-to-record-as-beef-exports-cut-supply-from-smaller-herds.html
Cattle futures rallied to a record
for the second time this month on signs that rising demand for
U.S. beef will erode supplies that are shrinking as ranchers
reduce the size of their herds.  Beef output will drop 4.9 percent next year after high feed
costs led ranchers to slaughter more breeding cows, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said Oct. 12. The cattle herd totaled
100 million head on July 1, the lowest for that date since at
least 1973. Beef exports this year through August were up 27
percent, and meat producers say yesterday’s approval of three
U.S. free-trade agreements will boost sales further.  Cattle futures have surged 25 percent in the past year, and
the government said last month that retail-beef prices will  rise 
by as much as 9 percent this year, more than any other major
food group. Increased costs are squeezing profit margins for
restaurant owners including Texas Roadhouse Inc. and Cracker
Barrel Old Country Store Inc.  “Supply deficits plus improved export demand are the key
drivers,”  Rich Nelson , the director of research at broker
Allendale Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a need for beef around the world.”  Cattle futures for December delivery climbed 0.3 percent to
$1.232 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
after reaching $1.243, the highest ever for a most-active
contract, capping a 1.1 percent gain for the week. Prices last
reached a record on Oct. 3.  Feeder-cattle futures for November delivery rose 0.7
percent to $1.44425 a pound on the CME. Hog futures for December
delivery advanced 2.3 percent to 90.075 cents a pound, after
touching 90.725 cents, the highest since Aug. 9.  Export Boost  Congress approved free-trade agreements yesterday with
 South Korea , Colombia and  Panama , bringing an end to years of
stalemate among U.S. lawmakers and offering what supporters said
was the biggest opportunity for exporters in decades. The bills
go to President  Barack Obama  for approval.  “We’re going to be moving a lot more beef overseas, and
that’s going to be the driver in price here,”  Lane Broadbent , a
vice president of KIS Futures Inc. in  Oklahoma City , said in a
telephone interview.  The U.S. Meat Export Federation expects beef shipments to
climb by about $517 million, or 13 percent, over the next 15
years as duties on U.S. shipments are phased out. The Korea
agreement would cut levies of 40 percent on U.S. beef to zero
percent over 15 years, dropping 2.7 percent each year, the
Denver-based group said.  Korean Demand  “We are the only beef-exporting country that has an FTA
with  Korea ,” Erin Borror, a federation economist, said in a
telephone interview. “The reduction in the cost of U.S. beef
for Korean consumers is going to help us more quickly regain our
dominant market share.”  This year through August, the U.S. exported 276.9 million
pounds of beef and veal to South Korea, up 50 percent from a
year earlier, USDA data show. Only  Mexico ,  Canada  and  Japan  have
purchased more.  Cattle futures also got a boost from the rally in
commodities. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials is headed for its biggest weekly gain in 10 months as
Group of 20 leaders began talks on ways to tame  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  The dollar has dropped 2.7 percent this week against six
major currencies, the most since May 2009, boosting the appeal
of U.S. goods for importing countries.  “We have the cheapest meat in the world because our dollar
is cheap enough,” Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind
Cattle Brokerage in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Menu Prices  Wholesale-beef prices are up 21 percent in the past year,
and the retail cost for consumers reached a record $4.489 a
pound in August, USDA data show. “We can expect higher prices
yet,” Vetterkind said.  Higher beef costs led to two menu-price increases this year
at Louisville, Kentucky-based Texas Roadhouse, with more than
350 restaurants across 46 states, and at Cracker Barrel, which
has more than 600 locations in 42 states.  Lebanon, Tennessee-based Cracker Barrel will raise prices 2
percent to 3 percent more next year, with beef being the most
significant commodity cost increase, Chief Financial Officer
Lawrence Hyatt said in a conference call on Sept. 13.  The worst drought in  Texas  history has parched pastures and
forced ranchers to shrink livestock herds rather than incur
higher costs to buy feed grain. The 11 months through August
were the driest since at least 1895 in Texas. Agricultural
losses in the state reached a record $5.2 billion,  Texas A&M
University  estimated in August.  Fewer Cattle  Texas cattle ranchers, the biggest suppliers in the world’s
top beef-producing nation, are expected to cull the most
breeding cows ever this year.  “We’ve had significant beef-cow liquidation,” the Meat
Export Federation’s Borror said. “We expect that contraction to
have a bigger impact on beef production in late 2012.”  Feedlots bought 2.252 million head of cattle in August,
down 0.8 percent from a year earlier, the USDA said Sept. 23.  “The drought forced a lot of cows into the slaughter chain
already,” Vetterkind said. “The younger feeder cattle are
already in the feedlots and are going to be slaughtered by April
of next year.”  The drought’s effects are mounting to “a severe meat
deficit in terms of supply in the southern Plains” in 2012,
Nelson said.  U.S. beef output may slump to 25.14 billion pounds next
year from an estimated 26.42 billion this year, the USDA said in
a  report  on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blair Euteneuer in Chicago at 
 beuteneuer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  