-- 
Cemex Rebounds as Sub-60 Cent Price Lures Buyers: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 
2011-10-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/cemex-rebounds-as-sub-60-cent-price-lures-buyers-mexico-credit.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, is posting the biggest rally in Mexico’s bond
market as investors bet yields that earlier this month exceeded
20 percent exaggerate the risk of default.  Yields on Cemex’s dollar bonds due in 2018 have plunged 589
basis points to 16.2 percent since reaching a record 22 percent
on Oct. 4, while the bond’s price soared to 72.37 cents on the
dollar from as low as 56.65 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average yield on Mexican corporate debt fell 52
basis points, or 0.58 percentage point, during the same period
to 6.77 percent, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Cemex is benefitting from a global rebound in higher-
yielding assets spurred by speculation  Europe  will address its
debt crisis. Cemex’s debt sank earlier this month on concern it
may fail to meet terms of a $15 billion loan agreement that
helped it avoid default in 2009 as growth slows in Mexico and
the U.S. Chris Wilder, a portfolio manager at Stone Harbor
Investment Partners LLC, said he boosted holdings of Cemex debt
this month because the market overstated the chance of default.  “The bonds trading in the 50s and the 60s -- that makes no
sense,” Wilder, who helps oversee about $24 billion in
emerging-market assets, said in a telephone interview from
 London . “Cemex has hit bottom. Assuming they remain on target
on paying down the bank debt, then the banks are going to be
willing to roll over the debt.”  Global Rally  Cemex’s bonds yield 1,265 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexican  government bonds , compared with 1,826 on Oct.
4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is rated
B by Standard and Poor’s, five levels below investment grade and
six steps below Mexico. The average yield on debt sold by
companies rated junk, or below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, fell 76 basis points during that
period, according to Bank of America Corp.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index earlier this week posted
its best rally over seven days since 2009 as German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pledged to
deliver a plan to recapitalize banks and address  Greece ’s debt
crisis.  The price of Cemex’s bonds fell to a record low 56.65 cents
on the dollar on Oct. 4 as concern the company may breach
covenants mounted. The banks that arranged the loan agreement in
2009 can force Cemex into bankruptcy if the company is unable to
cut its total funded debt relative to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization below 7 times by year-end
from 7.16 times.  Renegotiating Terms  Cemex, based in Monterrey, would seek to renegotiate year-
end covenants if they weren’t able to comply with the terms of
the agreement, Maher Al-Haffar, chief of communications and
investor relations at Cemex, said in a telephone interview Oct.
5. The company plans to sell about $1 billion of assets by the
end of 2012 to reduce debt, Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano said in a webcast of a meeting with analysts Sept. 29
in  New York .  Cemex spokesman  Jorge Perez  declined to comment citing
company policy.  Alonso Madero, who helps manage about $5.5 billion at Corp.
Actinver SAB, said he may add to his holdings of Cemex bonds
because yields are “attractive.”  “Cemex bonds were trading as if the company was bankrupt,
which is absolutely illogical,” Madero said in a telephone
interview in  Mexico  City. “We’re inclined to take advantage of
these attractive levels.”  Stock Rebounds  Cemex is the best-performing company on the Bolsa de Mexico
index this week after rising 28 percent. The shares climbed as
much as 24 percent on Oct. 12 on speculation investors sold
short positions on the U.S. shares. Cemex said it had nothing to
disclose in a filing to the Mexican stock exchange. The stock
rose 9 percent to 4.96 pesos yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose nine basis points
to 234 yesterday, according to JP Morgan’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years gained four basis point to 154, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December rose one basis point to 4.69 percent.  The peso fell 1.1 percent to 13.4280 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on Cemex’s bonds climbed 51 basis points yesterday,
underscoring the securities’ vulnerability to swings in global
markets.  ‘Bad Enough’  Cemex bonds may slump if the crisis in Europe deepens or
the U.S. falls into a recession, according to Joe Kogan, a
credit analyst at  Scotia Capital .  “If a crisis gets bad enough, it can happen,” Kogan said
in a telephone interview. “Nothing fundamentally has changed.
Whatever was bothering investors can start bothering them
again.”  The U.S., the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports, will expand 1.7 percent this year after rising 3
percent in 2010, according to the median estimate of 91 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Mexico’s economic growth will slow to 4
percent this year from 5.4 percent in 2010, central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens said Sept. 8.  Cemex’s credit rating was cut seven levels by  Standard &
Poor’s  over a 10-month span ending August 2009 after the company
boosted debt levels to pay for the $14.2 billion acquisition of
Rinker Group Ltd. in 2007. The Rinker purchase formed part of a
two-decade, $29 billion acquisition spree by Zambrano, whose
grandfather founded the company in 1906.  Cemex reported a net loss of $294 million in the second
quarter, the seventh straight quarter of losses.  “Certainly, Cemex has problems, but the drop in the market
was exaggerated,” Actinver’s Madero said. “It’s unlikely that
the yield on Cemex bonds will go back to 20 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  