-- 
LCH.Clearnet Considers Corporate Bonds as Collateral to Back Swaps Trades

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-14T14:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/lch-clearnet-weighs-corporate-bonds-as-collateral-to-back-swaps.html
LCH.Clearnet Ltd., the biggest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, is considering accepting
corporate bonds for the first time to meet an anticipated surge
in demand for a broader array of collateral in the $601 trillion
over-the-counter derivatives market.  “We want to be able to have more clients come to
clearing,” Floyd Converse, head of U.S. sales and marketing for
London-based LCH.Clearnet, said in an interview in  Chicago  this
week at the Futures Industry Association annual conference.  The world’s biggest swaps clearinghouses are expanding the
types of securities they accept as regulations force thousands
of new users in the U.S. and  Europe  to use clearing. Among them,
 CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange, is
broadening the variety of company debt it accepts as margin for
its customers.  With U.S. regulators set to discuss finalizing the clearing
rules next week, derivatives market participants are bracing for
a wave of changes that will transform their industry. Under the
Dodd-Frank Act passed last year, investors have to post
collateral at clearinghouses for most swaps trades. The
services, including CME Group’s, currently accept cash,
 government bonds  and agency debt to back trades.  High Interest  “There’s a lot of interest from the end-users to get the
clearinghouses to expand their collateral,” said Dave Olsen,
global head of over-the-counter clearing at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in  New York . With securities being considered for collateral
that don’t trade as often as U.S. Treasuries, the firm wants to
ensure regulators are fully comfortable with the implications,
he said.  “It’s better to have that conversation earlier rather than
later,” he said in an interview at the conference in Chicago.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is set to
meet Oct. 18 to propose final rules on how derivatives buyers
and sellers will have to use clearinghouses.  Users in the interest-rate swaps market, the largest OTC
derivative asset class, may need at least $1.4 trillion in new
margin payments under Dodd-Frank, research firm Tabb Group said
in a report this week.  Investment-Grade Corporates  Only investment-grade corporate bonds are being considered
for use as collateral and the risk committees at the
clearinghouse are evaluating the plan now, according to
Converse. There will also be limits on posting too many of the
same types of bonds to avoid concentrating the risk in one
sector, he said.  While CME Group’s clearinghouse already accepts corporate
bonds, the list of those securities will grow, according to Kim Taylor, president of the Chicago-based company’s unit. CME Group
also recently began accepting gold as collateral, Taylor said.  The expanded collateral under discussion includes
corporate bonds and mortgages not backed by  Freddie Mac  or
 Fannie Mae , JPMorgan’s Olsen said. The bank has been helping its
clients ensure that they have enough collateral, and of the
right type, to use derivatives markets, he said.  “We are definitely working with customers to help them
manage their collateral needs, but our first priority is to make
sure the system is stable in a crisis and doesn’t build in
additional pro-cyclical risks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  