-- 
Chile Peso Gains Most in Almost Two Years as Copper Rebounds

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-10-14T18:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/chile-peso-gains-most-in-almost-two-years-as-copper-rebounds.html
Chile’s peso posted its biggest
weekly advance since November 2009 after copper rose and stocks
rallied on optimism that  Europe  will find a way out of its debt
crisis.  The peso appreciated 1.1 percent to 499.76 per  U.S. dollar 
after touching a four-week high of 496.95. The currency has
appreciated 3.7 percent this week, the biggest gain in the
region.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
were meeting today to seek a solution to Europe’s two-year debt
crisis with a plan that may involve deeper investor losses on
Greek bonds, higher bank capital requirements and a bigger
bailout fund. The peso’s appreciation reflects investors
removing some of the premium they had demanded to invest in
emerging-market assets, according to Juan Pablo Castro, an
economist at Banco Santander  Chile  in Santiago.  “There was an additional punishment of the currency,”
Castro said. “The question is whether that risk punishment can
be maintained. We’re now seeing a moment of calm. Today there is
good news.”  The peso fell to a 14-month low of 535.76 per dollar on
Oct. 4 and traded weaker than 510 per dollar for more than three
weeks. Those levels don’t reflect the currency’s fundamental
drivers such as copper prices and  interest rate  expectations,
which only accounted for about 60 percent of its depreciation,
Castro wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  Copper for December delivery rose to as much as $3.4315 a
pound on the Comex in  New York  today, 15 percent above the low
of $2.994 a pound reached on Oct. 3.  Forwards Market  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market cut
their long position in the dollar by $609 million to $5.7
billion on Oct. 12 from $6.3 billion on Oct. 11, the biggest
single-day shift in favor of the peso since July.  Chile’s central bank yesterday left its benchmark interest
rate on hold at 5.25 percent.  BNP Paribas SA in a note to clients today recommended
investors continue to buy Chilean pesos on the expectation that
copper prices rise further. BNP Paribas expects the central bank
to keep rates on hold next month as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  