-- 
Chile Keeps Key Rate at 5.25%, Signaling Reduction If World Economy Slumps

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-14T11:57:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/chile-keeps-5-25-rate-signaling-cut-if-world-economy-slumps.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged yesterday for the fourth
straight month, while indicating it may reduce borrowing costs
if the global economy deteriorates further.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, held the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, as forecast
by all but three of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two
analysts estimated the bank would cut the rate to 5 percent and
one forecast a half-point reduction.  Policy makers, who raised the key rate five times in the
first half of the year, said growth is slowing more than
expected as the global environment worsens. Economists have
brought forward their forecast for a rate cut to December from
early next year, according to a central bank survey published
this week.  “If the risk scenario becomes concrete, we probably will
see the central bank act, and we’ll probably see it act with
strength,” said Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de
Credito e Inversiones.  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of future borrowing costs, rose 17 basis point to 4.41 percent
at 8:26 a.m. Santiago time from 4.24 percent yesterday.  Open Options  The decision to hold the rate keeps the bank’s options open
while anchoring inflation to central bank targets, Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA economist  Alejandro Puente  said.  The central bank cited the “tight” labor market and
inflation forecasts in line with the 3 percent target in its
statement accompanying the rate decision.  “Future rate changes are going to depend on the impact of
the international scenario and Chile’s inflation expectations,”
Puente said Oct. 12. “Analysts were expecting this decision,
which as a result won’t change the peso’s value.”  The peso declined 11 percent against the  U.S. dollar  last
month, the second worst performance among major Latin American
economies behind the Brazilian real, as copper prices slumped 25
percent. Copper accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports
and about one-third of fiscal revenue.  “This central bank has never reduced the monetary policy
rate in the face of a depreciation of this type and this
strength,” Selaive said last week. “Cutting rates would feed
inflationary pressures created by this change in the  exchange
rate .”  Inflation Rate  Inflation accelerated to 3.3 percent last month from 3.2
percent in August and 2.9 percent in July. The central bank
estimates consumer prices will rise 3.3 percent in December from
last year.  The peso, which gained 0.9 percent to 500.76 per U.S.
dollar at 8:32 a.m. today, will trade at 500 in December,
according to the median estimate of 58 economists in an Oct. 11
central bank survey.  The same survey showed economists expect policy makers to
reduce borrowing costs to 5 percent in December and 4.75 percent
by March after keeping them unchanged yesterday.  The central bank is ready to change its current monetary
policy if the global economy deteriorates further, policy maker
Rodrigo Vergara said in a Sept. 28 interview. The bank last
reduced the key rate in July 2009 as the country suffered its
worst recession in more than a decade.  Chile has since recovered and may grow as much as 6.75
percent this year, which would be its fastest expansion since
1996, according to central bank forecasts. Growth will slow in
2012, expanding 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent, according to
policy makers.  Slowing Down  “Activity and demand data show signs of moderation,” the
central bank said in the statement yesterday. “In the case of
production, the deceleration is somewhat more pronounced than
what was considered in the base scenario.”  Economic growth, as measured by the central bank’s Imacec
index that acts as a proxy for gross domestic product, increased
4.6 percent in August and 4 percent in July after GDP surged 8.4
percent in the first half of 2011.  The world’s top copper producer is able to keep  interest
rates  on hold because it is less exposed to a slowdown in the
U.S. and  Europe  than other emerging countries, Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said by
telephone.  Chile, whose biggest export market is  China , depends more
on  Asia  and domestic consumption for economic growth than on
commercial and financial ties to the U.S. and Europe, he said.  China’s GDP will expand more than five times faster than
the U.S. this year, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Chilean demand is showing signs of “major vigor” even as it
moderates, the central bank research department said in an Oct.
12 report.  “At the moment, we’re very happy with monetary policy, but
that’s something we will keep analyzing,” Vergara said from his
offices in Santiago. “There’s a danger in reacting too fast,
but there’s also a danger in reacting too slowly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 