-- 
China Lending Shrinks as Wen Wrestles Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T08:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/china-lending-falls-to-lowest-level-since-2009-as-inflation-stays-above-6-.html
China ’s bank lending last month was
the least since 2009 as inflation stayed above the government’s
target, highlighting the risk that efforts to tame prices will
trigger a slowdown.  New loans were 470 billion yuan ($73.7 billion), central
bank data showed today. Consumer prices rose 6.1 percent
compared with a 4 percent goal, a statistics bureau report 
showed. M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , rose 13 
percent from a year earlier, the least in almost a decade, and 
data for foreign-exchange reserves pointed to capital outflows.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government must weigh whether to ease
monetary policy after data yesterday showed exports grew at the
slowest pace in seven months and as small businesses complain of
a credit squeeze. Asian policy makers face a “delicate
balancing act” as inflation remains elevated while  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatens growth, the  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday.  “The government will not ease policy in a broad-based
manner until late November or early December, although it may
ease in a targeted way,” said Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Citigroup Inc. He said that the money-supply figure
may understate liquidity because of the popularity of wealth-
management products.  A $4.2 billion increase in China’s currency reserves in the
third quarter to $3.2 trillion was the smallest gain since 2000,
according to Bloomberg data.  Euro Weakness  Weakness in the euro pulled down the dollar value of
China’s holdings in that currency and capital outflows may also
have limited the gain, Ding said.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index closed 0.3 percent lower. The
yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.3776 per dollar in Shanghai as of
3:49 p.m. local time. While today’s inflation number underscores
pressure on the government to allow gains in the currency to
restrain prices, a worsening export outlook may lead officials
to limit appreciation.  The central bank “is now between a rock and a hard
place,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Hong Kong . “Inflation is high
which means monetary conditions need to be tight but with a lot
of bank lending happening off balance-sheet, conditions in
reality aren’t as tight as would appear from this data.”  Pace of Tightening  The IMF said that the current pace of monetary tightening
is warranted in Asian nations including China where
“overheating pressures remain high.” The People’s Bank of
China last raised interest rates in July, lifting the key one-
year lending rate to 6.56 percent.  Growth in China is already slipping, with analysts
forecasting that data next week will show a 9.3 percent
expansion in the third quarter, down from 9.5 percent in the
previous three months.  In Beijing, officials are monitoring a slowdown in the
housing market after increases in interest rates and bank
reserve requirements and a campaign to rein in speculation.  Home
prices  fell month-on-month for the first time in a year in
September, according  Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real-
estate website owner.  The State Council this week unveiled tax breaks to support
small businesses after some manufacturers collapsed in the city
of Wenzhou in Zhejiang province.  Pork Prices   While inflation exceeded 6 percent for a fourth month, the
rate has come down from a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July
and may moderate further because of so-called base effects.  Food prices rose 13.4 percent in September from a year
earlier, the same pace as in August, as pork costs jumped 44
percent, today’s report showed. Non-food inflation cooled to 2.9
percent from 3 percent.  Producer prices rose 6.5 percent in September from a year
earlier, the bureau said. That was less than the 6.9 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists and also the
smallest gain this year. In August, the increase was 7.3
percent.  Singapore cut its growth forecast today and said it will
slow currency gains, easing monetary policy for the first time
since 2009.  Indonesia  reduced  interest rates  this week, the
 Philippines  has announced stimulus measures, and  South Korea ’s
central bank says “downside risks” have increased.  Property Slowdown  In Beijing, officials are monitoring a slowdown in the
housing market after increases in interest rates and bank
reserve requirements and a campaign to rein in speculation. Home
prices fell month-on-month for the first time in a year in
September, according Soufun Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real-
estate website owner.  The State Council this week unveiled tax breaks to support
small businesses after some manufacturers collapsed in the city
of Wenzhou in Zhejiang province.  Inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July
and may moderate in coming months partly because of so-called
base effects.  Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the Taco Bell and KFC restaurant
chains, said last week it expects food inflation in the “mid-
teens” in China this quarter and plans to increase prices
gradually to offset labor and commodity costs.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  