-- 
China’s Benchmark Index May Drop 10% on Inflation, UBS Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T07:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/china-s-benchmark-index-may-drop-10-amid-inflation-ubs-says.html
China’s benchmark stock index may
drop a further 10 percent from current levels by the year end
because “high” inflation leaves limited room for the
government to ease monetary policies, according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Shanghai’s “A-shares will be under great pressure this
quarter, as inflation is high and doesn’t provide much comfort
for a policy easing,” said Gao Ting, chief China strategist at
UBS, in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in Shanghai.
“Investors should stay cautious.”  Consumer prices in the world’s second-biggest economy
increased 6.1 percent in September from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today. That matched the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists and
followed a 6.2 percent gain in August. The government’s full-
year inflation target is 4 percent.  Gao recommended investors buy so-called defensive shares
including consumer staples producers as a hedge against
tightening measures that have sent the  Shanghai  Composite Index
down 13 percent this year. He also favors Chinese banks, citing
potential growth in third-quarter earnings and “good
valuations” after they tumbled to record lows.  The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.3 percent to 2,431.38 at
the close, narrowing this week’s gain to 3.1 percent. The
measure capped its best weekly rally since August on government
support measures. Besides the State Council’s announcement it
will provide easier access to loans for smaller companies,
Central Huijin Investment Ltd. began buying shares of the
nation’s four-biggest lenders and Xinhua News Agency reported
regulators approved cross-border exchange-traded funds.  Policy Signals  The government will introduce more policies to boost
economic growth as exports slump,  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-based
chairman of global markets for  China  at JPMorgan, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today.  Today’s inflation data was “encouraging,” and gives the
government leeway to ease monetary policies, Ulrich said. She
favors industries such as consumer, telecom, Internet and
travel. The strategist said bank and property stocks face
continued “downward pressure.”  UBS’ Gao said investors should avoid cyclical industries
including construction materials, steel, shipping and ports.  “The economic slowdown is mainly driven by slower growth
in exports that may lead to earnings declines in related
industries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  