-- 
China’s New Lending, Money Supply Growth, Forex Reserves Trail Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T08:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/china-s-sept-m2-rises-13-0-new-yuan-loans-470-billion-yuan.html
China ’s  money supply  grew at the
slowest pace in a decade in September, new loans were the
smallest in almost two years and quarterly foreign-exchange
reserves rose the least in more than 10 years.  New local-currency loans were 470 billion yuan ($73.7
billion) and M2, the broadest measure of money supply, rose a
less than estimated 13 percent, according to a statement on the
People’s Bank of China website today.  The central bank has raised borrowing costs five times and
boosted lenders’ reserve requirements nine times over the past
year to rein in inflation and credit growth that surged 60
percent during the last financial crisis. Consumer prices have
increased by more than the government’s 2011 target of about 4
percent every month this year.  The central bank “is now between a rock and a hard
place,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Inflation is high
which means monetary conditions need to be tight but with a lot
of bank lending happening off balance-sheet, conditions in
reality aren’t as tight as would appear from this data.”  Economists at Capital Economics Ltd. and Standard Chartered
Plc say money-supply growth may be distorted as savers,
suffering from negative real  interest rates , shift funds out of
deposit accounts into wealth management products to earn higher
returns. These products aren’t included in M2.  The central bank has kept interest rates on hold since July
amid heightened risks of a renewed recession in developed
nations and global financial turmoil. Interest-rate swaps traded
in  Shanghai  fell to a two-month low this week on speculation the
government will start to relax monetary policy as inflation
eases and faltering expansion in the U.S. and  Europe  clouds the
outlook for exports.  Policies Biting  “There is no need for further tightening as current
policies are continuing to bite but underlying inflationary
pressure should keep policy makers from loosening,” Shen Jianguang, an economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said
before today’s release.  China’s world-record foreign-exchange reserves increased by
$4.2 billion from the end of June, the smallest gain since the
third quarter of 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Weakness in the euro may have contributed to smaller growth in
reserves in the quarter, according to Mizuho’s Shen. A decline
in the European currency would reduce the dollar value of euro-
denominated assets. China doesn’t disclose a breakdown of its
reserves.  The expansion in M2 compared with the median estimate of 14
percent in a Bloomberg News survey and a 13.5 percent increase
in August. The central bank set a target of 16 percent growth
for this year.  New loans in September compared with the median estimate of
550 billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey and 548.5 billion yuan
the previous month.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zheng Lifei in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  