-- 
China Rate Swaps Decline for 6th Week on Signs Economy Slowing

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-14T09:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/china-rate-swaps-set-for-weekly-drop-on-signs-economy-slowing.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps fell for
a sixth week, the longest stretch of declines since 2008, on
speculation a slowing economy will prompt policy makers to halt
monetary tightening.  Consumer prices rose 6.1 percent in September from a year
ago after climbing 6.2 percent in August, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today. That followed data yesterday that showed
exports grew 17 percent last month, the least since February.
China hasn’t raised borrowing costs since the end of July, and
the eastern city of Wenzhou set up a 500 million yuan ($78.4
million) fund to offer loans to small companies in the city,
news portal Zhejiang Online reported.  “We haven’t seen tightening in the last two months, which
I think is quite positive,” said Matt Huang, a Singapore-based
strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. “You are hearing news now of
some easing, such as loans to smaller firms, but not on a big
scale.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, decreased 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point this week, to 3.45 percent. The rate fell seven
basis points today.  The Wenzhou State Council unveiled measures yesterday
including offering tax breaks and easier access to bank loans to
help small firms after the collapse of some manufacturers in the
city.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 188 basis points this
week to 3.14 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
rate rose one basis point today.  The People’s Bank of China withdrew 9 billion yuan in the
week through yesterday after having pumped funds into the system
for 11 straight weeks.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  