-- 
China’s Stock-Index Futures Advance Before Inflation Report

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T01:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/china-s-stock-index-futures-advance-before-inflation-report.html
China ’s stock futures rose,
signaling the benchmark index will extend this week’s gains, on
speculation a report will show inflation eased, giving more room
for the government to loosen its tightening policies.  Futures on the CSI 300 Index expiring in October added 0.3
percent to 2,659.40 as of 9:16 a.m. local time. The Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 0.8 percent to 2,438.79 yesterday.
after the government announced measures to help small companies
hurt by the nation’s tight monetary policies. The measure has
risen 3.4 percent this week. The CSI 300 Index gained 0.7
percent to 2,662.60 yesterday.  The statistics bureau is scheduled to report today consumer
prices rose 6.1 percent in September from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. That would compare with 6.2 percent in August, a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July, and the government’s
full-year target of 4 percent.  The Shanghai index has tumbled 13 percent this year,
driving down estimated price earnings to 11.2 times, compared
with the record low of 10.8 times set on Oct. 10, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China has raised  interest rates 
three times in 2011 and ordered lenders to set aside a bigger
portion of their deposits to curb inflation, running near a
three-year high.  China’s passenger-car sales rose at a faster pace for a
fourth straight month in September as automakers offered
discounts and consumers bought cars ahead of a week-long
national holiday.  H-Shares  The Shanghai Composite is headed for its best weekly rally
since June 24 on government support measures. Besides easier
access to loans for smaller companies, Central Huijin Investment
Ltd. began buying shares of the nation’s four-biggest lenders
and Xinhua News Agency reported regulators approved cross-border
exchange-traded funds.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index became the first of
 Asia ’s major equity benchmark gauges to exit a  bear market 
yesterday, rising 21 percent from the Oct. 4 low.  Spain  had its  credit rating  cut one level by  Standard &
Poor’s  as rising defaults threaten efforts to to stem  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  An escalation in Europe’s debt crisis may trigger a selloff
in Asian assets, the  International Monetary Fund  said. Asia’s
growth has slowed since the second quarter of 2011, the fund
said in a report yesterday, cutting its forecast for this year’s
expansion to 6.3 percent from an April estimate of 6.8 percent.
Inflationary pressures across the region are still “elevated”
and financial conditions remain accommodative in most of Asia,
the IMF said.  Property Concerns  Conditions are not yet ripe for China to relax its
tightening policies on the  property market  and some of the
measures may be maintained as home sales in the first half of
the year were still “sound,” Wang Yulin, deputy head of the
policy research center at the Ministry of Housing and Urban-
Rural Development said in an interview in today’s China
Securities Journal.  The third-quarter real estate entrepreneur confidence fell
to 99.9, the lowest since the first quarter of 2009, according
to the National Bureau of Statistics. Developers’ confidence was
the lowest among all eight industries for six straight quarters,
it said. The index previously fell below 100 only in 2008/2009
financial crisis since records began in 1999 and dropped to a
record low of 81.9 in the fourth quarter of 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  