-- 
Citigroup Appoints Ex-BofA Executive O’Neill Chairman of Citibank’s Board

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-10-14T20:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/citigroup-appoints-michael-o-neill-chairman-of-citibank-board.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender by assets, appointed company director Michael O’Neill as chairman of the board overseeing Citibank NA, its
primary banking subsidiary.  O’Neill, formerly the chief executive officer of  Bank of
Hawaii Corp. (BOH)  and an executive at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , replaced
Jerry Grundhofer, according to a document dated Sept. 29 and
posted on New York-based Citigroup’s website. Grundhofer left
the board in June and became chairman of the U.S. subsidiary of
Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest lender.  The Citibank subsidiary is covered by federal  deposit
insurance . Citigroup restructured the board in 2009 to add more
independent directors as an added layer of supervision after
taking a $45 billion bailout from taxpayers. The subsidiary was
previously led by Bill Rhodes, who at the time was a Citigroup
executive and is now a senior adviser to the firm.  “If the subsidiary has got to be run tighter, then  Michael
O’Neill  is a great pick to be the chairman,” said Thomas Brown,
CEO of Second Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg Television
contributing editor. “His understanding of risk and return is
what makes him a great guy to be the chairman of Citibank NA.”  O’Neill, 64, and Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the appointment. Citigroup Chairman
Richard Parsons didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Risk Management  Director Anthony Santomero replaced Grundhofer as chairman
of the board’s risk-management and finance committee, another
document showed. Santomero, former head of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia, takes over a panel charged with reviewing
Citigroup’s ability to manage its risk. He didn’t return phone
calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Parsons recruited O’Neill, Santomero and Grundhofer in 2009
to boost the board’s experience in the wake of the bailout.
Taxpayers also guaranteed more than $300 billion of the bank’s
riskiest assets. The bank has since repaid the bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 