-- 
Clinton Adopts Jobs’s ‘Think Different’ Motto for Diplomacy

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-14T16:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/clinton-adopts-jobs-s-think-different-motto-for-diplomacy.html
The U.S. must face the challenge of
rising economic and political powers such as Brazil, India and
China by making economic concerns central to its foreign policy,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today.  In a speech to the New York Economic Club, Clinton gave her
views on how to deploy diplomacy to spur job growth, lower trade
barriers and learn the lessons from the European debt crisis and
the Arab Spring. She cited a maxim of  Steve Jobs , the late
founder of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , who urged all to “think different.”  China has been “gaming the system to hold down the value
of its currency to give its companies a leg up,” she said.
Brazil and India, whose rapidly growing economies have
transformed them into world powers, have put “economics at the
center of their foreign policies,” Clinton said.  Economic rivals are entering markets directly or deploying
natural resources “to build and exercise power,” she said.  That “critical concern” hit home for U.S. officials last
year when  China  cut production of rare earth minerals -- used in
products as diverse as flat-screen televisions and weapons
systems. China controls more than 90 percent of the supply.  “The challenges of a changing world and the needs of the
American people demand that our foreign policy community -- as
Steve Jobs put it -- think different,” Clinton said. “We have
to position ourselves to lead in a world where security is
shaped in boardrooms and on trading floors, as well as on
battlefields,” she said.  Free Trade Pacts  Her address follows this week’s congressional approval of
free-trade agreements with  South Korea , Colombia and  Panama ,
ending years of stalemate. Supporters said the accords are the
biggest opportunity for exporters in decades.  Clinton spoke as European officials are outlining a rescue
plan that may include deeper investor losses on Greek bonds,
higher bank capital levels and increased firepower for bailouts
and the  International Monetary Fund .  Slovakia this week completed ratification of an expanded
bailout fund of 440 billion euros ($604 billion) to prevent
contagion from a debt crisis that has spread from  Greece  to
other countries in the 17-nation bloc. Slovakia, which joined
the euro in 2009 as a former communist nation seeking economic
opportunity, was the last euro nation to clear it.  “We have seen governments toppled by economic crisis,”
Clinton said to the 104-year-old club. The sovereign debt crisis
that began at the end of 2009 has triggered changes of
governments in Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland.  Arab Revolutions  Clinton cited the impact of popular uprisings in the  Middle
East , which caught the U.S. off guard and were triggered by
record-high food prices and other economic hardships.  “Revolutions born in a Tunisian marketplace have swept
across an entire region,” Clinton said, referring to the 26-
year-old unemployed seller of fruit and vegetables who set
himself on fire to protest his treatment by Tunisian police.  “To succeed, the Arab political awakening must also be an
economic awakening,” she told the audience of business leaders.  Clinton has focused increasingly on the economy since
taking over at the State Department in 2009, shifting the focus
of the world’s biggest economy toward rivals in  Asia .  She has held export promotion events during stops in
 Australia , attended meetings on trade while in  India  and
discussed new regional trade agreements during visits to
 Vietnam . Today, she is pledging to build in the Pacific the same
type of institutional framework that binds the U.S. and its
Atlantic neighbors, according to State Department officials who
weren’t authorized to comment on the record.  Economic Statecraft  Clinton said agencies such as the Commerce Department and
the U.S. Trade Representative oversee parts of the agenda and
the Obama administration will work to coordinate those efforts
more closely.  Diplomacy in support of business will be crucial to the
future of U.S. power and prosperity, said  Leslie Gelb  of the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in New York.  “The economy is the basis of our security, the basis of
our power abroad, the basis of our military might,” Gelb said
in a telephone interview. “You want us to protect ourselves in
the world, we’ve got to rebuild our economy. In terms of foreign
policy, there’s nothing anywhere near as important.”  One aim of Clinton’s initiative is to ensure that U.S.
companies have a “level playing field” in global markets,
where they sometimes encounter protectionist procurement
programs, subsidized state-backed firms or demands that they
hand over propriety technology in exchange for entering markets.  ‘New Barriers’  “We are confronting new barriers that are emerging not at
borders but behind them, denying our companies a chance to
compete on the merits,” Clinton said today.  Stephen S. Cohen, co-director of the Berkeley Roundtable on
the International Economy at the  University of California ,
Berkeley, said he had doubts.  The State Department “has been doing that for 50 years --
not trying to level the playing field, but talking about it,”
he said. “Right now they just say the same old stuff.”  The free-market model -- now tarnished by the global
financial crisis -- had worked in large part because the U.S.
was willing and able to absorb the massive export drives of
countries like China and  Japan , a role it can no longer afford.  “It’s the same game we’ve seen for the last 40 years that
really started to crescendo in the 1990s -- open capital markets
and  free trade  in all directions -- but it really didn’t work to
America’s advantage,” Cohen said in a telephone interview.  ‘Get Serious’  The State Department should “get serious about opening
markets and leveraging the advantage to the U.S. side now,”
Cohen said. The administration should also “forget ideas and
just look very concretely at the economy” and what each sector
needs to be restored, he said.  Nina Hachigian , a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington policy group with close ties to the White
House, said that Clinton is taking all the right steps. The U.S.
has “a long way to go” to catch up, she said.  “The kind of assistance we’re talking about -- American
diplomats helping American businessmen -- is pretty mild,
relatively beginning steps,” said Hachigian, a former National
Security Council staff member. “Even our European friends do a
lot more to help their companies than we do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  