-- 
Company Bond Sales Fall Below ‘11 Average as Europe Crisis Roils Markets

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-10-14T12:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/company-bond-sales-fall-below-11-average-as-europe-roils-market.html
Corporate bond offerings in the U.S.
fell short of the 2011 average for the fourth straight week as
European leaders raced to contain the region’s sovereign debt
crisis.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of the Warner Bros. movie studio,
and  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit in Stamford,
 Connecticut , were among issuers that tapped the market for $11.4
billion of debt, 50 percent below this year’s average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. While offerings rose 32 percent
from the previous period, 80 percent of issuance came on Oct.
12, the busiest day in almost a month.  Sales failed to ignite as optimism faded that politicians
would reach an agreement soon to recapitalize Europe’s banks. A
benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk climbed yesterday
from the lowest level in three weeks on concern that the global
economy is faltering after third-quarter investment-banking
revenue declined at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  said
profit fell short of analysts’ estimates.  “The sovereign debt crisis and the threats to the global
economy are the two issues that are causing most of the
volatility in the marketplace,”  James Barnes , who helps manage
$1 billion in fixed-income assets at National Penn Investors
Trust Co. in Wyomissing,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s more downside risk than potential on the
upside.”  Spreads Narrow  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points
this week to 254 basis points, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index. Absolute yields on
the debt fell 7 basis points to 4.07 percent after touching 4.15
percent on Oct. 11, the highest level since April 6.  Spreads on high-yield corporate bonds tightened 50 basis
points to 805 this week while average yields fell 43 basis
points to 9.43 percent, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Master II index shows.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  JPMorgan said investment-banking revenue fell 13 percent
from the second quarter as concern that  Greece  would default and
U.S. lawmakers would fail to raise the government’s debt ceiling
roiled markets. Alcoa’s earnings, excluding restructuring costs
and tax benefits, were about 14 cents a share. The average of 15
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for 22 cents.  Swaps Rise  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.2 basis points yesterday
to a mid-price of 132.5 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, snapped two days of
declines after dropping from 150.1 on Oct. 3.  Laredo Petroleum Inc., based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , sold $200
million of notes due February 2019 that were ranked Caa2 by
Moody’s and CCC+ by S&P on Oct. 12 in the first junk-bond
offering in more than two weeks, Bloomberg data show.  J.M. Smucker Co., maker of the top selling retail brand of
coffee in the U.S., issued $750 million of 3.5 percent, 10-year
debt yesterday in its biggest-ever bond sale, Bloomberg data
show. GE Capital Corp. sold $3 billion of notes in a two-part
offering and Time Warner raised $1 billion on Oct. 12 as
companies tapped the corporate  bond market  for $9.1 billion in
the busiest day since Sept. 14.  Issuance has exceeded the 2011 weekly average of $22.9
billion just twice since the period ended June 3, Bloomberg data
show.  “We’re seeing more healthy undertones in the market, but a
resolution in  Europe  is the big unknown, and until that’s fully
out of the way we’re going to have a lot of volatility and
investors are going to be focused on managing that risk,”
Arthur Tetyevsky, a credit strategist at Jefferies Group Inc. in
 New York , said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 