-- 
Crude Oil Heads for Second Weekly Gain Amid U.S., Europe Demand Prospects

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-14T12:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/crude-oil-heads-for-second-weekly-gain-amid-u-s-europe-demand-optimism.html
Oil rose in  New York , heading for a
second weekly gain, as a rescue plan for Europe’s debt-laden
economies took shape while better-than-forecast retail sales
allayed concerns that the  U.S. economy  is slowing.  Prices rose as much as 2.7 percent, extending gains after
the Commerce Department said that retail sales rose 1.1 percent
last month, the biggest increase since February and higher than
a 0.7 percent advance forecast by economists.  Brent crude  surged
to its highest in a month. European officials are outlining a
rescue plan that may include deeper investor losses on Greek
bonds, higher bank capital levels and increased firepower for
bailouts and the  International Monetary Fund .  “The talk of recession is quieter,” said James Zhang, a
strategist at Standard Bank Plc in  London , who forecasts Brent
will average $98 a barrel in the fourth quarter. “And the oil
market itself has grown surprisingly tight. Inventories are very
low, at least in Europe, as supplies are not coming back fast
enough and, despite all the talk of slowdown, demand seems to be
holding up.”  Crude for November delivery climbed as much as $2.25 to
$86.48 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $86.19 at 1:53 p.m. London time. The
contract fell 1.6 percent yesterday to the lowest close since
Oct. 7. Prices are down 5.7 percent this year and up 3.9 percent
for the week.  Brent oil for November settlement rose $2.29, or 2.1
percent, to $113.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark future, which expires
today, reached a record premium of $27.73 a barrel to U.S. crude
earlier today. The more-active December contract was up $2.26 at
$111.46.  IMF Resources  Elements of the European plan emerged as finance ministers
and central bankers from the Group of 20 began talks in Paris,
and may be completed at an Oct. 23 summit to present to a
gathering of G-20 chiefs Nov. 3-4.  Oil is also rising in New York as stochastic oscillators on
the weekly technical chart show futures remain oversold,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price advance may
continue, with prices rising as high as $88.86 a barrel, the
lower of two leading-span lines that define a so-called
“ichimoku cloud” on the weekly chart. The cloud is an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  “The oil markets moving up or pulling down is dependent on
the stock and financial markets,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a
commodity derivatives trading manager at broker Newedge in
 Tokyo . “Some of the U.S. data has been good recently. I don’t
think the markets will move up sharply as there is still a lot
of fear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  