-- 
Deadline for Jefferson County Bond-Debt Settlement Delayed

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-10-14T20:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/deadline-for-jefferson-county-alabama-bond-debt-settlement-rolled-back.html
A final settlement to help Jefferson
County,  Alabama , and holders of $3.14 billion of its debt avert
a record municipal bankruptcy has been delayed, said  John Young ,
a court-appointed receiver managing the county’s sewer system.  The parties had intended to have a fleshed-out and signed
document ready to show Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, by
tomorrow, in anticipation of his calling a special legislative
session in November. The deal to repair damage from a botched
financing of sewer renovations hinges on lawmakers’ action.  Disagreements among Jefferson County’s 25 state lawmakers
threaten to derail the settlement, which may push the county
into bankruptcy by year’s end.  At best, the session “will be called in November to take
place in December,” Young said in a telephone interview today.
“We want to give the governor as much flexibility as
possible.”  Lawyers expect to finish a final deal this month, he said.  On Sept. 16, Jefferson County commissioners voted 4-1 on to
accept a tentative deal with the creditors. The agreement
included more than $1 billion in concessions from creditors.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which arranged most of the $3.14 billion
debt, would take the biggest loss.  Help Wanted  It also required the Legislature to create an independent
sewer authority; mandate sewer hookups from new developments;
give state moral-obligation backing to new sewer debt and fix
the county’s operating revenue shortfall.  The revenue problem stems from a March state Supreme Court
ruling striking down a local tax on wages. After dismissing 547
employees, Jefferson County is $40 million short of the revenue
needed in the current fiscal year.  Bentley promised to call a session to deliver those bills
only if the Jefferson County delegation unites behind them.
Legislative protocol allows one lawmaker to block a measure
related to his or her county.  The delegation’s Democrats criticized the deal in a meeting
with county commissioners yesterday, saying it would gouge the
poor with higher rates and cramp economic development. The
delegation also splits on party lines over the revenue solution.
Democrats want to replace the lost tax. Republicans want to
reallocate sales tax money now earmarked for indigent medical
care.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan in  New York , did
not immediately return a call for comment. Ashweeta Durani, a
spokeswoman for Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) ,
which insures some of the debt, said the company would have no
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in New York at 
 kedwards27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  