-- 
Cameron Appoints Hammond as U.K.’s Defense Secretary After Fox Steps Down

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-14T23:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/defense-secretary-liam-fox-resigns-over-his-friend-s-business-links-role.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
named Transport Secretary Philip Hammond to head the Defense
Ministry after  Liam Fox  quit. The premier also promoted Justine Greening to become the fifth woman Cabinet member.  Fox stepped down yesterday, saying in his resignation
letter to Cameron he’d let the line between his personal and
public life become blurred in his relationship with a friend,
Adam Werritty. Stories about Werritty, who’d described himself
as an adviser to Fox without being on the government payroll or
having security clearance, dominated the British press all week.  “I am obviously saddened by the circumstances in which
this opportunity arises,” Hammond said in an  e-mailed statement 
last night. “I think Liam Fox did a brilliant job.”  Fox, 50, who oversaw the British military operation backing
the Libyan opposition to  Muammar Qaddafi , is the highest-profile
departure from Cameron’s government since it was formed after
the prime minister’s Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats
agreed to go into coalition in May 2010.  Fox told lawmakers at the start of the week he’d had 40
meetings since May 2010 in his offices or abroad with Werritty.
Cameron ordered Gus O’Donnell, the U.K.’s most senior civil
servant, to investigate whether ministerial rules had been
broken, and he was due to report next week.  High-Speed Rail  Hammond, 55, had been transport secretary since May 2010
and was responsible for driving through the government’s plans
for a high-speed rail line from London to northern  England 
that’s opposed by some other ministers.  That task will now fall to Greening, who was born in 1969
and was previously a Treasury minister under Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne .  “I mistakenly allowed the distinction between my personal
interest and my government activities to become blurred,” Fox
said in his  letter of resignation  to Cameron published by the
Defense Ministry in London. “The consequences of this have
become clearer in recent days. I am very sorry for this.”  “I understand your reasons for deciding to resign as
defense secretary, although I am very sorry to see you go,”
Cameron said in  his reply . “You can be proud of the difference
you have made in your time in office, and in helping our party
to return to government” last year.  ‘Broke the Rules’  “Ministers must have standards, Liam Fox fell foul of the
standards and he broke the rules,” Jim Murphy, defense
spokesman for the main opposition  Labour Party , said in an e-
mailed statement. “This issue has centered solely on his
judgment and his conduct in one of the most serious jobs in the
country. With so much at stake for our forces, the defense
secretary must be focused solely on his public duties.”  Jon Moulton , founder and chairman of Better Capital LLP,
said in a statement that Fox had asked him since taking office
to donate money to Pargav, a non-profit group involved in
security policy analysis. The Times newspaper reported yesterday
that Pargav had been set up by Werritty and it had funded his
trips abroad.  Fox has long been the leading standard-bearer within the
Conservatives for former Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , who
made a rare public appearance at his birthday party in
September. Like her, he is hostile to the European Union and
keen to further ties with the U.S. Fox stood for the leadership
of the party against Cameron in 2005, coming third.  Shared an Apartment  During his appearance in Parliament this week, Fox said he
met with Werritty, with whom he once shared an apartment and who
acted as best man at the minister’s wedding, in the course of 18
different foreign trips. On Sept. 15, Fox told lawmakers in a
written answer that Werritty  had not traveled with him  on any
official overseas visits.  “Some were overseas visits, some were at conferences, some
were long weekends where my wife and I were abroad, some were
family holidays, one was a skiing holiday,” Fox said this week.
“As for the pecuniary interests of Mr. Werritty in those
particular conferences, I am confident that he was not dependent
on any transactional behavior to maintain his income.”  According to a list of trips released by the Ministry of
Defense, Fox made 48 overseas visits in 18 months, so Werritty
was present on more than a third. He met Fox in places including
 Singapore , Bahrain, Dubai,  Hong Kong , Switzerland,  Washington ,
 Spain  and  Sri Lanka . During a July 2010 visit to Tampa,  Florida ,
Werritty was present at an informal dinner with Gen. John R.
Allen, now the commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan.  A medical doctor born in  Scotland , Fox was elected to
Parliament in 1992, rising to the post of Foreign Office
minister before the Conservatives lost power in 1997. At the
time, Prime Minister John Major’s parliamentary majority was in
single figures, and Fox was asked to use his professional
expertise to gauge which lawmakers on his own side were at
risking of dying and forcing a special election.  He married a fellow doctor, Jesme Baird, in 2005.  Hammond was a spokesman on economic affairs when the
 Conservative Party  was in opposition. He ran a medical
distribution business and was a director of a housing company
and a North Sea gas production company before he was elected to
Parliament in 1997. He also worked for the  World Bank  and as a
consultant to the government of Malawi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  