-- 
Democratic Group Backing House Races Gets $1 Million From Labor

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-10-14T16:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/democratic-group-backing-house-races-gets-1-million-from-labor.html
A Democratic political group aimed
at helping elect members of the House raised $1.1 million since
July, almost solely from unions, according to government
filings.  The House Majority PAC took in $1.08 million, including
$250,000 from the International Association of Fire Fighters,
$200,000 each from the Laborers Union and the  American
Federation of Teachers , and $125,000 from the Teamsters,  Federal
Election Commission  reports show.  The group, one of four organizations, operating
independently of individual campaigns and the  Democratic
National Committee , was set up to raise and spend unlimited
amounts of money to help win back a majority in the U.S. House,
which Democrats lost in the November 2010 election.  So far this year, House Majority PAC has raised $2.1
million. The other three groups didn’t have to report to the FEC
yesterday because they did not spend money during the New York
and Nevada House special elections held on September 14.  American Crossroads, another independent political group
that intends to spend millions of dollars on advertisements to
support Republican candidates and oppose President  Barack Obama ’s re-election, raised $14,350 in the six weeks from
September 25 through October 3. So far this year, American
Crossroads has raised $6.7 million, according to the filing.  Rove-Backed Groups  That amount doesn’t include the donations to American
Crossroads’ sister organization, Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies. Crossroads GPS, which is organized under a different
provision in the  tax code , doesn’t disclose its donors.  Republican strategist  Karl Rove  helped start the Crossroads
groups last year after the  Supreme Court  ruled, in  Citizens
United  v. Federal Election Commission, that corporations and
labor unions can spend unlimited amounts of money advocating the
election or defeat of political candidates.  The two groups raised $71 million in 2010 and spent much of
the money on ads attacking Democratic candidates for the House
and Senate, an effort credited with helping Republicans retake
the House and narrow the partisan margin in the Senate. The two
groups have said they intend to raise $240 million in this 2012
election cycle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  