-- 
Djankov Sees Bulgaria’s 2011 Budget Gap Lower Than Planned

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-10-14T12:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/djankov-sees-bulgaria-s-2011-budget-deficit-lower-than-planned.html
Bulgaria’s  budget deficit  for this
year will be narrower than planned, making next year’s budget
planning “easier” and enabling the government to achieve a
balanced budget in 2013.  The 2011 gap will be lower than the government’s earlier
2.5 percent estimate, while the 2012 shortfall will fall below
1.5 percent of gross domestic product, Deputy Prime Minister
 Simeon Djankov  told reporters in Sofia today.  “Our budget deficit this year will be lower than planned
which will make next year’s planning easier,” Djankov, who is
also the Finance Minister, said. “Next year’s budget deficit
will be even lower. The exact figures will revealed in 10
days.”  Bulgaria, the  European Union ’s poorest country in terms of
economic  output per capita, weathered the global crisis without
borrowing from international lenders. The country narrowed this
year’s budget gap, after exceeding the EU’s limit last year with
nearly a 5 percent gap, for which it was briefly placed under
scrutiny by the EU.  Bulgaria  is among the few well-performing countries in
fiscal terms in the 27-nation bloc amid the euro area’s debt
crisis, EU Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski said at the
same briefing.  “Bulgaria is on track observing financial discipline,”
Lewandowski said. “Bulgaria is improving in budget terms. It is
within the debt limit and is decreasing the budget deficit. The
economic forecast for Bulgaria is quite decent.”  Convergence Compliance  Bulgaria’s budget frame figures are slightly behind, though
still in compliance with, the three-year convergence program
presented to the EU earlier in the year, Lewandowski said. He
gave no figures.  The initial plan submitted in April envisaged economic
growth of 4.1 percent in 2012, 4.4 percent in 2013 and 4.2
percent in 2014. The government cut next year’s forecast on Oct.
11 to 2.5 percent because the expansion is slowing in western
 Europe , which buys some 60 percent of Bulgaria’s exports. This
year’s growth is estimated at 3.6 percent. Second-quarter GDP
growth slowed to 2 percent from 3.3 percent in the previous
three months.  Lewandowski defended a European Commission proposal to
impose a Financial Transaction Tax across the union in effort to
raise additional revenue needed for bailout loans.  The proposal “is much less troublesome for Bulgaria than
some of the other options that were” presented, he said.
Bulgaria opposes the plan, which has to be approved unanimously.  The country has the lowest personal and corporate income
tax rate in the bloc, at 10 percent, to curb  tax evasion ,
attract investment and boost growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  