-- 
DNC Leader Says Romney Is ‘Jell-O,’ Republicans Interchangeable on Issues

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/dnc-leader-says-romney-is-jell-o-republicans-interchangeable-on-issues.html
Democratic National Committee 
Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  said Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  is like “Jell-O,” failing to take firm
positions on important issues.  “Mitt Romney is pretty difficult to pin down,” Wasserman
Schultz said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt,” airing this weekend. “It’s
sort of like trying to nail down Jell-O,” she said.  “I like my candidates to have a little bit more courage of
their conviction,” she said.  The Florida congresswoman dismissed the notion that Romney
would be the toughest opponent for President Barack Obama in the
November 2012 general election. Obama is facing a difficult re-
election effort with voters disapproving of his job performance
and feeling downbeat because of the economy.  Romney and the other Republican candidates haven’t offered
policies that would help create jobs, Wasserman Schultz said.
All of them are “completely right wing” and are beholden to
the  Tea Party , making them incapable of governing, she said.  “It doesn’t much matter which of these nine Republicans is
the nominee because they’re all interchangeable,” she said.  Democratic leaders and Obama’s campaign have aimed their
strongest criticism at Romney. Many believe he will eventually
win the Republican nomination even as voters’ preferences have
shifted from candidate to candidate early in the primary season.  Bachmann, Perry  Romney was the presumed frontrunner when Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Tea Party favorite, won the
Iowa straw poll in August. She was quickly overtaken by Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  who entered the race and shot up in the
polls, raising $17 million in campaign contributions in just
over two months.  This week,  Herman Cain , the former chief executive of
Godfather’s Pizza, took the lead in polls after proposing to
replace the current tax system with one that taxes personal
income, business income and sales all at 9 percent.  Obama’s popularity has plummeted since his election, with
only 38 percent of respondents approving of his job performance,
according to yesterday’s daily Gallup tracking poll.  That hasn’t shown up in the money contest. Obama and the
Democratic National Committee raised $70 million in the quarter
that ended Sept. 30.  Wasserman Schultz said she is confident Democrats will
regain the U.S. House majority they lost last November.
Democrats need to win 25 new seats, and 47 seats are held by
Republicans in districts that voted for Democratic presidential
candidates in the last two elections, she said.  Tea Party ‘Stranglehold’  “You have the Tea Party that has such a stranglehold on
the House Republican caucus they refuse to allow anything
through that would help the middle class,” she said, adding
that they “haven’t done anything to create jobs in almost 11
months that they’ve been in charge. I think that they’ve gotten
a test run, these Tea Party members of Congress, and they’re
going to be rejected.”  Wasserman Schultz criticized Senate Republicans for
refusing to allow a debate on the jobs plan proposed by the
president, and said she remains hopeful that some parts of the
plan will eventually be enacted.  “We are singularly focused on getting the economy moving
again,” she said. “Unfortunately, they’re playing politics
because they only care about one job,  Barack Obama ’s.”  She predicted the new trade agreements with Korea, Colombia
and  Panama  will help create jobs and boost the economy, and
credited Obama with approving the deals that Democrats opposed
in the past.  Environment, Labor  “They address environmental concerns, address labor
concerns,” she said. “There’s some angst among Democrats, but
I think because it will help give a shot in the arm to the
economy and create jobs for Americans it’s a good thing
overall.”  She also sought to minimize any differences with the
president on whether the U.S. should punish China for
suppressing the value of its currency.  The Senate on Oct. 11 passed a bill that would let U.S.
companies seek duties on imported goods to compensate for
“misaligned” currencies. Wasserman Schultz voted for a similar
measure in the House in September 2010. Romney has said he will
immediately label  China  a currency manipulator if he is elected.  Obama hasn’t taken an official position on the Senate bill,
though he said this month he wants to avoid laws that “are
symbolic, knowing that they’re probably not going to be upheld
by the  World Trade Organization .”  Wasserman Schultz said the administration’s position “is
that we need to address China’s manipulation of their currency.
There is no question of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  