-- 
Heating Oil Jumps to 5-Week High as Supply Drops in U.S., Europe

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-14T19:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/heating-oil-jumps-to-5-week-high-as-supply-drops-in-u-s-europe.html
Heating oil advanced to a five-week
high, gaining along with gasoil futures in  London , as stockpiles
of diesel and heating oil fell in the U.S. and Europe.  Futures in  New York  rose a fifth consecutive day as U.S.
supplies sank to an eight-week low in the seven days ended Oct.
7, the Energy Department reported yesterday. Gasoil inventories
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s
biggest oil-trading hub, slipped 8.1 percent in the week ended
yesterday to the lowest level since December 2008, according to
PJK International BV, a consultant in the Netherlands.  “The fact we’ve been drawing down ahead of the heating oil
season has some people spooked and distillate demand is up on
the four-week average against a year ago,” said  Peter Beutel ,
president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in
 New Canaan ,  Connecticut . “European gasoil, any strength you
have there supports the distillate market.”  November-delivery heating oil rose 8.44 cents, or 2.8
percent, to settle at $3.0558 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices increased 6.9 percent this week, the
largest weekly gain since the period ended Feb. 25.  Gasoil for November delivery climbed 3.4 percent to $952 a
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Distillate Inventories  U.S. inventories of diesel and heating oil fell 2.93
million barrels to 154 million in the week ended Oct. 7,
according to the department, as seasonal maintenance and
shutdowns reduced the refinery operating rate 3.5 percentage
points to 84.2 percent of capacity, the lowest level since the
week ended May 13.  Demand for industrial, trucking and home-heating fuels
slipped on a four-week average was 5.6 percent higher than a
year earlier.  “Heating oil has been the darling of the market,” Beutel
said. “It has the best demand in the oil complex and we’ve seen
drawdowns.”  Futures’ gain came amid a broader rally in equities and
commodities amid optimism that the Group of 20 nations will
develop the means to contain Europe’s debt crisis. Finance
ministers and central bankers from the G-20 began talks in
Paris, seeking ways to end Europe’s two-year sovereign debt
crisis.  “The market seems to be less worried about a major problem
with European banks,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Debt Crisis  European officials are considering writedowns of as much as
50 percent on Greek bonds, a backstop for banks and continued
central bank bond purchases as key planks in a revamped strategy
to combat the debt crisis, people familiar with the discussions
said.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 2.6 percent at
3:06 p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index
advanced 1.3 percent. Crude oil for November delivery in New
York gained 3.1 percent to $86.80 as  Brent crude  on the ICE
exchange jumped 3.2 percent to $114.68.  “From what’s coming out of  Europe , they seem more
determined to capitalize the banks and keep everything from
getting out of control,”said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York. “Crude and products are up
more than equities today because we saw pretty decent draws in
products yesterday.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 6.72 cents, or 2.4
percent, to settle at $2.8247 a gallon, gaining 6.7 percent for
the week. Prices rose every day this week in the longest rally
since May.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1.7
cents to $3.443 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It
was the fourth consecutive gain and the highest level since
Sept. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  