-- 
ECB Tells Belgium Not to Guarantee Dexia’s Interbank Deposits

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-14T17:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/ecb-tells-belgium-not-to-guarantee-dexia-s-interbank-deposits.html
The  European Central Bank  advised
Belgium not to backstop  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s interbank deposits and to
avoid providing guarantees on debt maturing within three months
because it risks interfering with the central bank’s monetary
policy.  The ECB also said the planned debt guarantees for Dexia may
last as long as 20 years, which is inconsistent with European
Union guidelines for national support measures to be temporary
in nature, according to a statement published on the Frankfurt-
based central bank’s website and dated Oct. 13. Belgium sought
the ECB’s opinion on draft legislation that would grant state
guarantees on Dexia loans.  Guarantees on interbank deposits “could entail substantial
distortion in the various national segments of the euro-area
money market by potentially increasing short-term debt issuance
activity across member states,” the ECB said in the statement.
“It could also affect the transmission of monetary policy
decisions.”  Dexia obtained a pledge from the governments of France,
Belgium and  Luxembourg  last week to backstop as much as 90
billion euros ($125 billion) of interbank and bond funding with
maturities of as much as 10 years until 2021. The French-Belgian
municipal lender, which is being broken up after concern over
its European sovereign debt holdings caused short-term funding
to evaporate, sought state guarantees to finance long-term
assets including 95 billion euros of bonds with an average
maturity of almost 13 years at the end of June.  Three years ago, Dexia received as much as 150 billion
euros of debt guarantees from France, Belgium and Luxembourg, of
which it tapped a maximum of about 96 billion euros in May 2009.
Those backstops also included interbank deposits.  The bank stopped issuing government-backed debt in June
2010 and still had 29 billion euros outstanding yesterday,
according to data from the Belgian central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  