-- 
ECB’s Liikanen Sees ‘High Uncertainty’ on Euro Area Growth

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-10-14T11:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/ecb-s-liikanen-sees-high-uncertainty-on-euro-area-growth.html
 European Central Bank council
member Erkki Liikanen said growth prospects in the 17-nation
euro area are marred by “high uncertainty” as the debt crisis
threatens to engulf the region’s banks.  “The uncertainty related to growth prospects is high, and
a substantial weakening in economic activity cannot be ruled
out,” Liikanen, who also heads the Bank of Finland, said today
at a hearing in parliament in Helsinki.  The ECB has shelved interest rate increases and resumed
government bond purchases in an effort to support some of the
region’s most indebted nations. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told Bloomberg Television this week that it’s now up to
governments to solve Europe’s debt woes as the crisis spreads to
the region’s banks.  “With sovereign debt problems continuing, it has become
more difficult for European banks to access finance and the
price of financing has risen,” Liikanen said. “Banks should
seek to raise additional capital from private sources in the
first place. Capital injections possibly made by governments
must take place in exchange for stock or ownership.”  Policy makers earlier this month pushed back a debt-crisis
summit to Oct. 23, as leaders try to solve a crisis that started
in  Greece  two years ago and is now threatening to tip the global
economy into recession. The ECB has shouldered the main burden
of keeping  Europe ’s banking system from collapsing throughout
that period.  ECB Bond Purchases  The Frankfurt-based central bank’s purchases of sovereign
bonds made on the secondary market at market price are temporary
and intended to ensure the transmission of monetary policy,
Liikanen said.  “The ECB intends to keep the bonds it buys until
maturity,” Liikanen said. “The bonds are valued at market
price” on the balance sheet “for as long as all obligations
are serviced, including interest payments and repayments of
capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  