-- 
Telkom South Africa in Talks With South Korea’s KT About Selling 20% Stake

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-10-14T13:34:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/telkom-south-africa-says-south-korea-s-kt-may-buy-20-stake-in-company.html
Telkom South  Africa  Ltd., Africa’s
biggest fixed-line phone company, said  KT Corp. (030200) , South  Korea ’s
largest phone and Internet operator, may acquire a 20 percent
shareholding in the company.  Telkom’s shares climbed as much as 7.3 percent to 34.50
rand in Johannesburg. The  Pretoria , South Africa-based company
may sell new shares to KT at a price of 36.06 rand each, Telkom
said in a statement to Johannesburg’s Stock Exchange News
Service today. The city’s Business Day newspaper reported
earlier that the transaction could be worth as much as 4.6
billion rand ($586 million), citing unidentified people close to
the companies.  A large partner may help Telkom fight increasing
competition that has cut profit while the deal provides a growth
opportunity for KT. Telkom aims to capture 15 percent of  South
Africa ’s mobile-phone market in the next four years through its
wireless service 8ta, which started a year ago.  KT “can’t grow any more in the domestic market,” Choi Nam Kon, a Seoul-based analyst at  Tong Yang Securities Inc. (003470)  said.
“They can only seek growth outside Korea. Africa is the last
remaining market for mobile operators.”  Telkom traded 3.2 percent higher at 33.17 rand as of 3:33
p.m. KT’s shares rose 2.5 percent to close at 36,800 won in
Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi Index added 0.7 percent.  Telkom Earnings  Telkom is 39.8 percent held by the South African government
while a South African state pension fund manager, the Public
Investment Corp., owns 10.9 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The proposed venture won’t change Telkom’s strategy or lead
to job losses, Telkom said in an e-mailed statement today.
Patrick Craven, spokesman for the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, didn’t immediately respond a call to his mobile
phone and Matankana Mothapo, spokesman for the  Communication
Workers Union  couldn’t immediately comment when Bloomberg News
reached him on his mobile phone today.  KT is looking for investment opportunities, with a focus on
emerging markets such as central America and Africa, after
agreeing to sell its 80 percent stake in Russian carrier New
Telephone Co. Inc., the company said in May.  Telkom said on Sept. 29 it will lose about 650 million rand
on the sale of Nigerian unit Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd.
and six-months earnings per share may decline by at least 70
percent. The company said on Feb. 10 that it would offer
voluntary severance packages to reduce its 23,000-strong
workforce and improve profitability.  Telkom’s initial public offering in 2003 was the only major
state asset sale by the African National Congress-led
government. The party in 2007 resolved to halt government asset
sales to create a “developmental state” that would use
government companies to boost growth and job creation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  