-- 
Temasek-Backed Alliance Financial Targets 18% Return on Equity

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-10-14T02:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/temasek-backed-alliance-financial-targets-18-return-on-equity.html
Alliance Financial Group Bhd. (AFG) , a
Malaysian lender part-owned by  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte,
aims to increase return on equity to 18 percent, focusing on
growth in consumer and small-business banking.  Alliance, the smallest among eight banks in the Southeast
Asian nation, will offer wealth management products to lure rich
clients and bolster services to a segment of corporate borrowers
ignored by rivals, Sng Seow Wah, chief executive officer of its
banking unit, said in an interview.  “There are market spots that are not well covered,” Sng
said in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “Big banks don’t look at the
small companies.”  Sng, 53, took over the top job at  Alliance Bank Malaysia
Bhd.  in July last year, replacing Bridget Lai who resigned
following an internal probe. Since his appointment, Alliance
Financial has posted a 36 percent increase in net income to
409.2 million ringgit ($130 million) for the year ended March.  Alliance Financial’s return on equity, a measure of how
well a company used reinvested earnings to generate additional
income, was 13 percent last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sng said his target was to raise the ratio to 18
percent in five years.  By comparison,  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ,  Malaysia ’s biggest
bank, had a return on equity of 15 percent for the year ended
June 30, and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., the nation’s second-
biggest lender, was at 16 percent for the year ended December.  Takeover Unlikely  Shares of Alliance Financial have risen 11 percent this
year, outperforming the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
even as most Malaysian banks lost value during the period. The
local stock gauge has dropped 5 percent this year. Alliance
dropped 0.3 percent to 3.38 ringgit at 10:05 a.m. in Kuala
Lumpur.  Alliance Financial was among the likely Asian acquisition
targets for Australian banks, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.
including Victor German wrote in a Sept. 15 report.  Sng said a merger and acquisition deal is unlikely to
happen in the next three to five years because Malaysian rules
that limit foreign ownership in banks at 30 percent would deter
overseas buyers. Combining with another Malaysian lender
“doesn’t make sense” either, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  